TRANSPARENCY ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT REGIST R ATION D OC U M E NT 2018 TABLE OF CONTENT Interview with Dominique Lefebvre, Chairman of the Board of Directors, and Philippe Brassac, Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole S.A. 2 1 About Crédit Agricole S.A. 8 4 2018 operating and financial review 178 Key figures 10 Operating and financial information 180 Our business model: partnering Information on Crédit Agricole S.A.’s financial a sustainable economy 12 statements (parent company) 202 The business lines of Crédit Agricole S.A. 5 at 31 December 2018 14 Asset gathering and insurance 16 Risks and Pillar 3 204 Retail banking 18 1. Risk factors 206 Specialised financial services 20 2. Major risks taxonomy 215 Large customers 22 3. Risk management 217 Corporate Centre 23 4. Pillar 3 disclosures 264 History25 6 Highlights of 2018 26 Information on the share capital Consolidated Financial and shareholders 28 Statements346 Stock market data 34 General framework 348 Consolidated financial statements 354 2 Social, environmental and societal contribution 38 Effects of the application of IFRS 9 at 1 January 2018 362 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 371 Material CSR commitments Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated and links with SDGs 40 financial statements511 1. Promoting a culture of ethics 45 7 2. Developing accessible finance 51 3. Supporting the energy transition 59 Parent Company 4. Encourage taking into account ESG factors 66 Financial Statements 518 5. Women and men to drive transformation 71 Parent company financial statements Cross-reference table 88 at 31 December 2018520 Report by one of the Statutory Auditors, Notes to the parent company financial appointed as an independent third party, statements523 on the consolidated non-financial information Statutory Auditors’ report on the financial statement included in the management report 89 statements560 3 Corporate governance 1. Board of Directors’ Report 92 94 8 General Information 564 Articles of Association 566 2. Additional information Information on the Company 579 on Corporate Officers 120 Statutory Auditors’ report on related party 3. Information on executives agreements and commitments 591 and management bodies 138 Person responsible for the registration 4. Reward policy 143 document598 5. Rules of Procedure of the Board Glossary600 of Directors 171 Cross-reference table 605 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | Registration document 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2018 This Registration Document was filed with the French Financial Markets Authority (Autorité des Marchés Financiers, AMF) on 26 March 2019, in accordance with Article 212-13 of the AMF’s General Regulations. It may be used in support of a financial transaction if accompanied by a transaction note approved by the AMF. This document was prepared by the issuer and its signatories are liable for its content. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 1 INTERVIEW INTERVIEW WITH DOMINIQUE LEFEBVRE, CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS, AND PHILIPPE BRASSAC, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. 2018 has been a turbulent year, both politically In this context, the excellent results we have achieved this year illustrate and economically, but particularly in the financial the effectiveness of our organic growth model based on structural prudence. All business lines of Crédit Agricole S.A. have contributed to field. How has Crédit Agricole dealt with this delivering a net income Group share of €4.4 billion. These results further year? underline our strong financial position, based on the Regional Banks, which have for years formed the backbone of the Group. Dominique Lefebvre At 31 December, the solvency ratios of Crédit Agricole Group were at In the current environment where we have to deal with all these 15%, allowing us to meet the regulatory challenges (ECB stress tests different kinds of uncertainties, it is more important than ever that we and Basel 4) and be able to invest in the future for the benefit of our get back to basics. As far as we are concerned, we have confidence in customers, our employees and our shareholders. the strength of the Eurozone and the strengthening of the economy in the main countries where we have a presence. In this ever-changing environment, Furthermore, Crédit Agricole has a number of strengths that allow what are your priorities? us to keep pace with this changing environment. At a local level, we support our customers, propose innovative offers, forge partnerships Philippe Brassac that allow us to become stronger, develop new expertise and enter new geographical regions. We need to set ourselves some benchmarks. We have clearly identified them for Crédit Agricole Group and they will act as a basis for harnessing our efforts. First of all, we want to expand our Customer Project further, Philippe Brassac aiming at relationship excellence. We need to be beyond reproach, It is true that this year has seen a slowdown of growth and extensive both at a human level and in our digital solutions. We want to support geopolitical turmoil, both in the US and in Europe, resulting in high levels the environmental concerns of our customers by providing concrete and of volatility on the financial markets. appropriate solutions in the field of energy transition. We are looking to continue promotional activities and investment in the regions where we have a presence so that we can help them achieve their full potential. And because our responsibility to men and women must be the same, no matter whether they are customers or employees of the Group, we want to develop and maximise the technical and relationship skills of our employees. What makes Crédit Agricole unique both as a company and in terms of its economic model? Dominique Lefebvre First of all, it is a universal bank, a bank for all. It is a bank that offers all products and services connected to banking and insurance, covering the needs of all our customers throughout their lifetime, including the bad times. We should not forget the economic footprint of our Group, which has nearly 100,000 employees in France, generates three quarters of its revenues in our country, and where it also pays almost all of its mandatory contributions – a total of €6.1 billion in 2018. We are proud of this commitment and the fact that we provide a useful service to society and our customers. What is also unique about Crédit Agricole is its ability to transform itself in a responsive and agile manner. For some years we have been at the Dominique LEFEBVRE very heart of the digital revolution, and we are permanently evolving in Chairman order to best meet the expectations of all our customers. of the Board of Directors 2 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. INTERVIEW To what extent has 2018 allowed you to deploy your strategic plan? Philippe Brassac Firstly, this year has been devoted to integrating Pioneer in Asset management and the three Italian banks in order to deliver the drivers of growth and the anticipated synergies. Secondly, we have maintained our organic growth and development in all business lines, in particular by signing new partnership agreements for consumer finance with Bankia in Spain, for insurance with Creval (Credito Valtellinese) in Italy and Novo Banco in Portugal, and also by extending existing partnerships with Banco BPM in Italy. Lastly, in retail banking, we remain very close to the needs of all our customers by investing in the digital field, so as to be more agile while still maintaining close customer focus in our branches. All these developments have taken place while still maintaining the operational efficiency of the Group, as the improved cost/income ratio for 2018 shows. This is crucial for us if we are to be able to continue to support our customers with a service at the best price, while still ensuring transactions and personal data remain secure. It is for this reason that we are going to continue our strategy based on Philippe BRASSAC teamwork and achieving synergies between our various business lines. Chief Executive Officer The result is that today, a year ahead of schedule, we have achieved our 2020 medium-term plan targets, and our new plan will be launched on this coming 6 June. What role do your shareholders play and CRÉDIT AGRICOLE IN FRANCE what are your commitments towards them? Crédit Agricole has resolved to commit itself wholeheartedly to Dominique Lefebvre providing concrete solutions to support French citizens in their daily lives, in particular to further their purchasing power. In our strategic plan, we clearly indicated our intention to shareholders by setting a distribution policy at 50% of our net income Group share. Our commitment is aimed specifically at breaking down isolation We have stuck to our commitments, and, what’s more, have ensured and promoting access to banking services for all. It also aims to the dividend has risen year-on-year. offer customers who are in a difficult life situation high-end entry products and solutions tailored to their needs, provide them with 2018 has been a year of turbulence for the equity markets and therefore fair and unbiased advice and help them prepare for setbacks. for our own share value. However, our results allow us to maintain For example, the Points Passerelle scheme, set up 20 years ago, generous dividends for those who put their trust in us – the dividend allows us to provide over 13,000 customers a year with a range proposed to the General Meeting was 0.69 cents per share, up 9.5%. of educational and practical measures designed to improve their ability to budget. Lastly, we are committed to facilitating access to What challenges does the Group face credit and to promoting inclusive finance. in the coming years? Philippe BRASSAC Dominique Lefebvre In the current climate marked by social tensions, our DNA as a mutual bank at the service of all our customers – from the most vulnerable to the wealthiest, in the towns and in the villages – demands our full commitment to addressing the major issues facing society by means of climate finance, inclusive finance and by protecting the heritage and assets of our regions. Our new Medium term plan will provide concrete responses to all these challenges. We also have a responsibility to the generations that represent the future of our country, and we are set on ensuring the Group as a whole promotes youth employment and contributes to equal opportunities. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 3 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE GROUP PROFILE A WHOLE BANK JUST FOR YOU As a trusted partner to its customers, Crédit Agricole has remained true to its enduring values of customer focus, accountability and solidarity for 125 years. Crédit Agricole is committed to establishing long-term relationships with all its customers to support their projects, prepare for life’s uncertainties and protect their interests. It serves all customers, from low-income families to high net worth individuals, from local merchants to farmers and multinationals, committing to transparency, loyalty and straightforward information. Its customer-focused universal banking model underpins an ambitious Customer Project focused on building comprehensive and lasting relationships. The synergy between Crédit Agricole’s different businesses provides each customer with a diverse pool of expertise and a distribution model that delivers a 100% human, 100% digital banking experience. The Group aims for excellence in customer relations to the benefit of all, with: day-to-day banking, lending and savings products, insurance, asset management, wealth management, leasing, factoring, corporate and investment banking, asset servicing, payment services and real estate. Crédit Agricole’s Corporate Social Responsibility policy lies at the heart of its cooperative and mutual identity, and its ambition. It actively addresses environmental and social issues by supporting progress and change. Systematic integration of climate risk into its financing and investment strategies (for asset management and insurance), as well as the bank’s increasing involvement in renewable energy projects and its support for customers transitioning to a low-carbon economy illustrate its commitment. This policy is embodied by the engagement of its 141,000 employees. #1 51m 47 141,000 bancassurer in Europe provider of financing to the French economy customers countries employees european asset manager 4 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE GROUP PROFILE CRÉDIT AGRICOLE GROUP – A STABLE SHAREHOLDING STRUCTURE (AT 31 DECEMBER 2018) The Crédit Agricole Group includes Crédit Agricole S.A., all the Regional Banks and Local Banks and their subsidiaries. 10.1 M mutual shareholders who hold mutual shares in 2,432 Local Banks CCA/CCI ­100% Sacam Mutualisation 39 Float 25% Crédit Agricole Institutional investors31.9% Regional Banks Individual shareholders 7.3% Fédération nationale Employee share ownership plans jointly holding the majority of du Crédit Agricole (ESOP)4.4% (FNCA) political link Credit Agricole S.A.’s share capital(1) Treasury shares0.1% 56.3% 43.7% SPECIALISED BUSINESSES ASSET AND GATHERING SUBSIDIARIES It Eg a li a R o y p t , Po ma , U lsk nia k r a a , , S ine rb , ija LARGE RETAIL CUSTOMERS BANKING SPECIALISED FINANCIAL SERVICES (1) Via SAS Rue La Boétie. The Regional Bank of Corsica, 99.9% owned by Crédit Agricole S.A., is a shareholder of Sacam Mutualisation. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 5 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE GROUP PROFILE THE OBJECTIVES OF CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. WITHIN THE CRÉDIT AGRICOLE GROUP CENTRAL BODY: REPRESENTS THE CREDIT AGRICOLE GROUP BEFORE THE MONETARY AND BANKING AUTHORITIES Application of laws or regulations pertaining to the Group Approval of the executives of the Regional Banks and of merger plans Bank supervision in collaboration with the regulatory authorities (Banque de France, AMF, ACPR, etc.) Audit of the accounts (accounting approval) Parent company of the business line subsidiaries CENTRAL BANK OF THE CRÉDIT AGRICOLE GROUP Guarantor for the financial unity of the Group Financial reconciling of resources and uses by the Regional Banks Group cash management HEAD OF THE NETWORK: MANAGES THE DOMESTIC AND INTERNATIONAL SUBSIDIARIES OF THE GROUP Creation of new products, promotion and coordination of commercial policy Managing the Crédit Agricole brand IT planning Monitoring of subsidiaries and of international developments 6 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE GROUP PROFILE OUR UNIVERSAL CUSTOMER-FOCUSED BANKING MODEL Crédit Agricole Group’s universal customer-focused banking model is lives. This understanding of the expectations and needs of customers, based on the close association of its retail banks with its specialised together with the size of the Group’s networks, enable Crédit Agricole business lines. The Regional Banks are at the heart of this model, based S.A.’s specialised business lines to constantly improve their offerings on recognised know-how in the distribution of all the financial products and their competitiveness. and services developed by the Group to all types of customers in France With its specialised subsidiaries (insurance, asset management, real and internationally. estate, wealth management, corporate and investment banking, financial This model underscores Crédit Agricole Group’s commitment to be the services for institutional investors and issuers, specialised financial trusted partner of all of its customers and to cover the full breadth of their services, payment instruments), the Group is able to offer comprehensive financial and wealth management needs, namely: payment instruments, and customised solutions to all its customers, in good times and bad insurance, savings management, financing, real estate and international times, within the framework of an enduring relationship. support. The increase in customer equipment is both a means of encouraging All of these services and skills are offered in a close relationship based on loyalty and a vector for revenue growth, through the synergies developed the Group’s retail banks in France (Regional Banks, LCL, BforBank) and between retail banking and the specialised business lines. Crédit Agricole internationally (Crédit Agricole Italia, CA Bank Polska, Crédit du Maroc, Group’s medium-term strategic plan, “Strategic Ambition 2020”, drawn CA Egypt, CA Ukraine, etc.). The contacts maintained by employees and up jointly by the Regional Banks and Crédit Agricole S.A. and unveiled in elected representatives of Local and Regional Banks in the field ensure March 2016, has reinforced the implementation of this model. good knowledge of customers and their problems throughout their Asset gathering Specialised financial services and Insurance Retail Banks Large customers Specialised businesses and subsidiaries ACTIVITIES AND ORGANISATION OF THE REGIONAL BANKS The Crédit Agricole Regional Banks are co-operative entities and fullyAdéquation 2018), SME and small business (34%; source: Pépites CSA fledged banks that have a leading position in all their retail banking 2018) and corporate (37%; source: Kantar TNS 2017) markets. markets in France. With 21 million individual customers, the Regional The marketing of products and services covering the financial and wealth Banks account for 23.2% of the household bank deposit market (source: management needs of their customers is based on a network of nearly Banque de France, september 2018) and 22.9% of the household credit 6,800 branches, about 6,000 in-store Servicing points installed at small market (internal source: département des études économiques du retailers and a full range of remote banking services. Crédit Agricole). They are leaders in the agricultural (81% share; source: The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 7 ABOUT CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. 1 Key figures 10 Information on the share capital and shareholders 28 Business model 12 Ownership structure at 31 December 2018 28 Change in share ownership over the past three years 28 The business lines Recent changes in share capital 29 of Crédit Agricole S.A. Information concerning major shareholders 29 at 31 December 2018 14 Dividend policy 30 Asset gathering and insurance 16 Table summarising authorisations in force Retail banking 18 and the use made thereof during 2018 30 Specialised financial services 20 Purchase by the Company of its own shares in 2018 31 Large customers 22 Description of Crédit Agricole S.A. share buyback programme Corporate Centre 23 for 2019 and subsequent years 32 History25 Stock market data 34 Crédit Agricole S.A. share 34 Highlights of 2018 26 Dividend calendar 36 2019 financial communications calendar 36 Contacts36 8 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. About Crédit Agricole S.A. A SOLID FINANCIAL STRUCTURE, 1 A DIVERSIFIED SHAREHOLDER BASE, A BALANCED DISTRIBUTION POLICY ST O C K M AR KET AND SHA REHOLDING €0.69 50% €27.0 bn €12.0 Net dividend Pay-out ratio Market capitalisation Tangible net per share in 2018 in 2018 at end-2018 assets per share at end-2018(1) F I N ANCIAL STRUCTURE Total equity Solvency ratios fully loaded (in billions of euros) (as a percentage) 64.7 65.5 63.9 18.6% 6.7 5.6 6.6 17.4% 17.2% 13.9% 13.4% 13.1% 12.1% 11.7% 11.5% 58.1 58.8 58.3 31/12/2016 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2016 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 Groupe share Minority interests Total capital ratio Of which Tier 1 ratio Of which Common Equity Tier 1 ratio (1) See definition and calculation method on page 196 of this document. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 9 1 About Crédit Agricole S.A. Key figures KEY FIGURES BUSINESS AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 (in billions of euros) 31/12/18 Total assets 1,624.4 Gross customer loans(1) 479.3 Customer deposits(2) 787.0 (1) Gross value of loans and receivables due from credit institutions and due from customers. (2) Including debt instruments issued to customers. BREAKDOWN OF REVENUES BY BUSINESS LINE IN 2018(1) 14% Specialised financial services 26% Large customers 31% Retail banking 29% Asset gathering TRENDS IN EARNINGS Condensed income statement (in millions of euros) 2016 2017 2018 Revenues (NBI) 16,853 18,634 19,736 Gross Operating Income 5,159 6,431 7,147 Net income 3,955 4,216 5,027 Net income Group share 3,540 3,649 4,400 Net income Group share Return on tangible equity (RoTE) (in millions of euros) (as a percentage) 4,400 3,540 3,649 12.7% 2016 2017 2018 (1) Excluding Corporate Centre (CC). 10 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. About Crédit Agricole S.A. Key figures Breakdown of net income Group share(1) Breakdown of net income Group share by business line by geographic region 14% 1 Specialised financial 14% services Italy 30% Large customers 43% 22% France Rest of 18% the world Retail banking 38% 21% Asset gathering Europe RATINGS AT 15 MARCH 2019 ST senior LT / ST Issuer / LT senior Outlook / preferred Rating Counterparty preferred debt Review debt Last rating action Rating action nn Increase of LT ratings (1 notch) S&P Global AA-/A-1+ Stable A+ A-1 19/10/18 nn Outlook revised from stable to positive Ratings (RCR) outlook nn ST ratings confirmed Aa3/P 1 Positive nn Outlook revised from positive to stable Moody’s A1 P-1 05/07/18 (CRR) outlook nn LT and ST ratings confirmed A+ Stable nn LT / ST ratings affirmed; Fitch Ratings A+ F1 04/12/18 (DCR) outlook nn Outlook unchanged AA (high) / R-1 Stable nn LT / ST ratings affirmed; DBRS (high) (COR) AA (low) outlook R-1 (middle) 01/10/18 nn Outlook unchanged LT: long term; ST: short term. INDEX PRESENCE AND CSR RATINGS(2) (1) Excluding Corporate Centre. (2) See other CSR ratings in chapter 2 of this document. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 11 1 About Crédit Agricole S.A. Our business model: partnering a sustainable economy OUR BUSINESS MODEL: PARTNERING A SUSTAINABLE ECONOMY OUR RESOURCES OUR TALENT OUR FOUNDATION: THE REGIONAL BANKS  41,000 employees 1 of the Crédit Agricole Group: France: 74% International: 26% OUR GOVERNANCE  solid majority shareholder A A tru ts ste ensuring a long-term e d m ark ban par commitment e kin t n m g er a n fo ho d r r in OUR CAPITAL ou  hareholders’ Equity, S Large mer s in s to cu customers s Group Share: er al p al eds du ne Group: €106.7bn l ay Crédit Agricole S.A.: €58.8bn vi e di nc in ur a Loc OUR GEOGRAPHIC s FOOTPRINT ’  7 countries 4 Asset Specialised  etail banks in France R gathering financial (39 Regional Banks, LCL and insurance services and BforBank) and abroad v p s iso  0,700 branches 1 A res an r f OUR MULTI-PARTNERSHIP on d or b MODEL sib tra us ns in a c t e s s e s’  growth model for our business A le French ion s pa and international lines that leverages both our rt er retail banking ad n synergies with the Group’s to th b le eed bankers and external expertise ee da n co en al and retail partnerships nom d ep anci y A fin OUR TECHNOLOGICAL CAPITAL  single centre of IT expertise A (CAGIP) serving all of the Group’s business lines OUR LARGE OUR PARTNERS’ 51 MILLION CORPORATE AND CUSTOMERS CUSTOMERS INSTITUTIONAL CUSTOMERS 12 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. About Crédit Agricole S.A. Our business model: partnering a sustainable economy 1 OUR VALUE CREATION OUR ACHIEVEMENTS FOR CUSTOMERS Payout to shareholders: FOR THE ENVIRONMENT #  1 Provider of financing to €2.0bn  orld’s leading bookrunner W the French economy: €607bn for Green Bond issues loans outstanding in retail FOR EMPLOYEES  reen Bonds: €120bn G banking arranged to finance ERI survey: 70% #  1 European asset manager: participation rate the energy transition €1,425bn R  esponsible investments: (Regional Banks #  1 Bancassurer in Europe + Crédit Agricole S.A.) €275.8bn Property and casualty F  inancing for renewable Regular share issues insurance contracts: energies: €571m reserved for employees €13.4bn for renewable energy Customer satisfaction rate FOR CIVIL SOCIETY and energy efficiency projects for property and casualty provided by Unifergie Group purchases: €6.9bn insurance: 94% and LCL (and €3bn Taxes: €6.9bn in outstandings at FOR THE GROUP  Major player in private the Regional Banks) AND SHAREHOLDERS equity: €3.5bn in assets under management C  rédit Agricole Group revenues: €32.8bn  Hiring: 5,834 permanent contract employees  rédit Agricole S.A. C (Crédit Agricole S.A. scope) Net income: €4.4bn C  rédit Agricole S.A. market capitalisation: €27.0bn OUR COMMITMENTS T  o be a loyal bank customers’ needs with a  o promote energy T that puts a priority on 100% human, 100% digital and society’s transition ethics, transparency and experience straightforward information  o support and champion T for customers  o provide an excellent T all the potential of our home multi-channel experience to markets To  provide products and support a close relationship services that meet all our with our customers The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 13 1 About Crédit Agricole S.A. The business lines of Crédit Agricole S.A. at 31 December 2018 THE BUSINESS LINES OF CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 € ASSET GATHERING AND INSURANCE RETAIL BANKING INSURANCE LCL MISSION: as France’s leading insurer, Crédit Agricole Assurances (1) MISSION: LCL is the only domestic network bank in France to focus is highly focused on the needs of its customers, whether they are exclusively on retail banking and insurance. It covers all markets: individuals, SMEs and small businesses, corporates or farmers. individual customers, SMEs and small businesses, and private and Its goal is to be effective and useful, from designing solutions and corporate banking. services to handling claims. OUR OFFERING: a complete range of banking products and services OUR OFFERING: a full and competitive range, tailored to customers’ covering finance, insurance, savings and wealth management, needs in terms of savings/retirement, death & disability/creditor/group payments and flow management. With branches nationwide and and property & casualty insurance, and backed by the efficiency of an online banking service, the aim is to develop a close customer the largest banking network in Europe. relationship (mobile app and website). KEY FIGURES: KEY FIGURES: 285 13.4 million €120 bn 191.9 € 33.5 bn € bn Assets under Number of property Loans outstanding € Total customer bn 6 million individual (of which €75.4 bn customers Gross revenues management in & casualty insurance assets in home loans) savings/retirement contracts INTERNATIONAL RETAIL BANKING ASSET MANAGEMENT MISSION: Crédit Agricole’s international retail banks are primarily MISSION: Amundi is the leading European asset manager in terms located in Europe (Italy, Poland, Serbia, Romania, Ukraine), and in of assets under management and ranks in the top 10 worldwide(2). selected countries of the Mediterranean basin (Morocco, Egypt), The Group manages €1,425 billion and has six main management where they serve all types of customers (individuals, small businesses, platforms (Boston, Dublin, London, Milan, Paris and Tokyo). corporates (from SMEs to multinationals), in collaboration with the OUR OFFERING: Amundi offers its customers in Europe, Asia Pacific, Group’s specialised business lines and activities. the Middle East and the Americas a wide range of expertise and OUR OFFERING: in branch and online, international retail banks investment solutions for active, passive, real estate and alternative offer a range of banking services, specialised financial services and asset management. Amundi’s customers can also access a full range savings and insurance products tailored to our customers’ needs, in of high added value services. synergy with the Group’s other business lines (CACIB, CAA, Amundi, KEY FIGURES: CAL&F, etc.). € 1,425 bn N° 1 European Present in KEY FIGURES: Assets under asset management 37 countries € 52.9 bn €52.2 bn > 5.3 million management company(2) On-balance Loans outstanding customers sheet deposits WEALTH MANAGEMENT MISSION: Indosuez Wealth Management comprises Crédit Agricole Group’s wealth management activities in Europe(3), the Middle East, Asia-Pacific and the Americas. Renowned for both its human and resolutely international dimension, it has a presence in 14 countries worldwide. OUR OFFERING: we offer a tailored approach allowing individual customers to manage, protect and transfer their assets in a manner which best fits their aspirations. Embracing a global vision, our teams offer expert advice and first-class services. KEY FIGURES: € 122.8 bn 3,150 Present in Assets under management(3) employees 14 countries (1) Source: L’Argus de l’assurance, 21 December 2018 (figures to end-2017). (2) Source : palmarès IPE “Top 400 asset managers” released in June 2018 on the basis of assets under management in December 2017. (3) Excluding LCL Private Banking, Regional Banks and private banking activities within international retail banking. 14 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. About Crédit Agricole S.A. The business lines of Crédit Agricole S.A. at 31 December 2018 1 SPECIALISED FINANCIAL SERVICES LARGE CUSTOMERS CONSUMER FINANCE CORPORATE AND INVESTMENT BANKING MISSION: a major player in consumer finance in Europe, Crédit MISSION: Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank serve Agricole Consumer Finance offers its customers and partners a range corporates and financial institutions, in France and internationally, of flexible, responsible solutions, tailored to their needs. Customer thanks to its network in the main countries of Europe, the Americas, satisfaction is a strategic priority, particularly through investments Asia-Pacific and the Middle East. in digital, to create a credit experience with them that meets their OUR OFFERING: products and services in investment banking, expectations and new methods of consumption. structured finance, international trade finance and commercial OUR OFFERING: a complete multi-channel range of financing and banking, capital market activities and syndication, and known insurance solutions and services available online, in branches of CA worldwide “green” finance expertise. Consumer Finance subsidiaries and from its banking, institutional, KEY FIGURES: distribution and automotive partners. KEY FIGURES: No. 1 bookrunner 2 nd largest 8,300 worldwide for bookrunner in employees € 88.5 bn of which € 18.7 bn Present in green, social and syndicated loans Gross managed loans for Crédit Agricole Group 19 countries sustainability bonds (all currencies) for the EMEA region (source: Refinitiv) (source: Bloomberg) LEASING, FACTORING AND FINANCE FOR ENERGIES AND REGIONS ASSET SERVICING MISSION: Crédit Agricole Leasing & Factoring (CAL&F) provides MISSION: CACEIS, a specialist back-office banking group, supports solutions for businesses of all sizes for their investment plans and the management companies, institutional investors, banks, private equity management of their trade receivables, through its offering of lease and real estate funds, brokers and companies in the execution of their financing and factoring services in France and Europe. CAL&F is also orders, including custody and management of their financial assets. one of France’s leading providers of finance for energies and regions. OUR OFFERING: CACEIS offers asset servicing solutions throughout OUR OFFERING: in lease financing, CAL&F offers financing the full life cycle of investment products and for all asset classes: solutions to meet property and equipment investment and renewal execution, clearing, custody, fund administration, middle-office requirements. In factoring, CAL&F provides trade receivable financing solutions, forex, security lending and borrowing, fund distribution and management solutions for corporates, both for their day-tosupport and services to issuers. day operations and for their expansion plans. Lastly, CAL&F, via its KEY FIGURES: subsidiary Unifergie, helps corporates, local authorities and farmers to finance renewable energy and public infrastructure projects. € 2,633 bn € 1,692 bn €1,058 bn KEY FIGURES: Assets under Assets under Assets custody administration deposited 1 out of 3 Over 50 mid-caps years’ experience No. 2 in the financing funded by CAL&F in leasing of renewable energy(1) in France and factoring SPECIALISED BUSINESSES AND SUBSIDIARIES Crédit Agricole Immobilier Crédit Agricole Payment Services nn €959.1 million annual fees nn France’s leading payment solutions provider with a market share nn 1,725 homes sold of almost 30% nn 3 million sq. m. under management at end-2018 nn More than 11 billion transactions processed in 2018 nn More than 40 years’ expertise in serving customers Crédit Agricole Capital Investissement & Finance (IDIA CI, SODICA CF) in the development of offers combining ease-of-use and security nn €1.5 billion assets under management nn Leader on the mergers/acquisitions market for small and midcaps Uni-médias with a record year in terms of transactions (33) nn 13 market-leading publications with nearly 2 million subscribers nn IDIA Capital Investissement activity up sharply with 16 investments made nn 10 million readers, 12 websites over the year nn 7.8 million unique monthly visitors, up 51% (2) (1) CAL&F is the No. 2 in the energy-financing companies’ market (source ASF to november 2018). (2) Source: Office de justification de la diffusion, ACPM, Médiamétrie 11/2018 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 15 1 About Crédit Agricole S.A. The business lines of Crédit Agricole S.A. at 31 December 2018 ASSET GATHERING AND INSURANCE INSURANCE Business and organisation Individual or group insurance solutions cater for customers wishing to: nn protect themselves and their families from the financial implications Crédit Agricole Assurances (CAA) is the leading bancassurer in Europe (1) of a serious personal accident; by premium income and the leading insurer in France(2). nn repay a loan in the event of incapacity, disability, unemployment Crédit Agricole Assurances (CAA)’s positions are supported by a full and thanks to guarantees linked to consumer or home loans; competitive range of products, tailored to the specific requirements of nn provide employees with a supplementary group health and death & each domestic market and each local partner, as well as by the power of disability insurance contract. the Crédit Agricole Group distribution network. The death & disability/health offering works through the banking Savings and retirement networks of Crédit Agricole Group, in France and abroad, supplemented in metropolitan France by a network of general agents dedicated to Crédit Agricole Assurances is the second-largest provider of personal health professionals. In group insurance, CAA and Amundi have joined insurance in France(2). forces to become a leading provider of social protection for companies. It offers its customers a wide range of policies for saving, transmitting With expertise in creditor insurance, CAA offers its services through capital, financing projects or preparing for retirement. some 40 partners, retail banks and specialised finance companies in In France, CAA primarily distributes its products to customers of the six countries. Regional Banks and LCL: individual customers, high net worth customers, farmers, small businesses and corporates. Property & casualty insurance Internationally, Crédit Agricole Assurances is present through the Crédit Agricole Assurances is the leading car, home and healthcare Crédit Agricole Group entities in Italy, Luxembourg and Poland, where bancassurer(4) and the fifth-largest insurer of property and liability in it continues to export and adapt its bancassurance know-how and is France(2). continuing its development via distribution agreements with external It offers a full range of property & casualty insurance policies to individual partners in Italy, Portugal, Japan and Luxembourg. customers and small businesses: protection of personal property (car, In addition, it is expanding through alternative networks: independent home, etc.), protection of farming and business assets, protection of wealth management advisers, BforBank online bank, network dedicated mobile electronic devices in the home, legal protection, supplementary to health professionals. health insurance, personal accident cover, specialist policies for the agricultural market, professional liability insurance, card theft protection Death & disability/creditor/group insurance (in case of fraudulent use of lost or stolen payment instruments). Crédit Agricole Assurances is the leading provider of individual death It markets its products to customers of the Regional Banks, LCL and via & disability insurance in France(3) and second-largest bancassurer a network of general agents for the health professionals sector. for creditor insurance(4). A service launched in 2015, group insurance Internationally, CAA is capitalising on the success of its bancassurance covered around 600,000 people at 31 December 2018. model by also deploying its expertise in property & casualty insurance. 2018 highlights nn Crédit Agricole Assurances confirmed its position as France’s leading insurer(2). nn Launch of the Secured Gross Revenues guarantee for farmers. nn Crédit Agricole Assurances strengthened its international presence by means of a strategic bancassurance partnership in Italy with Italian bank Credito Valtellinese and increased its holding in the capital of Portuguese non-life insurer GNB Seguros. Crédit Agricole Assurances launched the all-in-one “Ma Santé” application, offering employees a wide range of health services. Crédit Agricole Assurances was awarded the Global Invest Sustainable Insurance Compagny of the Year of the Agefi prize, which rewards participation in energy transition financing. (1) Internal source: data to end 2017. (2) Source: L’Argus de l’assurance, 21 December 2018 (figures to end-2017). (3) Source: L’Argus de l’assurance, 13 April 2018 (figures to end-2017). (4) Source: L’Argus de l’assurance, 11 May 2018 (figures to end-2017). 16 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. About Crédit Agricole S.A. The business lines of Crédit Agricole S.A. at 31 December 2018 ASSET MANAGEMENT Business and organisation For its institutional and corporate customer base, Amundi draws on its 1 extensive expertise and research-based investment culture to provide a comprehensive, objective approach. A model of customer-focused services and solutions Listed since November 2015, Amundi remains the leading market Amundi’s customer-focused organisation offers a rich, diversified capitalisation (€9.3 billion as at 31 December 2018) among traditional offering to individuals, institutional and corporate investors. This listed asset managers in Europe. In bearish equity markets, Amundi’s consists of a multitude of services, savings and investment solutions and share price closed 2018 at €46.16, down -34.7% since end-2017. This management on a worldwide scale. Amundi disseminates its know-how trend was comparable with that of its stock market peers. through all investment universes, covering both active and passive management strategies, as well as alpha, (bonds, equity or multi-asset) management, factoring and Smart Beta management, property and Strategic ambitions alternative assets (real estate, private equity, private debt, infrastructure), In 2018, Amundi almost reached the goals it had set, both in terms of as well as services and consulting. activity and results. Amundi’s know-how is strengthened by its unique expertise in Research The consolidation of Pioneer Investments (acquired on 3 July 2017) is and Analysis, and by the Group’s presence in the main financial centres, practically complete, allowing expected cost synergies to be generated, enabling it to best support its customers in their investment decisions. in line with the announced schedule. Amundi uses its experience and close partnerships with distribution With its unique business model, its industrial approach and its platforms and retail networks in Europe, Asia-Pacific and North customer-led organisation, boasting operational efficiency and combining America to offer tailored solutions, innovative services and added-value a local presence with a global reach, the Group is well placed to continue investment advice; these offers help meet the needs and risk profiles of its profitable growth based on organic development. its individual customers, taking the market environment into account. Amundi’s ambition is to become a leader in the worldwide asset management industry, based on the quality of expertise and services offered to customers, its momentum in terms of development and profitability, and its positioning as a committed financial player. 2018 highlights nn Established in partnership with the International Finance Corporation (IFC), the Amundi Planet Emerging Green One fund was closed in February 2018 with €1.42 billion raised. It is fully invested in a diversified portfolio of emerging bonds. nn Amundi was selected by the Irish Ministry of Finance and Apple to provide investment management services. nn Amundi was a big winner at the Funds Europe Awards 2018: Amundi “European ETF Provider Award” – Yves Perrier “Outstanding achievement” – Pascal Blanqué “European Chief Investment Officer Award”. Amundi was rewarded for its Employee Savings Robo-Advisor with the Profideo Innovation Trophy and the AM Tech Leader Award awarded by AGEFI at the AM TECH DAY Amundi launched a three-year ESG action plan to breathe new life into its responsible investment commitments. One of its goals is to become 100% ESG in terms of rating, management and votes. WEALTH MANAGEMENT Business and organisation customers to manage, protect and transfer their assets in a manner which best fits their aspirations. Shaped by 140 years of experience in supporting families and entrepreneurs worldwide, the Indosuez Wealth Management Group Embracing a global vision, its 3,150 employees provide expert advice and offers a tailored approach, across 14 countries, allowing individual first-class services in both private and professional wealth management. 2018 highlights nn Completion of the acquisition of Banca Leonardo in Italy. Subsidiarisation of Azqore and 20% stake in its capital taken by Capgemini aiming to create a new global benchmark in outsourcing services for IT and banking transactions in the Wealth Management sector and for medium-sized universal banks. Launch of an action plan to promote Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) in Wealth Management: SRI rating of customer portfolios, raising awareness among Bankers / Customer about this rating, launch of a “Carbon Impact” rating, green bonds proposed to private investors in synergy with Crédit Agricole CIB. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 17 1 About Crédit Agricole S.A. The business lines of Crédit Agricole S.A. at 31 December 2018 RETAIL BANKING LCL LCL is a national network, a leader in towns and cities, supplying banking Whether in-branch or online, LCL is committed to fully understanding the services and insurance, that prides itself on excellent customer service needs of its customers. By rethinking and digitising certain processes within a collective growth dynamic. such as opening an account or taking out a mortgage loan, it seeks to It is the only domestic banking network in France to focus exclusively on facilitate subscription to its main products. retail banking and insurance. It covers all markets: individual customers, The 342,000 SMEs and small businesses – skilled craft workers, SMEs and small businesses, and private and corporate banking. retailers, professionals and other small businesses – also benefit from the support of 1,300 specialist advisers and the creation of 88 “Espace Business and organisation Pros” business areas. These advisers serve as a single contact point to help their customers manage their daily affairs and achieve their As a universal bank and insurer, LCL offers its customers solutions business and personal projects. LCL is a major player in the financing that are tailored to their needs, drawing on its expertise and the wealth of professionals, granting loans of €2.2 billion through its subsidiary of know-how of the Crédit Agricole Group. LCL caters for all kinds of Interfimo. customers, from individuals and small businesses to private banking and wealth management, corporate and institutional customers. LCL Banque Privée has 187,000 private banking clients. Dedicated advisers work with regional centres of expertise to offer comprehensive, The back-office, electronic payments and flow management and tailored advice on finance, day-to-day banking and the management support functions serve all customers and make an active contribution of real estate and financial assets. The 73 private banking centres to operational excellence. offer peace and quiet and complete privacy for analysis, advice and LCL’s ambition is to offer a personal relationship experience that decision-making. combines both human and digital interaction, giving its six million LCL Banque des Entreprises relies on its national network of 69 geographic individual customers the choice of banking how, where and when they locations to provide its 29,000 customers with its full range of expertise want through their preferred channel. in Paris and throughout the rest of France: corporate finance for SME Capitalising on its strategic urban presence, LCL has adapted its takeovers and acquisitions, market activities, international trade and approach and services to cover the whole of mainland France, as well as payments, employee savings. the West Indies-French Guiana. As a player of choice in the Mid-Caps sector, LCL is today the bank to LCL now has a network of nearly 1,700 branches, plus customer service nearly half of all Mid-Caps. centres and digital solutions such as the “LCL Mes Comptes” app and LCL Banque des Entreprises also reaffirms its comprehensive approach websites, giving its customers complete freedom in using its banking and its desire to assist executives with their wealth management plans services. by expanding its Wealth Management teams in Paris and across France. 2018 highlights nn LCL launched a major communication campaign. It positioned LCL as “THE” bank for city dwellers, a benchmark for those living in town, helping to make life easier for everyone. It was embodied by a new signature “LCL. Ma vie. Ma ville. Ma banque”. nn LCL modernised its network: at end-2018, 219 branches were renovated, using a new layout concept, as well as 88 “Espace Pros” business areas. The solutions implemented enhance environmental protection: they reduce light pollution, give priority to paperless transactions and so on. “LCL Mes comptes” was chosen as the best banking app for the second year running, with 90% satisfaction, at the Trophées de la Banque 2019 awards organised by Meilleurebanque.com. LCL gives employees the chance to round up their pay and match it before sending it to the LCL Foundation. Employees can support colleagues in difficulty by donating their days off (solidar’box). 18 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. About Crédit Agricole S.A. The business lines of Crédit Agricole S.A. at 31 December 2018 INTERNATIONAL RETAIL BANKING Business and organisation The main activities and characteristics of the seven international retail 1 banks – located in Poland, Romania, Serbia and Ukraine in Eastern Within Crédit Agricole S.A., the “International Retail Banking” (IRB) Europe, in Morocco and Egypt, as well as in Italy – are as follows: division is responsible for overseeing and developing Crédit Agricole’s IRB entities according to the Group’s standards and guidelines. It has Crédit Agricole Italia three main tasks: One of the highest ratings from Moody’s of any Italian bank – is the nn to act on behalf of Crédit Agricole S.A. as shareholder and integrator bridgehead of the Group’s presence in Italy, Crédit Agricole’s secondwith the Group’s operations; largest national market after France, where all the Group’s business lines nn to draw up strategic guidelines in consultation with the international are present. With the consolidation/absorption of the Savings Banks of retail banks to optimise their market performance; Cesena, Rimini and San Miniato, CA Italia strengthened its presence in nn to create added value for the international retail banks and deliver the Emilia Romagna and Tuscany regions, among the richest in Italy. results through synergies with the Group’s business lines, LCL and It is currently the sixth-largest network in Italy in terms of the number the Regional Banks, as well as among the different international retail of branches, with 1,049, or 3.69% (at 30 June 2018) of branch share banks themselves. (9,442 employees, balance sheet total: €40 billion and over 2 million The IRB division thus has operational responsibility for the functioning customers). and performance of these banks. It oversees and supports their Through its commercial banks, the Crédit Agricole Italia Banking Group development and ensures that they comply with Group standards, operates in 11 Italian regions (representing 73% of the population and particularly as regards transaction processing, regulatory aspects, etc. generating 80% of GDP). Through its distinctive customer-led positioning, Lastly, the IRB division plays a key role in implementing new customer Crédit Agricole Italia is a retail bank covering all market segments: service and relationship development models. Individuals – Professionals, SMEs, Large Corporates, Agricultural and Food Processing, Private Banking. 2018 highlights nn Opening of Village by CA in Milan: this first Village outside France benefits from strong strategic positioning. The project reflects the new presence in Italy of Crédit Agricole’s innovation hub. nn Rating: Baa1 by Moody’s, highest level for Italian banks (October 2018). nn Leading Italian banking group in terms of cumulative results over the past five years. One of the first Italian banks to launch the SEPA instant transfer. Prizes and awards: CRS Sustainability Award 2018; nn Four awards at the “Milano Finanza Global Awards 2018”: –– the “Leon d’Or” prize for the best institutional campaign, “Una grande banca, tutta per te”, was awarded to the Crédit Agricole Italia Group; –– and three “Creators of Value” awards were given to Crédit Agricole FriulAdria, as the best bank in the Friuli-Venezia Giulia region, to Crédit Agricole Carispezia, as the best bank in the Liguria region, and also to Agos, the Italian subsidiary of Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance, as the best credit company for households. nn Crédit Agricole Vita, the Italian life insurance subsidiary of Crédit Agricole Assurances, received an award at the Future Bancassurance Awards 2018. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 19 1 About Crédit Agricole S.A. The business lines of Crédit Agricole S.A. at 31 December 2018 Crédit Agricole’s six other international retail banks: Total (in billions Entity Number of euros) Balance sheet Highlights of 2018 Positioning/Rating CA Bank Polska 419 branches 5.1 nn Publication of the first CSR report “Raport nn Poland’s most recommended bank 1,485,000 customers Odpowiedzialnego Biznesu 2017” (source: Millward Brown study 2017) 4,155 employees nn New institutional communication and bank nn Banking Star award (source: PwC positioning and Dziennik Gazeta Prawna contest) nn Launch of online loan subscription via the FinAI and Pearl of the Polish economy Polish FinTech 2018 (source: Polish market economic nn Development of the CA24Mobile mobile app which magazine) now includes anti-fraud security and biometric nn Leader position on the leasing market (via recognition subsidiary EFL) CA Egypt 78 branches 2.6 nn Awards for Best mobile bank and “Most nn Fitch rating: AA+ (egy) stable 385,000 customers innovative digital bank (source: Global Finance nn One of only two banks in the flagship 2,385 employees Magazine Awards) index of the Cairo Stock Exchange nn Launch of the “CA Egypt for development” (EGX 30) foundation: supports communities by contributing to financial inclusion CA Ukraine 150 branches 1.0 nn New national campaign to celebrate the bank’s nn Fitch rating: B(highest level for local 426,000 customers 25th anniversary banks) 2,308 employees nn Continued strategic investments in digitization nn No. 1 on the Agricultural and Food of processes (back offices, digitization) Processing sector and the country’s and distribution channels incorporating the leading agricultural bank” Financial deployment of a new digital branch concept Oscar (source: Business magazine) Crédit du Maroc 330 branches 4.9 nn Establishment of a multi-bank platform nn Moody’s rating: Ba1/NP and Ba2/NP 665,000 customers for international transactions for deposits in local currency and foreign 2,506 employees nn Launch of the “Branch of the future project, currency respectively created jointly with customers and employees nn First bank certified for international nn Development of consumer credit products in corporate operations (digitisation) synergy with Wafasalaf (CA-CF joint subsidiary) nn Launch of the ARREDA participative bank CA Serbia 74 branches 0.838 nn One of the country’s top banks in terms of nn Elected “Best Agricultural Bank in Serbia” 281,000 customers innovation and use of digital technology (source: at the International Agricultural Fair held 881 employees PwC) in Novi Sad in May 2018 nn Improved profitability due to the consolidation nn No. 1 in car financing for individuals with of its strengths (in the agricultural and food 50.38% of market share (source: NBS) processing and vehicle finance segments) and the development of synergies with the Group, particularly Crédit Agricole CIB CA Romania 17 branches 0.343 nn Completion of numerous synergy operations nn Bank focused on companies and the 15,500 customers transactions with the Group to support business agricultural and food processing markets 263 employees customers in Romania nn Reorientation of corporate activity, agricultural and food processing activities Crédit Agricole S.A. also has holdings in other European countries alongside the Regional Banks. It owns 5% of Bankoa in the Spanish Basque region, and 5% of Crédit Agricole Next Bank in Switzerland. SPECIALISED FINANCIAL SERVICES CONSUMER FINANCE Business and organisation in 17 European countries and Morocco), GAC Sofinco AFC (50/50 joint venture with Guangzhou Automobile Group CO, in China) and Bankia A key player in consumer finance, Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance CA CF (Spain, 51% owned). (CA Consumer Finance) offers its customers and partners a range of flexible, responsible financing solutions, tailored to their needs. Present in 17 countries in Europe, as well as in China and Morocco, CA Consumer Finance draws on its know-how and expertise to improve its CA Consumer Finance is composed of the following entities: Agos (Italy, own customer satisfaction, its commercial success and the customer 61% owned), CreditPlus Bank (Germany), CACF Nederland (Netherlands), retention policies of its banking, institutional, distribution, and automotive CACF SA (activities in France and group consolidation, head office partners. Committed to helping its customers balance their budgets, the services), Credibom (Portugal), Wafasalaf (Morocco, 49% owned), Group supports its most vulnerable customers by teaching them how to FCA Bank (50/50 joint venture with Fiat Chrysler Automobiles, present manage their finances and avoid taking on too much debt. 20 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. About Crédit Agricole S.A. The business lines of Crédit Agricole S.A. at 31 December 2018 In addition to sustained commercial and financial momentum, 2018 saw In parallel, CA Consumer Finance continues to innovate and invest in the delivery of several major projects as part of the CA CF 2020 strategic digital technology to provide its partners with the best solutions, and to plan, including: nn growth in activity of CA Consumer Finance on behalf of local banks make the customer experience even smoother. The Group cooperates with start-ups, for instance as part of Start & Pulse, its international open 1 of the Crédit Agricole Group, in France, Italy and Morocco (assets innovation programme. managed on behalf of the Group up 11% at end-2018); CA Consumer Finance also concluded or renewed significant partnerships, nn agreement with Bankia, the fourth-largest Spanish bank, to create particularly with Unieuro in Italy, with Mazda and Decathlon in France and a joint venture enabling CA Consumer Finance to accelerate its with Jaguar and Land Rover Aston Martin in Europe. Furthermore, the establishment in Spain, the fourth-largest Eurozone market for Group continued to strengthen its self-financing capacity at 83.6%(1), consumer credit, and to support its partners there; with the objective set out in CA CF 2020 of at least 70%. nn extension of the agreement with Banco BPM en Italia; nn deployment of a 3xCB offer and rental offers in France, responding to new customer practices. 2018 highlights nn Growth of +6.1% in production and +7.2% in assets managed by CA Consumer Finance in 2018 compared to 2017. nn Creation of a joint venture with Bankia, the fourth-largest Spanish bank. nn Extension of the agreement with Banco BPM, the third-largest Italian bank, for 15 years. Deployment of a Data Management Platform (DMP) in the Group’s European entities. 14,000 files belonging to financially fragile customers processed. LEASING & FACTORING Business and organisation Factoring Crédit Agricole Leasing & Factoring (CAL&F) is one of the Group’s CAL&F provides trade receivable financing and management solutions subsidiaries with expertise in specialised financing. With €22.3 billion for corporates and small businesses, both for their day-to-day operations in managed assets of which 26% internationally(1), it is a major player and for their expansion plans, in France and internationally: financing, in leasing, factoring and the financing of renewable energy in France dunning and collection of trade receivables, guarantee against insolvency and in Europe. risk and managed services. CAL&F supports companies of all sizes, both in their investment projects Through its international network, CAL&F supports its customers and in equipment and real estate, and in the financing and management of partners in the main European countries and overseas. their trade receivables. Financing for energies and regions CAL&F works closely with the Group’s retail banks in France and internationally, as well as with non-banking partners. With its regional Through its subsidiary Unifergie, CAL&F assists corporates, local presence, it is close to economic actors and supports its customers authorities and farmers, actors in the energy transition, with financing outside France via nine entities in Europe and Morocco. renewable energy projects (wind or solar farms, biomass projects, etc.) or energy efficiency schemes (cogeneration plants, etc.), as well as public Lease financing infrastructure projects (funding for local authorities or their private-sector partners in the context of public/private partnerships or public service CAL&F offers lease financing solutions designed to meet the needs of outsourcing). businesses looking to invest in and replace equipment. These include equipment lease financing, finance leasing, IT operational leasing and property lease financing. 2018 highlights nn To help meet customer needs more precisely, CAL&F proposed in 2018, leasing offers in support of energy transition (LEDs and electric vehicles) and the overhaul and simplification of its range of factoring offers. nn To achieve excellence in its customer relationship business in the long term, CAL&F launched renovation and simplification of the customer experience called “Client 5/5”. CAL&F continued to improve and digitalise customer experience by partnering with the EOL interface for its factoring customers and MyLixxnet for its leasing partners. In a global context in support of the energy transition, the Group’s energy business line was launched. Through its subsidiary Unifergie, CAL&F is a key link in this chain. (1) To end-December 2018. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 21 1 About Crédit Agricole S.A. The business lines of Crédit Agricole S.A. at 31 December 2018 LARGE CUSTOMERS CORPORATE AND INVESTMENT BANKING Business and organisation The debt optimisation & distribution business line is responsible for originating, structuring and arranging medium and long-term bilateral Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank (Crédit Agricole CIB) and syndicated loans for customers, as well as the underwriting and offers its corporate and financial institution customers a wide range of primary and secondary distribution of syndicated loans with banks and products and services in the areas of investment banking, structured non-banking institutional investors. This business line had record results finance, international transaction and commercial banking, capital in both origination and distribution in 2018, thanks in particular to gains markets and syndication. in market share (league table). Customer relations are placed under the responsibility of business line Transaction banking and international trade mainly assists banking advisers, with overall coordination by the Global Coverage customers with managing their international trade and guarantee needs, Organisation department, which reports to Executive Management. in addition to providing cash management and supply chain finance Outside France, the teams of banking advisers are under the responsibility solutions under its transaction banking activity. In 2018, activities in this of Senior Regional Officers and Senior Country Officers. sector continued to make progress, once again with double-digit growth The main tasks of the Structured Finance division include originating thanks to the sound performance of the markets. and structuring complex finance deals, mostly backed by collateral, The main mission of the Investment Bank is to offer a full range of advising on strategy and financing, and providing worldwide coverage high value-added solutions to deal with the strategic issues of our major of aviation and rail, infrastructure, oil & gas, maritime, Telecom, Media, customers. 2018 was rich in large-scale mergers and acquisitions Technology, utilities and power and private equity funds. In 2018, transactions with a significant international dimension. structured finance retained its leadership position, especially in the key sectors of Crédit Agricole CIB, aviation and rail, by maintaining prudent The market bank covers all sales, structuring and trading activities risk management. on the markets of interest-rate, currency, credit, equity derivatives and securitisation and cash activities. Market activities held up well in 2018, despite a challenging market environment. 2018 highlights nn In July 2018, Jacques Ripoll was appointed Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole CIB, taking office on 1 November 2018, and Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole SA in charge of the Large Customers business line, made up of corporate and investment Banking, wealth management (CA Indosuez Wealth Group) and Asset servicing to institutional investors and corporates (CACEIS). nn Crédit Agricole CIB enhanced its position in Latin America with the opening of two representative offices: one in Bogota, Colombia, and the other in Santiago, Chile. These representative offices strengthen Crédit Agricole CIB’s regional network in the Americas region, coordinated from New York. In 2018, Crédit Agricole CIB launched PanOptes, an innovative project put forward by one of the Bank’s employees, and developed thanks to a start-up from Village by CA. This web portal, based on artificial intelligence algorithms, aims to automate the analysis and processing of public information flows. In particular, it allows users to obtain the most recent and most appropriate information about a customer in just one click. A project at the heart of the digital transformation of Crédit Agricole CIB. For the fifth consecutive year, Crédit Agricole CIB was named best bank in green capital and socially responsible investment by GlobalCapital magazine. 22 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. About Crédit Agricole S.A. The business lines of Crédit Agricole S.A. at 31 December 2018 ASSET SERVICING Business and organisation competence centres in Europe provide uniform, reliable services to all 1 customers, regardless of their geographical location. In addition, a local A wholly-owned subsidiary of Crédit Agricole S.A, CACEIS is an commercial team and local experts are present in each establishment to international banking group and a European market leader in custodian enhance local relations with customers bank and fund administration services. CACEIS is a major partner in several Crédit Agricole Group S.A. entities, in most of its establishments. CACEIS is taking part in a process of innovation and digital transformation, resolutely committed in this respect to its customers and its employees. With almost 3,418 employees (FTE) in eleven countries, CACEIS offers On a daily basis, its teams benefit from new technologies such as a full range of asset-servicing services: execution, clearing, custody, robotics and Mailbot. fund administration, middle-office solutions, forex, security lending and borrowing, fund distribution support and services to issuers. The Group’s 2018 highlights nn Extension of ISO 9001 certification to cover service activities to issuers. nn Launch of “CACEIS innovation Lab”, a collaborative joint-innovation approach to gather new ideas from employees and customers of the CACEIS group. nn Support for management companies in ensuring that money market funds comply with the European Money Market Funds regulations. Innovation Award for the TEEPI platform allowing the transfer of Solvency 2, PRIIPs and MIFID II data. Development of a digital offer for ESG & Climate Reporting allowing management companies and institutional investors to comply with Article 173 of the Energy Transition Law for Green Growth in France. CORPORATE CENTRE CACIF – CRÉDIT AGRICOLE CAPITAL INVESTISSEMENT & FINANCE CACIF holds the investments of Crédit Agricole S.A. and the Regional CACIF also provides services through SODICA Corporate Finance, Banks in unlisted companies through dedicated funds, most of which specialising in M&A, financial engineering and mid-cap stock market are managed by its subsidiary IDIA Capital Investissement (capital advisory services in all sizes (agriculture, food processing, real estate, development supporting French mid-caps and SMEs in all business wine-making, aeronautics, health, tourism, etc.). SODICA is the Group’s sectors, with recognised expertise in agriculture, food processing and listing sponsor on Euronext Growth. wine-making, energy transition, health and tourism). 2018 highlights nn Implementation of the EU label on the sale of oak trees from the forestry groups of IDIA Capital Investissement. nn In response to regulatory challenges (Grenelle II Law and Energy Transition Law), IDIA CI implemented a policy which monitors the social and environmental performance of its investment portfolio. Launch of a business project that aims to improve ways of working to be aligned with the Group Client project, and with MTP objectives on the corporate market. Strengthening of sectoral expertise at IDIA CI and SODICA CF with recruitment in the healthcare, tourism and renewable energy sectors. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 23 1 About Crédit Agricole S.A. The business lines of Crédit Agricole S.A. at 31 December 2018 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE IMMOBILIER As the Group’s real estate specialist, Crédit Agricole Immobilier builds, while businesses, local authorities and institutions benefit from its office sells and manages housing and offices for its territories and customers, development, property management and commercial property services. incorporating new urban and environmental constraints. A major player in providing access to housing and regional economic As a trusted partner, it supports real estate projects of private development, Crédit Agricole Immobilier coordinates a range of local and individuals through its residential property development and property national expertise, in synergy with the Group entities. administration services (Crédit Agricole Immobilier and Square Habitat), 2018 highlights nn Winner of the consultation to develop the site of the former Aeronautical Testing Centre in Toulouse (CEAT). This future district of La Soufflerie will extend over 101,000 sq.m. nn Delivery of the first student residence to be awarded the BBCA (low-carbon building) label in Noisiel (77). Launch of the new website www.ca-immobilier.fr bringing together all CAI’s expertise. Improved digital performance: +15% of pages viewed/ +6% contacts made. In connection with the “Nature in the City” concept, launch of an urban agriculture demonstration at the CAI Toulouse site. UNI-MÉDIAS Crédit Agricole S.A.’s publishing subsidiary, Uni-médias one of the top Fully integrated with the Group’s Customer Project, in 2018 Uni-médias eight magazine publishers in France (Source Plimsoll) and continues to accelerated its digital transformation to become a media group focused be one of the most profitable in the industry, with revenues of almost on services and data at important moments in customers’ lives. €97 million. 2018 highlights nn Dossier Familial is confirmed as the leading French monthly magazine. It has a circulation of close to 1 million paid copies(1). nn No. 1: Parents, Maison Créative, Détente Jardin, Régal, Détours en France and Secrets d’Histoire (ahead of Historia). nn Launch of a new social magazine based around pets: Yummypets. The Group strengthens its digital offering by launching an insight data business line. Launch of a waste reduction programme which enabled a 53% reduction in waste in 2018 (FReD monitoring index). PAYMENT SYSTEMS & SERVICES Crédit Agricole Payment Services (CAPS) is the payment services provider the Group and its customers. Leveraging all of its payment expertise, of the Crédit Agricole Group. As part of its business plan “CAPS 2020”, from marketing to transaction processing, security and interbank it aspires to make payments a sustainable source of value creation for representation, CAPS is a major player in the business. 2018 highlights nn Start of the pilot phase of the Centralised Dynamic Authentication Service (SCAD), an innovative secure authentication service designed to enhance transaction security. nn Exclusive partnership with WIRECARD for a cross-channel acceptance and pan-European acquisition solution for French merchants and marketplaces in France and abroad. nn Partnership with RIPPLE to test Blockchain on money transfers including a foreign exchange transaction, in particular for Crédit Agricole’s border customers. Launch of “Paylib entre amis”, to transfer money between friends by mobile phone, from person to person and successful launch of Instant Payment in three pilot Regional Banks. Dedicated CSR policy: actions in favour of an approach alternating with the Appreciative method (special coaching). See the detail of operating segment information on page 433. (1) Source: Office de justification de la diffusion, ACPM, Mediamétrie, November 2018. 24 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. About Crédit Agricole S.A. History HISTORY 1 1885 2011 Creation of the first Local Bank in Poligny (Jura). Acquisition in Italy of 172 branches from Intesa Sanpaolo S.p.A. Presentation of the “Commitment 2014” strategic plan. 1894 Presentation of Crédit Agricole Group’s adaptation plan. Law authorising the creation of the first “Sociétés de Crédit Agricole”, later named Caisses Locales de Crédit Agricole Mutuel (Local Banks of 2013 Crédit Agricole Mutuel). Sale of Emporiki Group to Alpha Bank. 1899 Disposal of the stockbrokers CLSA and Cheuvreux. Law grouping the Local Banks into Crédit Agricole Regional Banks. Disposal of the equity investment in Bankinter. 1920 2014 Creation of Office National du Crédit Agricole, which became Caisse Presentation of Crédit Agricole Group’s 2016 Medium-Term Plan. Nationale de Crédit Agricole (CNCA) in 1926. Sale of the 50% stake in Newedge to Société Générale and simultaneous acquisition of an additional 5% stake in Amundi’s capital (from then on 1945 80% owned). Creation of Fédération Nationale du Crédit Agricole (FNCA). Refocus completed with the disposal of Nordic subsidiaries of Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance, Crédit Agricole Bulgaria and BNI Madagascar. 1986 Creation of Predica, life insurance company of the Group. 2015 IPO of Amundi, with a reduction of the participation of Crédit Agricole 1988 Group to 75%. Law reorganising the CNCA as a mutual company, which became a Disposal of Crédit Agricole Albania. public limited company owned by the Regional Banks and the Group’s employees. 2016 1990 Announcement and completion of the transaction to simplify the Group’s ownership structure (Eurêka). Creation of Pacifica, property & casualty insurance company of the Group. Presentation of the Medium-Term Plan “Strategic Ambition 2020”. Announcement of the acquisition of Pioneer Investments by Amundi. 1996 Acquisition of Banque Indosuez. 2017 Sale of the entire stake in Eurazeo (15.42% of the capital). 1999 Finalisation of Amundi’s acquisition of Pioneer Investments, with a Acquisition of Sofinco and an initial stake in Crédit Lyonnais. reduction of the Crédit Agricole Group stake to 70%. Sale of a part of the stake (16.2% of 31.1%) in Banque Saudi Fransi. 2001 Announcement of the acquisition of Banca Leonardo in Italy by Indosuez Reincorporation of the CNCA as Crédit Agricole S.A. and listing on the Wealth Management. stock market on 14 December 2001. Acquisition of a stake of more than 95% in the Cesena, Rimini and San 2003 Miniato Savings Banks. Acquisition of Finaref and Crédit Lyonnais (now LCL). Acquisition of the remaining 15% stake held by Natixis in CACEIS. 2006 2018 Acquisition of Cariparma, FriulAdria, 202 branches of Banca Intesa in Creation of a joint venture in Spain in consumer credit between Bankia Italy, and Emporiki Bank in Greece. and Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance. Creation of Azqore, a joint technological platform between Capgemini 2008 and Indosuez Wealth Management. Strategic refocusing of Corporate and Investment Banking activities. Conclusion of an agreement on electronic payments between Wirecard and Crédit Agricole Payment Services. 2009 Finalisation of the acquisition of Banca Leonardo in Italy by Indosuez Crédit Agricole Asset Management and Société Générale Asset Wealth Management. Management combine to form Amundi. Conclusion of a joint-venture agreement with Credito Valtellinese and 2010 acquisition of a 5% interest. Creation of Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance (merger between Sofinco Announcement of the acquisition of a further 25% in GNB Seguros by and Finaref) and Crédit Agricole Leasing & Factoring (merger between Crédit Agricole Assurances. Crédit Agricole Leasing and Eurofactor). Signing of a 15-year extension of partnership with Banco BPM in Italy by Credit Agricole Consumer Finance. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 25 1 About Crédit Agricole S.A. Highlights of 2018 HIGHLIGHTS OF 2018 JANUARY Crédit Agricole Group and BEI Group, consisting of the European over €1.1 billion in new financing, injected into the economy through Investment Bank and its subsidiary the European Investment Fund, are two operations. taking action to support French SMEs and mid-cap companies with FEBRUARY Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance, major player in consumer credit in financing solutions for end clients (repayment loans as well as leasing Europe, and Mazda Automobiles France have renewed their partnership solutions such as lease financing with purchase options and long-term until 2022. This new agreement covers the financing of new and leasing arrangements) under the Mazda Finance brand. demonstration vehicle inventories within the Mazda network, as well as MARCH Crédit Agricole CIB assisted the Kingdom of Belgium with the issuance of tomorrow’s wealth managers, upon the finalisation of the agreement in its first green bond, for €4.5 billion and maturity of 15 years. July and in which Capgemini will acquire a 20% stake in October. The Crédit Agricole Group raises an additional €300 million in private IFC, member of the World Bank Group, and Crédit Agricole CIB announce equity for mid-cap companies and SMEs. As the leader in economic the conclusion of an innovative activity enabling the Corporate Bank to financing, with a 25% market share, the Group is strengthening its increase its international commercial financing activities and allocate private equity program to support its mid-cap and SME clients in the $510 million in new financing in the health, education, infrastructure or regions. other key sectors in emerging countries. Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance, major player in consumer finance in IFC, member of the World Bank Group, and Amundi, European leader Europe, and Bankia, the fourth-largest bank in Spain, announce that they in asset management, announce the launch of the largest emerging are entering into exclusive negotiations to create a joint company in the market green bond fund, Amundi Planet Emerging Green One (EGO). area of consumer finance. With $1.42 billion in assets at launch, the fund plans to invest nearly Indosuez Wealth Management, the global wealth management brand of $2 billion in green bonds in emerging countries over its lifetime. With the Crédit Agricole Group, and Capgemini announce the joint creation a commitment of $256 million, IFC is the largest investor in the fund, of a technology platform dedicated to the banking operations of asset which aims to finance projects focused on climate change in emerging managers and private banks, which will become Azqore – Partners for countries. APRIL Crédit Agricole Payment Services partners with Wirecard to complement other European countries. These two market leaders will work together the payment solution offer of the Crédit Agricole Group to the businesses. to shape the future of digital commerce. They jointly launch innovative digital payment services in France and MAY Indosuez Wealth Management finalises the acquisition of 94.1% of Banca This transaction resulted in the issue of 6,530,044 new ordinary shares Leonardo, Italian leader of wealth management. (i.e. an increase of approximately 0.23% in the share capital). The General Meeting of Shareholders of Crédit Agricole S.A. of 16 May The Administrative Court of Appeal of Versailles sided with Crédit approves a dividend of €0.63 per share and a bonus dividend of €0.693 Agricole in the litigation against the tax authorities, which, in 2012, per share. This is the last bonus dividend paid by Crédit Agricole S.A in had contested the deductibility of a €2.3 billion charge incurred by view of the deletion of the statutory article on bonus dividend as decided Crédit Agricole S.A. on the occasion of the disposal of the Greek bank by the General Meeting. This dividend will be paid out in cash only. Emporiki. The Administrative Court of Appeal of Versailles acknowledged The removal of the bonus dividend has been approved by the Special the deductibility of this charge and enjoined the refund of excess General Meeting convening the beneficiaries on 4 April, followed by corporate tax paid by Crédit Agricole S.A. for financial year 2012. Crédit the holders who were not entitled to attend the Extraordinary General Agricole S.A. will consider the financial impacts of this verdict once all Meeting. As compensation, the beneficiaries will receive one new remedies have been exhausted. ordinary share for every 26 eligible shares. 26 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. About Crédit Agricole S.A. Highlights of 2018 JULY Crédit Agricole Assurances and Credito Valtellinese join forces in the implement an exclusive long-term life insurance partnership. Crédit 1 Italian bank and insurance market by entering into an agreement to Agricole Assurances acquires a 5% minority stake in the Italian bank. SEPTEMBER Crédit Agricole, the leading provider of finance to the French economy simulation of repayments to the electronic signing of loan offers, in line and France’s top digital bank, now offers an online real estate loan with its 100% human and 100% digital banking commitment application process to existing and future customers , ranging from OCTOBER A pioneer in responsible investment and European leader in asset The S&P Global Ratings rating agency announces the increase of one management with more than €1,400 billion in assets under management, notch to A+ (compared to A before) of the long-term bonds of the Crédit Amundi launches an ambitious three-year action plan to give a new Agricole Group, Crédit Agricole S.A., the Crédit Agricole Regional Banks, dimension to its commitments. LCL, Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance, Crédit Agricole CIB and CACEIS. Crédit Agricole Assurances announces the signing of an agreement These rating upgrades are associated with a stable outlook. with Seguradoras Unidas for the acquisition of a share of 25% in GNB Crédit Agricole CIB (CACIB) announces that the Deferred Prosecution Seguros. After the closing of the transaction, the participation of Crédit Agreements) relating to compliance with US economic sanctions, entered Agricole Assurances in GNB Seguros will increase from 50% to 75%, into with the United States Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia with the remaining 25% being held by Portuguese banking group Novo (USAO) and the District Attorney of the County of New York (DANY), have Banco. The transaction, subject to the approval of the Portuguese ended. authorities, confirms the willingness of Crédit Agricole Assurances to continue developing its non-life insurance activities in Portugal and to consolidate its partnership with Novo Banco. DECEMBER Crédit Agricole S.A. successfully completed its first €1 billion green bond irrevocable memorandum of understanding to strengthen their global issue. The transaction is a 5-year Senior Preferred Issue. partnership on the Italian consumer credit market for the next fifteen Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance, major player in consumer finance years. in Europe, and Banco BPM, the third-largest bank in Italy, sign an The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 27 1 About Crédit Agricole S.A. Information on the share capital and shareholders INFORMATION ON THE SHARE CAPITAL AND SHAREHOLDERS OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 Employees (ESOP) 4.4% 0.1% Treasury shares Institutional investors 31.9% 56.3% SAS Rue La Boétie Individual shareholders 7.3% CHANGE IN SHARE OWNERSHIP OVER THE PAST THREE YEARS The table below shows changes in the ownership of Crédit Agricole S.A. over the past three years: Position at Position at Position at 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2016 Number of % of voting % of share % of share % of share Shareholders shares rights capital capital capital SAS Rue La Boétie(1) 1,612,517,290 56.34 56.26 56.64 56.64 Treasury shares(2) 4,378,305 0.15 0.08 0.10 Employees (ESOP) 126,627,820 4.42 4.42 4.01 4.57 Institutional investors 914,491,384 31.95 31.90 31.93 30.02 Individual shareholders 208,422,357 7.28 7.27 7.34 8.67 Total 2,866,437,156 100 100 100 100 (1) SAS Rue La Boétie is wholly-owned by the Crédit Agricole Regional Banks. (2) Treasury shares are directly held as part of share buyback programmes, recognised on Crédit Agricole S.A.’s balance sheet, designed to cover stock options and as part of a market-making agreement. The ownership structure changed slightly in 2018 The Regional Banks maintain their investment in Crédit Agricole S.A. through SAS Rue La Boétie. Jointly and on a permanent basis, they own the majority of the share capital: 56.26% at end-2018 and 56.64% at end-2016 and 2017. The share of institutional investors is stable year on year, with 31.90% at end-2018. The share of individual shareholders fell slightly; it represents 7.27% of the share capital, compared with 7.34% at end-2017. Overall, the free float was stable over the period, at 39.17% versus 39.27% at end-2017. Employee ownership through employee share ownership plans (ESOP) increased in 2018, from 4.01% of the share capital at end-2017 to 4.42% at end-2018, following the August 2018 capital increase reserved for employees (13.8 million new shares). 28 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. About Crédit Agricole S.A. Information on the share capital and shareholders RECENT CHANGES IN SHARE CAPITAL The table below shows changes in Crédit Agricole S.A.’s share capital over the last five years: 1 Amount of share Date and type of transaction capital (in euros) Number of shares Share capital at 31/12/2013 7,504,769,991 2,501,589,997 24/06/2014 Share-based payment of dividend and loyalty dividend bonus (General Meeting of 21/05/2014) +224,327,331 +74,775,777 Share capital at 31/12/2014 7,729,097,322 2,576,365,774 23/06/2015 Share-based payment of dividend and loyalty dividend bonus (General Meeting of 20/05/2015) +187,134,309 +62,378,103 12/11/2015 Employee bonus shares (CEO decision of 12/11/2015) +1,749,240 +583,080 Share capital at 31/12/2015 7,917,980,871 2,639,326,957 21/06/2016 Share-based payment of dividend and loyalty dividend bonus (General Meeting of 19/05/2016) +509,891,574 +169,963,858 16/12/2016 Capital increase reserved for employees +110,441,133 +36,813,711 Share capital at 31/12/2016 8,538,313,578 2,846,104,526 Share capital at 31/12/2017 8,538,313,578 2,846,104,526 22/05/2018 Capital increase by awarding free shares to eligible shareholders (removal of bonus dividend) +19,590,132 +6,530,044 01/08/2018 Capital increase reserved for employees +41,407,758 +13,802,586 Share capital at 31/12/2018 8,599,311,468 2,866,437,156 Since 31 December 2018, the share capital of Crédit Agricole S.A. has amounted to €8,599,311,468, divided into 2,866,437,156 shares with a par value of €3 each. INFORMATION CONCERNING MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS There are currently no shareholders’ agreements. Under the terms of the agreement entered into by the Regional Banks and Crédit Agricole S.A. has not issued any securities giving rights to share Crédit Agricole S.A. at the time of the initial public offering, the Regional capital other than those indicated in the “Recent changes in share Banks, through SAS Rue La Boétie, own the majority of the share capital capital” table above. The Company has not issued any securities giving on a permanent basis (56.26% at the end of 2018) and of the voting rights to the potential share capital or shares carrying double voting rights (56.34% at the end of 2018) in Crédit Agricole S.A., making it rights. Nor has it pledged any of its shares as collateral. immune to takeover bids. The composition of the Board of Directors results from the intention expressed in the listing agreement to ensure a To Crédit Agricole S.A.’s knowledge, no shareholder other than SAS Rue majority representation of the Regional Banks. La Boétie owns 5% or more of the share capital or voting rights. In addition to the Director appointed by joint decree by the Minister Control over the issuer of Finance and the Minister of Agriculture, six seats are allocated to outside Directors. On the proposal of the Appointments and Governance The shareholder relationships between Crédit Agricole S.A. and the Committee, these six outside Directors are considered by the Board Regional Banks are described in the notes to the financial statements of Directors as independent in accordance with corporate governance under “General framework” of this document. guidelines (AFEP/MEDEF – Corporate Governance Code for listed Control over Crédit Agricole S.A. is described in chapter 3, “Corporate companies). The outside Directors play an extremely important role on governance”, of this Registration Document. the Board. Four of them chair the Board’s Special Committees (Audit, Risk, Risk in the United States, Compensation, Appointments and The rules governing the composition of the Board of Directors are set out Governance). in Article 11 of the Articles of Association. There are no agreements of which the implementation could, at a subsequent date, result in a change in the Group’s control. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 29 1 About Crédit Agricole S.A. Information on the share capital and shareholders DIVIDEND POLICY The dividend distribution policy is defined by the Board of Directors of Meeting of 16 May 2018 voted to remove the statutory loyalty dividend Crédit Agricole S.A. It may take into account, in particular, the Company‘s clause as well as the terms and conditions of the compensation to be earnings and financial position, as well as the dividend policy practices of paid to beneficiaries. leading French and international companies in the sector. Crédit Agricole For financial year 2018, the Board of Directors proposed a dividend S.A. gives no guarantee as to the amount of the dividend which will be of €0.69 per share to the General Meeting, i.e. a payout ratio on the paid in any given year. stated attributable net income Group share of 50%, which is in keeping From 2013 to 2017, certain securities that met the conditions of eligibility with the 50% target ratio set in the Medium-Term Plan and above the on the payment date were also entitled to a loyalty dividend of 10%. commitment made by the Board of Directors to maintain the level of To comply with a request of the European Central Bank, the General dividend at a level above that of 2016. For the last five financial years, Crédit Agricole S.A. distributed the following dividends (in cash), as indicated in the table below: 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Net dividend per share (in euros) 0.69 0.63 0.60 0.60 0.35 Payout ratio(1) 50% 56% 55% 50% 43% (1) Total dividends payable (ex. treasury shares) divided by net income Group share (net of AT1 coupons). TABLE SUMMARISING AUTHORISATIONS IN FORCE AND THE USE MADE THEREOF DURING 2018 Type of authorisation Purpose of authorisation Validity of authorisation Ceiling Use during 2018 Share Buying Crédit Agricole S.A. ordinary shares. General Meeting of 16/05/2018 10% of the ordinary See detailed buyback 27th resolution shares in the share capital information Valid for a term of: 18 months Came into force on: 16/05/2018 Expiry: 16/11/2019 Capital Increase share capital by issuing ordinary General Meeting of 16/05/2018 €3.41 billion None increase by shares and/or securities conferring access to 30th resolution €6.82 billion in respect means of ordinary shares, with pre-emptive subscription Valid for a term of: 26 months of debt securities the issue rights. Expiry: 16/07/2020 Those of the 31st, 32nd, of ordinary 34th and 36th resolutions shares are offset against these ceilings Increase share capital by issuing ordinary General Meeting of 16/05/2018 €853 million None shares and/or securities conferring access 31st resolution €5 billion in respect to ordinary shares, without pre-emptive Valid for a term of: 26 months of debt securities subscription rights, other than through public Expiry: 16/07/2020 That stipulated by the offerings. 30th and 32nd resolutions is offset against these ceilings Increase share capital by issuing ordinary General Meeting of 16/05/2018 €853 million None shares and/or securities conferring access 32nd resolution €5 billion in respect to ordinary shares, without pre-emptive Valid for a term of: 26 months of debt securities subscription rights, in the case of a public Expiry: 16/07/2020 That stipulated by the offering. 30th resolution is offset against these ceilings 30 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. About Crédit Agricole S.A. Information on the share capital and shareholders Type of authorisation Purpose of authorisation Increase the amount of the initial issue in the Validity of authorisation General Meeting of 16/05/2018 Ceiling Up to the ceilings Use during 2018 None 1 case of issuing ordinary shares and/or securities 33rd resolution stipulated by the 30th, conferring access to ordinary shares, with or Valid for a term of: 26 months 31st, 32nd, 34th, 35th, 38th without pre-emptive subscription rights, decided Expiry: 16/07/2020 and 39th resolutions. pursuant to the 30th, 31st, 32nd, 34th, 35th, 38th and 39th resolutions. Issue ordinary shares and/or other securities General Meeting of 16/05/2018 Up to 10% of the share None conferring access to capital, without pre-emptive 34th resolution capital; this ceiling will subscription rights, in consideration for asset Valid for a term of: 26 months be offset against that transfers to the Company, consisting of equity Expiry: 16/07/2020 stipulated by the 30th securities or other securities conferring access to and 32nd resolutions capital, other than through a public exchange offer. Set the price of issue of ordinary shares in General Meeting of 16/05/2018 €3 billion None the scope of repayment of contingent capital 35th resolution The total nominal amount instruments (“CoCos”) pursuant to the 31st and/ Valid for a term of: 26 months cannot exceed 10% or the 32nd resolution, up to the annual limit of Expiry: 16/07/2020 of the share capital in 10% of capital. any 12-month period. This ceiling is offset against that stipulated by the 30th resolution. Limit authorisations of issue, with or General Meeting of 16/05/2018 Nominal amount of capital None without pre-emptive subscription rights, 36th resolution increase under the 30th to as a consequence of the adoption of the 34th resolutions and the 30th to 34th resolutions and of the 38th and 38th and 39th resolutions. 39th resolutions. Increase the share capital by capitalisation General Meeting of 16/05/2018 €1 billion, autonomous None of reserves, earnings, share premiums 37th resolution and distinct ceiling or other items. Valid for a term of: 26 months Expiry: 16/07/2020 Transaction Increase the share capital by issuing ordinary General Meeting of 16/05/2018 €300 million Issuance of reserved for shares, without pre-emptive subscription rights, 37th resolution Autonomous and distinct 13,802,586 new employees reserved for Crédit Agricole Group employees Valid for a term of: 26 months from other ceilings on shares with a par who subscribe to an employee savings scheme. Expiry: 16/07/2020 capital increases. value of €3 each – Completed on 01/08/2018 Increase the share capital by issuing ordinary General Meeting of 16/05/2018 €50 million None shares, without pre-emptive subscription rights, 38th resolution Autonomous and distinct reserved for a category of beneficiaries in the Valid for a term of: 26 months from other ceilings on context of an employee shareholding transaction. Expiry: 16/07/2020 capital increases Award performance shares, whether already General Meeting of 16/05/2018 0.20% of the share None issued or to be issued, to eligible employees or 39th resolution capital at the date of the Corporate Officers. Valid for a term of: 18 months Board’s decision to award Expiry: 16/11/2019 the shares Cancellation Cancel shares acquired under the share General Meeting of 16/05/2018 10% of the total number None of shares buyback programme. 40th resolution of shares in each Valid for a term of 24 months 24-month period Expiry: 16/05/2020 PURCHASE BY THE COMPANY OF ITS OWN SHARES IN 2018 The twenty-seventh resolution of the Ordinary General Meeting nn the Company may not, under any circumstances, hold more than 10% of Crédit Agricole S.A. of 16 May 2018 authorised the Board of of the share capital; Directors to trade in Crédit Agricole S.A. ordinary shares, in nn the number of shares purchased may not exceed 10% of the total accordance with the General Regulation of the French Financial number of ordinary shares at the date on which the said purchases Market Authority (AMF) and with Articles L. 225-209 et seq. of are carried out; the French Commercial Code. nn the maximum purchase price is €27; The key provisions of this resolution, which is still valid, are as follows: nn in any event, the maximum amount the Company may allocate to the nn the authorisation was granted for a period of 18 months; buyback of its ordinary shares is €5.6 billion. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 31 1 About Crédit Agricole S.A. Information on the share capital and shareholders Information on the use of the share buyback Transactions were carried out as part of the programme in order to: programme, given to the General Meeting, in nn cover commitments made to employees and Corporate Officers under accordance with Article L. 225-211 of the French stock option and deferred compensation plans; nn create an active market for the shares through market-making by an Commercial Code investment services provider under a market-making agreement that The Board of Directors informs the General Meeting of the following complies with the Amafi (the French Association of Financial Markets activities undertaken in accordance with the share buyback programme Professionals) Code of Conduct. for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2018. Number of shares registered in the Company’s name at 31/12/2017 2,146,133 To cover commitments to employees and Corporate Officers 896,133 To provide volume to the market in the context of the market-making agreement 1,250,000 Number of shares bought in 2018 10,206,109 To cover commitments to employees and Corporate Officers 0 To provide volume to the market in the context of the market-making agreement 10,206,109 Volume of shares used to achieve the purpose set(1) Coverage of commitments to employees and Corporate Officers 592,828 Market-making agreement (purchases + sales) 17,587,218 Number of shares reallocated for other purposes 0 Average purchase price of shares bought in 2018 €12.11 Value of shares bought in 2018 at purchase price €123,558,917 Trading costs €260,400 Number of shares sold in financial year 2018 7,973,937 To cover commitments to employees and Corporate Officers 592,828 To provide volume to the market in the context of the market-making agreement 7,381,109 Average price of shares sold in 2018 €12.67 Number of shares registered in the Company’s name at 31/12/2018 4,378,305 To cover commitments to employees and Corporate Officers 303,305 To provide volume to the market in the context of the market-making agreement 4,075,000 Gross carrying amount per share(2) Shares bought to cover commitments to employees and Corporate Officers (historical cost) €9.26 Shares bought as part of the market-making agreement (market price at 31/12/2018) €9.43 Total gross carrying amount of shares €41,236,625.70 Par value €3 Percentage of the share capital held by the Company at 31/12/2018 0.15% (1) To cover commitments to employees and Corporate Officers, these are shares sold or transferred to beneficiaries after they exercise options on Crédit Agricole S.A. shares, or sold on the stock market for the surplus coverage recorded at the closing date of the plans, and shares purchased and delivered or sold under deferred compensation plans as performance shares; shares relating to the market-making agreement are shares bought and sold under the agreement during the period in question. (2) Shares bought to cover commitments to employees and Corporate Officers are recognised as investment securities and valued at their purchase price, less any impairment; shares purchased under the market-making agreement are recognised as trading securities and valued at market value at each reporting date. DESCRIPTION OF CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. SHARE BUYBACK PROGRAMME FOR 2019 AND SUBSEQUENT YEARS Pursuant to Article 241-2 of the AMF General Regulation, this document I. Number of shares and percentage of share constitutes the description of the share buyback programme to be capital directly owned by Crédit Agricole S.A. approved by the Ordinary General Meeting of 21 May 2019. At 31 January 2019, Crédit Agricole S.A. directly owned 3,953,305 shares, It is hereby specified that the expression “Ordinary Shares” as used in representing 0.14% of the share capital. this document refers to the shares that make up the Company’s share capital at this time, as opposed to Preferred Shares which could be issued in accordance with the authorisation given by the General Meeting of 19 May 2009 to the Board of Directors. 32 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. About Crédit Agricole S.A. Information on the share capital and shareholders II. Breakdown of targets by equity securities held IV. Maximum percentage of share capital, maximum number and characteristics of shares that may At 31 January 2019, the shares held by Crédit Agricole S.A. broke down as follows: be bought back and maximum purchase price 1 nn 303,305 shares to cover commitments to employees and Corporate 1. Maximum percentage of share capital to be bought Officers; back by Crédit Agricole S.A. nn 3,650,000 shares held under a market-making agreement to create Crédit Agricole S.A. is authorised to acquire up to 10% of the total an active market for the shares. number of shares forming its share capital at the date of settlement of the purchases. However, the number of shares purchased by the Company III. Purposes of share buyback programme and held with a view subsequently to exchanging them or using them to The authority to be granted by the shareholders at the Combined General pay for a potential merger, spin-off or asset transfer shall not exceed 5% Meeting of Shareholders of 21 May 2019 is designed to allow Crédit of the Company’s share capital. Agricole S.A. to trade in its own shares either on the market or over the In addition, the maximum total amount that Crédit Agricole S.A. may counter for any purpose permitted or to be permitted by applicable laws allocate to the buyback of its ordinary shares during the term of the share or regulations. buyback programme is €4.2 billion. In particular, Crédit Agricole S.A. may use this authorisation: The Board of Directors shall ensure that these buybacks are 1. to implement stock option plans for some or all of the Company’s carried out in accordance with regulatory requirements as set employees and/or some or all of the eligible Corporate Officers of by law and the European Central Bank. the Company or of the companies or groupings affiliated with it, now or in the future, under the conditions defined by Article L. 225-180 2. Characteristics of the shares covered of the French Commercial Code; Class of shares purchased: shares listed on Euronext Paris 2. to allot or transfer ordinary shares to eligible Corporate Officers, (Compartment A) employees and former employees of the Company or of the Group, or Name: Crédit Agricole S.A. to certain categories thereof, as part of an employee profit-sharing or employee savings scheme, as provided for by law; ISIN Code: FR0000045072 3. to award bonus shares under a bonus share plan as provided for by Articles L. 225-197-1 et seq. of the French Commercial Code to 3. Maximum purchase price some or all categories of eligible Corporate Officers and employees The purchase price for Crédit Agricole S.A. shares under the share of the Company, and/or of companies and economic interest buyback programme may not exceed €20 per share. groupings affiliated to it pursuant to Article L. 225-197-2 of the French Commercial Code; and, more generally, V. Duration of programme to honour obligations related to the allocation of ordinary shares in In accordance with Article L. 225-209 of the French Commercial Code the Company to such employees and Corporate Officers, notably and with the 21st resolution to be submitted to the Ordinary General under variable compensation plans for employees who are financial Meeting of 21 May 2019, this share buyback programme replaces the market professionals and whose activities have a material impact unused portion of the programme approved by the Ordinary General on the Company’s risk exposure, in which case such allocations are Meeting of 16 May 2018, and may be implemented until it is renewed contingent upon such employees meeting performance conditions; by a future General Meeting and, in any event, for a maximum term of 4. to ensure coverage of securities granting rights to the Company’s 18 months as from the date of the Ordinary General Meeting, i.e. until ordinary shares; 21 November 2020 at the latest. 5. to ensure an active secondary market or liquidity of ordinary shares is created by an investment services provider under a marketmaking agreement, in compliance with market practice permitted by the French Financial Market Authority; 6. to proceed with the full or partial cancellation of the purchased ordinary shares. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 33 1 About Crédit Agricole S.A. Stock market data STOCK MARKET DATA CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. SHARE Stock market performance Three-year share performance Crédit Agricole S.A. CAC 40 Index DJ Stoxx 600 Banks In euros 16 14 12 10 8 6 4 2 0 12/15 02/16 04/16 06/16 08/16 10/16 12/16 02/17 04/17 06/17 08/17 10/17 12/17 02/18 04/18 06/18 08/18 10/18 12/18 Monthly change in the share price and in the volume of shares traded High Monthly volumes Average Low In euros In million of shares 18 24 15.7 15.4 15.5 16 15.1 15.0 15.5 15.2 22 14.6 14.7 14.3 14.8 13.8 14.4 14.5 14.5 14.0 13.7 13.6 20 13.9 13.8 14.0 14 13.6 13.7 13.6 13.0 12.0 12.6 12.3 12.7 13.1 13.1 12.2 12.0 12.5 12.7 18 11.6 12 11.4 11.0 11.9 11.8 11.7 11.7 11.4 11.7 11.9 11.1 16 10.7 10.7 11.2 11.3 11.1 10 10.1 9.6 10.1 9.6 9.9 10.6 10.6 14 9.5 8.9 9.0 9.5 8.8 8.9 8.5 8.8 9.2 12 8.6 8.0 8 8.5 10 7.7 7.6 7.2 7.1 6 8 6 4 4 2 2 0 0 Dec. 15 Jan. 16 Feb. 16 Mar. 16 Apr. 16 May 16 June 16 Jul. 16 Aug. 16 Sept. 16 Oct. 16 Nov. 16 Dec. 16 Jan. 17 Feb. 17 Mar. 17 Apr. 17 May 17 June 17 Jul. 17 Aug. 17 Sept. 17 Oct. 17 Nov. 17 Dec. 17 Jan. 18 Feb. 18 Mar. 18 Apr. 18 May 18 June 18 Jul. 18 Aug. 18 Sept. 18 Oct. 18 Nov. 18 Dec. 18 Between 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2018, the last trading The total number of Crédit Agricole S.A. shares traded between day of the year, the Crédit Agricole S.A. share price went from €10.88 to 1 January and 31 December 2018 on Euronext Paris was 1.709 billion €9.43, i.e. a decrease of -13.33% in three years, underperforming the (1.619 billion in 2017), with a daily average of 6.7 million (6.3 million in CAC 40 index -13.33%) but outperforming the DJ Stoxx 600 Banks index 2017). The highest share price achieved over this period was €15.54 (down -27.5% over the period). and the lowest €9.10. In 2018 alone (between 29 December 2017 and 31 December 2018), the share price declined by -31.67%, compared with a decrease of -10.95% for the CAC 40 and -28.04% for the DJ Stoxx 600 Banks Index. 34 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. About Crédit Agricole S.A. Stock market data Stock market indexes Crédit Agricole S.A. strengthens its global CSR performance and maintains itself in the main international socially responsible indexes, Crédit Agricole S.A. shares are listed on Euronext Paris, Compartment A, ISIN Code: FR0000045072. which bring together the best performing companies according to strict ESG criteria. Since 2004, it has also been in the FTSE4Good, and in the 1 They are included in several indexes: the CAC 40 (featuring the 40 most NYSE Euronext Vigeo Eiris, Eurozone 120 and Europe 120 indexes since representative listed companies on the Paris Stock Exchange), the Stoxx 2013. Since 2014, it has included the STOXX Global ESG Leaders index, Europe 600 Banks Index (made up of 48 banking institutions in Europe), and it rated Prime since 2015 by ISS-Oekom. Crédit Agricole S.A. was and the FTSEurofirst 80 Index (representative of the largest companies also one of the best-rated French banks in 2018 by the CDP (Carbon in the eurozone by market capitalisation). Disclosure Project) for its climate policy, with a rating of A-, and by MSCI (Morgan Stanley Capital International) with the rating of A for its overall CSR performance. Stock market data 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 31/12/2014 Number of shares in issue 2,866,437,156 2,846,104,526 2,846,104,526 2,639,326,957 2,576,365,774 Stock market capitalisation (in billions of euros) 27.0 39.3 33.5 28.7 27.7 Net earnings per share (NEPS) (in euros) 1.39 1.12 1.12 1.21 0.83 Net book value per share (NBVPS)(1) (in euros) 18.2 17.5 16.8 18.7 18.0 Price/NBVPS 0.52 0.79 0.70 0.58 0.60 PER (price/NEPS) 6.80 12.28 10.51 8.99 12.90 Highest and lowest share prices during the year (in euros) High (during trading day) 15.54 15.68 12.07 14.49 12.22 Low (during trading day) 9.10 11.06 6.79 9.82 9.14 Close (closing price at 31 December) 9.43 13.80 11.78 10.88 10.76 (1) Net assets after deduction of deeply subordinated Additional Tier 1 bond issues, issuance costs net of tax and gross interest paid on these issuances and recognised in other comprehensive income. Shareholder return include the loyalty dividend of €0.035 per share paid for 2014 and 2015. The valuations are based on the closing share price on the day of the The table below shows the total shareholder return for retail investors in investment. Crédit Agricole S.A. shares. The calculation also assumes that investors sold their pre-emptive The calculation, which is based on the share price at the time of the subscription rights and used the proceeds to take up the rights issued investment (initial public offering on 14 December 2001, or the beginning at the end of October 2003, January 2007 and July 2008. All results are of the year in other cases), takes into account the reinvestment of presented before tax impact. dividends received (until 2005, this included a tax credit for 2004, which accounted for 50% of the amount distributed), but does not Holding period Cumulative gross return Average annualised return 1 financial year (2018) (28.3%) (28.3%) 2 financial years (2017 and 2018) (12.4%) (6.4%) 3 financial years (2016 to 2018) +1.5% +0.5% 4 financial years (2015 to 2018) +5.2% +1.3% 5 financial years (2014 to 2018) +25.6% +4.7% 10 financial years (2009 to 2018) +67.1% +5.3% Since the stock market listing (14/12/2001) +19.1% +1.0% The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 35 1 About Crédit Agricole S.A. Stock market data DIVIDEND CALENDAR 24 May 2019 Ex-dividend date, the amount of the dividend is offset against the opening share price on this date 27 May 2019 Record date for receipt of dividend 28 May 2019 Dividend paid 2019 FINANCIAL COMMUNICATIONS CALENDAR 14 February Publication of 2018 full-year results 15 May Publication of 2019 first-quarter results 21 May General Meeting of Shareholders in Metz 2 August Publication of 2019 first-half results 8 November Publication of 2019 nine-month results CONTACTS www.credit-agricole.com/en/Investor-and-shareholder Institutional investor relations Financial Communication department Tel.: +33 (0)1 43 23 04 31 Cyril Meilland, CFA investor.relations@credit-agricole-sa.fr Tel.: +33 (0)1 43 23 53 82 Retail investor relations Toll-free number: 0 800 000 777 (from France only) credit-agricole-sa@relations-actionnaires.com 36 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 37 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL CONTRIBUTION 2 Material CSR commitments 5. Women and men to and links with SDGs 40 drive transformation 71 5.1. Listening to our employees and encouraging 1. Promoting a culture of ethics 45 their engagement72 1.1. Developing a Group-wide ethical dimension  45 5.2. Stepping up our employees’ skill development 1.2. Establishing trust-based relationships in a context of profound change 73 with customers 47 5.3. Attracting talent, developing our employees 1.3. Establishing a committed tax policy 49 and preparing for the future 75 1.4. Conducting a transparent lobbying policy 50 5.4. Building on our diversity for a stronger workplace community77 2. Developing accessible finance 51 5.5. Health & Safety, Life Quality at Work, Social Dialogue79 2.1. Supporting all customers through good and bad times 51 5.6. Social indicators 82 2.2. Contributing to economic and social dynamism in local regions 54 Cross-reference table 88 3. Supporting the energy transition 59 Report by one of the Statutory 3.1. Larger ambitions 59 Auditors, appointed as an 3.2. A four-pronged climate strategy 59 independent third party, on the consolidated non-financial 3.3. Assessing and managing climate risks 64 information statement included 4. Encourage taking into account in the management report 89 ESG factors 66 4.1. Investing responsibly 66 4.2. Assessing and managing ESG risks in financing 67 4.3. Promoting multi-efficient agriculture 68 4.4. Protecting resources 69 4.5. Other disclosures 70 38 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Social, environmental and societal contribution CSR IS THE CORNERSTONE OF ALL BUSINESS LINES The Executive Management makes social and environmental responsibility (CSR) a strategic priority for Crédit Agricole S.A. The Group’s decision-making bodies jointly defined and shared the CSR policy, which was formalised in 2014. It is revised 2 The aim is to carry out its banking and insurance activities each year on the basis of employee and external stakeholder responsibly and effectively as regards its stakeholders, and consultation so that its key challenges can be updated. to assume its role as the leading financial partner of the The Group thereby ensures that its strategic decisions are French economy and its regions. CSR has been one of the in line with the expectations of stakeholders. In 2017, the Group’s strategic challenges since the “2010 Group Project”. Group also mapped several ongoing actions that contribute This importance was reaffirmed with the “Strategic Ambition towards the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 2020” Medium-Term Plan launched in March 2016. It takes (SDGs). From now, CSR is divided into three areas: Ethics, a prominent place in the strategic reflections for the coming Environment and inclusive Finance. years. IDENTIFYING PRIORITIES AND LINKS WITH SDGs The Group’s CSR policy and priority challenges are validated employees and members of the public were invited to take each year by a survey, which canvasses stakeholder opinion part. Almost 4,000 employees have thus given their opinion, on the perceptions of the banking sector in general and and, for the first time,the participation of employees of the Crédit Agricole’s positioning in particular. This dialogue is Regional Banks. The concerns expressed by our stakeholders supplemented by the assessment of experts and opinion have guided our achievements and have led us to progress leaders and set against the expectations of non-financial on our 11 priority issues. They now translate into three main rating agencies. This approach allows us to measure the strategic axes: Ethics, Inclusive Finance and Environment. relevance and importance of each challenge. Particular attention is paid to our employees in a chapter Launched in late 2014, the annual CSR survey is designed to dedicated to the development of all talents. identify changes in stakeholder expectations and the possible The Group's support for the SDGs is in line with its priority emergence of new challenges. The fourth survey in 2018 challenges. Launched by the United Nations in 2015, there are again confirmed the priorities identified since 2015, namely: 17 SDGs, declined in 169 targets, aimed at creating a fairer protecting personal data of customers, promoting an ethical and more prosperous world by 2030. To maximise its impact, culture within the Group and delivering customer benefits. the Group has mapped the links between the SDGs, its CSR These issues are also central to the Group’s “Strategic commitments and its activities. The Group contributes directly Ambition 2020” plan. Financing of the green economy is to the SDGs through the concrete actions presented in each increasingly showing up in the concerns of stakeholders. of the sections and listed in the cross-reference table at the For the fourth survey, more than 5,200 persons among Group end of this chapter. NON-FINANCIAL REPORTING (DPEF) AND DUE DILIGENCE OF CORPORATIONS AND MAIN CONTRACTORS 2018, the year of transposition of the European Directive The scope covers the all entities of Crédit Agricole S.A. Each no. 2014/95/EU on non-financial reporting, confirms our of them, with their specific business lines, contributes to commitment to responsibility. The defined policies, the the prioritized CSR objectives of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group. actions taken and the indicators measured are at the origin Consequently, reporting by entity may exist along this NFP, of the creation of value for the stakeholders and support the but it remains a voluntary action. Group’s financial results with market opportunities, such as 2018 is also the year in which the compliance requirement of the Climate Finance. Theme, to which Crédit Agricole CIB the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group, which prompts us to strengthen and Amundi have been demonstrating leadership for several our prudent and diligent behaviour, was implemented. years. Our approach to preventing serious violations of human rights Our prioritized commitments and actions are an integral part of and fundamental freedoms, the health and safety of persons the NFP, and are marked with a pictogram to make them easier and the environment related to our activities is detailed in the to read. Our responsibility covers other issues that remain Chapter 3. The scope also includes Crédit Agricole S.A. and important and structuring for the Group, throughout this issue. its subsidiaries. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 39 2 Social, environmental and societal contribution Material CSR commitments and links with SDGs MATERIAL CSR COMMITMENTS AND LINKS WITH SDGs IMPORTANCE OF CSR CHALLENGES FOR STAKEHOLDERS ETHICS axis ENVIRONMENT axis INCLUSIVE FINANCE axis EMPLOYEES Reducing our direct environmental footprint Improving well-being at work Respecting ethics in business Developing responsible purchasing Guaranteeing fairness and promoting diversity Protecting customer personal data Reinforcing the inclusion of ESG criteria Aiming to build lasting relationships with customers Guaranteeing social dialogue in our products and services (informing, advising, managing relationships) Financing a low-carbon economy Managing ESG and climate risks Contributing to the economic development of the Including ESG in internal control territories Supporting the transformations of the agricultural Preventing over-indebtedness sector and the development of responsible agriculture Encouraging employee development Making basic banking and insurance services and employability accessible Improving governance Managing reorganisation Significant Importance for stakeholders Very significant LINK BETWEEN GROUP CHALLENGES AND THE SDGs ETHICS axis ENVIRONMENT axis INCLUSIVE FINANCE axis EMPLOYEES Managing ESG and climate 1 4 Improving the quality Respecting ethics in business 16 Preventing over-indebtedness 3 risks 8 10 of work life Including ESG in internal Making banking services/ 1 4 Guarenteeing fairness Protecting customer personal data 5 10 audits basic insurance accessible 8 10 and promoting diversity 6 7 1 3 Aim for a lasting relationship Reinforcing the inclusion Contributing to the economic Encouraging employee with clients (information, advice, of the ESG criteria in our 9 8 9 4 development of the territories development and employability relationship management) products and services 11 13 10 11 6 7 Supporting the transformations Financing a low-carbon Improving governance 9 of the agricultural sector 2 Managing reorganisation economy and the development of 11 13 responsible agriculture Reducing our direct 7 12 Development of responsible 8 Guaranteeing the social dialogue environmental footprint 13 purchasing 40 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Social, environmental and societal contribution Material CSR commitments and links with SDGs The priority challenges have been grouped together into 11 key themes, listed in the table below. Specific 2016-2020 objectives support them, each corresponding to the group's different business lines: funder, investor and insurer. A series of concrete actions and results responding to these objectives reflect progress over three years. The table is a summary of the core of the statement of non-financial performance, which focuses on significant challenges. They will be further elaborated on below on the following pages, indicated with a pictogram. Human rights, which are not reflected in our materiality assessment but are considered to be a significant risk in the activities of funders and investors, are presented in paragraph 4.2.4 in accordance with the regulations. Non-financial Challenges Objectives Achievements risks Creation of a Group Code of Ethics Training programme for members of the Executive Committee 2 Confidence risk of 2016 the stakeholders Promote a compliant and of the Management Committee of Crédit Agricole S.A. 1. Respecting ethics and financial risks and ethical culture starting 2017 Training for the 16 members of the Executive Committee in business due to sanctions with management Training for 90% of Crédit Agricole S.A. (parent company) and controversies 2018 board members Codes of Conduct implementation Data security 2016 Drafting a Charter for using personal data failure Ensure the protection 2017 Distribution of the Charter to financial advisers and customers (cybersecurity) of personal data and at the Regional Banks and low protection transparency in their use In 2018, 92% of Crédit Agricole S.A. employees had received 2018 2. R esponding to the of personal data training with respect to the Personal Data Charter. needs of our loyal Market losses 2016Training programme on a new advisory and wealth management clients following improper 2017 approach for retail banking financial advisers sales practices, Ensure real attentiveness consulting deficit and transparency of advice “Wealth Trajectories” approach deployed in all Regional Banks 2018 or inadequacy at the end of 2018 of products 2016 Incorporation of climate risks into the Group’s risk mapping 2017 Formalisation of a climate change strategy (pending approval) Low understanding 3. Managing all risks, Manage all risks, nn Climate risk strategy validated by the governing bodies of the materiality of including ESG including ESG (Board of Directors and COMEX) ESG risks 2018 nn Launch of a plan to integrate ESG factors into asset management (Amundi) Budgetary and banking education programmes undertaken by 2016 19 Regional Banks: 3,100 people (60% of them young people) attended more than 310 workshops jointly organised with schools and voluntary groups Budgetary and banking education programmes undertaken by: nn 23 Regional Banks: 3,620 people attended Prevent over-indebtedness: 2017 more than 320 workshops education and awarenessnn Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance (Agos et CreditPlus): nearly raising actions 1,500 people advised Budgetary and banking education programmes undertaken by: nn 23 Regional Banks: 6,000 persons participated 2018 (of which 3,620 young people) in over 600 Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance (Agos, CreditPlus, CreditBom) workshops nn 1,214 young people attended Failure in the 4. Supporting all nn Regional Banks’ Points passerelle: 12,350 beneficiaries, detection of customers through 86% of whom got back on their feet vulnerable good times and nn CA Consumer Finance: contacted 7,273 vulnerable customers, customers and bad 2016 conducted 2,784 assessments and budget reviews, proposed financial losses 2,047 solutions nn LCL: national unit to support the networks on cases of complex situations nn Regional Banks’ Points passerelle: 12,336 beneficiaries, Support vulnerable 85% of whom got back on their feet customers nn CA Consumer Finance: 19,328 customers identified as being 2017 in financial difficulty, 7,704 contacted, 3,131 customers given support nn CA Polska: 1,367 cases of over-indebtedness addressed nn Regional Banks’ Points passerelle: 13,315 beneficiaries, 80% of whom got back on their feet 2018 nn CA Consumer Finance: 15,010 customers identified as being financially vulnerable, 6,580 contacted, 2,709 customers given support The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 41 2 Social, environmental and societal contribution Material CSR commitments and links with SDGs Non-financial Challenges Objectives Achievements risks 2016 Partner of major business-creation support networks in France (ADIE, France Initiative, etc.) Loss of market 4. Supporting all Development of products and services for older customers due to the lack of Develop new services customers through 2017 (“Ageing well at home”) and for young people (“1st internship, attractiveness due that are beneficial for all good times and 1st job”) to new needs and customers bad Implementation of new offers, including “1st internship, 1st job” that customer demands 2018 brought more than 8,000 young people from nearly 1,000 client companies in contact for 2,070 positions to be filled Launch of the first Engagement and Recommendation Index (ERI): nn Number of employees interviewed this includes the Regional 2016 Banks: 84,691 employees nn Participation rate: 63% Second ERI: Lack of nn Number of employees interviewed this includes the Regional attractiveness and Adapt management culture 2017 Banks: 97,400 employees (+15% compared to 2016) talent retention as to transformations nn Participation rate: 66% (+3 points) an employer nn ERI at Group level was up 2 points 2016 5. Improving the quality of work life Third ERI: nn Number of employees interviewed this includes the Regional 2018 Banks: 122 230 employees (+25% compared to 2017) nn Participation rate: 70% (+4 points) 2016 Number of calendar days of absence per employee due to illness and accident (in France): 9.7 Overexposure to Safeguard workplace Number of calendar days of absence per employee due to illness conditions of failing 2017 health and accident (in France): 10.1 work (stress, etc.) 2018 Number of calendar days of absence per employee due to illness and accident (in France) : 9.9 2016 Women make up 19.7% of decision-making bodies Develop gender equality 2017 Women make up 20.7% of decision-making bodies among top-level managers Lack of 2018 Women make up 21.4% of decision-making bodies 6. Guarenteeing attractiveness and Action in 2018: programme Take Care at 5 subsidiaries fairness and 2016retention of diverse Ensure fairness in terms abroad (Ukraine, Egypt, Morocco, Poland and Serbia) promoting diversity 2017 talents of social protection for covering 13,000 employees and their families our retail banks abroad Reinforcement of the system in Egypt, Morocco, Serbia 2018 and Ukraine nn Close to €1.1 billion in cash invested in green bonds by Crédit Agricole S.A. and Crédit Agricole CIB 2016 nn €28 billion in arrangements in support of the energy transition nn €150 million in financing raised by Amundi with its joint management company with EDF Since 2016: nn €2 billion in cash invested in green bonds by Crédit Agricole S.A. and Crédit Agricole CIB 2017 Encourage the transition nn €71 billion in arrangements in support of the energy transition to a low-carbon economy nn €203 million in financing raised by Amundi with its specialised management companies 7. R einforcing the Market loss due Since 2016: inclusion of the to products that nn €2 billion in cash invested in green bonds by Crédit Agricole S.A. ESG criteria in are poorly adapted and Crédit Agricole CIB our products and to ecological 2018 nn €114.3 billion in arrangements in support of the energy services challenges transition nn €410 million in financing raised by Amundi with its specialised management companies +21% in financing renewable energy in France in 2016 2016 (€514 million, compared with €425 million in 2015) by CAL&F, the Regional Banks and LCL by CAL&F, the Regional Banks and LCL Directly finance the 2017 24% in financing renewable energy in 2017 development of renewable €635 million in financing energy (EnR) in France nn €571 million in financing of renewable energy and energy efficiency projects by Unifergie and LCL in 2018 2018 nn €3 billion in outstanding loans from the Regional Banks related to renewable energy and energy efficiency projects 42 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Social, environmental and societal contribution Material CSR commitments and links with SDGs Non-financial Challenges Objectives Achievements risks 2016 €1.793 billion in assets under management in social impact funds Allocate savings to activities managed by Amundi with positive impacts 2017 €2.341 billion in assets under management (30.5%) in managed (environmental and/or social impact funds Lack of social) in the regions €2.778 billion in outstanding amounts (+18.7%) in social attractiveness 2018 impact funds on the societal demands of 2016 17 Villages by CA 231 start-ups supported 8. Supporting the economic stakeholders Support the development of entrepreneurial activities 2017 20 Villages by CA 400 start-ups supported 2 development of regions and 2018 29 Villages by CA their response 547 start-ups supported to sustainable 2016 547 start-up accompagnées development challenges Decline in 25,000 weather-related insurance policies (Crop insurance, 2017 competitiveness Support the agricultural Hail Insurance and Prairie Insurance) due to a poor sector in identifying assessment of solutions to economic, 24,595 weather-related insurance policies (Crop Insurance, expectations and environmental and social Hail Insurance and Prairie Insurance) nn financial partner of 9 out of 10 farmers evolutions of the challenges 2018 agricultural sector nn structuring a support process for organic agriculture nn studying about an investment fund dedicated to energy, agriculture and food transition 2016 CSR training programme for the Board of Directors of Crédit Deficiency with Agricole S.A. Factoring in the challenges 9. Improving understanding and of CSR by the Board Training of the Board of Directors of Crédit Agricole S.A. governance assessing new 2017 of Directors in September risks 2018 Raising awareness among presidents of Regional Banks (12 on 39) 2016 788 transfers between entities 10. Fostering 8,322 transfers within entities Lack of personal Helping employees adapt to 702 transfers between entities attractiveness and 2017 development and changing jobs 9,005 transfers within entities retention of talent employability 1,151 transfers between entities 2018 10,331 transfers within entities 2016 50% reduction of CO2 emissions at the sites in the Île-de-France region (base 2014) 11. R educing our Reducing our greenhouse 5% reduction in GHG emissions in 2017 vs. 2016 (scope: Crédit environmental Costs increase 2017 gas (GHG) emissions Agricole S.A. Group) footprint 2018 Crédit Agricole S.A. terminated the FReD scheme to reduce its GHG emissions with 10% between 2015 and 2018 MANAGING OUR CSR PERFORMANCE WITH FReD The Group’s CSR policy plots the course to be followed on CSR challenges. Leveraging the FReD equity portfolios and all of the other initiatives FReD is the secret weapon of Crédit Agricole S.A. and its subsidiaries. established as part of its CSR policy, Crédit Agricole S.A. is moving FReD is an internal system for managing and measuring Group progress forward in overall ISR performance. In 2018, it reaffirmed its place on on CSR matters. Launched in 2012, its three pillars are trust and the the leading socially responsible investment indexes: customer relationship (FIDES), respect of employees and of the corporate ecosystem (RESPECT) and protecting the environment (DEMETER). The FReD methodology underwent several changes since its creation. Today, it is reflected in 12 short, medium and long-term projects that make up nn rated A in ESG performance by MSCI (Morgan Stanley Capital the portfolio of each entity and a four-step progress measurement. Each International) in September 2017 (previously BBB) or the European completed action therefore scores three points in the procedure. The bank with the highest rating alongside Santander; minimum target index to be achieved is 1.5. nn in May 2013, includes the following NYSE-Euronext indices In 2018, 15 group entities contributed to the FReD index. Crédit constructed on the basis of ratings of Vigeo Eiris: Europe 120, Agricole S.A. publishes its group index for the 6th year, which is 1.6 in Eurozone 120. In October 2018, the Vigeo-Eiris rating was raised 2018. This index is audited annually by one of the Statutory Auditors from 60 to 62, following significant progress in governance and of Crédit Agricole S.A. : PwC. Lastly, the FReD index determines the community engagement; payment of one-third of the deferred variable compensation of Senior nn rated Aby the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) in October 2017 Executives of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group. Thanks to profit-sharing (against B earlier); agreements negotiated in several entities, FReD is now impacting the nn rated Prime by ISS-Oekom since December 2015; variable compensation of more than 10,000 people. nn for several years represented in the British index FTSE4Good, confirmed in September 2018. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 43 2 Social, environmental and societal contribution Material CSR commitments and links with SDGs A LONG-TERM COMMITMENT Signatory of the: nn French Business Climate Pledge since 2015; nn United Nations Global Compact since 2003; nn BBCA association (low-carbon building design) since 2015; nn Equator Principles since 2003; nn Finance for Tomorrow since 2017. nn Principles for Responsible Investment since 2006; Participant in the: nn Diversity Charter since 2008; nn Call for carbon pricing at the initiative of the World Bank Group nn Sustainable Purchasing Charter since 2010; in 2014; nn Charter for the energy efficiency of commercial buildings nn Montreal Carbon Pledge since 2015; since 2013; nn Paris Appeal on Climate Change since 2015; nn Science Based Targets since 2016; nn IIRC (International Integrated Reporting Council) since 2016; nn RE100 since 2016. nn Task Force on Climate Disclosure since 2017; Co-founding member of the: nn Climate Action 100 + since 2017. nn Green Bonds Principles since 2014; Other positions: nn Portfolio Decarbonization Coalition since 2014; nn Statement on modern slavery since 2017; nn Mainstreaming Climate Action Within Financial Institutions nn Contribution to the RH Sans Frontières endowment fund since 2015; since 2018. nn Catalytic Finance Initiative since 2015; CSR GOVERNANCE To better coordinate and disseminate the Group’s CSR policy and Firm in the belief that all stakeholders must play a role in the governance consolidate the Group’s performance, Crédit Agricole S.A. has set up of the CSR policy, the Group has established an organisation involving a CSR department that reports directly to the Corporate Secretary and several bodies with complementary tasks. This governance starts with counts six employees. This department is supported by a network of the Board of Directors (see Chapter 3.1.1). 150 CSR contributors across the various entities and business lines. Since January 2017, the Head of CSR is a member of the Group Management Committee. Bodies Main tasks Strategic and CSR Committee of the Board of Directors Ensures that CSR challenges are factored into the strategy and operations of Crédit Agricole S.A. Crédit Agricole S.A. Executive Committee Approves the CSR policy Crédit Agricole S.A. Management Committee Discusses and explores the Group’s CSR challenges CSR Committee (comprising the CEOs of key subsidiaries Discusses, drives, coordinates roll-out and business lines) CSR Department Makes proposals, coordinates, supports and leads RSE 20 (network of CSR managers) Manages actions on the basis of their specific challenges CSR 130 (reference persons) Involves all Group employees in the field For the purposes of this Registration Document, the Group has decided to classify the initiatives taken in 2018 in accordance with the following topics: nn promoting a compliant and ethical culture; nn developing financing for all talents; nn support the energy transition; nn encouraging responsible behaviour by taking into account environmental, social and ethical factors; nn women and men to drive transformation. CSR information corresponding to the NFP is thus provided in each of the above-mentioned actions, marked with a pictogram. A cross-reference table with the list of regulatory information and the cross-reference to other guidelines (including the SDGs) can be found at the end of the chapter. The reporting scopes of the various consolidated indicators are specified throughout the text, in the corresponding paragraphs. 44 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Social, environmental and societal contribution 1. Promoting a culture of ethics 1. PROMOTING A CULTURE OF ETHICS Crédit Agricole Group has made ethics a priority, in line with stakeholder expectations. The Group’s standards, values and the interaction between its various systems are all levers that influence behaviour and foster an ethical culture. To achieve the goals of fairness towards customers, employees, partners and society, the Group recognises that it must look beyond the regulatory requirements to ensure that ethical conduct becomes second nature. 1.1. DEVELOPING A GROUP-WIDE ETHICAL DIMENSION The role of the Compliance function is to ensure compliance with the regulations and code of conduct applicable to banking and financial 1.1.3. Training of Directors and executives 2 activities among the Group’s entities, managers and all employees. In DPEF In accordance with the guidelines of the European Banking addition to these obligations, Compliance: Priority Authority and the provisions of the French Monetary and 1 Financial Code, the Compliance officers train directors and nn is an opportunity to convey a positive image of responsible entities members of the Board of Directors in current regulatory issues. acting in the interests of their customers; nn helps to maintain trust in the bank among all stakeholders (customers, In 2018, for the first time at Group level, the members of the Board of employees, investors, regulators, suppliers and companies). Directors were made aware of the “regulatory changes of the year”, with a focus on specific topics, in particular international sanctions. 1.1.1. Code of Ethics For new members of the boards of directors of the entities, material on “Compliance Issues” was made available to the Group entities (in DPEF The Code of Ethics covering the entire Crédit Agricole Group French and English) to train them in face to face. The objectives are to Priority was released in May 2017 after being approved by the Board provide summary information on current regulatory issues relating to 1 of Directors of Crédit Agricole S.A., by the Boards of Directors compliance, financial security and international sanctions, as well as of all entities of the Crédit Agricole Group, as well as by to discuss the practical consequences of this environment on the role Fédération nationale du Crédit Agricole. of the Director. The training also includes an optional quiz, which can The Code of Ethics is notably designed to make the rules more visible be taken by Directors either prior to the training as a placement test, and to foster a culture of compliance. The Code of Ethics has the or at the end of the training. following components: Executives are trained annually through the Mandatory Compliance nn reaffirmation of the Group’s values and identity; training program. nn indication of the Group’s commitments: emphasis on a fair multichannel bank open to everyone, providing each person with support 1.1.4. Deploying a responsible compliance over time; approach nn implementation of principles: towards customers, society and employees; by acting in an ethical behaviour. A. Combatting corruption Insofar as it serves as the basis for acceptable ethical and professional DPEF Driven by the highest level of corporate responsibility, the behaviour, every Group entity adopted the Code of Ethics since 2017, Crédit Agricole Group affirms its policy of zero tolerance for adapting it to its own specific requirements. unethical behaviour in general, and any risk of corruption in particular. This policy illustrates the long-standing 1.1.2. The Codes of Conduct commitment of Crédit Agricole to ethical business conduct, a key element of its corporate social responsibility (CSR) policy. It is part of DPEF As an extension of the Code of Ethics, each entity of the Crédit the compliance and financial security programmes set up in 2004 to Priority Agricole S.A. Group must formalise a code of conduct that ensure transparency and loyalty towards clients, contribute to the 1 operationally implements the principles of the Code of Ethics integrity of financial markets and combat money laundering and fraud. by June 2019. The implementation of codes of conduct in all The group's commitment to the fight against corruption is reflected Group entities is part of the Group's approach of controlling in the BS 10500 certification since July 2016 and the award of the non-compliance risks and reinforces its commitment to being “ethical” ISO 37001 international standard for its anti-corruption management in its dealings with all its stakeholders. system to Crédit Agricole since July 2017. Crédit Agricole is the first After having received a favourable opinion from the Board of French bank to receive this certification. It recognizes the Group's Directors on 14 May 2018 and a positive opinion from the employee determination and the quality of its corruption prevention programme. representative bodies in June 2018, the Company's Code of conduct It attests that the corruption risks have been correctly identified and was published in September 2018. This code of conduct also includes analysed and that the programme applied by Crédit Agricole has been a specific “anti-corruption” section in application of the requirements designed to limit these different risks, by applying international best under the Sapin II Law. practices. It concerns all Crédit Agricole Group’s business lines: retail banking, financing, asset management, wealth management, etc. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 45 2 Social, environmental and societal contribution 1. Promoting a culture of ethics In 2018, in view of the tightening of the legal requirements relating to Our system has thus been strengthened in order to improve the quality the fight against corruption, Crédit Agricole took the necessary actions of the customer knowledge data or KYC (“Know Your Client”) collected to implement the anti-corruption compliance programme laid down in and to ensure the application of appropriate due care measures. Article 17 of the Sapin II Law, to deepen its systems for the protection of Throughout the business relationship, the vigilance exercised is whistle-blowers and to implement the recommendations of the French adapted and proportionate to the risks identified. To this end, IT tools Anti-Corruption Agency, drawing on existing measures within the Group for customer profiling and the detection of unusual operations assist to complete its procedures and operational systems in this field. Thus, the Group's employees. the Group updated its procedures and operating procedures by defining The fight against terrorism financing and the international sanctions appropriate governance, establishing a dedicated anti-corruption code compliance mechanism also require constant screening of client files of conduct and renewing its training and awareness programme for all with sanctions lists and monitoring of international operations. employees in order to highlight the behaviours to be adopted to avoid On 19 October 2018, the strengthening of the overall financial any breach of probity. security framework led to the termination of the Deferred Prosecution The implementation of operational measures to strengthen the fight Agreements (DPAs) relating to compliance with US sanctions with the against corruption will continue throughout 2019 with regard to the United States Attorney's Office for the District of Columbia (USAO) and mapping of corruption risks, the evaluation of third-party suppliers and the District Attorney of the country of New York (DANY). In October 2015, intermediaries in terms of integrity and the adaptation of controls by Crédit Agricole Group signed an agreement with these US authorities targeting operations at risk of corruption. on a framework of sanctions pronounced against it in respect of 93% of Crédit Agricole S.A. employees had received anti-corruption infractions dating back to the period between 2003 and 2008. training by the end of 2018. The overall system, both with regard to the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing, as well as compliance with B. Preventing fraud/cybercrime international sanctions, is constantly being strengthened, in the context Fraud prevention is designed to protect the Bank’s interests and of regulatory developments and risk assessment. to safeguard customers: a key factor in customer trust. The fraud prevention system was deployed in all entities of Crédit Agricole D. Reporting compliance irregularities Group at the end of 2018. A Compliance/Anti-fraud and Corruption The compliance framework (organisation, procedures, training department is now in place. Actions continued to be taken to control programmes) creates an environment favourable to the enhancement fraud risks in terms of system management, prevention and detection. of the control framework within the Group. Nonetheless, when Systems were rolled out to combat payment fraud and fraudulent preventive measures do not play their expected role and a dysfunction transfers. Governance was also strengthened at entity level with occurs, it is important that it is: greater involvement of management. nn detected and then analysed as quickly as possible; Awareness raising is also key to increasing vigilance measures. Action nn notified to the operational managers and to the managers of the has been taken to update the training tools, which have been made Compliance function at the most appropriate level within each available to entities in 2018. With the increasing number of cases of business line; attempted fraud from external sources and their increasing complexity nn monitored and corrected, and its causes eliminated; (notably through cyber crime), the main challenges now lie in ensuring nn reported to the supervisory authority, in the event of major a proactive response among banks. At the end of 2018, 92% of Crédit Agricole S.A. employees had been trained. irregularities. The centralisation of dysfunction events via the reporting process is C. Anti-money laundering and combating the financing described in a specific procedure that measures Crédit Agricole S.A.’s of terrorism exposure to non-compliance risk at the highest level. Employees who have reasonable grounds to suspect or have observed the existence The Crédit Agricole Group greatly values prevention of money of a compliance-related irregularity, must immediately report it to their laundering, combating the financing of terrorism and compliance superior, who will report it to the Compliance team. with international sanctions (freezing of assets and embargoes). The Group's Compliance department, and more particularly its Financial The framework is completed by a right of alert allowing employees, Security business line, is responsible for the entire Group’s: if they observe an irregularity in the usual process of reporting nn implementation of measures to prevent money laundering and irregularities or if they feel pressured to allow an irregularity to occur, terrorism financing; to notify the entity’s Compliance Officer of the situation without going through line management. In this case, the right of alert mechanism nn and its compliance with international sanctions. is an alternative solution. By deploying a new IT platform, the Crédit The system in effect integrates requirements arising from international Agricole Group wants to support any employee wishing to exercise rules and recommendations on the one hand, and requirements under his or her right to alert in complete security. This tool guarantees the national law on the other. strict confidentiality of the author of the alert, the facts reported, the Through an update of procedures and tools, the Crédit Agricole Group persons involved and the exchanges between the whistle-blower and also took into account the new requirements related to the transposition the person in charge of processing the alert. The tool will gradually into national law of the European Directive of 20 May 2015 on the be deployed during the first half of 2019 throughout the scope of prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money consolidation of the Crédit Agricole Group. laundering and terrorism financing, known as the “4th Directive”. The Compliance Officers of each entity report the status of observed irregularities to the Group Compliance department, which is responsible for informing the Group Compliance Management Committee. The Committee reviews the information received and approves proposals aimed at remedying the irregularity. 46 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Social, environmental and societal contribution 1. Promoting a culture of ethics E. Maintain a lasting relationship with our customers and the renewal of knowledge systems of the three mandatory training protecting our Group from non-compliance risks by courses: “Everyday compliance – introduction to the ethical culture and spreading a “culture” of Compliance among employees compliance, external fraud – awareness-raising and anti-corruption measures”. The idea behind Scan’up is to photograph the skills DPEF The purpose of the Compliance department of Crédit Agricole S.A. of employees at moment T (“Scan”) , and then offer them training Priority is to raise awareness of the main Compliance issues, which adapted to their needs to increase their skills (“Up”). Trainees assess 1 form the basic foundation, essential for spreading the their skills by means of a questionnaire, used to either validate their compliance culture throughout the Group. In 2018, all Group knowledge or to determine the need for training. The objective of this employees, regardless of their level of exposure, were therefore required pedagogical tool is to move towards an ever more effective training to follow a training and awareness programme, consisting of five that is close to the needs of students. e-learning courses on: nn everyday compliance – introduction to ethical culture and compliance; This evolution of the training system will be effective in January 2019. 2 Two modules address the General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR) nn anti-money laundering and combating the financing of terrorism and the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act/Échanges automatiques (AML-CFT); d’informations (FATCA/EAI) tax regulations nn international sanctions; The Compliance department has made the new module “Understanding, nn prevention of external fraud; respecting and applying the European General Data Protection nn the fight against corruption. Regulation (GDPR)” and a new FATCA/EAI e-learning method available As part of the professionalisation of the Compliance Business Line, to employees most at risk or working in specific professions, in four among the 11 face-to-face training courses offered the two two-day episodes, aided by educational computer graphics. “New entrants to the Compliance department” courses and the 3.5-day For 2019, the Compliance department is committed to overhauling the “Fides Académie integration seminar have professionalised more than training courses on Market Abuse and Customer Protection. 80 (French and international) employees in 2018. The intranet Compliance site, accessible to all employees, provides an F. Complying with customers’ interests: marketing products educational description of the main compliance topics and presents the transparently compliance jobs and tasks. The abstract of the Corpus Fides, which can Within Crédit Agricole, new activities, new products and new services be viewed on the intranet, sets out the 14 main issues of compliance are analysed by internal committees (known as NAP Committees). to enable employees to become more adapted. These committees are specific to each Group entity in France and internationally that create or distribute products, services or new Optimising the training trajectory activities for customers. The Committees are made up of representatives 2018 was marked by several achievements. The Compliance from the Compliance, Legal Affairs, Information Systems Security, department wanted to facilitate access to training by adapting training Risk Management and Permanent Control departments and the Data courses in a timely manner according to targets and their needs, and Protection Officer. Other expertise may be involved depending on the by meeting regulatory requirements: nature of the reviewed projects. Holding these committees ensures that all products and activities offered in the distribution networks meet the The AML-CFT training system regulations, regulators' recommendations and the Group's strategic To meet the challenges of clarifying and simplifying the “Anti-money commitments relating to its Customer Project and thus reduces any laundering and combating the financing of terrorism (AML-CFT)” potential complaints: clarity of the information provided to customers, training pathways, the training system underwent changes, leading to suitability of the product for the identified target customer, information the creation of seven retail bank training pathways, depending on the given to the customer on the compensation and fees received by jobs performed and the level of exposure of employees. An AML-CFT the distributor, prevention of money laundering and the financing awareness campaign has also been made available to entities abroad. of terrorism, fraud prevention, Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA), international sanctions, etc. Scan’up Compliance The Compliance department, together with IFCAM (the university of Crédit Agricole), has taken the initiative to streamline, via Scan'up, 1.2. ESTABLISHING TRUST-BASED RELATIONSHIPS WITH CUSTOMERS DPEF As part of its Medium-Term Plan, “Strategic Ambition 2020”, nn strategic investment in the customer relationship via an advisory Priority one of the Group’s priorities is to roll out a new Customer approach that makes it possible to offer customers comprehensive 2 Project to better meet the expectations of its customers, and tailor-made solutions. setting itself apart by virtue of the relationship and built on For several years, the Group has been putting in place measures to three pillars: protect customers’ data and remain attentive to all customers and nn a model based on proficiency across all the business lines, with provide them with the best advice. the expertise and know-how to meet the financial and wealth management needs of customers; nn full multi-channel distribution by enabling customers to choose how they interact with the Bank and to change this at any time; The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 47 2 Social, environmental and societal contribution 1. Promoting a culture of ethics 1.2.1. Protecting customers’ data 1.2.2. Attentiveness and quality of advice DPEF To support the implementation of its Customer Project, Crédit DPEF A. Developing a balanced relationship Priority Agricole Group decided to establish a Personal Data Code, Priority which came into effect in early 2017. It responds to changes 2 2 in society as reflected in the responses to the CSR barometer. In the Regional Banks The Code consists of five core principles (data security, integrity and Continuing the transformation of its distribution model through the reliability, ethics, transparency and education, customer control) Multi-channel Retail Banking project, Crédit Agricole has launched designed to reassure customers and to disseminate best practice to various digital innovation projects. Using new development methods employees in Group entities. This reference text thus sets out the based on short cycles, the Bank aims to offer its customers new Group’s data protection principles. uses and new services through a redesigned digital architecture. The Moreover, on 25 May 2018, the date of entry into force of the General projects launched in 2017 took shape in 2018, including “Trajectories Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), the Crédit Agricole Group took part Patrimoine”, which allows all customers to make the best choices to in: establishing a register of processing personal data in each entity, build, develop or protect their assets according to their plans in life. publishing Policies for the Protection of Personal Data of customers and This innovative and free advising process, which covers all assets from employees, implementing its system for exercising rights of individuals the first euro, aims to support customers in a global and personalised (access, deletion, etc.), creating a network of Data Protection Officers way through the Group's expertise and the co-development of a value (DPOs) for each entity. proposition with the advisor. This wealth management approach was The code respects the foundations of the GDPR. It reflects the rolled out throughout the Regional Banks in 2018 and will be available operational implementation. to two-thirds of our customers in the next three years, that is, to 14 million people. Other offers and services have taken shape, including THE PRINCIPLES OF THE GDPR PROGRAM: the optimisation of tools enabling advisers to sign up new customers, in particular, electronically, rolled out to the 39 Regional Banks; and so nn Giving back individuals control over their personal data back. was the improvement in the customer and adviser experience with the nn Creating a “European Data Protection” that protects citizens with digitalisation of procedures for small businesses and farmers. unified rules that can be used against non-European actors. nn Making the custodians of personal data (data controllers, At LCL sub-contractors) accountable and responsible for providing proof Since 2015, the entity has been modernising its distribution model that data is well protected. and adapting business practices to changes in customer behaviour, nn Tightening sanctions in the event of improper protection or use particularly when it comes to digital uses. The goal is to place the of collected personal data. customer at the centre of digital relationship banking. LCL is also mindful of its advisory obligations. It endeavours to get The Group is now in a phase of consolidation of the GDPR program, as much commercial knowledge about its customers as possible, which should enable it to strengthen its ambition to be a “trusted third establishing a framework to ensure that it offers them appropriate party”. advice. The actions taken mainly focus on employee training, customer classification, tools development (particularly advisory), The following are among the priorities of the Group: product governance, customer information and the traceability of nn using durable and efficient tools for the management of personal data communications. In 2018, LCL continued to integrate regulatory processing, events and reporting, at the service of data controllers constraints, which resulted in the deployment of the savings tool and DPOs, which facilitate dialogue between entities (producers, IT “Solution Épargne”. The latter aims to enhance the customers' integrators, distributors) and are integrated into existing systems skills and experience, to better account for the customers' wealth, such as risk analysis; and to make more explicit recommendations on changes in it. The nn updating contractual relationships with internal or external partners LCL advisory approach will continue to evolve in 2019 and will offer with whom Crédit Agricole shares personal data to clearly define more specific advice based on the customers' needs. LCL is moving everyone's requirements and responsibilities; towards the Group's “Trajectoires Patrimoine” approach and is offering nn adapting information systems in terms of security and data retention the same experience to branch customers. Moreover, with a focus time; on customer information, Information and Advice Documents (IADs) nn disseminating legal expertise in support of Group entities and have been made available to them since early 2018, for all offered life monitoring of practices resulting from the application of European insurance products incorporating funds in euros or structured funds. A regulations; further version will be rolled out in 2019 to systematise the publishing of IADs and the assessment of the advice provided. nn the “natural” integration of personal data protection into everyday behaviour, into the planning of new offerings and new IT developments; B. Monitoring customers’ expectations nn developing expertise and contribution of everybody to risk Measuring satisfaction management when using personal data, in accordance with In recent years, the majority of Group business lines have developed commitments to transparency and loyalty of the Crédit Agricole their own surveys and/or studies to assess customer satisfaction. Group in terms of customer protection. In 2018, 32% or Crédit Analyses are validated at each key stage of the relationship or of the Agricole S.A. Group employees received this training. product’s lifecycle. They help define the priority actions associated with improving this satisfaction. For each point of contact (branch, e-mail, website, telephone, mobile applications), LCL offers its customers a performance review to gage their inclination to recommend LCL and to canvass suggestions 48 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Social, environmental and societal contribution 1. Promoting a culture of ethics for improvement. In 2018, LCL received comments from nearly current consumer expectations. The average time taken to handle these 2.6 million customers across all markets and collected almost 252,000 complaints was 17 calendar days. All customers also have the option of questionnaires, including 1,000 from corporates. mediation. The Group is continuing the procedure introduced in 2018 for the accreditation of ombudsmen of Regional Banks and LCL by the Customer recommendation index (IRC) French National Commission on the Assessment and Supervision of To go beyond a mere sense of satisfaction, the customer recommendation Consumer Mediation (Commission d’évaluation et de contrôle de la index (indice de recommandation client, IRC) represents an indicator of médiation de la consommation, CECMC). By the end of 2018, fourthe quality of the benchmark service. This synthetic indicator measures fifths of ombudsmen had been certified. A quality forum (“Carrefour customers’ attachment to their bank based on whether or not they would Qualité et Performance”) is held twice a year where customer service recommend it to family or friends. It was chosen by the Group to evaluate managers can share their experiences with the Customer project. This the customer experience, through an annual barometer conducted in all markets. The seventh national-level IRC survey was carried out across illustrates the commitment of the Group’s entities to improving both the handling of complaints and the quality of customer service. 2 all markets in 2018. At LCL, complaints from individual customers, small businesses Regional IRCs have also been realised: 39 Regional banks have a specific and corporates are handled at two successive levels: a first level IRC mechanism, 22 Regional banks a Patrimonial IRC, 23 Regional with the branch, the Customer Relations Centres (CRC) and the banks a Professional IRC, 21 Regional banks an Agricultural IRC, and Business Centres, a second level consisting of the Customer Relations 16 Regional banks a Corporate IRC. Department (CRD). Customers are informed of this mechanism via Since the end of 2018 the IRC method is also deployed in almost all their account statements, the website, guides to rates and charges Group entities in France and abroad. and the bank’s general terms and conditions. In 2018, the sales network managers alert system was enhanced in order to improve Complaints complaint processing time. Referral to the Mediator, set up in 1996, The Customer Relations unit of Crédit Agricole S.A. – which handles can be exercised if a dispute persists. In addition, the complaints from complaints from customers of the Regional Banks, subsidiaries in individual and business customers in the various distribution channels France or abroad, or from people who are not customers of the Group – are collated and counted using an IT tool. This makes it possible to received 902 complaints of all kinds in 2018 (1,047 in 2017), reflecting monitor each complaint, analyse the reasons for it and respond to it. 1.3. ESTABLISHING A COMMITTED TAX POLICY DPEF The tax policy of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group is based on transparency and accountability rules that require compliance with the tax laws and regulations in force in the countries and territories in which it operates. 1.3.1. Tax payments 1.3.2. Prevention of tax evasion The Group pays all taxes and levies required by law in the Countries Crédit Agricole S.A. has developed, under the oversight of its Executive and territories in which it operates; the amounts paid correspond to Management, a set of rules that have led it to withdraw from States the underlying economic value created in such Countries or territories classed as non-cooperating by the OECD. This policy is implemented in the course of its activities. Crédit Agricole Group generates three under the control of the Group Compliance, Public Affairs and Tax quarters of its revenues in France and likewise pays three quarters of departments. In France and abroad, the Group complies with the its taxes in France. Thus, its tax charges are in line with its business mechanism in force to fight tax evasion. activities. Crédit Agricole S.A. has no entity in countries on the list of Crédit Agricole S.A. also applies a transfer pricing policy in line with non-cooperative tax countries and territories established by France OECD principles: it declares its revenue and pays the corresponding and the European Union (Law no. 2018-898 of 23 October 2018 on taxes in the jurisdictions where it conducts its banking and financial the fight against fraud). activities. Crédit Agricole S.A.’s effective tax rate in 2018 was 23.8%. Crédit Agricole S.A. is also transparent about its organisation, the It only relates to part of the overall tax charge borne by Crédit Agricole location of its entities, its structure and its operations. In its Registration Group. This means that Crédit Agricole S.A.’s effective tax rate does Document, Crédit Agricole S.A. each year publishes a country by country not include all the corporate income tax that is paid by the various breakdown of its full-time equivalent employees, revenues generated Group entities. The effective tax rate of Crédit Agricole Group in 2018 locally, its pre-tax income, taxes and taxable profit in each country was thus 28.02%. (broken down by current tax and deferred tax) plus all public subsidies it received. These figures show aggregate data for each country. Crédit Agricole S.A. maintains a professional and cooperative relationship with tax authorities in all countries in which it operates, and fully, frankly and transparently discloses all relevant information in compliance with its legal disclosure requirements whenever disputes arise. Crédit Agricole S.A. annually publishes a list of all its subsidiaries and entities, with their name, business type and geographic location. When the Group operates in countries where income tax is considerably lower than French income tax, it can prove that it operates a bona fide banking and finance activity in these countries and has real economic substance in these locations (technical expertise, employees and material resources specific to its business). It also communicates transparently on tax audits performed within the Group, any adjustments notified by the tax authorities and the resulting provisions. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 49 2 Social, environmental and societal contribution 1. Promoting a culture of ethics The Crédit Agricole S.A. Tax department ensures that the Group’s tax deal with customers who provide it with a mandate to automatically practices pursue broad goals of responsibility and compliance, not exchange information about such customers with the relevant just the narrower purpose of managing the cost of tax and tax risk. authorities; not to create, manage or advise off-shore entities. Its Accordingly, Crédit Agricole S.A. provides no help or encouragement for subsidiary Crédit Agricole Indosuez Wealth Management assists its customers in violating tax laws and regulations, nor does it facilitate or clients in complying with tax requirements and after the automatic support transactions where tax efficiency for the customer is derived exchange of information with the European Union, the entity has from the non-disclosure of facts to the tax authorities. Furthermore, extended the scope to partner countries. in accordance with the standard on the automatic exchange of information developed by the OECD to combat tax evasion, adopted 1.3.3. Corporate income tax by a hundred countries and transposed by the European Union, the entities of Crédit Agricole Group (like all financial institutions based Crédit Agricole S.A. is transparent in its advocacy with legislators and in signatory countries of the scheme) identify account holders (both fiscal policy-makers, and its tax is determined by the legal tax regime existing customers and new customers) who are tax residents of the applicable to all other similar taxpayers. As Crédit Agricole S.A. wishes countries with which an exchange agreement has been signed. From its lobbying activity to take place transparently with all stakeholders 2017, it will send information about these customers each year to their and to comply with best practice, it has issued a Charter on lobbying local tax authority, which will then forward it to the tax authority in the in order to define corporate lobbying practices applicable to Crédit country of residence concerned. Agricole S.A. and all of its entities. The Crédit Agricole Group has publicly undertaken to only conduct Lastly, Crédit Agricole S.A. regularly checks its use of tax incentives and international wealth management activities in countries and territories deductions to ensure that they contribute to investment, employment that are committed to the automatic exchange of information; to only or any other factor. 1.4. CONDUCTING A TRANSPARENT LOBBYING POLICY 1.4.1. Aligning with best practices 1.4.3. Addressing key issues To ensure that its lobbying activities comply with best practices, Crédit The Group’s Public Affairs department operates primarily at two levels, Agricole S.A. adopted a Lobbying Charter in 2013. The charter applies to namely France and Europe. Many of the issues it deals with involve Crédit Agricole S.A. and all of its entities. Subsequently, in May 2017, the working closely with the French Banking Federation, as well as the Group adopted a Code of Ethics defining its main principles, which are European Banking Federation, the Association for financial markets in transposed into a code of conduct for each entity. The Code for Crédit Europe (AFME) and/or, at the request of Fédération nationale du Crédit Agricole S.A. has been adopted in May 2018 and includes the Lobbying Agricole, of which it is a member, with the European Association of Charter of 2013. In 2014, it signed the joint statement of Transparency Cooperative Banks (EACB). International France, thereby pledging to take into account the principles In 2018, the actions of the Public Affairs department concerned both of transparency, fairness and integrity recommended by this association. the French government (National Assembly, Senate, departments and Registered since 2009 on the European Union Transparency Register, regulators), as well as European institutions (European Commission, Crédit Agricole S.A. has undertaken to adopt the Code of Conduct for European Parliament and Council of the European Union). The interest representatives. In France, Crédit Agricole S.A. is registered with department also had dealings with the European Central Bank, as the the digital register for interest representatives pursuant to the Sapin II Single Supervisory Mechanism (SSM) and Single Resolution Board Law of 9 December 2016. (SRB) responsible for ensuring the orderly resolution of Europe’s leading banks. 1.4.2. Organising transparently In many areas, awareness-raising actions were needed to reiterate the The Public Affairs department is responsible for lobbying within the importance of banks in financing the economy, as well as their central Crédit Agricole Group. It consists of eight persons, three of whom role in the digital transition. At the same time, the Group’s unique status are full-time in Brussels. It works alongside correspondents within was underlined as a cooperative, mutual, customer-focused universal the Management of the Group and its subsidiaries. Also subject to bank committed to customer service. the internal code of business conduct and control of its budget by This led to significant efforts being made, both directly and through our the Finance department, the Public Affairs department regularly industry bodies, to preserve particular mutual aspects as the revision communicates key messages and positions advocated by internal of the rules on credit institutions in Europe (Capital Requirements bodies, including the Executive Committee, the Management Directive and Regulations or CRD 4 and RRC) drew to a close. The Committee and the Specialised Committees of the Board of Directors. Group was also involved in consultations with European authorities Since 1 January 2016, the functions of the Director of the Public Affairs on the digital transformation of the banking sector and defended the department have been extended to cover the entire Crédit Agricole Group's model in the context of the examination of the draft law for Group, including the Regional Banks, Fédération nationale du Crédit the growth and transformation of companies in the French Parliament. Agricole and Crédit Agricole S.A. 50 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Social, environmental and societal contribution 2. Developing accessible finance 2. DEVELOPING ACCESSIBLE FINANCE The societal role and utility provided to all of the Group’s customers While the Group’s regional footprint is marked by financing activities, its are emerging as a critical requirement in terms of longevity. Crédit own activities, through purchasing and relations with business partners Agricole’s businesses make our customers’ projects a reality through as well as the involvement of employees in community actions, also lending for new types of businesses (microcredit, social businesses, contribute to this commitment to inclusive finance. technological and social start-ups), measures in the field of prevention (financial education, awareness on health issues, over-indebtedness) and even through an offer of savings products targeting projects with a societal impact. 2 2.1. SUPPORTING ALL CUSTOMERS THROUGH GOOD AND BAD TIMES In order to better meet the needs of its customers and assist them disadvantaged people. Since the creation of the first Point Passerelle throughout the relationship, Crédit Agricole forges ahead with its in 1997, more than 100,000 people have received support. With the efforts to provide a service to all of its customers, including the most assistance of a network of 130 advisers spread across in more than vulnerable. 80 hospitality centres dedicated locations and 930 volunteers (elected representatives and retired Crédit Agricole employees), 13,315 people 2.1.1. Showing commitment at difficult times were assisted this year, 80% of whom managed to regain a steady economic footing. DPEF The Group's retail banks and consumer credit and insurance Priority entities are committed to customers who are financially In cooperation with the Regional Banks and the Fédération nationale 4 vulnerable or in need of special protection. du Crédit Agricole, Crédit Agricole Assurances has created leaflets for Points Passerelle advisers, giving practical advice on insurance problems to facilitate assistance: procedures in the event of death, A. Over-indebtedness systems for the reimbursement of health costs, etc. Moreover, Pacifica offers its support with a break in the payment of car insurance Since 1994, Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance France has been contributions, which is essential in the context of a job search. active in the Banque de France over-indebtedness commissions, with 14 representatives in 2018. B Health problems of the most vulnerable persons In 2013, CA Consumer Finance France created a customer support agency, which aims to: Since 2015, Pacifica has been authorised to offer supplementary healthcare policies specifically for recipients of the ACS (Aide au nn assist customers showing signs of or meeting criteria of vulnerability paiement de la Complémentaire Santé) payment. This scheme, and identified as “at risk of over-indebtedness”; reviewed by the Health Ministry, is a payment by the government nn analyse and assess their personal and financial situation and that covers some or all of supplementary healthcare contributions. It prospective developments with regard to risk indicators and the is granted on the basis of household composition and income, the information provided by the various departments; amount of the payment depending on the age of the beneficiary. nn look for and offer customers solutions adapted to their situation; Pacifica’s Santé Solidaire offering has three basic plans and on top of nn monitor the effectiveness of the support solution implemented; the standards defined by the decree offers various additional benefits. nn monitor external partners: Crésus, Point Passerelle de Crédit Crédit Agricole Assurances also complies with the AREAS agreement, Agricole and Crédit Municipal de Paris, as well as debt consolidation which is aimed at facilitating access to insurance and loans for people companies. who have or have had a serious health problem. CACI, the credit In 2018, CA Consumer Finance France identified 15,010 customers in insurance subsidiary, has established a specialist unit that offers situations of vulnerability (19,328 in 2017) and managed to contact contracts that are tailored to the needs of its customers covered by 6,580 of them. A total of 2,709 customers received personalised support that agreement. from the customer support agency. CA Consumer Finance France also processed 4,477 eligible Banque de France over-indebtedness 2.1.2. Preventing situations of risk dossiers per month. For a number of years, several Group entities have been running At LCL, the detection of delicate situations liable to reflect proven or budget and banking education programmes geared essentially towards potential financial vulnerability following a personalised assessment preventing over-indebtedness. The insurance business supports clients may give rise to the “LCL Initial” offer, which opens up access to a in the event of a claim to mitigate their consequences, but still must go range of banking services at a lower cost. The national unit called “LCL further by raising awareness of risks. Parenthèse counselling and customer support” also provides support in certain situations that are either complex or require dialogue with A. Financial and budget education organisations involved in the fight against over-indebtedness, such as In the context of the Points Passerelle scheme, early 2018 the “Points Conseils Budget”, with which LCL has signed an agreement. DPEF Priority 23 Regional Banks promoted awareness about budget The Points Passerelle mechanism is supported by 33 of the management for over 6,000 persons, of which 3,620 young 4 Regional Banks to help and support people affected by a life crisis people, through more than 600 workshops (of which 320 for (unemployment, death of a loved one, divorce, etc.) regain stability. young people) co-organised with schools or organisations including The mechanism covers all available solutions, from how to apply local missions, second-chance schools and institutions that promote for legal or social services to personal budget monitoring and the integration into the job market. loans, all aimed at opening up new horizons for socio-economically The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 51 2 Social, environmental and societal contribution 2. Developing accessible finance Within the CA Consumer Finance group, several initiatives have The African entities, Crédit du Maroc and Crédit Agricole Égypte, been undertaken to help teach young people how to manage their develop initiatives to support entrepreneurship in their countries. budget. In Germany, CreditPlus has been involved in financial education Thus, Crédit du Maroc, through its Foundation created in 2018, for young people since 2012, providing financial and training support promotes entrepreneurship through several initiatives and partnerships to EVA, an organisation based in Stuttgart. Objective: help them with local associations. It provides financial support for women's become wiser consumers and manage their budget in a responsible entrepreneurship, youth entrepreneurship, the conversion of the manner. Useful advice for this population at a key stage of their life. informal sector and the rehabilitation of street vendors through its In 2018, 50 young people received help of this type. In Italy, Agos holds partnership with the association ESPOD, “Espace Point de départ.” meetings in schools. In 2018, 1,084 students attended 30 workshops. The Foundation is also committed to the social and societal economy In Portugal, Credibom started a financial education program in schools of Morocco by creating a prize for social entrepreneurs. in December 2018. 80 students participated in less than a month. Crédit Agricole Égypte participates in the programmes developed by the Egyptian Central Bank to finance VSBs, start-ups and young B. Prevention tips to keep Crédit Agricole Assurances people through a minimal credit costs. The bank also promotes customers safe entrepreneurship through its Foundation. Crédit Agricole Assurances conducts preventive actions with customers, rounded out by an offer of protective equipment or specific B. Distributing microcredit training solutions. Prevention advice is provided through several Since 2008, the Regional Banks have distributed personal microcredit, channels (contracts, workshops, local networks, among members enabling people not eligible for credit to benefit from a banking service at General Meetings of Regional banks, etc.). Increased support for while at the same time controlling their budget. 1,740 personal loans customers is provided on certain issues or for certain targets: free have been made by the Regional Banks. These small loans, 50% post-driving licence instruction courses for young drivers, special guaranteed by Caisse de Dépôts et Consignations, are intended prices for protective equipment, verification of electrical installations, for people who do not have access to conventional credit. 75% of remote monitoring systems against theft or helplines for elderly people, microcredits finance mobility projects (repair of a vehicle, driving support for customers who have experienced repeated incidents of licence, etc.) to help people return to work or stay in employment. the same nature, insurance offers including the provision of useful assistance services to protect them and their families in the event of C. Facilitating socio-economic autonomy death, dependence, disability, or for funerals. Launched in 2015, Fondation Crédit Agricole Solidarité et 24 Regional Banks have launched prevention initiatives with Crédit Développement, recognised as a charitable institution, is focused Agricole Assurances. They have held 120 events on a range of various on personal socioeconomic autonomy. It supports the programmes themes: personal accidents, alcohol and road hazards, fire, theft, of national partners, as well as complementary projects developed health, etc. In 2018, more than 50,000 people attended events devoted with the Regional Banks. Its four fields of action are social integration to issues of this nature. (educational success, budget education, digital inclusion, mobility, For several years, young people who take out car insurance with nutrition, etc.), economic and vocational integration (vocational Crédit Agricole have been offered free post-driving licence instruction training, job search and business creation assistance), the housing courses under the name “Box Reflex’Conduite”. The courses are sector (access to housing, fight against poor housing and energy reserved for under-31s who have had their licence for less than a year poverty, intergenerational housing), health and ageing well (acting and are geared towards teaching them how to react to unexpected against isolation and in favour of access to care and the prevention of circumstances when driving. In 2017, 4,337 young people took this risks). 66 charitable projects have been financed in a total amount of internship. more than 1.6 million euros. 2.1.3. Giving credit to all customers, including 2.1.4. Providing support the financially vulnerable A. Of customers who have experienced a loss/an injury DPEF A. Contributing to business creations Claims management (fire, theft, water damage, hail, road accidents, Priority etc.) is also a major challenge that is part of an insurer’s liabilities. 4 Pacifica accordingly offers fast customer support, with qualitative Working with major business-creation support networks since 2003, assistance. The claims management centres and partner networks the Regional banks kept working to promote business start-ups: involved in this service are in close proximity to the distressed customer nn leading financial backer of Initiative France, an organisation that has and are therefore able to offer a solution tailored to each situation. In made 5,786 loans in a total amount of €386.5 million; the event of a weather event, Pacifica is able to deal with an increasing nn 1,403 companies financed with its partner France Active for an number of urgent situations. This system meets the needs of customers amount of €70 million; confronted with a loss. In 2018, Pacifica’s Customer Recommendation Index was 43 points (an increase of one point with respect to 2017). nn nearly 1,821 entrepreneurs funded by means of €7.4 million in credit lines granted by 13 Regional Banks. Psychological support for victims of disasters nn €300 million for Crédit Agricole Régions Développement to assist Pacifica handles more than one million claims each year, ranging mid-cap companies and SMEs. from simple glass breakage to major events (house fires, business, LCL is a partner in France Active Garantie as well and holds 5% of its serious personal injury accidents, etc.). A loss can be a significant shares. and traumatic event, requiring a response beyond the compensation aspect. In this context, Pacifica has set up a psychological support service during the period following a loss such as attacks, accidents, weather events, etc. This service consists of putting customers and their families in contact with psychologists from our partner Rehalto, in order to enable them to regain emotional balance. In 2018 Pacifica commissioned Réhalto to handle 875 cases. For the first satisfaction survey, the service's recommendation rate was 95.4%. 52 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Social, environmental and societal contribution 2. Developing accessible finance B. Of farmers as it has enabled them to become truly aware of the situation and to Crédit Agricole, the financial partner of nine out of every ten discover useful solutions to support them in their life. DPEF farmers, actively supports sectors in crisis and offers Moreover, Predica offers a new product to assist people unable to Priority 8 adjustment measures of various types, including the deferral care for themselves. Certified by the French Federation of Insurance of all or part of their annual payments. The network of 2,011 Companies, this product provides minimum benefit of at least €500 in agricultural advisers in the 39 Regional Banks advises individual cases of serious long-term care. This can be used to pay for personal farmers on the best solution for their specific case, allowing them to services at home or cover some of the costs of living in a care home. get through their difficulties and preserve their capacity to invest for It also pays €1,000 a year towards the costs of home-care services to the future. provide respite for the carers of the dependent person. The healthcare The Crédit Agricole Agricultural market Department, together with the partners of Crédit Agricole Assurances are committed to providing a Pacifica Agricultural Department, designs a risk policy for farmers. Pacifica also supports farmers by offering insurance for the majority response within 72 hours and find a solution within 30 days for insured persons looking for a place in a care home. Caregivers of insured 2 of crops (large-scale farming, vines, arboriculture) against a number persons can also benefit from home training by a nurse on the essential of weather events (drought, hail, excess rainfall, floods, storms, frost, actions required by the caregiver. At the end of 2018, Predica covered etc.). At 31 November 2018 Pacifica was managing 24,595 contracts more than 170,000 insureds covered for the risk of needing care. weather-related insurance policies (harvest insurance, hail insurance In 2018, Crédit Agricole Assurances participates in the discussions and prairie insurance). initiated by the FFA as part of the public consultation on the financing In recent years, and in particular since March 2013 with the launch of of the loss of independence, led by the Ministry of Health. The purpose the Methanation Energy, Autonomy and Nitrogen plan, the number of of these discussions is to make concrete proposals to the government methanation facility projects has increased. Insuring these facilities for a future law on the loss of independence in 2019. At the same time, is essential for securing the methanation activity and the farming the Group continues to invest in the development and management of business. Pacifica has developed an insurance product range to cover residences for seniors. property damage (fire, storm-hail-snow, water damage, flooding, theft, vandalism, broken machinery, electrical damage), operating losses and B. Meeting public health challenges energy supplier civil liability (in the case of the resale of electricity, Pacifica has a range of solidarity-based and responsible health heat or gas) and employer gross negligence civil liability (if there are products for individuals. There are no medical screening requirements, employees). the coordinated care pathway is followed, minimum reimbursement amounts (consultation patient charges, pharmacy, hospital flat fees) 2.1.5. Meeting the challenges of tomorrow are applied and preventive procedures are covered. In order to support DPEF the increase in life expectancy, Pacifica has long since raised the age Crédit Agricole Assurances has built an offering centred on limit for subscribing to its products to 75 years and has adapted its Priority products that address major societal issues. 4 coverage to best meet the needs of such persons (e. g. housekeeping time while on restricted activity or bed rest, preventive actions such as free flu vaccination). A. Responding to an ageing population Loss of independence / growing old well C. Adapting to new uses and behaviours Viavita, a subsidiary specialising in personal services, and the Crédit Several offers and services are a response to the new behaviour and Agricole group have initiated a new approach called Bien Vieillir à economy of sharing, including new types of mobility (carpooling, car domicile , recently renamed Bien Vivre À Domicile (BVAD). This rental between private individuals, electric personal travel equipment), customer approach aims to be present among older people and their co-tenancy and rental of accommodation among consumers in their carers in order to support them in their desire to grow old at home. main or secondary homes, or cyber-protection on the market for small Customers who have experienced this new approach are very satisfied, businesses and farmers. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 53 2 Social, environmental and societal contribution 2. Developing accessible finance 2.2. CONTRIBUTING TO ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL DYNAMISM IN LOCAL REGIONS DPEF Crédit Agricole is a decentralised banking group with strong The Responsible Purchasing Charter, which consolidates the Crédit Priority local roots. It is founded on the mutual values of its regional Agricole S.A. Group’s main commitments in respect of responsible 8 cooperative banks. The values of customer focus, purchasing, was revised in 2017 and is included in all supplier responsibility and solidarity drive the Group to promote contracts. It is built on reciprocal commitments derived from the actions with its stakeholders to improve the development conditions of fundamental principles of the United Nations Global Compact. A clause the regions in which it operates both in France and abroad. on the respect of human right, environmental protection and the fight against corruption was added to enhance the contracts in 2018. 2.2.1. Purchasing, all accountable Crédit Agricole S.A. Group is attentive to the monitoring of payment The Crédit Agricole Group has adopted a responsible purchasing terms in respect of its suppliers. The ongoing deployment of a common policy to address the major challenges of tomorrow in its regions purchasing information system for all entities contributes to better and contribute to the Company’s overall performance. It is part of monitoring of payment terms throughout the Group. In 2019, the system the Group’s Code of Ethics. This policy was co-constructed with the will be supplemented by a new FReD action dedicated to processing subsidiaries and the Regional Banks. The Chief Executive Officers of late payments. This action provides for a common methodology and Group entities are each committed for their entities and have signed enhanced indicators shared by all Crédit Agricole S.A. group entities this policy. This action will be carried out over the next two years. The responsible purchasing policy is intended for all employees, actors KEY FIGURES: in the purchasing process and our suppliers. It contains an action plan built on five pillars: nn Average payment term for Crédit Agricole S.A. : 41.55 days nn ensuring responsible behaviour in the supplier relationship; (41.32 days in 2017) nn contributing to the economic competitiveness of the ecosystem; nn 2019 Target: reduce the number of late payments by 25% in nn integrating environmental and societal aspects into purchasing; each entity. nn sustainably improving the quality of relationships with suppliers; nn integrating the responsible purchasing policy into existing B. Contribute to the economic competitiveness governance arrangements. of the ecosystem The approach was expanded this year to all Crédit Agricole S.A. Group entities by means of joint action within the FReD framework. PRINCIPLES: Crédit Agricole S.A. signed the Responsible Supplier Relations Charter nn Encouraging the diversity of businesses in the regions. in 2011. Furthermore, the issuance of the “Supplier Relations and nn Promoting exchanges with local actors and thereby contribute Responsible Purchasing (RF & AR)” label, awarded by the French to regional development. ombudsman and the French National Purchasing Board (CNA), was nn Stimulating innovation with our suppliers to create value. renewed in April 2018 across a broadened scope to include Crédit Agricole S.A. and its subsidiaries. The organisation and actions of Crédit nn Assessing the life cycle cost. Agricole S.A. and its subsidiaries were certified to be at a “convincing” level compared to the ISO 20400 normative framework. During the purchasing process, the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group In 2018, three subsidiaries of the Crédit Agricole S.A. group, as well Purchasing department assesses actions implemented in favour of as parent company Crédit Agricole S.A., were audited as suppliers the sheltered sector and disability-friendly companies and VSEs/SMEs. by EcoVadis : CACEIS, Crédit Agricole Assurances and Crédit Agricole In 2018 the IT category was more particularly developed by raising Immobilier. awareness of the Group's business lines and by integrating protected and adapted labour companies into our IT service panel. KEY FIGURES: The Purchasing department also includes criteria of up to 10% of the nn The EcoVadis results of the 4 rated entities range from evaluation grid. linked to social principles in its tender specifications, “confirmed” to “advanced”. reflecting, among other things, use of the sheltered disability-friendly sector, either directly or through joint contracting. With regard to the promotion of innovation, the Group renewed its A. Ensure responsible behaviour in the supplier relationship contract with the Early Metrics rating agency for 2019-2020. Early Metrics evaluates start-ups in various areas in order to promote their PRINCIPLES: activities. Moreover, an innovation-monitoring platform has been built with CA advisory for subsidiaries and the Villages by CA (the Group’s nn Ensuring balanced business relationships by adopting respectful incubators) (cf. 2.2.3 B). practices and behaviours. nn Fostering reciprocal commitments in respect of the rights of all. KEY FIGURES: nn Providing visibility on projected purchases. In France, Crédit Agricole S.A., its subsidiaries and Crédit Agricole Technologies et Services: nn Volume of purchases entrusted to the sheltered and disabilityfriendly sector: €5.2 million in 2018, versus €5 million in 2017. nn Volume of purchases entrusted to VSEs/SMEs: €1,250 in million in 2018 versus €1,153 million in 2017. 54 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Social, environmental and societal contribution 2. Developing accessible finance C. Integrating environmental and societal aspects D. Sustainably improve the quality of relationships into our purchases with suppliers PRINCIPLES: PRINCIPLES: nn Identifying and mapping risks and opportunities. nn Involving buyers as early as possible in the purchasing process. nn Integrating CSR criteria into the choice of a good or a service and nn Reinforcing the ramp-up of the purchasing skills of internal the selection of our suppliers. players (buyers/decision-makers). nn Developing mutual understanding between the company and its To complement the CSR commitments requested from our suppliers suppliers. (CSR charter and specific clauses), an analysis of CSR risks in purchasing is carried out using three approaches: nn Establishing a mechanism for mediation. 2 nn intrinsic risk of the purchase category; Knowledge of our suppliers is traditionally understood through financial nn supplier risk analysis; risk, with particular attention paid to the economic dependence of nn country risk that exceeds the rating according to the geographical suppliers on the Crédit Agricole Group. In 2018, a shared platform area where the service or good is purchased. between Group entities and our fellow companies BNPP, BPCE and In 2018, to implement this analysis of CSR risk in purchasing and also to Société Générale was set up for the filing of legal documents (K-bis, comply with Law no. 2017-399 of 27 March 2017 on the duty of vigilance Urssaf certificate, etc.) as part of the compliance obligation. This of parent companies and contracting companies, the Crédit Agricole S.A. simplifies the life of the supplier, who submits documents only once Group implemented its CSR risk mapping for the identification, analysis for the entire community. and prioritisation of risk-based purchasing categories on environmental, Satisfaction surveys are part of a regular process for the collection social, ethical and supply-chain criteria. This new mapping specific to the of opinions from stakeholders, suppliers and internal decisionbanking sector (around 100 categories of purchases) is the result of a makers, with three objectives: measure supplier satisfaction with the joint effort with the three main banking players in the market. relationship with the Group, measure the satisfaction with services In this new mapping, the risk description for each purchasing category of decision-makers on supplier panels by family of purchases, and is structured according to the following three elements: provide support for purchasing. In addition to the annual survey, a questionnaire will be sent to bidders at the end of each call for tenders nn the sources of risk analysed under 13 criteria, divided into three in order to verify that they have been treated fairly. families (ethical, environmental, social); nn the probability that events occur and the seriousness of their Since 2017, Crédit Agricole S.A. organised annual meetings with the consequences; main suppliers to present the results of the survey and discuss its purchasing strategy. nn the consequences analysed following four dimensions (financial, legal, organisational and reputational). The action plan to enhance the skills of buyers continues. In 2018, it was enhanced in four areas: Based on one analysis of gross risk, three categories of purchases nn targeted training (training in internal mediation, collaborative identified as high or very high risk in our mapping have been worked on in 2019 through an action plan to reduce the net CSR risk of negotiation); suppliers: namely the construction, IT equipment and advertising nn diploma courses: in 2018-2019, two employees from Crédit Agricole objects categories. S.A. Group’s purchasing business line will receive training at the For these categories of purchases, which are referenced by the Crédit Master Purchasing Department of the IAE in Grenoble, with whom a Agricole S.A. Group, a CSR evaluation of suppliers is systematically partnership has been established; integrated into each call for tenders. It covers both the supplier's CSR nn the proposal to support the validation of prior learning (VPL) following management system and the CSR criteria for evaluating the offer. Since the annual interviews; 2012, the CSR assessment of suppliers has been carried out by an nn thematic training (legal training on contracts). independent and specialised third party, EcoVadis (contract renewed Finally, the new Group CSR Director has been appointed as internal in 2018). The overall CSR score obtained accounts for at least 10% in Mediators for the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group. They can be contacted the award of the contract to the supplier. by the suppliers and/or the relevant internal service (purchasing, legal, The CSR quality of the supplier’s offer (product or service) is assessed accounting, etc.) in order to facilitate the amicable settlement of any by including technical sustainable development criteria specific to each conflicts. family of purchases in the tender specifications, in accordance with the risks and opportunities identified in the CSR risk mapping. The supplier KEY FIGURES: must show that its procedures comply with the stated principles during nn June 2018 supplier meetings: over 200 suppliers were present, the project’s entire lifecycle. with a very high satisfaction rate. KEY FIGURES: nn Prescriber survey: 163 respondents to the internal survey. nn Four matters under mediation. nn At 31 December, 2018, 1,578 Crédit Agricole S.A. Group suppliers (51% of interviewed suppliers) had an EcoVadis score The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 55 2 Social, environmental and societal contribution 2. Developing accessible finance E. Integrating the responsible purchasing policy To address issues surrounding unemployment, poor housing, difficulties into existing governance arrangements accessing healthcare for dependants, as well as environmental issues, The “Strategic Ambition 2020” Medium-Term Plan rolled out by the many savers want to make their investments meaningful, while keeping Group required a new organisation and a new governance of Crédit an eye on the returns on offer. CA Assurances, through its subsidiary Agricole S.A. Group’s Purchasing department. Its management is now Predica, is accordingly offering the “Contrat solidaire”, the first structured around five purchasing hubs, with a general secretariat for Finansol-certified social multi-vehicle life insurance policy. It marries support functions. savings and social good. Each year Predica reports to the policyholders about the social impact generated by the savings invested in the policy The CSR manager of the Group Purchasing Department of Crédit funds (number of jobs created or secured, number of people re-housed, Agricole S.A. leads the responsible purchasing and RF & AR Label of number of healthcare beneficiaries, tonnes of waste recycled, number the division managers and CSR correspondents within each of these of microcredit beneficiaries abroad, etc.). In 2018, 11 Regional Banks divisions. A seminar was held with representatives from all entities to participated in the marketing of this contract. build the CSR 2020 action plan. The socially responsible savings range of “L’Autre épargne” provides The Purchasing Management Committee, which oversees the CSR an option for customers looking for alternative investments. This is performance of suppliers, will review CSR issues related to the Label used to finance community projects and projects that contribute to and the duty of compliance on a quarterly basis. the local economy by supporting non-profit associations through the donations generated by these products. L’Autre épargne is built 2.2.2. Developing a product offering around two Finansol-certified mutual funds financing the food banks with social impact (“Banques alimentaires”) and Habitat et Humanisme, the Predica DPEF Within the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group, initiatives are emerging Contrat solidaire life insurance product and a variant of the mutual Priority on products with a societal impact, particularly in the shareholders’ passbook account with the option for customers to earn 8 subsidiaries and the Regional Banks. Tookets, Crédit Agricole’s charity reward currency. In 2018, Amundi a wanted to strengthen its social and solidarity 2.2.3. Supporting local entrepreneurship investment activity in France with the establishment of a business line dedicated to social impact investment, the announcement of a doubling DPEF Using its strong local presence to benefit the regions, the of the outstanding amounts of the solidarity fund of Amundi Finance et Priority Group funds projects aimed at fostering and maintaining local Solidarité within three years, a significant investment on equity capital, 8 economic activity. and the launch in 2019 of a similar investment fund with a European focus. The fund will aim to invest in social enterprises in European A. The Fondation Grameen Crédit Agricole has strengthened countries where the Crédit Agricole Group and Amundi are particularly its impact alongside Group entities present. 2018 marked the 10th anniversary of Fondation Grameen Crédit With an increase of more than 55% of the outstanding amounts, Agricole, which has as objective to fight poverty through the promotion the social impact management of Amundi has seen a significant of social entrepreneurship and financial inclusion. Since 2008, the year development over the past two years. This growth is explained by the that it was established by Crédit Agricole and the Nobel Peace Prize growing interest of private clients through solidarity-based employee winner, Professor Yunus, more than €200 million in funding has been savings schemes and institutional investors in meaningful investments, granted to more than 100 partners (microfinance institutions that then the effects of which benefit men and women, often the most vulnerable, grant microcredits to populations excluded from the traditional banking and have a positive impact on the environment. Customers remain system and social enterprises that work on behalf of low-income strongly rooted in solidarity-based employee savings schemes, which people) operating in 38 countries. remain the main contributor to the fund and account for around 60% At 31 December 2018, the Foundation had recorded €77 million in of the assets. commitments, including €72.3 million in financing to microfinance institutions and €4.7 million in investments in companies with a SOCIAL IMPACT IN 2018: social impact. Countries in sub-Saharan Africa represent 37% of nn €2.778 billion in assets, representing growth of 55% compared these commitments. At the centre of its objectives, the Foundation with 2016. promotes female entrepreneurship, which is the reason that women nn 32 social actors financed, including three new ones. represent 75% of the beneficiaries of microcredits. 79% of the clients of microfinance institutions are situated in rural areas. nn 18 Finansol-certified products. In 2018, the Foundation broadened its range of activities by becoming nn Five investment themes: meeting the basic needs of men an investment fund adviser. In 2018 the Foundation introduced, in and women: access to decent housing, access to recognised partnership with CA Indosuez Wealth (Asset Management) and CACEIS work, access to the necessary care, education and training, Bank (Luxembourg Branch), the Inclusive Finance Funds in Rural Areas protection of the environment, support for solidarity-based (FIR), a social impact investment vehicle enabling Crédit Agricole entrepreneurship. Group entities to invest in the fight against poverty in rural areas. The nn A dedicated website provides information about the social fund, advised by the Foundation, provides financing to microfinance impact, generated in real time, including the number of jobs institutions. Fifteen Regional Banks of Crédit Agricole, Amundi and created and the number of healthcare, housing and training Crédit Agricole Assurances have invested an additional amount of beneficiaries. nearly €8 million. nn Partners' Club: a meeting place for companies that create 2018 was also the year of preparation of the Foundation's strategic business links and synergies. plan for 2019-2022. Climate change resilience, digital finance and the development of synergies with the Crédit Agricole Group will be the challenges of the coming years. 56 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Social, environmental and societal contribution 2. Developing accessible finance B. Support for local entities and ecosystems A. About the Foundations The Group includes multiple regional entities that enable the Regional CA Pays de France Banks to use some of their capital to help SMEs and mid-cap companies (ETIs). The Group also has national entities, such as CACIF-IDIA and For 40 years Fondation Crédit Agricole – Pays de France has been Amundi Private Equity Funds. With more than €3.5 billion in assets committed to cultural heritage alongside the Crédit Agricole Regional under management, Crédit Agricole Group is one of the major players in Banks. Since 1979 it has been strongly convinced that heritage is a investment capital in France. It supports 1,008 companies throughout source of attractiveness for the territories. Recognised as a public utility, France, 226 of them being new investments in 2018, for a total amount the Foundation supports local authorities, structures of general interest of more than €233 million. and all those who believe that preserving, restoring and enhancing a monument, a natural site or a place of memory contributes to the vitality As part of the “Strategic Ambition 2020” Medium-Term Plan, the Group aims to become the benchmark in terms of supporting young innovative companies. In line with the Villages by CA concept (see of the local economic and social fabric. In 2018 it supported 46 projects for a total amount of €1.645 million (Regional banks and Foundation 2 share). below), two investment funds enabling the Group to invest in innovation capital have been set up since 2017 and endowed with €150 million. CASD For example, the CA Innovation et Territoire fund aims to invest in Recognised as a public utility since 2014, the Fondation Crédit Agricole young technology and/or innovative companies operating primarily Solidarité et Développement promotes the socio-economic autonomy in the Group’s six strategic areas (energy and environment, housing, of people in France, so that everyone has the means to act, think and agriculture and food processing, health-ageing well, tourism and the decide for themselves throughout their lives. In 2018, it supported sea). The CA Venture fund is dedicated to innovation that impacts the 84 projects for an amount of €2.234 million (CRCA and Foundation Group’s business lines: Insurtech and Regtech. The Group also supports share). the activities of mid-cap companies through €300 million in the CARD fund, managed by IDIA. B. Support through patronage Village by CA is a value-creating ecosystem and start-up incubator Crédit Agricole S.A. lends its support to players operating at the supporting projects with high potential. The first Village was created heart of the regions. It has provided support for Dons Solidaires, an in Paris in 2014, and a further 29 Villages were operating by the end organisation involved in recycling unused non-food items (toiletries, of 2018. Boasting an environment at the forefront of technology and clothing, school supplies, etc.) destined for 550 charities working with operating in the heart of the French regions, the start-ups of each the most disadvantaged people, for the last 10 years. In 2018, Dons Village by CA operate in an open innovation ecosystem alongside a Solidaires distributed products worth €34 million to 650,000 people multitude of private and public partners. To date, 547 start-ups have in hardship; Crédit Agricole S.A. provided support of €85,000 and the received support (400 in 2017). Fondation de la Caisse Centre-Est provided €15,000. Some Crédit Agricole S.A. subsidiaries are a partner of Village by As a founding member of Inpact (a cultural fund aimed at developing CA and play on the synergies in terms of innovation linked to their artistic creation among populations located distant from culture), Crédit businesses. This is reflected in the acquisition of stakes in the capital Agricole S.A. is committed to a dynamic of creation and solidarity of hosted start-ups in the Villages by CA. alongside public actors and associations. Since its inception in 2012, The Regional Banks offer their customers the mutual shareholders approximately 150 artistic projects for audiences in culturally marginal passbook account. Savings collected from mutual shareholder areas have become a reality. This corresponds to €700,000 that have customers go directly to finance companies less than five years been committed since the creation of this fund by Crédit Agricole S.A. old located in the Group’s regions. Its assets currently amount to with the most disadvantaged groups. €9.3 billion at end-2018. Crédit Agricole S.A. has supported the contemporary art fair in Montrouge Finally, Crédit Agricole Assurances, a force in regional development, has since moving its headquarters to that city in 2010. As a partner of the invested nearly €3.5 billion in financing French companies (excluding biennale of contemporary art devoted to young contemporary creation OATs and financial companies), in particular infrastructure, real estate (Jeune Création Contemporaine), it supports artists’ residencies in the and property companies. city and organises workshops for its employees. In 2018, Crédit Agricole S.A. renewed its partnership on the European 2.2.4. Participating in local community life Heritage Days with the French Ministry of Culture. Crédit Agricole S.A. and social development realises that heritage is a regional challenge and uses this sponsorship Crédit Agricole is France’s leading bank for associations, as well as to echo the role played by the Regional Banks and the Crédit Agricole their partner, sponsor and patron. In 2018, it allocated €47 million to Pays de France Foundation in the regions. thousands of local projects, mainly focused on solidarity, culture and Among the actions carried out by the Group, Crédit Agricole Assurances the environment. In addition to financial support in the form of grants, each year supports non-profit organisations that support family gifts, scholarships, bursaries, etc., the entities of the Crédit Agricole caregivers. Since 2010, 150 caregivers have received financial support Group contribute donations in kind, skills patronage and the provision from Crédit Agricole Assurances. In 2018, financial support totalled of premises and human resources to regions throughout the country €160,000. as well as abroad, in particular in Italy. In France, two Foundations enable the Regional Banks to increase their commitment by a matching contribution from projects supported by the Regional Banks in the regions. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 57 2 Social, environmental and societal contribution 2. Developing accessible finance 2.2.5. Getting employees involved to support 2018 KEY FIGURES: economic, social and cultural initiatives Coups de pouce solidaires A. An “à la carte” commitment offer for employees In 2018, the Coups de pouce solidaires operation consisted of: “Solidaires”, created in 2012, supports employee involvement in nn 9 participating entities (Crédit Agricole S.A., Crédit Agricole CIB, good causes in France and abroad (local and international solidarity, Crédit Agricole Assurances, CA Consumer Finance, LCL, CACEIS, support for people with disabilities, promotion of culture and education, Amundi, CA Immobilier; environmental protection). Crédit Agricole S.A. offers Group employees nn 125 supported associations; different types of commitment: volunteer missions undertaken in nn €321,115 in financial support. charities, collective one-day missions at a charity together with other Crédit Agricole S.A. Group employees or a consulting day in partnership Employee involvement in “à la carte” forms of commitment with Pro Bono Lab. Established at the end of 2013, the Solidaires by employees Committee is a forum for cross-functional co-construction bringing nn Stop Illettrisme: 150 employees committed to sponsoring together nine entities running programmes encouraging employee 50 employees of a cleaning services provider (GSF and SAMSIC) commitment to charities. at three locations of the Group in the Paris region: Montrouge, Solidarity Days are held each year to showcase the achievements of ParisMontparnasse and Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines. the Solidaires programme and for the employees of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group to learn new information, take action, meet and get involved. Engaging the employees of the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group in France and abroad for the 11-14 June 2018 Solidarity Days to: In 2018, Crédit Agricole S.A. continued its partnership with Stop nn support 28 associations; Illettrisme, which made it possible to continue the sponsorship by 150 Group employees of 50 employees of cleaning service providers nn €115,000 in gifts; SAMSIC and GSF, who are following a diploma course to learn French nn 75,000kg of collected goods; at the Evergreen, Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines and Montparnasse sites. nn 1,629 employees mobilised across 10 countries. B. Providing financial and pro bono support to the charities C. Expertise volunteering in which employees are involved In collaboration with the entities of the Crédit Agricole Group, A programme called “Coup de pouce” (Helping Hand) exists to support the Fondation Grameen Crédit Agricole implemented an expert Crédit Agricole S.A. Group employees involved in charities through volunteering programme, called “Solidarity Bankers”, to offer technical project grants. Within nine entities (Amundi, CACEIS, CA Immobilier, assistance missions to Group employees on behalf of the Foundation's Crédit Agricole Assurances, CA Consumer Finance, CA CIB, the Crédit partners. Three missions have been carried out, in Burkina Faso, Senegal Agricole S.A. Corporate entity and LCL), any employee may submit a and Cambodia. Three new missions are currently under preparation for charitable project to a jury to obtain a grant. a launch in the first half of 2019, in Morocco, Kazakhstan and Haiti. In 2018, it was proposed for the first time to all winning associations to participate in a day of workshops to share their best practices and improve their know-how. 58 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Social, environmental and societal contribution 3. Supporting the energy transition 3. SUPPORTING THE ENERGY TRANSITION DPEF As the number one provider of financing to the French new economy in a sustainable and dynamic manner. Crédit Agricole is Priority economy, Crédit Agricole understands the importance of its one of the major players in financing the energy transition. Its strategy 7 role in the country’s energy transition. Its leading positions, has a simple goal: to accelerate the transition to a low-carbon economy business expertise, financial power (revenues of €32.8 billion) and safeguard the environment by building environmental criteria into and scale (141,000 employees) all play a role in helping to finance this products and services. 3.1. LARGER AMBITIONS DPEF After increasing in 2017 the commitments made in 2015 in nn massively integrate environmental, social and governance (ESG) 2 Priority light of the Paris Agreement, the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group criteria to a large extent into financing and investment it proposes 7 took a step further in 2018 with the issuance of €1 billion in to ensure the coherence of its economic, social and environmental green bonds and the announcements of three ambitious impacts; commitments by its Chief Executive Officer during Climate Finance Day nn invest and promote financing of large-scale renewable energy at end-2018: projects. nn support all its customers in the transition to a so-called “low-carbon” economy; FIVE GROUP OBJECTIVES nn €100 billion in new green financing by 2020: à €114,3 billion arranged at the end of 2018: target achieved (scope: Crédit Agricole CIB). nn One third of renewable energy and energy efficiency projects in France financed by 2020: à €571 million in financing of renewable energy and energy efficiency projects by Unifergie and LCL (as well as €3 billion in outstanding amounts at the Regional Banks) for these projects in 2018 (scope: Regional Banks, LCL and Unifergie). nn €2 billion in Group cash invested in green bonds by end-2017: à €2 billion invested at end-2017: target achieved (scope: Crédit Agricole S.A. and subsidiaries). nn €5 billion in new projects financed by specialised management companies by 2020: à €410 million in financing committed in 2018 (scope: Amundi). nn Reduce direct greenhouse gas emissions by 15% over the period 2016-2020 and fully offset the direct footprint of Crédit Agricole S.A. and of its subsidiaries with respect to energy and business travel to 2040: à Carbon offsetting conducted each year (scope: Crédit Agricole S.A. and subsidiaries). 3.2. A FOUR-PRONGED CLIMATE STRATEGY In order to achieve its goals, Crédit Agricole decided to support customers undertaking the energy transition through its financing, investment, advisory and insurance activities following a four-pronged strategy. 3.2.1. Control the Group’s carbon and environmental footprints A. Of customers Inclusion of ESG risk in the financing of mid-cap and SME Systematic evaluation for financing of large corporations Crédit Agricole reaffirms its intention to incorporate ESG risks into its At the end of 2013, Crédit Agricole CIB introduced a CSR scoring corporate credit decision-making. In 2016, a questionnaire was drawn system for all its corporate customers designed to supplement the up together with the Regional Banks and tools to raise the awareness environmental and social risk assessment system for transactions. of relationship managers were made available. In 2018, Regional Customers are scored each year on a three-level scale (advanced, Banks tests provided trainings for the Board members in the Credit compliant or sensitive), based on whether the customer complies Committee. The CSR rating is reviewed by the Credit Committee. In with existing sector policies, whether there is an image risk for the addition, a CSR section is integrated in the Economic Analysis section Bank (sensitive) and whether the customer is listed in the main global of the commitment analysis file undertaken”. CSR indices (advanced). Following the signing of a contract with a non-financial rating agency to undertake tests in 2016 and 2017, the CSR scoring system has been achieved in 2018, using three levels of due diligence: basic, standard and enhanced. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 59 2 Social, environmental and societal contribution 3. Supporting the energy transition B. Control and reduce the direct carbon footprint by 10% in the period 2015-2018. This objective, expressed in terms of Following the adoption of several measures including 100% GHG emissions as a percentage of revenue, has been achieved. DPEF use of electricity derived from renewable sources across its Priority nn Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 15% over the 2016-2020 11 French sites, the Group is committed to reducing its period: greenhouse gas emissions by 15%, encompassing energy, transportation and procurement, in the period 2016-2020. To help –– 10% reduction already achieved between 2015 and 2017 achieve this objective, a FReD plan has been put in place for all entities (scope: Crédit Agricole S.A., Crédit Agricole Assurances, CA participating in FReD. This plan aimed at a reduction of GHG emissions Immobilier, CA Consumer Finance France, Crédit Agricole Indosuez Wealth Management). Energy and water Since 2007, energy and water consumption have been monitored at Crédit Agricole S.A. Group’s main entities in France and abroad. Within the Group, action plans are implemented (new, more responsible offers, eco-friendly actions, etc.) to reduce energy consumption. Consumption Estimated coverage rate Tons eq. CO2/yr 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Electricity 328,238 MWh 309,094 MWh 69,046 64,928 93% 99% Gas 79,037 MWh 69,034 MWh 16,244 14,188 94% 96% District heating 20,581 MWh 16,570 MWh 4,602 3,705 100% 96% Cooling network 5,062 MWh 3,573 MWh 221 156 100% 100% Fuel oil 4,511 MWh 3,585 MWh 1,430 1,137 100% 100% Water 813,147 m3 752,521 m3 85% 85% Electric power consumption by data centres in 2018(1) Tons eq. CO2/yr Consumption 2018 2017 2018 2017 Electricity 79,876 MWh 73,242 MWh 2,917 2,675 (1) Only the consumption of data centres that could be isolated from their corresponding office buildings is taken into account. It is therefore confined to the following entities: Greenfield, the Group data centre managed by Crédit Agricole Immobilier, Crédit Agricole CIB France, Amundi France, Agos, Credibom, CA Indosuez Switzerland S.A., CA Indosuez Wealth (Europe), CFM Indosuez Wealth and Crédit du Maroc. Transport In 2018, a mobility plan was implemented jointly with the entities bicycle paths are being built in collaboration with the City of Montrouge. present at the Montrouge and Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines sites. A survey A call for tenders for the six entities will be launched in 2019 to select was conducted among the 12,000 employees, as well as two exchange a service provider offering a carpooling application. In addition, a new workshops, to better understand travel expectations. Various actions framework agreement has been established between HR and trade have been proposed and validated by the CSR Committee: development union organisations to increase the number of teleworking days. of teleworking, development of bicycle use, implementation of a The Group measures emissions from business travel annually to carpooling application. These actions are in progress. The fleet of monitor trends on this front. The indicators cover business travel by electric bicycles made available to employees is being expanded and rail and air. Train Air Total 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Distances travelled (in thousands of kilometres) 52,262 49,548 184,576 154,438 236,838 203,986 CO2 emissions (in CO2 tonnes eq. ) 2,355 2,232 54,360 44,863 56,714 47,095 Scope covered: 72% FTEs – 52,811 employees. Offsetting the carbon footprint In this way, Crédit Agricole S.A. and its subsidiaries have offset almost Crédit Agricole Group has been a shareholder since its launch in 2011 59,426 tonnes of CO2 (energy and transport emissions) in 2018. The of the Livelihoods fund, which seeks to improve the living conditions of certificates received for 2018 come from four projects: news in India rural populations in developing countries through carbon finance. The (reforestation of 4,500 of mangroves in the Sunderbans delta), Tiipaalga Livelihoods fund, which brings together, in addition to Crédit Agricole, in Burkina Faso (teaching women to build their own stoves in a way Danone, Michelin, CDC, Firmenich, Hermès, La Poste, SAP, Schneider that uses up to 60% less wood in a region threatened by desertification Electric and Voyageurs du Monde, is an investment fund that finances – 30,000 families benefited) and Hifadhi in Kenya (manufacture and agroforestry, rural energy and ecosystem restoration projects. At the distribution of stoves reducing wood consumption – 60,000 stoves end of 2017, its assets amounted to nearly €40 million and it had nine distributed, 300,000 expected beneficiaries and one million tonnes of active projects in its portfolio. Each project has a double local impact, CO2 avoided over ten years) and ITYF in Peru (rollout of the Sembrando environmental and social, for the communities affected, as well as programme to increase the distribution of improved cookers to generating carbon credits designed to reduce the carbon footprint of 30,000 families in the Huancavelica and Ayacucho regions, in order the financing companies. to achieve results in terms of combating poverty, desertification and climate change, including through the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions). 60 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Social, environmental and societal contribution 3. Supporting the energy transition Following an initial investment in 2011 when the first Livelihoods since 2013, a first partnership with ENGIE in the field of onshore wind fund was launched, Crédit Agricole is continuing its commitment power. In 2017, a second partnership was established with Quadran, alongside this partner and is participating in the second fund launched which has since been acquired by Direct Energie. At the end of 2018, in December 2017. Crédit Agricole S.A. thus committed to fully offset this partnership consisted of 200MW of wind power assets. its direct carbon footprint from energy and transport, for the Crédit At the end of 2018, the partnerships with ENGIE and Direct Energie Agricole S.A. corporate entity and its subsidiaries, to 2040. represented an amount of capital commitments of €1.4 billion for Crédit Agricole Assurances. The continuation of these partnerships DPEF 3.2.2.A G  rowing the Group’s presence should make it possible to increase production capacity to more than Priority in renewable energy 2GW by 2020. 7 At the end of 2018, the joint portfolio of assets (wind and solar) reached A. Financing renewable energy a volume of 1.7GW, compared with 1.3GW at the end of 2017, the largest portfolio in France, representing 7% of the installed capacity. 2 Crédit Agricole Leasing & Factoring (CAL&F) has, through its subsidiary Unifergie, project finance expertise in the fields of energy Crédit Agricole Assurances also has an asset dedicated to cogeneration: and environment. Unifergie finances projects for farmers, corporates in 2016, CAA acquired a majority share of a vehicle dedicated to gas and local authorities, stakeholders in the energy transition, in several cogeneration assets located in France (nearly 17% of the installations), areas: renewable energy (biogas, biomass, wind, photovoltaic, etc.), operated by Dalkia, the European leader in energy services and energy efficiency (cogeneration, public lighting, building rehabilitation, decentralised energy production. In 2017, CAA invested in assets district heating, energy equipment), environment (waste, water), land mainly comprising heating and cooling networks. This operation use (public real estate, infrastructure, telecommunication networks). allows CAA to position itself in the urban heating system market (CAA's CAL&F regularly partners with other Group entities (mainly Regional penetration rate on the heating market is 7% in France). At the end of Banks, LCL and Crédit Agricole CIB) to finance a range of projects in 2018, assets dedicated to cogeneration represented commitments of these sectors. €250 million. At 31 December 2018, Unifergie had financed 46 renewable energy At the end of 2018, €721 million was invested in energy transition projects for €571 million, these investments being equivalent to programmes (including wind and solar power, cogeneration, heating 711 megawatts (MW). The total capacity financed by CAL&F was and cooling networks, etc.). 5,500MW at the end of 2018; this electricity production helped power 2,100,000 French homes. Unifergie, along with the Regional Banks and B. Socially responsible bonds LCL, has committed to financing one renewable energy and energy In addition to its project financing, Crédit Agricole CIB contributes to efficiency project in three in France by 2020. financing the fight against climate change and the ecological transition As one of the leading players in renewable energy financing, Crédit through its Green Bond arrangement activity, directing capital from Agricole CIB has been involved in this sector since 1997. The bank bond markets (Green Bonds) towards environmental projects. Crédit has financed a total of 435 wind farms for more than 24,000MW Agricole CIB also advises the bank’s clients on Social and Sustainability (since 1997) and 1,006 solar farms for a total installed capacity of Bonds, which finance social and sustainable development projects. nearly 9,000MW (including 993 photovoltaic plants for 8,300MW and Committed to this market since 2010, Crédit Agricole CIB has arranged 13 thermosolar plants for 650MW) since 2008. In addition, renewable in 2018 $48.1 billion of Green, Social and Sustainable bonds for its energy accounted for 64% of the financing of power generation major clients. Global Capital rewarded the bank for the fifth consecutive projects in 2018, in terms of the number of projects. year (2014 to 2018) for its Green, Social and Sustainability bonds origination activities. Crédit Agricole Assurances also invests in renewable energy, in particular in energy infrastructure projects in France for the most part. In addition, Crédit Agricole CIB is an issuer since 2013 of Green Notes Thus, thanks to its partnerships with energy specialists, Crédit Agricole dedicated to financing environmental projects. At 31 December 2018, Assurances is the leading institutional investor in the energy transition Crédit Agricole CIB had financed €2.864 billion in green notes and in France in 2018. Indeed, Crédit Agricole Assurances has established, similar debt products. Green bonds outstanding At 31 December 2018: Asset Number Issuer (in millions of euros) of emissions Crédit Agricole S.A. 1,000 1 Crédit Agricole CIB 1,864 149 Total 2,864 150 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 61 2 Social, environmental and societal contribution 3. Supporting the energy transition Composition of the green portfolio 3.2.3. Helping customers improve energy As at 30 September 2018, the green portfolio of Credit Agricole focused and carbon performance on Crédit Agricole CIB (71%), followed by Regional banks (24%), CACF (3%) and LCL (2%). Almost half the green portfolio is located in France A. Private customers and corporates (47%), and the other half is divided over the rest of Europe (26%), The Regional bank network markets various loans that help finance the American continent (20%), and Asia (6%). Renewable energy is work intended to improve housing energy performance, such as: the qualifying category that is most represented in the green portfolio nn the interest-free eco-loan (Eco-PTZ); between its launch by the public (56%), followed by green real estate (24%), environmental friendly authorities in April 2009 and the end of 2018, Crédit Agricole made transportation (13%), water and waste management (5%) and by nearly 136,000 offers, for a total amount of more than €2.36 billion; energy performance (2%). nn energy-saving loans offered by the Group since 2007; between their In 2018, Crédit Agricole implemented a Green Bond Framework introduction and the end of 2018, the total amount of loans marketed group, as a common framework for all Group issuing entities for by all Regional Banks reached €3 billion. In 2017, 3,147 eco-energy their respective green bond issues. This Framework enabled Crédit loans (PEE) were granted to customers of the 39 Regional Banks for Agricole S.A. to successfully issue its initial €1 billion green bonds an average amount of €8,087. on 28 November 2018. In the case of Crédit Agricole CIB, issuer of A home simulator, Calculéo, is also available on the Regional banks’ Green Notes since 2013, the Green Bond Framework of the Crédit websites. It allows individual customers to determine the amount of Agricole replaces the existing Crédit Agricole CIB Green Notes any assistance to which they are entitled to finance energy saving Framework. work. In addition, Crédit Agricole offers its SME and mid-cap customers an The Crédit Agricole Green Bonds in principle follow the principles Energy Advisory Plan (Démarche Conseil Energie) to help them finance imposed by the Green Bond Principles, voluntary principles that energy efficiency investments. structure the issue of the green bonds and that guide the market development. The Green Bond Principles have been proposed by In addition to this, Crédit Agricole Assurances implemented the lead issuing green bonds banks, of which Crédit Agricole CIB insurance cover for renewable energy facilities (solar panels, wind is one. turbines) as part of its comprehensive home insurance policies and comprehensive professional and farming insurance. These offers include, as a part of it, a civil liability for the producer of energy in the The Crédit Agricole Green Bonds are proposed according to four event of damage committed against a third party. structuring pillars, as defined by the Green Bond Principles: Initially planned to follow the subscription of an eco-zero-percent nn use of the funds; loan (interest-free loan granted to finance work to improve the energy nn review procedure and project selection; consumption of housing), the 25% reduction in the multi-risk housing nn monitoring the use of funds; contribution in the first year was extended to the ESL loan (energy nn reporting. saving loan) (see 3.3.2). The Green Bond Framework of Crédit Agricole consists of six different categories of eligible green loans that contributing: B. Real estate 1) renewable energy; The Crédit Agricole Group’s multi-business property specialist, Crédit 2) green real estate; Agricole Immobilier (CAI) advises its clients on how to create value throughout their property development projects. It mobilises the full 3) energy performance; range of its expertise to serve individuals (residential development, 4) envrironmental friendly transportation; property management, management of the head of Square Habitat 5) water and waste management; networks), companies (operating real estate, commercial property 6) sustainable agriculture and forest management; development, property management) and local authorities (promotion, The Green Bond Framework of Crédit Agricole is available on the urban development). Crédit Agricole S.A. website, https://www.credit-agricole.com/ finance/ The new CAI2020 Medium-Term Plan places customers at the centre finance/dette. It has received a second opinion from the non-financial of the attention of all employees. In order to be able to meet the plan rating agency Vigeo Eiris. The experts of Vigeo Eiris approved the and support them throughout their real estate career. CAI is designing methodology for identifying and selecting green assets included in the city of the future and imagining homes, offices and services that the green portfolio, as well as the relevance of the eligible categories anticipate new ways of living and working. selected in the fight against climate change. A few achievements in 2018 prove the expertise in the field of operational real estate developed over many years. Distinguished by ZOOM the National Environmental Management Competition, organized by At 31 December 2018, Crédit Agricole CIB arranged €114.3 billion the IFPEB, and under the patronage of the Ministry of Environment, in transactions dedicated to the energy transition, and exceeded the operating teams were awarded the Silver Cube for the Evergreen the target the objective of structuring €100 billion in climate-related campus in Montrouge (92) in the category Certified office space, and financing. the Bronze Cube for the Forum building, ranked 3rd among the 236 competing buildings, thanks to its 34% savings of CO2 emissions over the year 2017. These awards were an opportunity to affirm CAI's commitment to reducing its environmental impact and to continue to raise awareness of these challenges among all campus employees. 62 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Social, environmental and societal contribution 3. Supporting the energy transition The NF “HQE”(1) certification for Tertiary operational buildings attests Within the Group, Crédit Agricole Immobilier ensures a special place to the fact that environmental issues are taken into account in the as a leader in the real estate sector. Thus, it embodies global support operating processes of buildings, whether in terms of technical services for the various entities: management, operation and environmental or in terms of associated services. The comfort and health of users, the certification of the Group's campuses and institutions, support for use of energy and the preservation of the environment are assessed. To the Regional Banks in their head office projects, launch of the new meet these high requirements, an environmental management system Sales platform with already 8,000 properties listed within one year, that is unique on the Property Management market is developed by the deployment of the new Square Box Rental Management product. teams. Le Europe Avenue campus, located a stone's throw from the The Crédit Agricole Assurances group continues to increase the La Défense business district (92), is a site with significant ecological proportion of real estate assets with environmental certification (such potential. A true pioneer in CSR, it has been selected to be the pilot as HQE, BREEAM, LEED) in its office property portfolio. All new projects campus of the BiodiverCity Life! project. CAI is also expanding its efforts to reduce its carbon footprint in will henceforth strive for environmental certification. At the end of 2018, the “green” office portfolio (i.e. those with environmental certification) 2 construction. LUZARD II, a student residence, is one of the emblematic accounted for 46% of total square metres invested in office property experiences. It is one of the first low-carbon certified (“BBCA”) buildings in (i.e. 619,503m²) out of a total of over one million m² in office space. France and is also certified for its “Habitat et Environnement” profile “A”. Since 2010, Amundi Immobilier has been committed to a responsible With these two certifications, this social residence for students, entirely approach to its activity, participating in numerous discussions and made of wooden panels, benefits from a very high level of certification initiatives on Responsible Investment within the OID (Observatoire in the environmental field and offers a true user comfort to students. de l'Immobilier Durable) or ASPIM for the creation of an SRI label Another flagship project: VIEW, a tertiary building, very ambitious applied to real estate. As early as 2012, Amundi Immobilier drew in terms of energy, that is part of the Paris Climate Plan with four up a Responsible Investment Charter to structure and facilitate the environmental certifications: HQE® with passport level “exceptional”, application of its ESG approaches to all its businesses. This Charter, BREEAM international, Effinergie+, RT 2012 -40%. Its design guarantees updated in 2018, now incorporates new challenges for the sector, excellent thermal, acoustic, visual and sanitary performance. The wellsuch as the carbon footprint of the building, exposure to climate risks, being of users was also studied with 85% of offices lit by daylight. resilience to climate change and the -2°C energy target and trajectory A responsible and innovative player in the development, construction in relation to international climate concerns. This Charter is based on and sale of new housing for over 25 years, CAI is committed to an an audit tool that allows an assessment of the environmental and social approach of excellence. The intelligence of uses and architectural performance of buildings under direct management. quality are sought in all operations. By developing the concept of Nature in the City, CAI reflects its voluntary approach and enriches its range of 3.2.4. Attracting productive and responsible services. Re-establishing the link between people and nature, creating savings towards a low-carbon economy social links through agricultural activities, strengthening synergies with In 2018, Amundi continued its commitment to the energy the regions, and protecting the environment, are the four priorities that DPEF transition. Outstanding amounts supporting the energy transition Crédit Agricole Immobilier sets for itself. Priority 7 and green growth reached €8.2 billion at 31 December 2018. After signing the Biodiversity Charter at MIPIM in March 2018, calling Amundi offers turnkey investment solutions accessible in open for action to promote biodiversity, Crédit Agricole Immobilier has and tailor-made funds through dedicated mandates and funds. These already illustrated its commitment by deploying an urban agriculture solutions are part of a range of financial innovations: low-carbon index demonstrator in Abellio, its Toulouse site. Reconnecting with nature, solutions, green bonds funds, thematic funds, joint management companies living a new conviviality and acting for the place of urban agriculture with partners, etc. aimed at mobilising investors in the transition to a in the city of tomorrow, this is the bold challenge that the teams in low-carbon economy. Toulouse propose to take up through Clubs: permaculture vegetable gardens, aquaponics cultivation, henhouse, insect hotel, hives, hop A. Decarbonation of portfolios gardens... and thus set an example. The goal of these solutions is to reduce the carbon impact of portfolios, namely reduce within portfolios the proportion of issuers emitting large This year also saw the launch of the Actions Laboratory, developed amounts of CO2 or that have fossil fuel reserves that potentially cannot in Melun within the Woodi eco-neighbourhood. As a developer, Crédit be exploited. The decarbonation can apply to traditional portfolios or Agricole Immobilier is innovating by creating this think tank dedicated to index solutions. The result is a reallocation of capital away from to innovation to develop new uses for the city. In partnership with the companies that are most exposed to carbon risk to more ethical regions, this initiative brings together in a new way private, public, companies, with business models that are better adapted to a low economic and local actors to federate energies and create actions in carbon economy. favour of the ecological and solidarity transition in the territory. Amundi was a pioneer with its September 2014 launch of an indexlinked investment management offering based on the MSCI Low Carbon Leaders indices, with the support of large institutions such as AP4 (Fourth Swedish National Pension Fund), FRR (French Pension Reserve Fund) and ERAFP (French Public Service Supplementary Retirement Pension Body). Combining all solutions with an in-built carbon filter (open funds, dedicated funds or management mandates), in 2018 Amundi had close to €7.8 billion under management. (1) High Environmental Quality. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 63 2 Social, environmental and societal contribution 3. Supporting the energy transition DPEF B. Investing in the energy transition For institutional investors looking for bond solutions, Amundi offers These investments most often concern the fields of energy Amundi Green Bonds and Amundi Impact Green Bonds to help finance the Priority 7 efficiency and green infrastructure, and aim to meet the energy and ecological transition, Amundi offers funds investing in Green environmental, societal and economic challenges posed Bonds at 31 December 2018, these two funds, which are dedicated to by the increasing scarcity of natural resources, as well as the financing the energy transition, had a total of assets of €2 billion. management of environmental damage related to water, air, soil, waste Created in 2013, the Amundi “Valeurs Durables” fund invests in European and ecosystems. companies generating at least 20% of their turnover from the development Amundi has been a partner of the International Finance Corporation (IFC), of so-called “green” technologies: renewable energy, improving energy a member of the World Bank Group, since 2017. Together they have efficiency, water management and waste management. It takes Amundi’s created the largest green bond fund dedicated to emerging markets. ESG criteria into account and excludes companies producing fossil and IFC will contribute up to US$325 million to this bond fund, which aims nuclear energy. As at 31 December 2018, the fund's outstanding amount to invest in green bonds issued by banks in developing countries. was €2 billion. For its part, Amundi will raise the remainder of the US$2 billion from In 2016, Amundi and EDF entered into a partnership. ATE aims to institutional investors worldwide and provide its expertise in emerging offer institutional investors funds managed around the main themes debt management. The fund aims to be fully invested in green bonds of energy infrastructure and B2B energy efficiency. Fundraising within seven years and be open to banks in Africa, Asia, the Middle continued in 2018 with a large number of French and European East, Latin America, Eastern Europe and Central Asia. institutional investors. The final total commitment of nearly €500 million will allow the financing of infrastructure projects for nearly €2 billion, including debt. 3.3. ASSESSING AND MANAGING CLIMATE RISKS DPEF On 19 October 2017, Crédit Agricole’s Group Risk Management Scenario and reality of climate risks Priority Committee, approved and defined a climate policy entailing, In accordance with the recommendations of the Task force on Climate3 in particular: related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), sensitivity to climate risks was nn ambitious goals regarding the financing of the energy transition assessed in 2017 according to scenarios. The four tested scenarios (see 3.1 and 3.2); differ in the extent of mitigation measures and the progressiveness of nn realistic but demanding support for its customers in what is their implementation. These scenarios distinguish three time horizons: inevitably a gradual transformation (see Part 3); short term (before 2020); medium term (from 2020 to 2030) and long nn a major effort to measure and manage its indirect carbon footprint term (after 2030). Each scenario has led to a climate trajectory and (see 3.3.1) and a strong commitment to controlling its direct footprint carbon price level that appears consistent with the magnitude of (see 3.2.1). mitigation measures. The potential impact on the profitability of CIB's corporate clients was then investigated for both physical and transition At its annual meeting in late 2018, Group Risk Management Committee climate risk. These calculations thus provide a first macroeconomic continued its reflections, focusing on physical risk in retail and framework for climate risks by highlighting the main risk areas (sectors customer-led banking. and countries) according to the scenarios and time horizons considered. For the medium-term transition risk, identified as the main potential 3.3.1. Managing climate risks within financings risk, a complementary micro-economic approach has been developed Crédit Agricole CIB has been working for several years to better to seek to differentiate it at the level of individual counterparties. understand and manage climate risks: by estimating the carbon footprint related to its financing and investment portfolio and drawing Sector policies up sector policies representing the bulk of the footprint (over 80% of Furthermore, the Group has drawn up sector policies for the sectors this footprint overall), by seeking to assess the materiality of climate with the greatest potential impact (see 4.2.2). New developments came risks and by gradually introducing additional analyses for clients who up in April 2018 in the area of shale oil and gas This review aims appear to present the highest risks. to exclude the financing of hydrocarbons with excessive emanating methane emissions. Measurement and mapping of climate issues This change supplements the general policy of pulling out of coal Since 2011, Crédit Agricole CIB used the P9XCA methodology, developed financing introduced in 2015 and finalised in 2016 with the exclusion of in partnership with the Chair in Quantitative Finance and Sustainable the financing of new coal power stations or their expansion worldwide, Development at Paris Dauphine University and École Polytechnique to as well as the financing of the least energy-efficient and hydrocarbons estimate the carbon footprint of its portfolio and to undertake sectorthat contribute most to global warming (oil sands, extra-heavy oil, oil based and geographical mapping of the carbon emissions it generates. projects in the Arctic, etc.) published in 2017. Crédit Agricole S.A. has shared this methodology with its peers and P9XCA is now recommended for corporate and investment banks by Agence de l'environnement et de la maîtrise de l'énergie (ADEME), Observatoire sur la responsabilité sociétale des entreprises (ORSE) and by Association Bilan Carbone. Some methodological adjustments were made in 2018, in parallel with the revision of emission factors. 64 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Social, environmental and societal contribution 3. Supporting the energy transition 3.3.2. Insuring climate change Crédit Agricole Assurances introduced insurance coverage for renewable energy facilities (solar panels, wind turbines) as part of Since June 2016, Pacifica has been encouraging insurance for hybrid its comprehensive home insurance policies and comprehensive and electric vehicles by taking charge of the deductible for claims professional and farming insurance (cf. 3.2.3 A). relating to these vehicles, upon policy subscription. Batteries and In property & casualty insurance, products in the individual, small cable are also covered in the event of theft or damage, including business and farmers’ ranges take into account climate constraints during rental. Pacifica is also adapting to new practices and offers through insurance cover protecting policyholders and their property from car-sharing insurance (coverage of the driver for bodily injury, coverage storms, natural disasters, or weather events (hail and frost) (see 2.1.4 B). of the passengers, including if they take the wheel, assistance). For policyholders driving less than 5,000 kilometres per annum, Pacifica Finally, Crédit Agricole Assurances and Airbus Defence & Space have offers a premium reduction. In 2018, Pacifica extended its two-wheeler developed an insurance solution to manage climate risk for farmers, insurance product range to include new individual electric vehicles, called Prairie Insurance. It is based on the measurement of a forage production index that measures by satellite the annual level of forage 2 thus meeting insurance needs and supporting new urban mobility. production from land locally for each municipality in France. This index is now adopted by all insurers offering prairie insurance in France. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 65 2 Social, environmental and societal contribution 4. Encourage taking into account ESG factors 4. ENCOURAGE TAKING INTO ACCOUNT ESG FACTORS For several years, Crédit Agricole has been committed to reducing both its negative impacts on its ecosystem and increasing its contribution in terms of protecting the environment and social and societal promotion, in line with its various activities related to: nn its investment and financing business lines; nn support for the agricultural sector; nn safeguarding of resources. 4.1. INVESTING RESPONSIBLY For several years, the Group integrates ESG criteria into investment decisions and promotes responsible financing with its clients. 4.1.1. Acting as a responsible financial actor The principles of Amundi ‘s ESG policy: A pioneer in responsible investment and European leader in nn an ESG analysis of firms based on documents such as the asset management with more than €1,425 billion in assets under United Nations Global Compact, the OECD Guidelines on Corporate management, Amundi has launched the analysis of ESG (Environment, Governance, and the International Labour Organisation (ILO) policies, Social, Governance) at the heart of its development strategy. etc.; a proprietary ESG rating; In its strategic plan for 2021, launched in 2018, Amundi gives its nn a strict targeted screening policy that resulted in the exclusion of commitments a new scope: 214 issuers (corporates and governments) in 2018; which includes the exclusion of G-rated issuers (not conforming to the ESG beliefs of nn all actively managed funds will have an ESG score that is higher than Amundi or to international conventions), and the exclusion of certain their benchmark or investment; activities. Since 2016, Amundi has been disengaging from issuers nn Amundi’s voting policy will systematically include its ESG rating; that generate 50% of their revenues from coal mining, in line with nn passive management assets incorporating ESG criteria will be the commitments of the Crédit Agricole Group. This threshold was doubled; gradually decreased to 25% in 2018. Similarly, since the end of nn specific initiatives promoting investment in projects with an 2018, companies with more than 10% of their income from tobacco environmental or social impact will be doubled; will also not be included in SRI funds; nn Amundi’s specific advisory activities for institutional clients will be nn the distribution of ESG notes to all managers, in the same way developed to support them in their ESG development. as financial notes; nn a commitment policy aimed at developing companies towards A. ESG analysis at the heart of the responsible investment best practices; process nn a voting policy that integrates ESG issues. Amundi selected the Best-in-Class approach as the basis for its ESG Four Amundi funds have received SRI certification from the Ministry rating methodology. This approach consists of comparing players of Finance and Public Accounts since 2016. In addition, Amundi’s SRI within the same sector to identify best practices and encourage all activities are certified by AFNOR, which renews certifications yearly. issuers to embark upon a progress initiative. To meet the expectations of its stakeholders for quality and (In billions of euros) transparency, Amundi introduced a dedicated governance model: the ESG Committee, to approve and disseminate ESG ratings, the Assets under management 1,425.1 Consultative Committee, primarily comprising non-Group experts and Assets under management after excluding G-rated a think tank dedicated to responsible finance. issuers 1,358.4 Finally, to implement the ESG policy, Amundi has acquired significant Responsible Investment Assets at 31 December 2018 275.8 resources: a department dedicated to responsible investment, a team of ESG Funds and position 18 analysts focused on voting policy at General Meetings, shareholder (ESG over-/underweighting, specific exclusions dialogue with companies, etc., and 9 external non-financial data according to Amundi standards or according to providers. 6,000 issuers are rated on ESG criteria. customer standards or needs) 267.3 Specific initiatives nn Environment 8.2 nn Solidarity 0.22 66 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Social, environmental and societal contribution 4. Encourage taking into account ESG factors B. A policy of active commitment which it invests. It integrates the ESG criteria on all its asset classes Amundi's engagement policy takes three forms: engagement for by relying on Amundi's expertise and its ESG analysis and filter system. influence, information gathering for rating purposes and shareholder Crédit Agricole Assurances also developed shareholder engagement in dialogue. It is an essential part of fiduciary responsibility and Amundi’s our strategic holdings, with the active participation of our Investment role of responsible investor: Department on the Boards of Directors of companies in which the insurer is a shareholder. nn commitment to influence: Amundi conducts a policy of engagement for influence on specific themes to encourage companies to adopt Since 2018 Crédit Agricole Assurances has a policy of not to invest in better practices. This work is the subject of an annual commitment the tobacco industry. From 2019 on, the entity will draft a plan on to report made public and available on the website of Amundi. In 2018, sell the exposures it is holding. the ESG team of analysts has been particularly active on the issue of In the wake of the Crédit Agricole group, Crédit Agricole Assurances “subsistence wages” and “aggressive tax optimisation practices”; gradually disengages from coal and accelerates investment in renewable energy (see 3.2.2 and 3.3.2). 2 nn the shareholder dialogue: Amundi has set its own voting policy, updated annually, which incorporates the ESG criteria. The goal of the shareholder dialogue is, through regular constructive interaction, 4.1.3. Suggesting Socially Responsible Investing to clarify Amundi’s expectations as a responsible investor with (SRI) to clients regard to the resolutions presented at the General Meeting to Predica also offers SRI unit-linked products in some of the multiissuers representing the most significant positions in the portfolio. vehicle life insurance contracts distributed by the networks of the Group. It is structured by sending pre-alerts ahead of General Meetings and The international subsidiaries are gradually adopting this approach. aims to obtain additional commitments, amendments or even the Since the launch of the SRI unit-linked products, several initiatives withdrawal of certain resolutions submitted by issuers Shareholder have been carried out to promote this type of investment to distribution engagement is also a growing lever of influence for a low-carbon networks and to customers: creation of an information pack, network economy, which has intensified since 2017. activities during industry events (e.g. Sustainable Development Week, In 2018, this commitment involved 202 issuers through alerts and SRI Week, Social Finance Week), internal awareness-raising, customer dialogue. communication on SRI, customer chats, etc. Crédit Agricole Indosuez Wealth Group put together an action plan Voting campaign at General primarily designed to promote SRI within wealth management. It is Meetings (GMs) 2018 2017 2016 based on the following principles: Number of GMs concerned 2,960 2,540 2,623 nn roll-out of SRI ratings of all customer portfolios to all entities; Number of resolutions considered 35,285 32,443 32,771 nn raising the awareness of salespeople/customers regarding this portfolio SRI rating; 4.1.2. Reinforcing the inclusion of the ESG criteria nn the creation of a “Carbon Impact” rating; in investment decisions nn thematic fund selection (low carbon, energy transition, etc.); nn the development of a green bonds securities offering. As a leading institutional investor and a signatory to the PRI (Principles for Responsible Investment), the Crédit Agricole Assurances group In 2018, CACEIS launched products to its investor clients that measures is mindful of its responsibilities towards the sectors and issuers in the ESG footprint of their securities portfolios. 4.2. ASSESSING AND MANAGING ESG RISKS IN FINANCING Negative environmental and/or social impacts related to financing and investments are taken into account using three pillars: application DPEF of the Equator Principles, CSR sector policies, and an assessment of the environmental and social aspects of operations. Crédit Agricole Priority CIB has, moreover, developed a system for assessing and managing environmental and social risks related to transactions and customers, 3 taking into account the main sustainable development challenges of fighting climate change (see 3.2.2), preserving biodiversity, etc. (cf. 4.4.2) and respect for human rights (4.2.4). 4.2.1. The Equator Principles In 2018, 18 project finance contracts were signed and classified in categories A, B and C(1). There were 406 projects in the portfolio at The Equator Principles were developed in response to limitations and 31 December 2018. The classification of projects breaks down as triggers related to project financing, as defined by the Basel Committee follows: on Banking Supervision. Even if they cannot always be applied as is to nn 37 projects were classified as A, of which 6 in 2018; other forms of financing, they nevertheless constitute a methodological framework for assessing and preventing the social and environmental nn 313 were classified as B, of which 12 in 2018; impacts of financing once it is linked to building a specific industrial nn 56 were classified as C, of which none in 2018. asset, such as a plant or transport infrastructure. (1) The categories of the International Finance Corporation (IFC) consist of three levels: Category A: Projects with potential significant adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts that are diverse, irreversible or unprecedented; Category B: Projects with potential limited adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts that are few in number, generally site-specific, largely reversible and readily addressed through mitigation measures; Category C: Projects with minimal or no adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 67 2 Social, environmental and societal contribution 4. Encourage taking into account ESG factors 4.2.2. CSR sector policies 4.2.4. Criteria of favouring human rights The CSR sector policies published by the Group set out the social and in the financing and investment activities environmental criteria included in its financing and investment policies. The consideration of human rights in financing and investment DPEF These criteria mainly reflect the civic issues that seem most relevant activities dates back to early 2000, following commitments for a bank, and more particularly for Corporate and investment banking, entered into with the Global Compact. It has since been and notably regarding respecting human rights, combating climate structurally implemented within Crédit Agricole CIB and change and conserving biodiversity. The goal of CSR sector policies Amundi. CSR sector policies refer in particular to the fundamental is thus to set out the non-financing principles and rules governing conventions of the ILO (International Labour Organisation) and the financing and investments in the sectors in question. performance standards of the IFC (International Finance Corporation). The sectors in question are: arms, coal power plants, oil and gas, In 2016, Crédit Agricole CIB mapped the sectors and regions that hydro-power, nuclear, shale gas, mining and metals, aerospace/ are most exposed to exposed to the risks of human rights violations in maritime/automotive transport, transport infrastructure, property, their own activities and supply chain. Crédit Agricole CIB has integrated forests and palm oil. this new analysis criterion into its CSR scoring system (see 3.2.1 A). In 2018, continuing the work the initiated in 2017, Crédit Agricole 4.2.3. Sensitivity analysis CIB actively participated in the Equator Principles review process, Crédit Agricole CIB has assessed the environmental and social aspects and recommendations were presented to the General Meeting of the of transactions since 2009. It reflects either the existence of doubts Equator Principles Association in October 2018. regarding the management of environmental or social impact that The commitment of Amundi to respect for human rights is a global are considered critical, or the existence of controversy regarding the one, as a promoter of responsible management. Respect for human transaction or the customer. rights is part of the rating criteria for issuers and, together with the environment, forms the basis of Amundi’s exclusion policy (see 4.1.1). Indeed, respecting human rights is taken into account in the ESG rating through the “Local communities and human rights” criterion. When a company violates human rights in a serious and repeated manner, without taking effective remedial measures, and after dialogue with the company, Amundi can excluded it from its investment universe, as it would conflict with the 10 principles of the Global Compact. 4.3. PROMOTING MULTI-EFFICIENT AGRICULTURE DPEF As the banker of 9 out of 10 farmers, Crédit Agricole of course farmers and processors with technical, marketing or social innovations. Priority supports agricultural changes with a global offering that This competition, launched 10 years ago, reviewed more than 400 8 includes both financing offers and insurance products. projects during this period, demonstrates a passion and a desire to The Group is constantly expanding its offerings to best meet innovate. The awards were presented at the Salon de l'agriculture in the needs of farmers. In that light, Crédit Agricole S.A. launched, at February 2019. the end of 2018, the Transitions Offer, in order to support the energy 10 years of competitions resulted in a book titled “Innovation at the transition. This offering includes a package on bio agriculture that was heart of organic farming”. This book allows us to discover the diversity already developed by the Regional Banks of the Southern Rhône Alpes of innovations and the will of a large number of farmers, beyond and Normandie and by Crédit Agricole Italia. This package includes the technical innovations, to draw a renewed link to nature and living financing of the installation, insurance to cover weather hazards, loan things. offers to support communication needs and, finally, the provision for a In 2018, Crédit Agricole Assurances marks its commitment to support very small business. the transition from agriculture to increasingly sustainable practices. An advocate of a multi-efficient agriculture sector, both economically, A three-year agreement with AgroParisTech has been signed to become socially and in terms of the environment, the Group assists farmers a partner in the Grignon Energie Positive (GE+) scheme. Grignon diversify their income by investing in renewable energy generation: Energie Positive is a technical and research programme that aims wood biomass and solar, or even methanation. Crédit Agricole is the to improve the triple performance of agriculture: economics, energy bank for all forms of agriculture and also finances the sustainable and environment. Crédit Agricole Assurances brings its expertise in agriculture projects of its customers on a daily basis. Several Group risk management to this programme and will focus on assessing and entities in France and abroad have created organic offerings. quantifying new risks to farmers from changes in agricultural practices. Moreover, in the fall of 2018 Crédit Agricole, in collaboration with This approach, which had never been used before, will allow Crédit Agence Bio, extended a new edition of the “Les trophées Bios” Agricole Assurances to accurately identify needs and propose risk competition. The purpose of this competition is to highlight that organic management tools adapted to these new agricultural practices. Crédit farming is a source of innovation and promise. The 2018/2019 jury, Agricole Assurances also allows farmers to take measures to adapt to chaired by the Director of the Nicolas Hulot Foundation, rewards climate change (see 2.1.4 B). 68 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Social, environmental and societal contribution 4. Encourage taking into account ESG factors 4.4. PROTECTING RESOURCES 4.4.1. Limiting the impact of resource consumption A. Paper Since 2013, Crédit Agricole S.A. and its subsidiaries have published a series of indicators to measure and monitor paper consumption. 2018 2017 Total consumption (in tonnes) 15,581 16,917 Responsible paper use (as a %) 85 91 Scope covered: 89% Full-time equivalent employees (FTEs). 2 Breakdown of paper consumption (as a %) 23% Office paper 2% Corporate communication 46% Magazines (including internal communication) 16% Marketing (including customer marketing) 13% Editorial paper (including account statements) B. Waste The waste categories covered in the reporting include paper and cardboard, electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE and non-IT waste), ordinary industrial waste (OIW excluding paper and cardboard). Alongside this, a number of recycling initiatives for various types of waste and certain products are implemented within the Group’s entities 55% of the Group’s waste collected in 2018 was recovered. 2018 2017 WEEE Waste electric and electronic equipment 87 tonnes 69 tonnes Paper/cardboard 2,142 tonnes 2,389 tonnes OIW Ordinary industrial waste 2,286 tonnes 2,277 tonnes Scope covered: 79% FTEs. For computer equipment, a partner from the sheltered and disabilityand recycling of used bank cards at the branches” component enjoyed friendly sector, ATF Gaia, has been collecting electric and electronic uninterrupted successes every year. In 2018, over 3 million cards, waste for some Group entities since 2014. It erases hard drive content equivalent to 16.5 tonnes, have been collected. Since 2014, 14 million using a software application approved by the Group’s Security division bank cards, weighing approximately 74.5 tonnes, have been recovered. and assesses the operating status of equipment that is subsequently On the other hand, the “green production” component, experimenting sent for sorting. Equipment in working order is reused by the partner with producing bank cards made of vegetable material (PLA), did not for charity purposes, while equipment that is no longer serviceable is reach the expected results. Viewing from a three-year perspective, destroyed in an environmentally-friendly manner. the difficulties that we faced, mainly card ageing issues, resulted in the decision to stop production in October 2017. However, research C. Eco products: payment instruments is still ongoing. Prospecting is currently being carried out, in order to Along with cheques, bank cards remain one of the few banking services get an idea of payment instruments of the future that integrate the provided by a physical instrument. Its ecological footprint linked to its sustainability dimensions of CSR. A pilot should be launched in 2019. plastic and metal components is therefore very real throughout its life Moreover, since January 2016, all new chequebooks proposed by cycle. In order to reduce this impact and in a circular economy, the Crédit the Regional Banks have been printed on PEFC certified paper. This Agricole Group, in collaboration with Crédit Agricole Payment Services, certification guarantees sustainable management of forests for paper started in 2013 with gradually using the “Environmental Card” service production, i.e. ensuring that forests are managed according to the at 35 metropolitan Regional Banks (except Corsica). The “Collection highest environmental and social standards. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 69 2 Social, environmental and societal contribution 4. Encourage taking into account ESG factors 4.4.2. Protecting biodiversity B. Combating deforestation A. Integrating biodiversity within the business units For several years the Group has also been involved in reforestation activities. It supports a programme in France for the reforestation of Financed activities could have an impact on biodiversity. For that forest plots in anticipation of the future impacts of climate change. reason, Crédit Agricole CIB has introduced analysis and exclusion In 2018, CACEIS, a service subsidiary that among other events manages criteria based on biodiversity protection into its CSR sector policies. the Crédit Agricole S.A. General Meeting of Shareholders, renewed its Special attention is given to areas deemed important on the basis of commitment to electronic registration processes. Each shareholder this criterion. According to these policies, the exclusion criteria include who opts to receive an e-notice helps promote reforestation in France significant negative impacts on the most vulnerable protected areas, (one new electronic registration = one tree planted). 2,500 trees were such as protected sites or wetlands of international importance covered planted in 2018. by the Ramsar Convention. In 2016, Crédit Agricole CIB mapped the sectors and regions that are most exposed to water access and water In 2018, Crédit Agricole Assurances entered into a partnership with pollution issues. Since 2018, customers operating in these sectors and the Plantons pour l’Avenir endowment fund, which aims to accelerate areas have been subject to a specific analysis of their usage policy. The reforestation in France by providing the necessary funding for planting CERES Committee may arbitrate in case insufficient commitments on projects (in the form of an advance repayable at 0 over 30 years), the part of the analysed clients are shown. supported by owners committed to the sustainable management of their forests. This partnership for that reason aims at planting a number Crédit Agricole Immobilier signed the Biodiversity Charter at MIPIM of trees on French territory each year that is equivalent to the total in March 2018, calling for action to promote biodiversity. It has already amount of CO2 emissions of Crédit Agricole Assurances (according to demonstrated its commitment by deploying an urban agriculture a metric established by the FCBA, i.e. 10,000 trees for 1,400 tonnes demonstrator (see 3.2.3 B). equivalent in emitted CO2). In addition, by joining act4nature, launched on 10 July 2018 by the In 2018 a framework agreement was signed between Crédit Agricole Goodplanet Foundation, Amundi and other companies made collective S.A. and the Museum National d’Histoire Naturelle (MNHN) to finance and individual commitments to integrate biodiversity into their global a 3-year research program on biodiversity in agricultural environments development strategies and contribute to the objectives set by the and the preservation of natural sites in the MNHN. This agreement international community on this subject. provides for helping to preserve the MNHN’s natural sites throughout the country. This agreement provides for the contribution by Crédit Agricole S.A. to sites maintained by the Regional Banks and Fondation CA Pays de France. 4.5. OTHER DISCLOSURES Given the nature of its activity, the Group has not identified therefore do not form part of our material challenges. However, DPEF any material direct impact and has not put in place specific one-off actions regarding employees’ food may be organised by the action in respect of the following themes: company restaurant and the HR Department; nn circular economy: this issue is not relevant with regard to the Group’s nn prevention of food waste: this information relates to the Group’s catering provider, for which it is a priority. A commitment to the fight direct activities. Nevertheless, as it is part of certain customers’ against food waste is one of several criteria we apply in selecting business models, this challenge may be taken into account in the our suppliers. This data is monitored with our suppliers, in the same relationship with the latter. way as other CSR criteria. The catering supplier is encouraged to On the other hand, the Group, through its Amundi investment activities, publish such information in its own CSR report; takes into account animal welfare through the ESG analysis of its nn food insecurity and responsible, fairly traded and sustainable food: portfolios, in particular in the pharmaceutical, luxury and agri-food these themes are separate from the Group’s direct activities and sectors. 70 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Social, environmental and societal contribution 5. Women and men to drive transformation 5. WOMEN AND MEN TO DRIVE TRANSFORMATION Introduction and the Group’s transformation. The support of the managerial Our Human Resources strategy aims to promote and transformation in a constantly changing environment is a component of all our actions and projects. In 2018, several actions were carried DPEF recognise teamwork within our Group, characterised by a decentralised, entrepreneurial and people-oriented culture. out to amplify the achievements of 2017, based on our 100% human and 100% digital strategy, on the following key themes: employee Our ambition is to increase the accountability of all and the engagement, the development of employability in a context of profound power of teamwork to deliver an excellent customer service. We want change, the diversity of our teams, the quality of life at work and social to be united and together, whatever our businesses within the Group, with a coherent and clear human footprint running both internally and dialogue. We steer three key performance indicators, which at end-2018 showed 2 externally, while affirming our differentiating culture in order to attract, engage and retain talent. the following trends: We have a strong commitment to our employees as a responsible Digital Gender equality employer in: Engagement index (number of index (number nn guarenteeing fairness and promoting diversity in pursuit of inclusion; Index (participaemployees having of women in the nn improving the quality of life at work and ensuring employee health tion rate in ERI obtained their Management and safety; Survey) “Digitall” visa) bodies) nn maintaining active dialogue with employee representatives. 2018 70% 20,000 21.4% In order to achieve our ambitions, the human resources teams share 2017 64% 13,346 20.7% common values and principles: nn a variety of career paths with opportunities for advancement fostering 1. Organisation employee accountability, with a view to sustainable employability; This strategy is implemented by all Group Human Resources teams: nn an innovative and fulfilling working environment and practices, nn the Group Human Resources department (GHR) promotes the topics which drive performance; related to the Group’s MTP and handles governance issues such as nn a culture of innovation within a large group; the management of executives, compensation policies and social nn a responsible, high-performance company which fosters customer, policies which include promoting diversity and equal opportunities; regional and economic development in France and abroad. nn the Human Resources departments in each entity participate in Since 2016, the Group Human Resources department (GHR) supports achieving the objectives laid down as part of the MTP and define the deployment of the Group’s Medium-Term Plan (MTP) “Strategic their own HR policies to meet the specific challenges of their Ambition 2020” and its two fundamental axes: the Customer Project business. 2. The Crédit Agricole S.A. group teams at end-2018 At end-2018, Crédit Agricole S.A. Group employed 73,346 full-time equivalents employees (FTE) and was present in 46 countries (see 5.6. “Social indicators”). EASTERN EUROPE 8,883 FTE WESTERN 12.1% EUROPE MIDDLE-EAST 55,476 FTE 96 FTE 75.6% 0.1 % AMERICAS 1,357 FTE 1.9% AFRICA 5,182 FTE 7.1% ASIA-PACIFIC 2,352 FTE 3.2% The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 71 2 Social, environmental and societal contribution 5. Women and men to drive transformation Breakdown of headcount by business line 2018 2017 Headcount Headcount (FTE) % (FTE) % Retail banking in France 17,147 23.4 17,585 23.9 International retail banking 21,940 29.9 22,306 30.3 Asset gathering 10,601 14.5 10,622 14.4 Specialised financial services 8,598 11.7 8,587 11.6 Large Customer division 11,605 15.8 10,917 14.8 Corporate Centre 3,455 4.7 3,690 5.0 Crédit Agricole S.A. 73,346 100.0 73,707 100.0 o/w France 36,000 49.1 36,210 49.1 o/w International 37,346 50.9 37,497 50.9 Scope covered 100% 100% 5.1. LISTENING TO OUR EMPLOYEES AND ENCOURAGING THEIR ENGAGEMENT DPEF 5.1.1. Engagement and With the aim of transparency for all employees, the analysis of the Priority results was presented to the management bodies of the Group and 5 Recommendation Index entities, as well as to the staff representative bodies. This process also In a context of considerable change, employee commitment is more than gave the Group the opportunity to discuss and involve the different ever an essential driver for Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s performance. stakeholders in drawing up action plans. These projects can be either Launched for the first time in 2016, an annual anonymous internal transversal to the Group, or specific to the entities, in line with their survey was rolled-out simultaneously in the Group’s various entities specific challenges or competitive environments. in France and abroad. The launch of this survey of the engagement of all employees for the 5.1.2. Employees: active players in the Group's third consecutive year is a key measure of our Medium-Term Plan. transformations By listening attentively to employees, we aim to strengthen our Employee engagement is also reflected in their willingness to move the ability to transform ourselves and adopt an approach of continuous company forward positively by sharing their ideas and implementing improvement and progress at both Group and entity levels. them. The Group has therefore developed approaches allowing the This year, the scope included 21 Crédit Agricole S.A. entities in France involvement and participation of its employees, helping them to grow and abroad, (34 entities of the Regional Banks also participated in the their ideas and promoting internal and external innovation. survey). This includes 73,400 employees of the Crédit Agricole S.A. group worldwide and 122,230 employees counting the Regional Banks, Crédit Agricole CIB that were invited to participate in the survey and give their opinion. Crédit Agricole CIB has set up a system dedicated to promoting The survey was conducted 100% online by an external firm from innovation among employees in order to strengthen innovation in 18 September to 9 October 2018 and was available in 14 languages. the internal culture. This system includes a transversal structure and governance, with a central team and innovation relays, as well as a A strong mobilization of the Crédit Agricole S.A. entities made it process allowing each employee to submit an idea and to carry it out possible to achieve a participation rate of 70%, up 11 points from and deploy it using new working methods. 2016 and 6 points from 2017. Those employees whose ideas are selected are supported by the The Engagement and Recommendation Index is measured on the basis Crédit Agricole CIB Idea Factory, which offers “start-up” approach at of 21 closed questions, which are identical for the entire Crédit Agricole each stage of the innovation life cycle. In 2018, the conceptualisation Group. In addition to the closed questions, for the most part on topics campaign spawned 553 posted by 422 contributors. such as pride in belonging, understanding of the strategy, work-life balance, etc. there was one open question: “If you could improve CA Consumer Finance anything within your company, what would it be? How would you go CA Consumer Finance has set up an organisation that promotes about it? which is used to collect some qualitative elements. In 2018, internal and external innovation, with different types of mechanisms: over 23,000 free-text comments were submitted by employees. nn internal contests where all employees can propose new ideas; In summary, the results highlight strengths, which have been improving nn partnerships; over the past three years, on which to build: nn contests with the start-ups; nn the pride of belonging to the Crédit Agricole group; nn innovative ecosystems. nn increased understanding and support for the strategic challenges of the Group; nn optimism about the future of the Crédit Agricole group. Synergies between the various activities of the Group, the organisation of work, and career development are identified as areas of progress. 72 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Social, environmental and societal contribution 5. Women and men to drive transformation The objectives of this organisation are to anticipate new digital trends, 5.1.3. Employees committed to social initiatives accelerate new digital experiences for customers, identify disruptive ideas in collaboration with market start-ups, and promote new ways Many Crédit Agricole S.A. Group employees volunteer their time to of working to develop employee skills. support solidarity projects. The Group and its subsidiaries create initiatives to support and enhance their actions and respond to their To communicate, explain and anchor the digital culture within CA willingness to get involved (see 2.2.5. “Getting employees involved Consumer Finance, Digital Cafés are being established on a crossto support economic, social and cultural initiatives”). mentoring principle: 90 internal volunteer digital coaches share the digital innovations and their impacts with other employees through actual examples. 5.2. STEPPING UP OUR EMPLOYEES’ SKILL DEVELOPMENT IN A CONTEXT 2 OF PROFOUND CHANGE DPEF 5.2.1.  Developing employee skills The Connect Programme Priority and adapting HR programmes The Connect program aims to facilitate and develop the driving forces 5 to the challenges of transformation of the IT business line, which has 8,000 employees throughout the Group including the Regional Banks. It consists of three large areas: With a permanent aim of accelerate the development of the skills of nn Responding to the challenges of the IT transformation and digital employees and building on the IFCAM, the Group’s University, training technology by leveraging the skills of women and men in the has always been a key issue for developing skills, either by regularly business line; broadening the training offer, or through the will to make this offer ever nn offering employees stimulating career paths through innovative more accessible. training and cross-functional systems that promote mobility and recognition; Training in 2018 nn making the IT business line of the Group a recognised and attractive In 2018, 72,196 Crédit Agricole S.A. Group employees benefited area of excellence. from at least one training session, and 2,021,710 training hours As a result of this work, the PTI jobs and skills framework has been were provided (see 5.6 Social Indicators). The Group maintained its finalised and will serve as the basis for many other projects aimed at training efforts on core business skills, regulatory requirements as developing mobility, employability and fostering career development. well as the development of cross-functional skills such as languages, management or personal development. Raising awareness about digital technologies The 2018 strategic guidelines specifically covered support for the Customer Project and the increased regulatory requirements and Technological developments are transforming our business lines and support for the transformation of the Group and its business lines. The customer relations. The development of our employees’ digital skills challenge is also to encourage the acquisition of skills and professional is, therefore, a priority. The Group is continuing its efforts to meet this development for everybody, in particular through the digitisation of challenge. A digital acculturation platform, called Digitall, was made training in order to democratise learning and the support of employees available to Crédit Agricole S.A. Group employees in France and abroad. in their career development and mobility. Launched in June 2017, Digitall is a unique space with scalable and self-service accessible content, allowing employees to be trained in Supporting transformations the new uses and tools driven by the digital revolution (start-ups, digital practices, cyber-security, digital environment, etc.). At The challenges of transformation (customer relations, digitisation, new end-December 2018, almost 40,000 employees had connected to the work structures, change management, internationalisation, etc.) are Digitall platform and 20,000 had validated their digital knowledge by everywhere and accelerating. Crédit Agricole S.A. Group pays particular obtaining the Digitall Visa. attention to supporting employees and managers in these transition phases. CA Ukraine Two of the Group's business lines, IT and Purchasing, offer employees The Digital Community of CA Ukraine organised a Digital Bootcamp the tools and systems to support them in the transformation of their for all its employees. businesses and give them better visibility of their career development prospects. The development of certification training courses Career development paths within the Group Purchasing business The implementation of certification training in order to meet the line challenges of acquiring critical skills to support the transformation For the purpose of enhancing the Purchasing function careers within of the Group and its businesses, and to ensure the development of the Group and making it more attractive, a common approach based on the skills of our employees throughout their careers is a key lever in the construction of career development paths has been implemented. ensuring that the skills required for its development are developed. In that context, a dedicated training programme to strengthen Crédit Agricole S.A. Purchasing skills and a system of training leading to diplomas are To develop internal mobility and meet the challenges of recruiting offered to employees. Quantitative Banking Analysts, Crédit Agricole S.A. and ENSAE co-established a tailor-made certification programme attended by 11 employees. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 73 2 Social, environmental and societal contribution 5. Women and men to drive transformation The development of cross-functional DPEF 5.2.2.  Promoting employee and/or managerial skills Priority mobility Employee aptitudes (cognitive, social, situational skills, etc.) grow 10 more essential as technical skills become obsolete faster and faster; Mobility in 2018 they are also one of the key success factors in developing employee employability. The increase in the number of training courses relating In 2018, internal mobility within the Group resulted in 11,482 transfers to these cross-functional and managerial skills continued in 2018. worldwide and 3,187 promotions in France alone (see 5.6 Social Indicators). In addition, over 60% of permanent contract positions were CA Payments & Services filled internally. Transform'action is a “Lean Management” programme at CAPS, and is For many years, Crédit Agricole S.A. Group has developed a proactive currently being implemented throughout the Company. The objective internal mobility policy by favouring internal development prospects is to achieve a change in culture in three dimensions: customer and by implementing the right tools. focus, managerial transformation and operational efficiency. Nearly The Group mobility policy is based on structured support and 50 managers have already been trained. communication tools, steering bodies bringing together HR actors, as well as support systems offered to all employees. In 2018, the CA Bank Polska existing programmes have been strengthened and experiments have Le MOVE & Co Program of Crédit Agricole Bank Polska, a project been launched and based on the opportunities offered by digital launched in June 2018, is designed for local managers and combines technologies. In addition, emphasis was put on cross-functionality the elements of sharing best practices, training, coaching and and the development of intra-entity mobility in support of the Group's mentoring through an online platform. 300 managers participated in performance, with a focus on business lines (IT, Purchasing, HR, etc.). the launch event in June 2018. Mobility devices Trends in training (digitisation, new learning methods, etc.) MyJobs The Group is committed to an ambitious strategy to rethink its training MyJobs is the tool shared by the subsidiaries of the Crédit Agricole S.A. actions in the digital age: Shorter training periods are offered to group. It is used by over 500 HR specialists for internal and external encourage experimentation and practical application, and various recruitment and by Group employees in their search for job mobility training methods: workshops, conferences, virtual classes, video opportunities. At 31 December 2018, close to 55,000 MyJobs accounts courses, MOOC, etc. Employees are also able to train at times that had been created by employees in France and abroad. Since MyJobs suit them and according to their needs via freely accessible content. was launched at the end of 2014, more than 20,270 permanent LCL positions have been posted and over 63,000 internal applications have been received. In 2018, 5,156 new permanent positions were A new innovative educational method for Retail Network employees published on the internal job board, i.e. 19% more than in the year taking up their functions was launched by LCL in March 2018: the before. training log. It is a personalised online space that allows employees to be supported in their training needs through increasing skill levels and Mobili’jobs milestone events. At end-2018, there were 1,100 training logs. Mobili'Jobs have been held twice a year on the Group's campuses Crédit Agricole CIB since 2015. These events, which combine business or professional development conferences, LinkedIn workshops, individual and group In May 2018, employees of Crédit Agricole CIB in France were offered HR workshops, enable employees to interact with managers and the opportunity to rediscover its digital training offer, given through HR actors from Group entities in order to discover opportunities and partnerships with major online – Fit For Banking, Crossknowledge and professions. They are met in“speed interviews to apply directly for Vodeclic, during a Learning Week. Nearly 1,000 employees came to offers published on the Group’s internal job board or to find out about meet the Training teams and took part in fun activities around the possible career paths, and receive advice on how to refine their career portal: quizzes, a seven-minute digital stopover and personalized plans. advice. Following its success, this event was deployed in other locations, notably in Hong Kong in July and London in October. 12 entities of the Crédit Agricole S.A. group and 14 Regional banks and affiliated entities participated in the two events in March and CA Italia October 2018. 350 HR contributors and managers were mobilised Project Alisei 2020, launched in 2017, in which 95% of employees to receive more than 800 employees, 183 of whom had already have participated, has as its objective to transform the career participated in preparatory workshops a week earlier. management philosophy by putting employees at the heart of their own professional development. In this context, using the key skills Mobili’Meetings framework and a digital self-assessment tool, areas for improvement Mobili'Meetings are monthly interactive and collective conferences, have been identified and development plans based on the Digital in face-to-face or virtual format, aimed at raising awareness of the Academy platform have been proposed to employees. Group, its entities and businesses, as well as the Group's mobility rules and preparatory measures. In 2018, 170 Group employees (including CACEIS Regional bank employees) took part in these meetings to boost their CACEIS has developed Mobile Learning in 2018, in order to allow career plans and to test and improve their knowledge of the Group; employees to be trained using all types of digital media (smartphone, tablet, PC). The first Mobile Learning project focused on Think Client training, which will be extended to other topics in 2019. In addition, a soft skills development platform called “My Training Lab” was developed in 2018. 74 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Social, environmental and societal contribution 5. Women and men to drive transformation Crédit Agricole S.A. nn a mobility specialist, who increased its support activities in 2018, in Crédit Agricole S.A. has set up a mobility unit, due to the sharp particular through organising workshops to prepare for interviews, increase in the number of employees supported and mobility in 2018. write CVs and suggest specific dedicated; 90 employees have been supported by the Mobility Unit since its launch nn regular announcements of positions to be filled via: in September 2017, of which 72 in 2018. Mobility workshops were also –– jobs à la Une: a push mail sent to all employees regarding held on the themes of “building your career plan”, “writing a CV” and positions to be filled internally within CAL&F, to share information “preparing for a recruitment interview” (237 participants in 2018). about the positions and to build momentum, Crédit Agricole CIB –– face-to-face Front page jobs: specific action proposed to present and promote positions within a Department; In October, in order to develop the culture of mobility, Crédit Agricole CIB an interactive career path map, updated daily with about twenty 2 nn offered a Mobility Week to its employees in France. The event was structured around a conference and workshops on self-awareness new mobility areas made available on the intranet. This tool can be and exchanges on stands with HR actors and business operational used by anyone already working with CAL&F, to discover, with one staff. Crédit Agricole CIB used the Mobility Week to present its single click, the possibilities for career growth or transitions within mobility support systems to more than 500 employees, who received CAL&F and the Group. personalised advice on their career plans and the formalisation of CACEIS their CVs. CACEIS launched the “Job Suite” Project in France in 2018, which In order to help employees build their career plans, Crédit Agricole will be expanded internationally in 2019. It aims to overhaul job CIB also started a digital career path in November 2018, created in reference systems in order to highlight know-how and bridges within partnership with the start-up Jobmaker. This seven-step process the business lines. includes work to be produced, video tips and self-corrections. Its The MOOV “Create the Movement” activities, which encourage employees flexible format allows employees to advance at their own pace in to explore their opportunities (missions, projects, diploma courses, thinking about and building of their professional projects. Upon collective EAV or mobility), continued in 2018. On 27 March 2018, during completion of this path, employees have the option to share a summary the annual CACEIS business forum (Moov days) held in France and of their thoughts with their HR managers in a dedicated interview. Luxembourg, a video chat on digital counted 232 participants. Seminars Crédit Agricole Leasing & Factoring on digital marketing and artificial intelligence completed the system. CAL&F provides support for its employees in an ecosystem that combines humans and digital devices. Throughout 2018, CAL&F proposed actions to promote mobility: nn Organisation of an HR “RH Days” that offered CAL&F employees to attend the HR department meeting and to participate in “Mobili’jobs by CAL&F”; 5.3. ATTRACTING TALENT, DEVELOPING OUR EMPLOYEES AND PREPARING FOR THE FUTURE 5.3.1. Attracting and integrating young talent The Group's entities continued to be present alongside students from schools and universities through numerous events: mainly at school Ranked fourth largest employer in France in 2018 according to a forums and events in their respective offices. Many employees were Figaro Économie survey conducted in partnership with Cadremploi, able to share their experience of banking and support functions in the Crédit Agricole Group, including the Regional Banks, is a major France and abroad. player in France. In 2018 LCL launched a Messenger chatbot, which is a great hit with Crédit Agricole S.A. and its subsidiaries have recruited 2,624 permanent potential candidates: 58% of responses were related to the HR themes employees in France and 5,834 worldwide in 2018. See 5.6 Social “Your career” and “View our vacancies”. Indicators. The entity also held a recruitment event in November at the 19 LCL: The Crédit Agricole S.A. Group conducts numerous actions to attract “Come without CV”. Candidates had 10 minutes to convince recruiters. talent, including recruiting young graduates. Nearly 250 candidates came to the recruitment day. The objective In 2018, on average in France, 1,734 people on work-study contracts was to recruit profiles from a variety of backgrounds, whose skills and 484 interns are included in the Group’s monthly headcount and backgrounds differ from the ones that are naturally attracted to (see 5.6 Social Indicators). the bank. 40% have been selected to continue with the recruitment process. Recruitment methods that evolve to meet candidates' CACEIS organised an integration morning event in November for more expectations than fifty trainees and people on work-study contracts, to get to know The Group has spoken to as many people as possible by intensively each other and start building a network internally and to familiarise pre-empting social media on a network of entities, Group, regional, themselves with CACEIS's business lines as well as to identify HR national and international level. contacts. In particular, in March 2018 the Group won an award from Potential A day devoted to people on work-study contracts at the end of their Park, awarded fifth place (out of the 100 largest companies in France) contracts was also organised: “Campus Day” (44 participants). The for its presence on social networks. objective was to support people on work-study contracts in their career development and to make them aware of opportunities within the Group. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 75 2 Social, environmental and societal contribution 5. Women and men to drive transformation During the 2018 work-study campaign, Crédit Agricole Assurances The “MyWay” programme broadcast a monthly video on a theme related to work-study. The The MyWay programme is designed to assess and develop the Group’s videos were performed by the people on work-study contracts and young talents. It is based on an online self-assessment system, an trainers of the entity. The series consisted of five episodes. interview that brings together managers and HR and the setting up of a personal development plan. More than 450 employees have already The digitisation of the employer brand benefited from this scheme; Through the LinkedIn, Facebook, Twitter and Instagram social networks Deployment of the “Talent Mobility” tool the Group organised its communication around four themes, identified as levers of attractiveness for our targets. Referring to our employer Deployment of the Talent Mobility tool across all regions, in signature “everything starts here”, the selected themes are named cooperation with Fédération nationale du Crédit Agricole. It brings as follows: together the HR departments of the Regional Banks and subsidiaries of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group in the given labour market segment to nn “We’re hiring here”, to promote career opportunities within the encourage inter-entity mobility. This year, 12 Committees took place in Group in France and abroad; all regions, allowing talents to gain regional visibility. nn “Discover us here”, to share the values, commitments and news of the entities and the Group; Review of key resource collaborators nn “Our employees take the floor”, to discuss career paths and Key resource reviews are conducted with the Group’s transversal expertise of our employees; functions to promote mobility within the Group and to share specific nn “Let’s meet”, to allow our candidates to meet entities through events skill needs in order to devise appropriate career trajectories. such as forums and job dating and so on. CA Consumer Finance Live chats were held in 2018, thanks to the ambassador platform CA Consumer Finance structures the support of its potential. As hosted on the Group's career site. Potential candidates were able to part of the “Young people with potential” trajectory, CA Consumer interact for one hour with Group employees and HR during the workFinance offers two programmes: “Stimulate your future” for start-ups study recruitment campaign and the General Inspection. (29 participants in 2018) and “Talent Boosting” for young managers (16 participants in 2018). Inter and intra-entity integration systems Specific attention is paid to integration to best support new employees. The systematisation of Career Committees In this context, each entity has implemented its own integration plan. The systematisation of Career Committees, with feedback at Group Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance held “Escape Games” for the level, has made it possible to identify the next generation, with a integration of employees on work-study and permanent employees. particular focus on young persons, foreigners and women. Amundi, CACEIS and the Crédit Agricole Group (including the Regional Banks) received the Happy index Trainees 2018-2019 label (ranking of Targeted development policies the best companies for internships). To meet its talent and career development challenges, the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group has also set up specific programs for its key 5.3.2. Supporting talent development and careers resources (talent and executives). Historically, Crédit Agricole S.A. Group has developed an approach to Move Forward identify and develop its talents and managers based on managerial guidelines and a unique selection procedure shared throughout the The Move Forward programme for changing “key resources” has Group that gives each person the same chances of achieving their been in place since 2014 and has been taken by 108 employees ambitions and progressing. (of which 69% women). Its main objective is to reinforce “self leadership”, an acceleration tool for an ambitious professional career Following discussions initiated in 2017 and 2018 to adapt our system path. This programme is geared towards women and men within the to the challenges of tomorrow while taking into account our values, Crédit Agricole Group who are willing to place gender diversity at the culture and specificities, new models for the detection, development heart of this system. and selection of talent and executives are being put in place. There are many objectives: Leading Performance nn adapt to the profound changes in the environment; Since 2013, the Leading Performance programme has been attended nn provide the means to achieve the Group's Strategic Ambition; by 309 employees from 22 countries (of which 32% women). Its objective is to develop the key skills needed to improve the Group's nn respond to demographic changes; performance on the short, medium and long term and to facilitate the nn contribute to strengthening synergies within the Crédit Agricole organisational implementation of transformations. Group. In addition to these objectives, two priority challenges have also been Crédit Agricole CIB established: continue to constitute pools with the aim of providing In 2018, a new leadership development programme, the Global appropriate people for the Group’s succession plans and occupations, Development Programme, was rolled out “Future Leaders” of Crédit and develop gender equality in managerial functions. Agricole CIB. Around 100 employees from 15 countries gathered in Paris for two days of leadership training with internationally renowned The constitution of pools speakers. Several mechanisms currently contribute to the identification and development of talent. 76 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Social, environmental and societal contribution 5. Women and men to drive transformation CACEIS Various complementary initiatives are being orchestrated to support The “YoungTalents@CACEIS” was redesigned in 2018. For a period of this ambition: two years, it welcomes promotions of about twenty young employees nn Training in the role of director to provide the Group with a pool from different countries. of men and women ready to integrate one of the Boards of Directors of Group entities or external Boards of Directors. The Group has Development of gender equality in the management teams chosen the Corporate Director Certificate delivered by IFA/Sciences To encourage the ambition of talented women and accelerate Po to develop these skills. In 2018, 13 persons (10 women / 3 men) DPEF their progress towards the decision-making bodies, where took part. Priority 6 they are still insufficiently represented, an action plan was nn Mentoring programme by Executives of the Executive structured in 2017 and rolled out in 2018 at all levels of the Committee to prepare talented and motivated women for positions Crédit Agricole S.A. Group. In particular, a specific review of management teams and succession plans was initiated in September with wider responsibilities and enrich the Group’s talent pools. The first cohort of the programme completed it in September 2018. The second 2 2018 with a focus on identifying female talents. cohort of the programme started it in October 2018. nn The “Young Female Talent” training. Launched in 2017 and Two priority objectives are pursued: deployed in 2018, is a programme reserved for 80 very young nn identify women with potential at all levels of the company and in female talented employees to enable them to acquire the corporate all occupations; codes and prepare themselves to find the keys to their career nn support them in their career development. development. 5.4. BUILDING ON OUR DIVERSITY FOR A STRONGER WORKPLACE COMMUNITY DPEF Priority 6 5.4.1. Promoting diversity a four-week period supervised and directed by Apels on skills that are essential in the professional world, followed by an 18-month internship The principles of non-discrimination, diversity of career paths or age that allows young people to attend training created by LCL alternating diversity are subjects to which the Group is committed and intends to the theory and practice of a banking profession (customer adviser, apply in order to guarantee equal treatment of employees and future after-sales service representative). More than 100 young persons have recruits and promote diversity. been supported by LCL since 2015. At the end of their professional development contract, 68% of the participants in the first two groups Combating discrimination were hired on permanent or fixed-term contracts. The Group does not intend to leave any room for any discriminatory treatment gaps that may exist between employees. It considers the Age diversity plurality of genders, origins, ages, sexual orientations and religious As part of the generation contract agreements, Group entities have affiliations as the condition and guarantee of a dynamic, modern and committed towards young and older persons by: inclusive enterprise. nn contributing to integrating young people and developing their skills; LCL nn taking part in the retention in employment of older employees LCL implemented a Charter on the prevention and intervention in terms through mechanisms that anticipate professional changes; of discrimination, sexism, harassment (moral and sexual) and violence nn promoting inter-generational cooperation through the transfer of at work, providing an action framework and reporting procedure for knowledge. such behaviour. To put this commitment into practice, an e-learning session entitled“Sexual or moral harassment, sexist behaviour CA Consumer Finance and violence at work” was made available to employees. In 2018, CA Consumer Finance has set up reverse or cross-mentoring 5,629 employees attended e-learning courses. systems to promote the transfer of knowledge. For example, young employees support the Management Committee in the use of reference LCL organised a conference in November 2018 on the theme“Taming professional social networks such as LinkedIn and Twitter. stereotypes to recruit on skills”, which is mandatory for HR professionals with recruitment missions. 5.4.2. Gender equality at work Diversity of career paths For the last several years, Crédit Agricole S.A. Group has been Entity initiatives illustrate the ambitions of the Group, which has always committed to an approach to promote gender equality at work, notably demonstrated that diversity and openness are part of its values and thanks to the signature of agreements on subjects such as equality in culture. recruitment, training, promotion, compensation and work-life balance. In 2018, the Group had 53% women in its worldwide workforce LCL (see 5.6 Social Indicators). The “Point de rencontre” (Meeting Point) programme, initiated in In addition to the actions described in section 5.3.2. aiming to 2015 by LCL and the association Apels (Agency for education through encourage the promotion of women to managerial and executive sport) offers young adults with few qualifications, involved in a sport functions, the Group carries out an equality policy including numerous and motivated by the idea of working in the banking sector, to join a actions and awareness-raising levers. training programme to become an Individual Customer Advisor, namely The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 77 2 Social, environmental and societal contribution 5. Women and men to drive transformation LCL Balance between work and personal life At LCL, internal fairness and gender equality at work are measured Reducing the impact of maternity leave on women’s careers, maintain annually by three promotion and salary indicators. their commitment and develop their talents, meet the new expectations LCL offers financial aid mechanisms to access training, which due to of parent employees (in particular fathers), adapt the work organisation geographical distances, could lead to family constraints. to allow more flexibility, promote better balance for better management of Parenthood: the Crédit Agricole S.A. group has put many measures in CACEIS place to support the balance of professional and personal life. In 2018, CACEIS was awarded the 2018 Positive Actions Award by the Luxembourg Minister for Equal opportunities, Lydia Mutsch. This Crédit Agricole Bank Polska prize rewards companies that make gender equality the cornerstone Since April 2018, CABP has been conducting PowerON, a programme of their social policy. for all bank employees, dedicated to the good use of energy to improve the balance between professional and private life. The programme Implementation of indicators includes competitions, training courses, seminars and workshops on the themes of work-life balance, active regeneration and work As part of the FreD approach, which applies to all Group entities, a organisation. In addition, employees have access to the educational Diversity Plan of Action has been implemented. The objective of the platform and an energy audit. 43% of employees have already taken plan, which was initiated in 2016 for a period of three years, is to part in it. The program was recognised in the large company category increase the representation of women in decision-making bodies in a in the national WellPower 2018 competition organised by Infor Group. sustainable manner. To this end, a common methodology has been collectively determined Pay equality to monitor and manage this action, in particular through: Crédit Agricole S.A. group reaffirms its commitment to pay equality nn the collection of quantitative data and the monitoring of indicators; between men and women. To achieve this, the Group and all its nn presentation of the follow-up of the action plan to the Executive entities carry out regular analysis to monitor the appearance of any Committees twice a year; pay differences, and if appropriate, plan remedial measures. In 2018, nn monitoring the evolution of the change of women/men in the talent a consistent approach at Group level was put in place in order to: pools. nn intelligently measure and analyse the wage gaps between men and women, taking into account the diversity of the Group's professions; Developing diversity networks nn resolve unexplained gaps; In France and abroad, six Diversity networks exist within the Crédit nn monitor managerial/HR actions that could result in increased Agricole S.A. group (Potenti’Elles Crédit Agricole CIB, Potenti’Elles inequalities. CAA, Potenti’Elles Crédit Agricole S.A. Social, AMUNDI Women Network, Potenti’el(les)CALF and LC’Elles, introduced in March 2018) LCL with over 1500 members (of which 15% men). These 6 networks, LCL renewed its commitment to eliminate pay differences that are which represent an opportunity for all employees, both women and not justified by objective elements, by allocating €1 million over the men, motivated by a greater diversity to contribute to the Group's 2017/2019 period to remedying unjustified pay differences. development, were federated in 2018 within“Cercle Potentielles”. A charter has been signed jointly by Cercle Potentielles and Executive Programmes to support the professional development Management of the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group in order to multiply the of women impact of gender initiatives. Specific programmes dedicated to women and notably to their At the international level, several women's networks have been leadership development have been offered for several years by most established as well (Spring in London, CWEEN in India, Potenti’Elles Group entities in France and abroad. New-York in the US, RISE in Hong-Kong, WING in Tokyo, MORE à Taiwan). CA Egypt Externally, the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group is a member of Fédération des CA Egypt participated, for the third year, in the“Egyptian Women: Pioneers réseaux de femmes Financi’Elles. for the Future” programme, in collaboration with the NGO Arborus. This programme, supported by the French Institute in Egypt and the Awareness-raising actions UN Women Regional Office, provides young women with training and The Gender Equality Week, created in 2012, and deployed each professional integration opportunities. year at the same time in all Group entities, represents an important Crédit Agricole CIB opportunity for communication, discussion and awareness raising Crédit Agricole CIB carries out actions that enable our employees for all employees. In 2018, the distribution of a dedicated magazine to develop their leadership skills. Accordingly, in 2018, 60 women (Journal 50/50) with interviews with executives on the subject of participated in the “Leadership au féminin” training in France. diversity and the organisation of a series of meetings on“Financial Internationally, the second edition of the Women Leadership Pedagogy” organised by Cercle Potentielles Circle represented the key Programme, held over two days, brought together 12 women from the moments of this edition. EMEA region in London in June and Paris in November. A pilot session Crédit Agricole Italia for 15 women from the Asia-Pacific region was also held in July in Crédit Agricole Italia participated in the #diversitywins campaign: Hong Kong. the campaign of the Diversity association illustrates the value of diversity and integration within companies, through testimonials from employees. This campaign was presented at the 1st Diversity Brand Summit held in Milan in March 2018. 78 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Social, environmental and societal contribution 5. Women and men to drive transformation 5.4.3. Uniting through our policy on people with to 93, including 36 permanent contracts. The volume of purchases disabilities from the sheltered and disability-friendly sector should be the same as in 2017. Since the Law of 11 February 2005, the Crédit Agricole S.A. As every year, the Group was involved in communication and DPEF Group has committed itself, through successive Group awareness-raising activities, particularly during the week for the agreements on disability, to advancing the direct employment employment of persons with disabilities, which took place this year of persons with disabilities within the Group entities and to from 19 to 23 November. developing indirect employment, in particular through a purchasing policy from companies in the protected and adapted labour sector. The Group also made significant efforts that year to participate in a number of initiatives to promote employee awareness and the inclusion These three-year commitments, which are monitored annually by of people with disabilities, such as: the social partners and government representative, have enabled the group to record a very significant increase in the legal indicator nn Participation in the gala of the Autistes sans frontières 2 (employment rate). association A fifth Group agreement on disability was signed for the period 2017That year for the first time, Crédit Agricole S.A. and Amundi 2019. The agreement still covers most of the above themes, but the participated in the gala of the Autistes sans frontières association, objective has changed with a commitment to recruit 150 employees held on 14 June 2018. with disabilities, including 50 on permanent employment. The agreement The goal of the event was to raise funds to finance specialised and also highlights the interest in monitoring the transformation of temporary individualised support for hundreds of children with disabilities in contracts into permanent contracts, with a 20% transformation mainstream school. commitment at the end of the agreement. 2018 was a particularly busy nn Participation in Duoday year, with Crédit Agricole S.A. actively participating in the discussions In the context of the changes in the Law of 2005 the government prior to the Law of 5 September 2018, which will be implemented on wanted to implement this regional initiative consisting of a one-day 1 January 2020 (Article 67 of the French Law on the freedom to choose event to welcome a person with a disability into companies, local one's professional future), which reshapes the requirement to employ authorities or associations paired with an employee volunteer, workers with disabilities. at the national level this year. The day of awareness-raising and For the second year of the fifth agreement on Disability, the the fight against stereotypes has been set for 26 April. The Crédit Group recorded 54 new hires of people with disabilities 21 of whom Agricole S.A. Group committed to this initiative with several pairs were on permanent contracts. This brings the total number of new hires of employees. The initiative was received very favourably by group employees. 5.5. HEALTH & SAFETY, LIFE QUALITY AT WORK, SOCIAL DIALOGUE DPEF 5.5.1.  Ensuring the health and safety PSR is the result of team work. Thus, in March 2018 LCL held a third Priority joint round table with occupational health, representatives of trade 5 of employees unions, a social worker, the occupational risk prevention worker, During 2018, the Crédit Agricole S.A. group entities continued their representatives of the quality of life at work segment and representatives actions to ensure that employees enjoy a working environment that of social relations. ensures their health, safety and security. In 2018, Crédit Agricole Assurances rolled out an awareness program on the subject of Psychosocial Risks for employees, managers and Social protection employee representatives at its three locations in Lille, Vaison-laThe Group is also actively involved in the social protection of all its Romaine and Paris: eighteen awareness sessions for employees and employees in France and abroad, particularly in matters related to six one-day training sessions for managers. Employee representatives health, retirement, death, short and long-term disability. attended two-day training sessions. In 2018, two additional health covers for hospitalisation (e.g. with In addition to psychosocial Risks, in 2018 Crédit Agricole Assurances Crédit Agricole S.A., CAL&F or CACEIS) and specialists (with Crédit developed a program to prevent musculoskeletal disorders at each Agricole S.A. and CAL&F) were implemented in certain Group entities. of its sites. This approach, which included a presentation by a physiotherapist-ergonomist, involved raising employee awareness DPEF The Take Care programme made it possible to enhance the followed by an ergonomic analysis of the workstations, accompanied health and provident schemes (death, disability and Priority by a proposal for equipment adapted to the needs and risks. 6 temporary incapacity to work cover) for nearly 9,000 employees and their families in four countries of retail banking abroad (Egypt, Morocco, Serbia and Ukraine). Raising awareness about terrorist risk In 2018, the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group raised awareness of terrorist Prevention of psychosocial risks and musculoskeletal risk among all its employees. This action was in the form of online disorders training for all employees on what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. The reasons and practical details of this approach were presented to In February 2018, as part of the prevention of Psychosocial DPEF the Consultation Committee, which includes all the representative trade Risks (PSR), LCL organised a chat for the management Priority unions within the Group, at its September 2018 meeting. 5 community and published a brochure detailing existing systems and a table of warning signals, which were then distributed to all employees via the intranet. This approach to preventing The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 79 2 Social, environmental and societal contribution 5. Women and men to drive transformation Data protection 5.5.3.  Guaranteeing a constructive social As part of the GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation), which came DPEF dialogue within the Group into effect on 25 May 2018, the Group has taken the initiative to create two Personal Data Protection Charters, one for recruitment purposes 5.5.3.1. Conventional employee representation bodies and the other for Group employees. The Group attaches great importance to the development and These charters, prepared in conjunction with the processing registers maintenance of a rich social dialogue. set up by the Group entities, explain the rights enjoyed by the Group's current and potential employees, as well as how and where they can Social dialogue is embodied by two institutions across the exercise these rights. Crédit Agricole S.A. group and the Regional Banks: the European Works Council and the Group Works Council. In addition, there is a specific DPEF body within the Crédit Agricole S.A. group: le Comité de concertation. 5.5.2. Improving the quality of work life Priority 5 European Works Council Established by a collective agreement of 30 January 2008, the The themes of work-life balance and quality of life at work (QLW) were European Works Council celebrated its 10th anniversary in 2018. the subject of activities by the social partners in 2018. The European Works Council's select committee met twice in 2018. In 2011, the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group adopted a telecommute charter. The meetings mainly focused on monitoring the integration of Pioneer In order to take into account the trends in working methods, which into Amundi and the integration of the three Italian savings banks it considers as opportunities to improve the quality of life, working acquired by Cariparma. They also presented the European strategies conditions and efficiency of organisations, the Group wanted to give of CA Indosuez Wealth Management (including the acquisition of Banco an impetus to their implementation within the entities. To do so, in Leonardo), CAA and CA Consumer Finance as well as the international November 2018 a charter on new working methods introduced several CSR policy. new provisions compared to previous provisions, such as occasional telecommuting or the possibility of telecommuting not only from home In addition, in June 2018, the members of the select Committee but also from other locations that the employer does not own. It also travelled to Ireland with an expert on a study tour during which they encourages Group entities to implement measures to avoid digital met all management teams of the entities present on site (Amundi/ oversolicitation. Pioneer, KBI, CACI, CACEIS), presenting the strategic, economic, social and CSR visions for each. As a follow-up to this charter, Crédit Agricole S.A. signed a revision agreement to its telecommuting agreement of March 2013. The The annual plenary meeting of the European Works Council was held in supplemental revision agreement introduces a so-called flexible November 2018. It was an opportunity to discuss the general progress formula allowing for 18 days of telecommuting to be freely distributed of the Group, the presentation of the reports of the Committee's expert over the year. This formula can be combined with the classic formula on the progress of the Medium-Term Plan and on the study mission of one fixed day per week. Contemporaneously with this agreement, carried out in Ireland, the European strategy of CA Consumer Finance the social partners signed an agreement on the right to disconnect, and the presentation of the 2017 social overview. which not only introduces a right for employees to disconnect, but also Lastly, the work of the European Works Council for 2018 was concluded reminds them that it is their duty to respect the right of each of their with a training session for all its members on the theme of international colleagues to disconnect. It then sets out a number of practices aimed and European social dialogue. at guaranteeing the effectiveness of this right, such as the reminder that digital communication is only a subsidiary means of communication to Group Works Council the other more appropriate modes of communication. In the course of 2018, the Group Works Council held three plenary The right to disconnect has also been the subject of a charter within meetings, and two meetings of the Economic and CSR Commission. LCL signed in February 2018. In addition to the 2017 results and the results of the 2017 IER, a large Two entities of the Group, Crédit Agricole Indosuez Wealth Management number of IT-related topics were discussed: two IT projects (Tokyo and and Pacifica, the Group's property and casualty insurance company, Brussels) in March and, in September, the presentation of the Group's IT signed specific quality of life at work agreements in 2018. The Pacifica strategy. Finally, in November 2018, the expert's report on the deployment agreement defines four levers of action that can influence QLW: the of Artificial Intelligence and Robotic Process Automation within the Group organisation and content of work, labour relations, the achievement was presented. These meetings were also an opportunity for the members and development of employees and the development of a healthy and of the Works Council to be presented with an overview of the Group's conducive work environment. It is planned that an action plan with at general progress and to renew the choice of Ipso Facto as the expert least one action per theme will be negotiated and implemented each responsible for assisting the Works Council on its work for 2019. year. To ensure that employees adhere to the system, the parties to the agreement agreed to set up a QLW suggestion box. The proposals made therein will be used to draw up the said action plans. Among the measures it provides for, the Crédit Agricole Indosuez Wealth Management agreement provides for the donation of days of rest to employees caring for a family member with a disability or with a severe inability to care for oneself. 80 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Social, environmental and societal contribution 5. Women and men to drive transformation Consultative Committee 5.5.3.3. Key events of 2018 nn Crédit Agricole S.A. group's Consultative Committee was formed by an agreement signed on 25 February 2005. Consisting of six The implementation of work orders representatives per representative trade union organisation at Group On 22 September 2017 Work Orders were promulgated, which radically level, it met twice in 2018. On these occasions it was presented with changed the system of employee representation in companies. To the results of IER 2017 and the social synthesis 2017 in May 2018 better understand these changes, two social conferences bringing and, during a meeting held in September 2018, with the IT strategy, together representatives of representative trade union organisations the policy for raising the level of security and the charter on new in at least one entity of the Group and representatives of the human working methods. resources of these same entities were organised in February and nn Emanating from the agreement that instituted the Consultative April 2018; they provided an impetus for reflection, created a climate of Committee, the trade union representatives of the Group are tasked with improving social dialogue by passing on labour-related trust and increased the skills and knowledge of all the parties involved in the upcoming negotiations. At the end of these meetings the Group 2 information in an informal and constructive way. They met 11 times presented its doctrine on the SSC: to make the plenary SSC the forum during the year. for strategic debate, to entrust the CSSCT with a role in accompanying change and to ensure a close dialogue. 5.5.3.2. Career monitoring unit and the GPEC Committee The Tokyo project Stemming from the job and skills forecast management (“GPEC”) Tokyo Project aims to create a single IT infrastructure and production agreement of 6 July 2012, two complementary bodies are specifically segment of the Group, bringing together the IT production activities dedicated to the issue of employment and skills: of CATS, SILCA, Crédit Agricole CIB and CAAS upon its establishing nn the GPEC Committee is in charge of monitoring the strategy and its on 1 January 2019, within a new entity named CA-GIP. This project, foreseeable consequences on employment; which involves the transfer of employees within this new entity, was nn the mission of the career monitoring unit is to carry out prospective the subject, within each of them, of a two-phase process of information analyses on the careers and job trends. and consultation with the institutions representing the employees The GPEC Committee met three times in 2018. A summary of training involved. The first, which focused on the strategic aspect of the merger, plans within the Group, a status of current mobility schemes, annual took place in the first half of 2018. The second phase of consultation, indicators for monitoring the GPEC, a summary of the strategic which focused on the operational aspects of the project, took place orientations of the various entities of the Group and the GPEC approach from June to September. implemented at CALF were presented at these meetings. Parallel to these information and consultation processes, the social The career monitoring unit met twice. The meetings were mainly partners signed a methodological agreement in April 2018, organising devoted to the presentation of the GPEC approach implemented within intra-company negotiations for the purpose of defining the future the IT business line and the use of artificial intelligence and Robotic collective status of employees that are transferred to the new entity. These Process Automation in the banking sector and within the Group. negotiations resulted in the unanimous signing on 5 December 2018 of five collective agreements outlining this new status. Adoption of the Global Deal initiative As an extension of its CSR policy, the Crédit Agricole S.A. group has joined the Global Deal. This initiative is a multi-stakeholder partnership (government, business, trade unions, other organisations) aimed at encouraging its members to make commitments to promote social dialogue in a broad sense. Each partner is invited to make commitments for the future or to strengthen existing commitments. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 81 2 Social, environmental and societal contribution 5. Women and men to drive transformation 5.6. SOCIAL INDICATORS Number of employees Headcount by type of contract (full-time equivalent) 2018 2017 France International Total France International Total Active permanent contracts 35,416 34,447 69,863 35,602 34,581 70,183 Fixed-term contracts 584 2,899 3,483 608 2,916 3,524 Total employees 36,000 37,346 73,346 36,210 37,497 73,707 Non active permanent contract (CDI) employees 1,149 1,316 2,465 1,214 1,384 2,598 Total 37,149 38,662 75,811 37,424 38,881 76,305 Employees by gender in France Men Men 44.7% 44.5% 2018 2017 Women Women 55.3% 55.5% Scope covered France: 99% Scope covered France: 99% Employees by status in France 2018 2017 Managers Non-managers Managers Non-managers Headcount in France (in %) 68.1 31.9 65.8 34.2 Women (in %) 58.5 41.5 55.9 44.1 Men (in %) 79.9 20.1 78.1 21.9 Scope covered France 99 % 99 % Age structure 65 years old and over 60 years 65 years 55 years 60 years 50 years 55 years 45 years 50 years 40 years 45 years 35 years 40 years 30 years 35 years 25 years 30 years less than 25 years 10% 8% 6% 4% 2% 0% 2% 4% 6% 8% 10% Women/International Women/France Men/France Men/International Scope covered: 99% 82 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Social, environmental and societal contribution 5. Women and men to drive transformation Average age and length of service 2018 2017 France International Total France International Total 43 years and 42 years and 43 years and 42 years and 42 years and Average age 2 months old 11 months old 1 month old 43 years 4 months old 8 months old 15 years and 14 years and 12 years and 14 years and Average seniority 10 months 13 years 6 months 16 years 10 months 6 months Scope covered 99% 94% Departures of permanent contract employees by reason 2 2018 2017 France International Total % France International Total % Resignation 1,108 1,805 2,913 49.1 1,025 1,456 2,481 44.6 Retirement and early retirement 706 408 1,114 18.7 907 536 1 443 26.0 Lay-off 227 421 648 10.9 211 336 547 9.8 Death 19 21 40 0.7 19 21 40 0.7 Other 517 703 1,220 20.6 435 616 1 051 18.9 Total permanent contract departures 2,577 3,358 5,935 100.0 2,597 2,965 5,562 100.0 Scope covered 99% 94% Mobility/career management Internal mobility 10,331 9,005 2018 Scope covered: 99% 1,151 2017 Scope covered: 91% 702 Mobility Mobility within between entities a same entity Promotions in France 2018 2017 Women Men Total Women Men Total Promotion in the non-manager category 777 378 1,155 1,134 434 1,568 Promotion from non-manager to manager 490 316 806 458 309 767 Promotion in the manager category 527 699 1,226 482 632 1,114 Total 1,794 1,393 3,187 2,074 1,375 3,449 % 56.3 43.7 100.0 60.1 39.9 100,0 Scope covered France 99% 99% Equal treatment Proportion of women (%) 2018 2017 % Scope covered % Scope covered Among all employees 53.3 99% 53.7 94% Among permanent contract employees 53.0 99% 51.5 94% Among management levels 1 and 2 21.4 100% 20.7 100% Among the Group Executive Committee 1 out of 15 100% 1 out of 16 100% Among the top 10% of highest-earning employees in each subsidiary (fixed compensation) 29.6 99% 29.9 96% The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 83 2 Social, environmental and societal contribution 5. Women and men to drive transformation Recruitment Internships and work-study contracts in France (monthly average FTE) 1,734 1,676 2018 Scope covered: 99% 484 486 2017 Scope covered: 99% Work-study contracts Internships Recruitment by region 2,624 2,291 1,295 1 214 1,019 901 341 325 369 264 175 98 11 5 France Western Europe Eastern Europe Africa Asia Pacific Middle East Americas 2018 Scope covered: 99% 2017 Scope covered: 94% Training Number of employees trained International International 30,424 25,640 42.1% 40.1% 2018 2017 France France 41,772 39,992 57.9% 60.9% Scope covered: 96% Scope covered: 93% 84 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Social, environmental and societal contribution 5. Women and men to drive transformation Training topics 2018 (12 months) 2017 (11 months) o/w o/w Total % France International Total % Knowledge of Crédit Agricole S.A. 22,425 1.1 7,274 15,151 23,606 1.4 Personnel and business management 117,668 5.8 50,032 67,636 86,848 5.1 Banking, law and economics 397,699 19.7 278,982 118,717 308,130 18.2 Insurance 259,270 12.8 101,945 157,325 260,932 15.4 Financial management (accountancy, tax, etc.) Risk 47,005 81,650 2.3 4.0 20,267 50,154 26,738 31,496 52,606 87,527 3.1 5.2 2 Compliance 368,489 18.2 101,254 267,235 227,552 13.4 Methods, organisation, quality 125,040 6.2 29,654 95,386 60,641 3.6 Purchasing, marketing, distribution 105,145 5.3 28,433 76,712 136,786 8.1 IT systems, networks, telecommunications 40,755 2.0 24,927 15,828 37,682 2.2 Languages 129,315 6.4 32,759 96,556 136,631 8.1 Office systems, software, new ICT 44,668 2.2 23,854 20,814 38,763 2.3 Personal development, communication 192,128 9.5 82,506 109,622 153,138 9.0 Health and safety 62,264 3.1 16,950 45,314 53,852 3.2 Human rights and the environment 5,581 0.3 533 5,048 2,933 0.2 Human Resources 22,608 1.1 11,935 10,673 25,517 1.5 Total 2,021,710 100.0 861,459 1,160,251 1,693,144 100.0 Scope covered 96% 93% Compensation Annual fixed salary scale In euros >90,000 60,000 to 90,000 45,000 to 60,000 35,000 to 45,000 30,000 to 35,000 25,000 to 30,000 20,000 to 25,000 ≤20,000 6,000 4,000 2,000 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 Female non-managers Female managers Male managers Male non-managers Scope covered France: 99% Average monthly salary of active permanent contract employees in France (gross basic salary) 2018 2017 Women Men Total Women Men Total Manager category 4,369 5,235 4,823 4,278 5,178 4,753 Non-manager category 2,495 2,490 2,493 2,475 2,465 2,472 Total 3,592 4,683 4,079 3,483 4,583 3,973 Scope covered France 99% 99% The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 85 2 Social, environmental and societal contribution 5. Women and men to drive transformation Collective variable compensation paid during the year on the basis of the previous year’s results in France 2018 2017 Total amount Number of Average amount Total amount Number of Average amount (in thousands of euros) beneficiaries (in euros) (in thousands of euros) beneficiaries (in euros) Profit-sharing 38,670 32,513 1,189 26,786 12,247 2,187 Incentive plans 192,527 44,127 4,363 181,685 45,458 3,997 Employer’s additional contribution 48,037 34,671 1,386 45,087 39,216 1,150 Total 279,234 253,558 Scope covered France 99% 99% Health & safety Absenteeism in France in calendar days 2018 2017 Managers Non-managers Total Average Total Average number number of days’ of days’ Number absence per Number absence per Women Men Women Men of days % employee of days % employee Sickness 105,051 60,803 146,826 36,576 349,256 51.4 9.4 364,382 52.9 9.7 Accident 4,647 2,708 8,435 2,602 18,392 2.7 0.5 15,784 2.3 0.4 Maternity, paternity, breast feeding 104,968 8,371 111,059 2,767 227,165 33.5 6.1 226,598 32.9 6.0 Authorised leave 26,978 22,289 17,647 5,534 72,448 10.7 2.0 71,126 10.3 1.9 Other 4,048 3,073 2,923 1,535 11,579 1.7 0.3 11,160 1.6 0.3 Total 245,692 97,244 286,890 49,014 678,840 100.0 18.3 689,050 100.0 18.3 Scope covered France 99% 99% All French entities collect and report occupational illness and accident data every year in their social review. By way of example, in their respective 2017 social reviews, UES Crédit Agricole S.A. and LCL recorded 59 and 545 accidents (none for serious risks) associated with falls/drops, traffic/ handling accidents and everyday occurrences. Work organisation Proportion of part-time employees 2018 2017 Managers Non-managers Total Managers Non-managers Total Part-time employees 2,108 2,587 4,695 2,062 2,802 4,864 Part-time employees as % of total 8.5 22.2 12.9 8.6 22.4 13.3 Women as % of part-time employees 89.3 91.3 90.4 88.9 91.6 90.5 Scope covered France 99% 99% Labour relations Number of agreements signed during the year in France by subject 2018 2017 Compensation and benefits 28 43 Training 0 1 Employee representative bodies 26 9 Jobs 4 6 Working hours 9 12 Diversity and equality at work 3 4 Health & Safety 3 5 Others 18 30 Total 91 110 Scope covered France 99% 99% 86 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Social, environmental and societal contribution 5. Women and men to drive transformation NOTE ON METHODOLOGY The scope encompasses all fully consolidated entities with employees. Each item presented in this document is accompanied by an indication of the scope of employees covered (as a percentage of full-time equivalent (FTE) employees at year-end). The employee data relating to the Regional Banks are not included in this report. The consolidated data cover one calendar year, from 1 January to 31 December. The examples of CSR practices illustrating the document data and commentary were compiled from surveys of CSR managers, Human Resource Directors and various departments of Crédit Agricole S.A., across a broad representative sample of Crédit Agricole Group entities. As part of our ongoing policy to improve the reliability of social indicators, once again this year we asked our Statutory Auditors to conduct an in-depth examination of our voluntarily published social indicators. This work is the subject of an independent reasonable assurance report. Employment reporting: 2 nn Unless otherwise stated, the population under review is that of “working” employees. The notion of working implies: –– a legal tie in the form of a standard fixed-term or permanent employment contract (or similar abroad); –– a presence on the payroll and in the position on the last day of the period; –– working time percentage of 50% or more. nn Unless otherwise stated, the data are presented from the employer’s viewpoint and not the beneficiary’s viewpoint. The difference relates to employees seconded by one entity to another (with no change in the employment contract) who report to their host entity from the beneficiary’s viewpoint and to their contracting entity from the employer’s viewpoint. nn In 2017, for the Pioneer entities and the Italian savings banks entities, consolidated by acquisition in 2017, only the full-time equivalent workforce at 31 December 2017 were counted in the scope of employees, to be consistent with the financial scope of consolidation. nn From 2018 onwards, training data are calculated over 12 months. However, in order to take difficulties faced by some of the entities into account, it is possible, in select cases and on an exceptional basis, to substitute the value of the 12th month by extrapolating it according to the first 11 months. The extrapolation must be an interim version toward full 12-month reporting in accordance with regulatory requirements. Environmental reporting: nn A cut-off was used to remedy the difficulties of collecting information on the <100 FTE entities (though excluding these entities still made it possible to cover over 80% of the workforce in the financial consolidation) with the exception of Crédit Agricole CIB. nn The scope covered by the 2018 environmental data includes France and the subsidiaries with over 100 employees (excluding KBI Global Investors, an asset management company acquired by Amundi in 2016), i.e.: France, the United Kingdom, Italy, Ireland, Austria, Germany, Japan, and the United States. The scope of the environmental data corresponds to a coverage ratio of 89.2% of the Amundi Group’s workforce. The reporting scope includes subsidiaries formerly owned by Pioneer, which now have become part of Amundi. nn The coverage ratio for each indicator (energy/water, transport, paper, waste) is expressed in FTE. The coverage ratio for the energy-related indicators were calculated based on the 2017 FTEs and square meters. nn CO2 emissions are calculated using the benchmark emission factors of the International Energy Agency for electricity (excluding France). For entities in France, the emission factor used is 0.006kg CO2eq/KWh, the Group having signed a national contract with EDF in 2015 for the supply of 100% renewable energy of French origin (mainly from hydropower). For other types of energy, emission factors used are those of DEFRA (British Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs) and the Ademe (French agency for environment and energy management) Carbon Base. For journeys by air, the emission factor takes into account emissions related to radiative forcing. nn For information reported on energy and water consumption: –– energy and water consumption are based on the bills issued by the suppliers; –– only consumption billed directly to Group entities is taken into account. Consumption included in rental charges is not taken into account; –– to measure the coverage rate for environmental indicators, a ratio is calculated on the basis of the FTEs of the entities that responded to the questionnaires; –– floor space used for buildings corresponds to the gross leasable area (GLA) indicated in the leases as of 31 December. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 87 2 Social, environmental and societal contribution Cross-reference table CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE 2018 Registration Document Pages Energy transition Law SDG(1) GRI G4 Material CSR commitments and links with SDGs Identifying priorities and links with SDGs 39-43 G4-2; G4-24; G4-27; G4-26 Managing our CSR performance with FReD 43 G4-2; G4-24; G4-27; G4-44 A long-term commitment 44 G4-2; G4-15; G4-16 CSR governance 44 G4-2; G4-34; G4-35; G4-36; G4-37; G4-38; G4-39; G4-40; G4-48; Promoting a culture of ethics Developing a Group-wide ethical dimension 45-47 G4-14; G4-49; G4-56; G4-58; G4-SO4 Establishing trust-based relationships 47-49 16 G4-PR5 with customers Establishing a committed tax policy 49-50 Conducting a transparent lobbying policy 50 Developing accessible finance Supporting all customers through good times and bad 51-53 1.4 G4-PR5 Contributing to economic and social dynamism in 54-58 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 9, G4-EN27; G4-EC8; G4-LA15 local regions 10, 11, 12 Supporting the energy transition Larger ambitions 59 Title I Art. 1; Title I 6, 7, 9, 11, 13 G4-EC2; G4-EN3; G4-EN5; G4-EN6; Art. 2; Title II Art. 3 and G4-EN7; G4-EN8; G4-EN15; G4-EN16; Art. 4; Title V G4-EN17; G4-EN19; G4-EN27 A four-pronged climate strategy 59-64 Title I Art. 1; Title I 6, 7, 9, 11, 13 G4-EC2; G4-EN3; G4-EN5; G4-EN6; Art. 2; Title II Art. 3 and G4-EN7; G4-EN8; G4-EN15; G4-EN16; Art. 4; Title V G4-EN17; G4-EN19; G4-EN27 Assessing and managing climate risks 64-65 6, 7, 9, 13 G4-EN27; G4-2 Encourage taking into account ESG factors Investing responsibly 66-67 7, 8, 9 G4-EN27 Assessing and managing ESG risks in financing 67-68 6, 7, 8, 9, 13, G4-EN27 14, 15 Promoting multi-efficient agriculture 68 2 Protecting resources 69-70 Title IV 12, 15 G4-EN1; G4-EN2; G4-EN4; G4-EN23 Other disclosures 70 G4-33 Women and men to drive transformation G4-10 and encouraging their engagement Listening to our employees and encouraging 72 G4-LA9; G4-LA10 their engagement Stepping up our employees’ skill development 73-75 4 G4-LA9; G4-LA10 in a context of big changes Attracting talent, developing our employees 75-77 4, 5 G4-EC3; G4-LA1; G4-LA2; and preparing for the future G4-LA9; G4-LA10; G4-LA13 Building on our diversity for a stronger 77-79 5, 10 G4-EC3; G4-LA1; G4-LA2; G4-LA13; workplace community LA-12 Health & Safety, life quality at work, social dialogue 79-81 3 G4-LA3; G4-LA6; G4-LA8; G4-LA12 Guaranteeing a constructive social dialogue 80 G4-11; G4-LA5 within the Group Social indicators 82-86 3, 4, 5, 10 G4-10; G4-11; G4-EC3; G4-LA1; G4-LA2; G4-LA3; G4-LA5; G4-LA6; G4-LA8; G4-LA9; G4-LA10; G4-LA13 (1) See introduction to chapter 2 detailing the SDGs to which the Group contributes. 88 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Social, environmental and societal contribution Report by one of the Statutory Auditors, appointed as an independent third party, on the consolidated non-financial information statement included in the management report REPORT BY ONE OF THE STATUTORY AUDITORS, APPOINTED AS AN INDEPENDENT THIRD PARTY, ON THE CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT INCLUDED IN THE MANAGEMENT REPORT This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditor’s report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional standards applicable in France. For the year ended December 31st, 2018 2 To the shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditor of Crédit Agricole S.A. (hereinafter the “entity”), appointed as an independent third party and accredited by COFRAC under number 3-1060 rév.2 (whose scope is available at www.cofrac.fr), we hereby report to you on the consolidated non-financial information statement for the year ended December 31st, 2018 (hereinafter the “Statement”), included in the Group management report pursuant to the legal and regulatory provisions of articles L. 225 102-1, R. 225-105 and R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). THE ENTITY’S RESPONSIBILITY Pursuant to legal and regulatory requirements, the Board of Directors is responsible for preparing the Statement, including a presentation of the business model, a description of the principal non financial risks, a presentation of the policies implemented considering those risks and the outcomes of said policies, including key performance indicators. The Statement has been prepared in accordance with the entity’s procedures (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), the main elements of which are presented in the Statement (or which are available on request from the company’s Corporate Social Responsibility department). INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY CONTROL Our independence is defined by the provisions of article L. 822-11-3 of the French Commercial Code and the French Code of Ethics (Code de déontologie) of our profession. In addition, we have implemented a system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with the ethical requirements, French professional guidance and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. RESPONSIBILITY OF THE STATUTORY AUDITOR, APPOINTED AS AN INDEPENDENT THIRD PARTY On the basis of our work, our responsibility is to provide a report expressing a limited assurance conclusion on: nn the compliance of the Statement with the provisions of article R. 225-105 of the French Commercial Code; nn the fairness of the information provided in accordance with article R. 225 105 I, 3 and II of the French Commercial Code, i.e., the outcomes, including key performance indicators, and the measures implemented considering the principal risks (hereinafter the “Information”). However, it is not our responsibility to comment on: nn the entity’s compliance with other applicable legal and regulatory provisions, in particular the French duty of care law and anti-corruption and tax evasion legislation; nn the compliance of products and services with the applicable regulations. Nature and scope of our work The work described below was performed in accordance with the provisions of articles A. 225-1 et seq. of the French Commercial Code determining the conditions in which the independent third party performs its engagement and with the professional guidance of the French Institute of Statutory Auditors (“CNCC”) applicable to such engagements, as well as with ISAE 3000 – Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information. Our procedures allowed us to assess the compliance of the Statement with regulatory provisions and the fairness of the Information: nn we obtained an understanding of all the consolidated entities’ activities, the description of the social and environmental risks associated with their activities and, where applicable, the impact of these activities on compliance with human rights and anti corruption and tax evasion legislation, as well as the resulting policies and their outcomes; nn we assessed the suitability of the Guidelines with respect to their relevance, completeness, reliability, objectivity and understandability, with due consideration of industry best practices, where appropriate; nn we verified that the Statement includes each category of social and environmental information set out in article L. 225 102-1 III, as well as information regarding compliance with human rights and anti corruption and tax evasion legislation; nn we verified that the Statement includes an explanation for the absence of the information required under article L. 225-102-1 III, 2; nn we verified that the Statement presents the business model and the principal risks associated with all the consolidated entities’ activities, including where relevant and proportionate, the risks associated with their business relationships and products or services, as well as their policies, measures and the outcomes thereof, including key performance indicators; The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 89 2 Social, environmental and societal contribution Report by one of the Statutory Auditors, appointed as an independent third party, on the consolidated non-financial information statement included in the management report nn we verified, where relevant with respect to the principal risks or the policies presented, that the Statement provides the information required under article R. 225-105 II; nn we assessed the process used to identify and confirm the principal risks; nn we asked what internal control and risk management procedures the entity has put in place; nn we assessed the consistency of the outcomes and the key performance indicators used with respect to the principal risks and the policies presented; nn we verified that the Statement covers the scope of consolidation, i.e., all the companies included in the scope of consolidation in accordance with article L. 233-16 within the limitations set out in the Statement; nn we assessed the data collection process implemented by the entity to ensure the completeness and fairness of the Information; nn for the key performance indicators and other quantitative outcomes that we considered to be the most important, we implemented: –– analytical procedures to verify the proper consolidation of the data collected and the consistency of any changes in those data, –– substantive tests, using sampling techniques, in order to verify the proper application of the definitions and procedures and reconcile the data with the supporting documents. This work was carried out on a selection of contributing entities, namely Crédit Agricole Bank Polska, Cariparma, Crédit du Maroc, Crédit Agricole Corporate Investment Bank, LCL and Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance France, as well as in the head office of Crédit Agricole S.A. for information consolidated at Group level or specific information related to entities not listed above, and covers between 46% and 100% of the consolidated data relating to the key performance indicators and outcomes selected for these tests; nn we referred to documentary sources and conducted interviews to corroborate the qualitative information (measures and outcomes) that we considered to be the most important; nn we assessed the overall consistency of the Statement based on our knowledge of all the consolidated entities. We believe that the work carried out, based on our professional judgement, is sufficient to provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusion; a higher level of assurance would have required us to carry out more extensive procedures. Means and ressources Our work was carried out by a team of 12 people between October 2018 and March 2019 and took a total of 8 weeks. We were assisted in our work by our specialists in sustainable development and corporate social responsibility. We conducted some forty interviews with some sixty people responsible for preparing the Statement. Conclusion Based on our work, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the non-financial statement is not in accordance with the applicable regulatory provisions and that the Information, taken as a whole, is not presented fairly in accordance with the Guidelines. Neuilly-sur-Seine, the 25 of March 2019 One of the Statutory Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Anik Chaumartin Sylvain Lambert Partner Sustainable Development Partner 90 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Social, environmental and societal contribution Report by one of the Statutory Auditors, appointed as an independent third party, on the consolidated non-financial information statement included in the management report APPENDIX: LIST OF THE INFORMATION WE CONSIDERED MOST IMPORTANT Selection of qualitative and quantitative information, associated with the policies, measures and outcomes related to the eleven principal issues identified for the activity of Crédit Agricole S.A., disclosed in the following sections of the management report: Sections of the management report disclosing the related policies, measures and outcomes reviewed Main issues identified within the framework of our work Respecting ethics in business 1.1.3. Training of directors and executives And the KPI: share of Directors of Crédit Agricole S.A. (corporate entity) trained Responding to the needs of our loyal clients 1.2.1. Protecting customer’s data And the KPI: % of Crédit Agricole S.A. employees receiving training with respect to the Personal Data Charter 2 Managing all risks, 3.3.1. Managing climate risks within financings including ESG And the KPI: validation of climate risk strategy by the governing bodies Supporting all customers 2.1.2.A. Financial and budget education through good times and bad 2.1.1.A. Over-indebtedness, including the quantitative result number of customers in situations of vulnerability identified and contacted And the KPIs: evolution of the number of young people attending to budgetary and banking education programs, evolution of the number of financially vulnerable customers supported Improving the quality 5.1.1. Engagement and Recommendation Index, including the quantitative result number of employees invited of work life to participate in the survey and number of free-text comments submitted 5.5.1. Prevention of psychosocial risks and musculoskeletal disorders, including the quantitative result number of awareness sessions for employees and number of training sessions for managers And the KPIs: participation rate to the third ERI, number of calendar days of absence per employee due to illness and accident Ensuring fairness and 5.4.2. Gender equality at work, including the quantitative result % of women in the worldwide workforce promoting diversity And the KPI: % of women in decision-making bodies Reinforcing the inclusion 3.2.2. Growing the Group’s presence in renewable energy, including the quantitative result number of projects of the ESG criteria in our financed by Unifergie products and services 3.1. Larger ambitions 3.2.4.B. Investing in the energy transition And the KPIs: evolution of the arrangements in support of the energy transition, evolution of the financing raised by Amundi with its specialised management companies, evolution of the financing of renewable energy and energy efficiency project by Unifergie and LCL Supporting the economic 2.2.2. Developing a product offering with social impact, including the quantitative result number of financed development of regions and social actors their response to sustainable 2.1.4.B. Of farmers development challenges And the KPIs: evolution of the outstanding amounts in social impact funds, evolution of the number of weather‑related insurance policies Improving governance CSR Governance And the KPI: number of presidents of Regional Banks who participated to awareness raising sessions Fostering personal development 5.2.2. Promoting employee mobility, including the quantitative result number of worldwide transfers, number and employability of promotions in France, number of new permanent positions published on the internal job board And the KPIs: evolution of the number of transfers between entities, evolution of the number of transfers within entities Reducing our 3.2.1.B. Control and reduce the direct carbon footprint, including the quantitative result emissions related to energy environmental footprint consumption and business travels, quantity of carbon’s emissions offset And the KPI: % of reduction of greenhouse gas emissions between 2015 and 2018 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 91 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3 1. Board of Directors’ Report 94 4. Reward policy 143 1.1. Information concerning the Board’s composition 4.1. Reward policy applicable to all employees 143 and operation95 4.2. Reward policy applicable to executive managers 151 1.2. Board activities in 2018 104 4.3. Reward policy applicable to executive 1.3. Activities of the Specialised Board Committees 108 Corporate Officers 152 1.4. Duty of vigilance 114 4.4. Appendix169 2. Additional information 5. Rules of Procedure on Corporate Officers 120 of the Board of Directors 171 2.1. Composition of the Board of Directors 120 2.2. Offices held by Corporate Officers 123 3. Information on executives and management bodies 138 3.1. Information on Executives 138 3.2. Management bodies at 15 March 2019 140 3.3. Transactions in the Company’s shares 142 92 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance COMMITTED AND RESPONSIBLE GOVERNANCE T H E BO ARD OF DIRECTORS 11 Plenary meetings of the Board in 2018 including 2 seminars 6 Specialised Committees 3 Compensation Risk Committee Committee US Risks Committee 35 Committee Appointments and Governance Committee meetings Audit Committee Strategy and CSR Committee 47% 53% women men 98% attendance rate on the Board on the Board for the meetings in 2018 COMP ENSATION POLICY 1 Integration of CSR Increase 4.42% of capital Over 90% criteria in the variable of capital reserved held by Group General Meeting compensation of for employees employees or former approval rate executives all years employees of compensation The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 93 3 Corporate governance 1. Board of Directors’ Report 1. BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT ON THE GOVERNANCE OF THE COMPANY TO THE GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS OF 21 MAY 2019 PURSUANT TO ARTICLES L. 225-37 AND L. 225‑37-4 OF THE FRENCH COMMERCIAL CODE Corporate Governance Report for financial year 2018 Pursuant to Article L. 225-37-2 of the French Commercial Code, this In addition to the management report, the Board of Directors’ Corporate Corporate Governance Report also includes the draft resolutions on the Governance Report presented pursuant to Article L. 225-37 of the French principles and criteria for determining and allocating the fixed, variable Commercial Code – provides shareholders with the required information and exceptional elements of total compensation and benefits in kind on the Board’s activities in 2018, its composition, and the conditions awarded to the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Deputy Chief under which the Board prepared and organised its work. It also presents Executive Officer. The report details the above-mentioned elements the situation of Crédit Agricole S.A. in respect of the regulated information of compensation and specifies that the payment of the variable and required under Article L. 225-37-4 and falling within the Board’s remit, exceptional compensation is subject to approval of these compensation including: components by the Ordinary General Meeting. nn the list of offices held by each Corporate Officer in any company Lastly, excluding the Board’s powers, in particular concerning the issuing during the financial year; or buyback of shares presented in this section, certain information nn any agreements which took place either directly or via an intermediary required under Article L. 225-37-4 and L. 225-37-5 is presented in other between, on the one hand, one of the Corporate Officers or a sections of this document: shareholder holding more than 10% of a company’s voting rights nn the table summarising the authorisations in force granted by the and, on the other hand, another company of which the first directly General Meeting of Shareholders concerning capital increases, or indirectly holds more than half of the share capital, excluding any pursuant to Articles L. 225-129-1 and L. 225-129-2, mentioning the agreements concerning ordinary operations signed under normal use made of such authorisations during the financial year (Information conditions; on capital and shareholders page 30); nn a description of the diversity policy applicable to the members of nn the terms governing shareholder participation in the General Meeting the Board of Directors with regard to criteria such as age, gender, as provided for in Articles 21 to 29 of the Articles of Association qualifications and professional experience, as well as a description (General information pages 571 to 573) are also available for of this policy’s objectives, its implementation procedures, and the consultation at the registered office of Crédit Agricole S.A. and on its results obtained during the financial year ended; this description website www.credit-agricole.com. is complemented by information on how the Company pursues a A cross-reference table listing all the legal publication requirements balanced representation of women and men in the Committee, where before and after the reform introduced by the Order of 12 July 2017 is applicable, by general management in order to regularly assist them included on page 607 of this Registration Document. in the performance of their general tasks and on the results in terms of gender balance in the 10% of positions with higher responsibility; nn any restrictions imposed by the Board of Directors on the Chief Executive Officer’s powers; nn any areas of non-compliance with the AFEP/MEDEF Code applicable within Crédit Agricole S.A. 94 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance 1. Board of Directors’ Report 1.1. INFORMATION CONCERNING THE BOARD’S COMPOSITION AND OPERATION 1.1.1. General presentation of the Board nn in internal events and meetings with teams of Crédit Agricole S.A., of Directors including in 2018 teams of Crédit Agricole Assurances, LCL and, in Germany, teams of the main entities that are present there. The Chairman The Chairman also represents the Group at major public events such In accordance with the governance model of Crédit Agricole, which as the Paris International Agricultural Show, events organised for the separates steering and control functions on the one side from executive 10th anniversary of the Grameen Crédit Agricole microfinance foundation functions on the other side, the office of Chairman and that of Chief and in projects supported by the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group, such as Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole S.A. are historically separate. the Fondation Un Avenir Ensemble (a non-profit foundation that helps The Company thus complies with Article L. 511-58 of the French disadvantaged young people), the Fondation Crédit Agricole Pays de Monetary and Financial Code, which provides that: “the Chairmanship France, the Fondation Crédit Agricole Solidarité et Développement, and of the Board of Directors, or of any other body performing equivalent CICA, an organisation bringing together banks from 24 countries for the oversight functions in respect of a credit institution or a finance company, financing of agriculture. cannot be held by the Chief Executive Officer or by anyone performing equivalent management duties”. The Board of Directors Under Article L. 512-49 of the French Monetary and Financial Code, the The Board of Directors of Crédit Agricole S.A. comprises 21 Board Chairman is elected by the Board of Directors from among its members who are Directors of a Crédit Agricole Regional Bank. The term of office, members, including its Chairman, as follows: nn eighteen Directors elected by the General Meeting of Shareholders 3 which is renewable, coincides with the term of office as a Director, which including: is three years. –– ten Directors who are Chairmen or Chief Executive Officers of As part of his statutory duties, the Chairman of the Board of Directors: Crédit Agricole’s Regional Banks, nn approves the agendas for the Board Meetings and ensures that the –– one Director that is a legal entity, SAS Rue La Boétie, represented information provided to the Directors is adequate to make reasoned by a Chief Executive Officer of a Regional Bank who is also Deputy decisions; to this effect, he contributes to the smooth flow of Chairman of SAS Rue La Boétie, information between the Board and the Executive Management, and –– six Directors from outside the Crédit Agricole Group, between the Board and its Committees; –– one Director who is an employee of a Regional Bank; nn encourages and promotes open, critical discussions and ensures that nn one Director representing professional farming associations, all viewpoints can be expressed within the Board; appointed by joint decree of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry nn ensures that the responsibilities held within the Board are clear for of Agriculture, pursuant to the Act of 18 January 1988 on the all Directors. mutualisation of Caisse nationale de Crédit Agricole, which became The Chairman of the Board chairs the Board’s Strategy and CSR Crédit Agricole S.A. on 29 November 2001; Committee and is a member of the Appointments and Governance nn two Directors elected by the employees of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group. Committee. The Board also includes a non-voting Director who is Chief Executive As a part of his relations with employee representative bodies, he chairs Officer of a Crédit Agricole Regional Bank and a non-voting Director who the European Works Council of the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group. Each year is Chairman of a Crédit Agricole Regional Bank. in January he convenes the Directors representing employees and the representative of the Works Council on the Board of Directors, to discuss Non-voting Directors are appointed by the Board of Directors on the the operation of the Board of Directors and, more broadly, any current recommendation of the Chairman, following a review of the application topic. by the Appointments and Governance Committee. They attend Board Meetings in an advisory capacity. Their presence not only reflects the Since November 2015, for the purpose of simplifying the organisation of Group’s desire to enrich a geographical representation of the Regional the Crédit Agricole Group, the Chairman of Crédit Agricole S.A. is also the Banks on the Board, but it also constitutes a pool of potential appointees Chairman of the Fédération nationale du Crédit Agricole. In this respect, to the Board to replace outgoing members. This was the case for François he plays an essential coordination role between Crédit Agricole S.A. and Thibault in 2015, when he was elected to the office of Director by the Crédit Agricole’s Regional Banks, its majority shareholder via SAS Rue General Meeting of 20 May 2015, with Jean-Paul Kerrien, who was La Boétie, of which he is the Chairman. To that extent he is at the centre co-opted by the Board as a Director on 4 November 2015, with Catherine of the coordination between the federal authorities governing the regional Pourre, who was appointed by the General Meeting of 24 May 2017, banks and Crédit Agricole S.A. to explain the new 2022 Strategic Plan. and with Philippe Boujut, who was appointed by the General Meeting of In 2018, in addition to constant dialogue with the Chief Executive Officer 16 May 2018. of Crédit Agricole S.A., and meetings with Senior Executives on strategic Lastly, a Works Council representative attends the meetings of the Board issues or issues falling within the Board’s remit, in particular with the of Directors in an advisory capacity. Group Chief Risk Officer and the Deputy General Manager, Chief Financial Officer of the Group, the Chairman took part in: This composition of the Board serves several objectives: nn to ensure the long-term majority representation of the Regional nn the main meetings with the ECB’s joint supervision team in charge of Crédit Agricole, as well as meetings with Banking Supervision Banks on the Board of Directors of Crédit Agricole S.A. in which they Officers; hold a majority of shares (56.26% at end-2018) and voting rights (56.34% at end-2018) through SAS Rue La Boétie, which makes it nn the main press conferences, as well as the press encounters and immune to takeover bids; interviews organised by the Communications department of Crédit Agricole S.A.; The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 95 3 Corporate governance 1. Board of Directors’ Report nn to continue the representation of employees of Crédit Agricole S.A. Following the elections of Directors to represent the employees of the and the Regional Banks in the Board of Directors after the initial public Economic and Social Unit (U.E.S.) in the Board of Directors of Crédit offering, under the conditions set out in 1984 by the Governance rules Agricole S.A., held from 24 until 31 May 2018, the following were elected for the Caisse nationale de Crédit Agricole in effect at the time; for a term of three years, effective 25 June 2018: nn to preserve the historical relationship with the agricultural sector, nn Executive College: François Heyman (re-elected; third term); of which Crédit Agricole is the leading financier in France, via a nn Technical college: Simone Védie (first term). representative of its professional organisations; Simone Védie was elected to the position previously held by Christian nn to benefit from the external expertise of independent Directors, both Moueza, who wished to exercise his pension rights and was not to meet the criteria of good governance and above all to enrich the standing for re-election. The terms of three years for Simone Védie and collective competence of the Board and its discussions. François Heyman took effect on 25 June 2018. With regard to Directors representing employees, their participation in In addition, after the appointment of Philippe Boujut as a Director, the Board is ensured by: followed by the decision of François Macé to exercise his pension nn two Directors (one manager and one non-manager) elected by the rights as of 1 October 2018, the Board, upon recommendation of the employees of the Economic and Social Unit of Crédit Agricole S.A. in Chairman and after consulting the Appointments and Governance accordance with the provisions of Articles L. 225-27 et seq. of the Committee, appointed as non-voting Directors respectively with effect French Commercial Code; of 16 May 2018 and 2 October 2018: nn one representative of employees of the Regional Banks, selected nn Philippe de Waal, Chairman of the Regional Bank of Brie Picardie, under the collective agreement, under the auspices of the Fédération Vice-Chairman of the Transformation and Performance Commission nationale du Crédit Agricole, from within the labour union best of the FNCA and member of the Mutual Life and Identity Commission representing the Regional Banks and whose appointment has been of Crédit Agricole; submitted to vote in the General Meeting under the conditions of nn Pierre Cambefort, Chief Executive Officer of the Regional Bank of ordinary law. Nord Midi-Pyrénées, Chairman of Crédit Agricole Payment Services, Without taking into account the three Directors representing employees, former Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole CIB . 33% of the Directors on the Board are independent, in line with Following the General Meeting of 16 May 2018, the Board of Directors the recommendation of the aforementioned AFEP/MEDEF Code for renewed the composition of these six Specialised Committees without companies controlled by a majority shareholder. any change. The addition of these objectives results in a Board of Directors consisting of 21 Directors. Any increase or decrease in the number of Directors 1.1.2. Rules of operation of the Board of Directors representing any of the above-mentioned categories would automatically and Specialised Committees result in a proportional increase or decrease of the number of Directors in the other categories in order to maintain this balance as required by law and by the Articles of Association. Operation To date, each of the annual assessments conducted with stakeholders The operation of the Board of Directors is governed by legal provisions has confirmed that the size of the Board of Crédit Agricole S.A. is totally and by the Board’s Rules of Procedure. The same applies to the six appropriate for its members. Specialised Committees: nn Risk Committee; In addition to the above-mentioned provisions of the Articles of nn United States Risk Committee; Association, it is specified, pursuant to Article L. 225-37-5 of the French Commercial Code, that the rules applicable to the appointment and nn Audit Committee; replacement of members of the Board of Directors of Crédit Agricole S.A. nn Compensation Committee; are the ordinary-law rules laid down in the French Commercial Code and nn Appointments and Governance Committee; the French Monetary and Financial Code (in particular Article L. 511-51). nn Strategy and CSR Committee. As Crédit Agricole S.A. is an entity under the direct supervision of the European Central Bank, its Board of Directors is also covered by the The Board’s Rules of Procedure, to which are appended the Directors’ ECB’s Single Supervisory Mechanism (SSM Framework Regulation of Code of Conduct and, since December 2016, the code of ethics, are 16 April 2014). To this effect, after the appointment (or re-appointment) appended to this report in the latest version of these documents updated of Directors by the General Meeting, the European Central Bank issues in December 2018. Along with the Committees’ Rules of Procedure, these a non-opposition notice after a review of each appointee’s repute, documents are available on the Crédit Agricole S.A. website at https:// expertise and availability. www.credit-agricole.com. To date, no opposition notice has ever been issued by the European Furthermore, the Board of Directors of Crédit Agricole S.A. is entirely Central Bank in respect of a Director of Crédit Agricole S.A. composed of non-executive Directors, and no severance benefit is payable to Board members upon termination of their office, irrespective of the reason. Changes within the Board and Committees in 2018 There have not been any significant changes in the composition of the Directors’ compensation Board of Directors in 2018. Board members receive Directors’ fees. The conditions for allocating At the General Meeting of 16 May 2018, Philippe Boujut, Chairman of Directors’ fees, as described below, are determined by the Board on the the Regional Bank of Charente-Périgord as a non-voting Director, was recommendation of the Compensation Committee. elected member of the Board to succeed Jean-Pierre Paviet, who had reached the age limit. Compensation of Board members is based entirely on their attendance at Board Meetings. Directors receive the same compensation for attending strategy seminars and special meetings, i.e. those not on the annual calendar, and scheduled meetings, up to a maximum of the total amount approved. 96 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance 1. Board of Directors’ Report Board members receive additional Directors’ fees for attending meetings nn €35,000 flat fee for the Chairmanship of the Risk Committee; of the Specialised Committees: the Chairmen of the Board’s Specialised nn €35,000 flat fee for the Chairmanship of the Audit Committee. Committees receive an annual flat rate fee, which differs according to the The Chairman of the Board of Directors, Dominique Lefebvre, waived all Committee. Committee members receive a set fee for each Committee compensation other than compensation for his role as Chairman, despite Meeting they attend. sitting on the Strategy and CSR Committee and the Appointments and Non-voting Directors receive the same compensation for attending Governance Committee. Board Meetings and, when they are members, Specialised Committee Renée Talamona waived her Directors’ fees both for attending meetings Meetings. of the Board and of the Strategy and CSR Committee on which she sits. Director’s fees approved total €1.4 million. This amount is unchanged The three Directors representing employees on the Board do not receive from the General Meeting of 19 May 2016. any Directors’ fees. Instead, they are paid over to their unions. The Board, on the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, The Board has also set up a system for reimbursing Board members for decided on its distribution as follows: travel expenses, based on costs incurred by each member for attending nn a set fee of €4,000 per Board Meeting; Board and Committee Meetings. This system is renewed by the Board nn a set fee of €2,700 per Committee Meeting; each year. nn an annual fixed amount of €20,000, allocated to the Chairs of the Compensation Committee, Appointments and Governance Committee, and United States Risk Committee, respectively; 2017 Net amount received in 2018(1) 3 Net amount received from Total other Grand Crédit Agricole Crédit Group total Directors S.A. in 2017(1) Agricole S.A. CACIB LCL Amundi subsidiaries 2018 Directors elected by the General Meeting of Shareholders Dominique Lefebvre(2) 0 0 0 0 Raphaël Appert 25,527 45,011 0 45,011 Pascale Berger(3)(4) 30,420 33,120 0 33,120 Philippe Boujut(5) 12,700 28,000 0 28,000 Caroline Catoire 45,149 50,681 0 50,681 Laurence Dors 57,849 64,681 0 64,681 Daniel Épron 40,005 46,900 20,045 66,945 Véronique Flachaire 45,149 45,081 0 45,081 Jean-Pierre Gaillard 45,149 50,681 14,700 14,700 65,381 Françoise Gri 72,025 94,850 28,770 28,770 123,620 Jean-Paul Kerrien 26,289 37,450 15,400 52,850 Monica Mondardini(6) 39,200 52,320 0 52,320 Gérard Ouvrier-Buffet 38,291 43,121 28,607 71,728 Jean-Pierre Paviet(7) 12,700 11,200 15,750 15,750 26,950 Catherine Pourre(6) 59,897 79,526 44,472 44,472 123,998 Christian Streiff 46,863 60,131 0 60,131 Renée Talamona(2) 0 0 0 0 0 Louis Tercinier 17,844 33,671 0 33,671 François Thibault 40,005 54,461 23,940 23,940 78,401 Directors elected by the staff François Heyman(3)(4) 41,828 44,298 0 44,298 Christian Moueza(3)(4)(7) 30,420 19,804 0 19,804 Simone Védie(3)(4)(5) 13,248 0 13,248 Director representing the professional agricultural organisations Christiane Lambert 5,080 19,600 0 19,600 Non-voting Director Pierre Cambefort(8) 8,400 0 8,400 Philippe de Waal(8) 16,800 0 16,800 François Macé(9) 22,860 19,600 0 19,600 755,250 972,635 112,932 14,700 0 191,684 1,164,319 (1) After the following deductions from the sums payable to individual beneficiaries resident in France: income tax prepayment (12.8%) and social contributions (17.2%). (2) Do not receive Directors’ fees. (3) The three Directors representing employees on the Board do not receive their Directors’ fees, instead, they are paid over to their unions. (4) After deductions of social contributions (17.2%). (5) Appointment as a Director (May and June 2018). (6) 12.8% withholding tax (non-resident in France). (7) Outgoing Directors (May and August 2018). (8) Appointment as non-voting Director (October 2018). (9) Outgoing non-voting Director (August 2018). The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 97 3 Corporate governance 1. Board of Directors’ Report 1.1.3. Governance and diversity policy For its part the Board of Directors, under the guidance of the Appointments and Governance Committee, ensures that the renewal of Directors Given the size of Crédit Agricole S.A., the Board of Directors is required elected by the General Meeting is carried out such as to promote, in as to comply with the provisions of the French Commercial Code governing far as possible, a balanced scheduling of the expiry dates of their terms the diversity policy it pursues within the Company, as well as ensure that of office. Given the average age of the members of the Board of Directors, a similar policy exists within the Management bodies. the main reason for leaving is reaching the age limit. The term of office of Crédit Agricole S.A. Directors as private individuals Board’s diversity policy is fixed at three years by the Articles of Association. Directors may not Gender balance serve for more than four consecutive terms. The table below shows the Crédit Agricole S.A. is subject to the provisions of Article L. 225-18-1 of expiry dates of the terms of office of Directors elected by the General the French Commercial Code, under which “the proportion of Directors Meeting of Shareholders for the next three years. of each gender may not be less than 40% in companies whose shares The expiry of the terms of office of the two Directors elected by the are admitted to trading on a regulated market”. employees of Crédit Agricole S.A. is governed by an electoral protocol. The only exclusion from the denominator laid down by the law concerns The representative of the Professional Agricultural Organisations in the “Directors elected by employees”, i.e. two Directors out of twenty-one. Board of Directors, Christiane Lambert, has been appointed by order of Pascale Berger – representing the employees of the Regional Banks the Minister of Economy and Finance and the Minister of Agriculture and under the collective agreement but having been elected directly by Food on 28 August 2017 for a renewable term of three years. the shareholders at a General Meeting – is taken into account in the calculation of the 40% threshold. The same applies to Christiane Lambert – representing professional farming associations – who was appointed Expiry of the terms of office of Company Directors elected by the French Ministers of Agriculture and the Economy and Finance, and by the General Meeting is thus not covered by the legal exclusions. (General Meeting of Shareholders to approve the annual financial As at 31 December 2018, nine of the 19 members in the Board of statements) Directors of Crédit Agricole S.A. were women, which under the legal 2019 2020 2021 requirements represented a ratio of 47%. These nine members General General General were P. Berger, C. Catoire, L. Dors, V. Flachaire, F. Gri, C. Lambert, Name Meeting Meeting Meeting M. Mondardini, C. Pourre, R. Talamona. Dominique Lefebvre ✓ Regardless of the legal provisions, with the election of Simone Védie SAS Rue La Boétie represented to replace Christian Moueza in June 2018 the ratio remains the same, by Raphaël Appert ✓ taking into account the Directors elected by employees, i.e. 10 women Pascale Berger ✓ out of 21 Directors. Philippe Boujut ✓ With the exception of the Strategy and CSR Committee – chaired by Caroline Catoire ✓✓✓ Dominique Lefebvre who is also Chairman of the Board of Directors – the five other Specialised Committees are chaired by women: Laurence Dors ✓✓✓ Daniel Épron ✓✓✓ Specialised Board Committees Chair Véronique Flachaire ✓ Risks Committee Françoise Gri Jean-Pierre Gaillard ✓ United States Risk Committee Françoise Gri Françoise Gri ✓ Audit Committee Catherine Pourre Jean-Paul Kerrien ✓ Compensation Committee Laurence Dors Monica Mondardini ✓✓✓ Appointments and Governance Gérard Ouvrier-Buffet ✓ Committee Monica Mondardini Catherine Pourre ✓ Strategy and CSR Committee Dominique Lefebvre Christian Streiff ✓✓ Renée Talamona ✓ Age and term renewal Louis Tercinier ✓ As at 31 December 2018 the average age of Directors was 59.5 years. François Thibault ✓✓ The age limit to carry out the duties of a Director is set by law at 65 years, the age being measured at the date of the nearest General Meeting after ✓ : Renewable term of office. a Director’s 65th birthday. The age limit for the Chairman is 67 years. ✓✓ : Non-renewable term of office. ✓✓✓ :Renewable for one year. The Board of Directors does not have a policy in terms of minimum age or age balance, although regulatory requirements in terms of the profiles and expertise of Directors in the banking sector do lead to the Knowledge and expertise choice of candidates with proven professional experience. In its May To better meet its legal obligations to assess the expertise required 2017 Guide on the assessment of the good repute and competence of for its proper operation, the Board of Directors of Crédit Agricole S.A. managers and Directors of banking institutions, the European Central has defined its desired diversity policy with regard to the experience Bank considers, for example, that the presumption of competence is and profiles of its members in a procedural memorandum, adopted on acquired for persons with “three years of recent practical experience 7 November 2017. The Board considers that the addition of individual in high-level management positions and theoretical experience in the professional experience of the Directors forms the basis of the collective banking sector”. By adopting senior management experience as a competence of the Board of Directors, which French law recognises as criterion for approving appointments of Directors, the supervisor guides a collegial body. This diversity contributes to the richness of exchanges the choice for Department with a mature profile. within the Group in key areas of the Group’s banking and insurance activities, as well as in their environment, and is a guarantee of its proper operation. 98 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance 1. Board of Directors’ Report The definition of the required profiles and experiences was adopted by the nn financial accounting and auditing; Board of Directors on the proposal of the Appointments and Governance nn risk management, compliance and internal audit; Committee, to which the French Monetary and Financial Code (Article nn IT and security; L. 511-98) has entrusted the task of “assessing the balance and diversity nn local, regional or global economic dimensions; of knowledge, expertise and experience available to the members of the nn applicable laws and regulations; Board of Directors individually and collectively”. nn corporate social responsibility. The Committee is committed to identifying the knowledge that must be permanently present within the Board of Directors in order to enable The experience aspect encompasses: it to carry out its duties under the best conditions. Above all, it has nn company management, including experience in human resource adopted the knowledge and experience recommended by the European management, marketing and distribution; banking authorities and has supplemented these with a requirement nn the management of international groups; for permanent expertise within the Group in the areas of social and nn strategic planning. environmental responsibility. By combining this approach with knowledge and experience, the In terms of knowledge, the following were adopted: Appointments and Governance Committee was able to rank each of nn an overall vision of the Company’s activities and the risks associated the items in order of importance for the proper operation of the Board, with them; by defining the percentage of Directors, for each of them, who must nn a precise vision of each of the Company’s key activities and their permanently have the expertise that is required to ensure the proper environment; operation of the Board by adding individual skills in the service of nn a sectoral vision of certain activities (financial markets, insurance, solvency, and models); collective expertise. The indicative grid resulting from this work is shown below. 3 Indicative grid concerning the desired balance of individual expertise required for the Board of Directors’ collective expertise Between >50%(1) 30% and 50%(1) 10% to 30%(1) 1) Knowledge of the Company’s activities and associated risks ✓ 2) Knowledge of each of the Company’s key activities ✓ 3) Sectoral knowledge of certain activities ✓ nn Retail banking ✓ nn Asset management and insurances ✓ nn Corporate and investment bank ✓ nn Specialised financial services ✓ 4) Knowledge of financial accounting ✓ 5) Knowledge in the fields of risk management, compliance and internal audit ✓ 6) Knowledge in the field of IT and security ✓ 7) Knowledge of local, regional or global economic environments ✓ 8) Knowledge of laws and regulations ✓ 9) Experience in company management ✓ 10) Experience in the management of international groups ✓ 11) Experience in strategic planning ✓ 12) Knowledge in the field of corporate social responsibility ✓ (1) Permanent percentage of Directors required having good or very good knowledge in the fields mentioned. The criteria for knowledge and experience used in this grid are included renewals in the coming years should be an opportunity to strengthen in the individual evaluation questionnaire for members of the Board of the Board’s expertise in the fields of digital technology and management Directors each year. experience of international groups. This annual procedure allows the Appointments and Governance Based on the review of results of the individual and collective expertise of Committee to ensure that the required expertise is always represented the Board of Directors by the Appointments and Governance Committee in the Board of Directors in the proportions defined in its procedural held in 2018, the collective expertise of the Board of Directors of Crédit memorandum. It is also an opportunity for the Committee to assess, Agricole S.A. remain similar to the profile identified in the previous based on the responses of the Directors, whether or not it is useful to financial year and are characterised by: change the indicative grid in terms of skills and/or the proportion of this nn the predominance of banking, finance and insurance expertise, with expertise within the Board. a high level of expertise in audit and risk; Given the year-on-year continuity in the composition of the Board of nn expert knowledge of local economies, the bedrock of the Group’s Directors, the results of the self-assessment of expertise carried out business, more often combined with strong commitments to local, in 2018 are in line with those of 2017. They show that the Directors or even, national communities; are satisfied with the individual expertise represented in the Board nn experience as Directors of large corporates, mainly multi-nationals, of Directors, with several Directors considering that, with respect to in the service, technology and industry sectors; the changes in the profile and environment of the Group, the pending nn recognised players in the fields of governance and CSR. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 99 3 Corporate governance 1. Board of Directors’ Report Based on the results of the assessment campaign conducted in 2018, to create a pool of Directors capable of serving on the Group’s boards, the Board of Directors of Crédit Agricole S.A. concluded that, in each of as well as to represent it on external boards. the areas examined, the Board permanently has several members with The general process for identifying female talent, assisting in women’s adequate knowledge of the subjects, and that all essential aspects of development and promotion whenever executive positions must be filled, its collective expertise, as defined in its procedural memorandum, were also includes the rule of systematic inclusion of a female candidate for covered. management and Cercle 1 positions. The roadmap for 2018 should give an accelerating boost to the movement Diversity policy within the Management bodies with, in addition to the deployment of mentoring and women’s networks, The issue of gender balance in Executive bodies is discussed every year the acceleration of the feminisation of Cercle 1. Lastly, in accordance with by the Appointments and Governance Committee, and subsequently by the provisions of the French law of 5 September 2018 on professional the Board of Directors, during the review of the report on gender equality prospects, concrete measures are being put in place to gradually balance at work. This report is the subject of an annual deliberation, as provided the wage gaps between men and women, including the decision to for in Article L. 225-37-1 of the French Commercial Code. It covers both allocate an overall budget of 0.2% of the wage bill to this objective. the general gender policy of the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group as well as A series of general measures are also implemented, such as HR briefings any information on how the Company seeks a balanced representation of before and after parental leave. women and men in its management bodies, including its feminisation rate. The key elements of the 2018 report show a stable overall population of Directors’ independence 54% women within the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group. Their representation Crédit Agricole S.A. refers to the AFEP/MEDEF Corporate Governance in the Circle of key executives, known as “Cercle 1”, which represents Code for listed companies, in its latest revised version as published in approximately 150 persons in charge of the key divisions of Crédit Agricole June 2018 (the “AFEP/MEDEF Code”). Crédit Agricole S.A. does not S.A. or its main subsidiaries, has increased year on year from 16% to comply – or does not comply in full – with certain recommendations 17%. On the Management Committee, which includes 54 managers of of the AFEP/MEDEF Code as set out in a table appended to this section Crédit Agricole S.A. Group and is considered representative of the 10% of (see hereunder). positions with a higher responsibility, the feminisation rate increased from The process for assessing the independence of Crédit Agricole S.A. 16% to 19%. The feminisation rate of the Executive Committee remains Directors is implemented under the auspices of the Appointments stable at 6%, i.e. one woman and 14 men. With regard to the Executive and Governance Committee. This principle is assessed both in terms Committees or the Management Committees of the main entities, seven of the criteria of the AFEP/MEDEF Code and in terms of the specific out of eleven have strengthened their female presence, two of which, texts as applicable to the banking sector, such as the European Banking Uni-Médias and CA Payment Services, are at exact parity. Specific action Authority’s Guidelines for the assessment of members of the Board of plans have been put in place to strengthen the pool of female talent in Directors, which came into effect in June of 2018. These two standards order to accelerate the promotion of women in the management bodies overlap to a very large extent. of entities with the lowest rates of feminisation. At its meeting of February 6, 2019, the Appointments Committee, For the entire Crédit Agricole S.A. Group, a Diversity Action Plan has been individually reviewed the situation of each Director, and more particularly in place since 2016. It integrates four levels of action. the independent Directors, whom it had previously requested to The first level includes awareness-raising actions for all employees, present any significant change in their situation that could affect their with both the distribution of a “Diversity Guide” to all employees of independence and to confirm compliance with confirm the compliance the Crédit Agricole Group as well as activities to promote and support of their situation with each criterion of the AFEP/MEDEF Code. women’s networks (more than 1,500 members), currently consisting of The six criteria that it sets out are: thirteen networks in France and abroad, including six established in 2017 and 2018. 1. not being, or not having been, in the last five years: The second level of action concerns the identification of talent and the –– an employee or Executive Corporate Officer of the Company, implementation of the “Female Talent” programme, the objectives of –– an employee, Executive Corporate Officer or Director of a company which are to prepare young female talent to find the keys to their career consolidated by the Company, development and support them in their development. In this context, –– an employee, Executive Corporate Officer or Director of the parent 80 women were trained in 2018, assisted by an external firm. company or of a company consolidated by this parent company; The third level, launched in September 2017, is the deployment of 2. an Executive Corporate Officer of a company in which the Company, mentoring by members of the Executive Committee and the Chief directly or indirectly, acts as a Director or in which an employee Executive Officers of the Regional Banks for women with potential to designated as such or an Executive Corporate Officer of the reach the levels of either Cercle 1 or Deputy General Manager of the Company (currently or in the last five years) is a Director; Regional Banks. The program is carried out in a formalised framework 3. not being a client, supplier, corporate banker, investment banker, with the objective, in particular, of assisting beneficiaries in their career consultant (or be related to persons in this capacity): choices, and also to assist them to assert their leadership and build a –– who plays a significant role in the Company or its Group, network. 27 pairs were established in the first class of 2017, and 29 pairs –– for whom the Company or its Group represents a significant in the second class, launched in October 2018. The satisfaction rates of proportion of business; the mentored persons on the quality of the exchanges with their mentor 4. not having any close family ties with a Corporate Officer; and the usefulness of this support is very high (96%). 5. not having been an auditor of the Company in the last five years; Finally, among the executives and members of Cercle 1, in 2018 6. not having been a Director of the Company for more than twelve 12 women and three men attended the corporate Director IFA/ years; the status of independent Director is lost when the twelve Sciences-Po certification training set up in 2017. As a general rule, it years are up. was decided to have 70% women and 30% men per class. The goal is 100 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance 1. Board of Directors’ Report On the recommendation of the Appointments and Governance Committee, Consequently, in order to assess the “significant” nature of the business the Board noted that the representatives of the Regional Banks sitting relationship, the following are taken into account: on the Board of Directors of Crédit Agricole S.A. (Chairmen or Chief 1. the amount and nature of the commitments, their maturity, their Executive Officers) could not be deemed to be independent Directors on significance within the company’s debt, and the refinancing capacity the basis of the principle outlined and the above criteria, as Directors of of company in question; the Regional Banks hold offices in the Company’s parent company or in 2. the quality of the relationship with the company in question, in companies consolidated by said parent company. The same applies to particular its financial position as demonstrated by its results and the Director representing employees of the Regional Banks, who is an ratings (Banque de France and internal rating), in order to check employee of an entity with a controlling interest in Crédit Agricole S.A. whether it depends on Crédit Agricole for financing or whether it Irrespective of the fact that, due to their employment contract, they would would be able to obtain financing from other banks or through other not meet criterion 1, the two Directors representing Crédit Agricole S.A. means – including via the market – in the event of Crédit Agricole’s employees on the Board come under a specific regulatory framework, withdrawal. and cannot, under the AFEP/MEDEF Code, be included in the calculation By making sure that the business relationship is balanced, i.e. that neither of the percentage of independent Directors. of the parties is in a position of power over the other, this last phase adds Lastly, with regard to the professional farming associations’ a determining qualitative dimension to the overall assessment. representative, Crédit Agricole’s position as the leading financier of In anticipation of the General Meeting of May 2019, analyses were agriculture in France excludes said Director de facto from compliance performed for each of the independent Directors of Crédit Agricole S.A. with criterion 3, even if said Director’s appointment by the Minister of concerning business relationships with companies in which they hold the Economy and Finance and the Minister of Agriculture is part of a regulatory process in which Crédit Agricole S.A. is not involved. positions or have ties. These analyses concerned: Caroline Catoire nn Roquette Group 3 With respect to the Regional Banks Chairmen who sit on the Crédit Agricole S.A. Board, the Board has reiterated, as it does every year, that Laurence Dors nn Capgemini they are not employees of the Regional Banks and that they legitimately nn EGIS Group hold this office by election, in accordance with the Regional Banks’ Françoise Gri nn Edenred S.A. cooperative status. Monica Mondardini nn CIR Group Upon the advice of the Appointments and Governance Committee, at nn Atlantia S.p.A. its meeting of 13 February 2019 the Board of Directors found that six Catherine Pourre nn SEB Directors meet the AFEP/MEDEF Code’s independence criteria: nn Bénéteau nn Caroline Catoire; Christian Sreiff nn Zeplug nn Laurence Dors; nn Expliseat nn Françoise Gri; nn Optireno nn Monica Mondardini; Based on the results of this analysis, on the recommendation of the nn Catherine Pourre; Appointments and Governance Committee, the Board has deemed that nn Christian Streiff. the Group’s commitments vis-à-vis these companies: The Board’s composition, with one-third independent Directors, not nn were either not significant enough to qualify as situations of including employee Directors, fulfils the recommendations of the AFEP/ dependence on Crédit Agricole; MEDEF Code on controlled companies. nn or, after further analysis of these companies’ financial positions, In addition to a formal review of their individual situation, updated by each revealed a balanced business relationship with these counterparties, interested party for each criterion, the assessment was also based, after with neither of the parties having the ability to exert influence over the recommendation of the Appointments and Governance Committee, the other. on the findings of an analysis concerning existing business relations The Appointments and Governance Committee reiterated that, under all between the Crédit Agricole Group and the companies in which the circumstances, should the Directors concerned be called upon to give an independent Directors hold positions (in accordance with Chapter 2.2. opinion on a matter in which there is a potential conflict of interests, said “Offices held by Corporate Officers”). The analysis of these business Directors must abstain from attending the debate and taking part in the relationships is carried out with the support of experts from the Group vote, as required by the rules of good governance of Crédit Agricole S.A. Risk Department, which is based on the consolidated data available to it and the Directors’ Code of Conduct. on the Group’s relationship with its counterparties. It excludes the assets structures of the persons concerned as well as those through which they may carry out advisory activities, none of them carrying out assignments Assessment of the Board of Directors for the Group in this capacity pursuant to the rules relating to conflicts Each year, the Board of Directors assesses its operation and composition of interest. on the basis of responses to two questionnaires: nn one on its composition, organisation and operation, recommended As banking is, by definition, at the heart of the financing of the economy and in view of the characteristics of the French banking market, whenever by the AFEP/MEDEF Code and for the banking sector meeting a legal the companies concerned are based in France, the probability that these obligation as defined in Article L. 511-100 of the French Monetary companies are customers of a Crédit Agricole Group entity is obviously and Financial Code; high, often increasing with the size of the company. nn the other on the knowledge, expertise and experience of the members of the Board of Directors, both individually and collectively, still in accordance with the aforementioned article of the French Monetary and Financial Code (see “Diversity policy” above). Under the AFEP/MEDEF Code, the Board of Directors delegates these tasks to an external firm once every three years. In 2018 they were carried out in the form of self-assessment, the questionnaires used being very similar to those of 2017, which had been delegated to an external consultant. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 101 3 Corporate governance 1. Board of Directors’ Report The generally positive assessment of the operation of the Board already training sessions, the programme is set after consultation of Directors made by its members in 2017 was confirmed in financial year 2018. on their wishes. Individual training sessions answer to requests or needs None of the items received an “unsatisfactory” rating. Ten questions of Directors at the moment of annual self-assessment campaign. received a 100% “satisfactory” or “very satisfactory” score, including In 2018, 20 out of 21 Directors, as well as a non-voting Director work atmosphere, ease of access to information and management, representing the Works Council of the Company, have attended at least facilitation and conduct of discussions by the Chairman, the debate one of the training events: on topical issues presented in a systematic manner in the introduction nn Group training: 20 Directors and one non-voting Director to each Board by the Chief Executive Officer, and the services of the representing the Works Council have participated in the following Secretariat of the Board. subjects: In order to propose further improvements in the operation of the Board, –– regulatory developments and the monetary policies of central the Appointments and Governance Committee analysed the questionnaire banks: 20 Directors, one non-voting Director and the representative responses by classifying them into four categories: of the Works Council; nn suggestions made in the context of questions that received more than –– potential catalysts for a future crisis: 16 Directors and the 20% “moderately satisfactory” responses; representative of the Works Council. nn suggestions made in the context of questions that received between nn Specialised training: all members of the Risks and Audit 10% and 20% “moderately satisfactory” responses; Committees have attended training regarding: nn other specific suggestions relating to the Board, and those relating to –– insurance accounting; the operation of the Committees. –– climate risk assessment. The question with the highest number of “moderately satisfactory” nn Individual training: Four Directors in Strategic Planning, three responses was, as in 2017 but to a lesser extent, the time spent by the Directors in financial statements and analyst expectations, three Board on strategy compared to the time spent on regulatory obligations. Directors and one non-voting Director in Compliance. However, with respect to the 2018 financial year the Committee noted In its meeting on 2 October 2018 the Board approved its training nonetheless: programme for 2019, which includes, in addition to individualised training nn efforts recognised by the Directors in favour of rebalancing the annual and Committee training, three Group sessions over the year: programming with the two institutionalised strategic seminars and nn one session focusing on macroeconomic environment and geopolitical topics selected for the training sessions to stimulate debate; trends; nn the fact that 82% of respondents consider that the agendas are in line nn one session focusing on updating legislative and regulatory with the duties and responsibilities of the Board; developments, in particular in the prudential field but also in the area nn concrete suggestions to ensure that the link is more clearly made in of governance; presentations that meet legal or regulatory requirements and their nn one session on developments of information systems and data impact on business and strategic issues. processing. On the advice of the Appointments and Governance Committee the Board proposed that this last request of respondents be formalised, so that 1.1.4. Other information required under Article the impacts on business activity are, as far as possible, highlighted in a balanced manner in the presentation of files meeting legal or regulatory L. 225-37-4 of the French Commercial Code requirements, in particular in prudential or compliance areas. Restrictions imposed by the Board of Directors on the Chief 2019 will also respond to the demand for more “strategy”, with a Executive Officer’s powers timetable for close involvement of the Board in the preparation of the New The Chief Executive Officer is vested with the broadest powers to act in Medium Term Strategic Plan, both upstream during the second half of all circumstances on behalf of Crédit Agricole S.A. and to represent the 2018 and followed, in 2019, first by a strategic seminar with a dedicated Bank toward third parties. He exercises his authority within the limits of Board of Directors In anticipation of the MTP results, the most significant the Company’s objects and subject to that authority expressly assigned “country” strategies for the activities of the Group have been integrated by law to Meetings of Shareholders and to the Board of Directors. in the Board’s 2019 programming. The only limitation that the Board of Directors places on the powers of the In response to requests for a better balance of meeting agendas (between Chief Executive Officer, as set out in its Rules of Procedure of the Board, 10% and 20% of “moderately satisfactory” responses), the number is that the Chief Executive Officer must obtain its prior approval for the of Board meetings will be increased from 9 to 10 in 2019, excluding following transactions: strategic seminars. Another issue were the transfers/acquisitions files nn the creation, acquisition or disposal of any subsidiaries and equity and the appropriate time to present these to the Board of Directors. investments in France or abroad for amounts exceeding €150 million; Irrespective of their adoption by the Strategy and CSR Committee, nn any other investment of any kind for amounts exceeding €150 million. whose operating mode allows it to be informed as early as possible in the discussions, a Procedural Memorandum of the Board will be proposed in Agreements between Corporate Officers and subsidiaries 2019 in order to specify the conditions under which these matters should be communicated to the Board in advance, in cases other than those No agreements other than those entered into under normal conditions or provided for in its Rules of Procedure. relating to ordinary transactions and regulated agreements covered by Articles L. 225-38 et seq. of the French Commercial Code (see below), Training of the Board of Directors have been entered into, directly or through an intermediary, between, on the one hand, one of the Corporate Officers or one of the shareholders Article L. 511-53 of the French Monetary and Financial Code provides that holding more than 10% of the voting rights of a company and, on the credit institutions and finance companies must set aside the necessary other hand, another company in which the Crédit Agricole S.A. owns, human and financial resources for Director training. For collective directly or indirectly, more than half of the capital. 102 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance 1. Board of Directors’ Report Principles and rules laid down by the Board of Directors to determine the compensation and benefits in kind awarded to Corporate Officers This information can be found in the section on “the reward policy” of this Registration Document. Areas of non-compliance with the AFEP/MEDEF Code The areas of non-compliance with the AFEP/MEDEF Code appear in the summary table below. Such areas of non-compliance are not mentioned when they stem from the implementation of banking laws or regulations. Recommendation of the Code Comment by the Company Assessment of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors of Crédit Agricole S.A. does not hold any plenary meetings without 10.3 It is recommended that a meeting be held each year the presence of Executive Corporate Officers. As a reminder, the Board of Crédit Agricole without the presence of Executive Corporate Officers. S.A. is exclusively composed of non-executive Directors. However, the Risk Committee and the Audit Committee each hold an annual meeting without the presence of Executive Corporate Officers and Statutory Auditors. It should be recalled that the individual and collective performance of Executive Corporate Officers is evaluated in detail on an annual basis by the Compensation Committee as part of the system governing Corporate Officer compensation approved by the Board. The presentation to the Board by the Committee Chairwoman of the findings of this assessment, along with the Board’s discussion on the elements of the Executive Corporate Officers’ compensation packages, take place in the absence of the Executive Corporate Officers, in accordance with Article 17.3. of the AFEP/MEDEF Code. 3 The Committee in charge of selection or appointments The Appointments and Governance Committee is chaired by an independent Director. 16.1 Composition: It comprises six members, including the non-executive Chairman of the Board of Directors, “(It) should have a majority of independent Directors.” and two independent Directors i.e. a proportion of one-third. The shareholding structure (existence of a majority shareholder) is reflected in the composition of this Committee. Share ownership by Directors and Executive Corporate The Company’s Articles of Association set the minimum holding of Crédit Agricole S.A. Officers: shares by a Director at one share. No provision is made in this regard for Executive 19. Ethical standards applicable to Directors: Corporate Officers. “… the Director should personally be a Company Any change would need to be approved by an Extraordinary General Meeting called to shareholder and, in accordance with the provisions amend the Articles of Association, something that no Director or shareholder has requested of the Articles of Association or Rules of Procedure, to date. hold a minimum number of shares that is significant in The number of shares held by each Director is disclosed in this report, in the section relation to the Directors’ fees allocated to him/her.” “Offices held by Directors and Corporate Officers”. The average number of shares held is 22. Obligation to hold shares around 2,202. At an annual average share price of €11, this amounts to a value close to “The Board of Directors sets the minimum number of the net amount paid for 11 annual Board meetings. shares that Executive Corporate Officers are required As regards Executive Corporate Officers more specifically, it should be borne in mind that: to hold as registered shares until the end of their term nn unlike the practice observed in most large companies in the CAC 40, the Corporate of office. This decision is reviewed at least every time Officers of Crédit Agricole S.A. do not receive stock options or performance shares; they are reappointed. (…) So long as the shareholding nn under current regulations, a significant portion of their variable compensation is deferred target has not been reached, Executive Corporate and paid in the form of instruments linked to the Crédit Agricole S.A. share price. Officers allocate that portion of their option exercises or performance share awards as determined by the Board for this purpose. This information is included in the Company’s annual report.” 21. Termination of employment contract in the case Upon the appointment of Philippe Brassac as Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole of a corporate office S.A. from 20 May 2015, the Board of Directors authorised, at its meeting of 19 May 2015, “It is recommended, when an employee becomes a the maintenance of his employment contract and its subsequent suspension during his Company Executive Corporate Officer, to terminate term of office. their employment contract with the Company or The termination of his employment contract would have deprived him of the rights arising a Group company, either by means of contractual from the performance of his employment contract that were progressively built up over termination or resignation.(1) the course of his 33-year career with the Group and, in particular, benefits obtained by This recommendation applies to the Chairman, virtue of seniority and length of service, notably in terms of long-term benefits – such as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Chief membership of Group schemes – and the right to termination payments. The overall amount Executive Officer in companies with Boards of of such payments would not, in any event, exceed two years of gross compensation in Directors [...].” accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP/MEDEF Code. The Board considered that this is an appropriate approach to give Group employees who have made a major contribution to its development the opportunity to access high-standing offices, thereby fostering the sustainable management of the Group’s human resources. (1) When the employment contract is maintained, it is suspended according to existing jurisdiction. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 103 3 Corporate governance 1. Board of Directors’ Report Recommendation of the Code Comment by the Company 24. Compensation of Executive Corporate Officers nn For the Deputy Chief Executive Officer: his mandate contract, also approved by 24.5.1. Departure of Executive Corporate Officers – the General Meeting in respect of related-party agreements, does not provide for General Provisions performance conditions, insofar as the termination payments for which he would be Termination payments: eligible in the event of his contract being terminated would not be due under his mandate “The law gives a major role to shareholders since the contract, but under his employment contract, which is suspended during the exercise predefined termination payments granted to Executive of his mandate and would be reactivated in the event of termination of his directorship. Corporate Officers are subject to the procedure The introduction of performance conditions would, in this case, be contrary to labour law. applicable to related-party agreements. The law imposes total transparency and makes termination payments conditional upon performance conditions.” The performance conditions set by Boards for these payments must be assessed over at least two financial years. They must be stringent and solely allow the award of termination payments in the event of the forced departure of an executive, irrespective of its form.” 1.2. BOARD ACTIVITIES IN 2018 1.2.1. Board activities Three of the incumbents retired in the course of 2018: nn Jean-Yves Hocher, Deputy General Manager of Crédit Agricole S.A., The Board maintained a sustained activity in 2018, with nine responsible for the segment Large Customers, Chief Executive Officer plenary meetings and two strategic seminars, one dedicated to the of Crédit Agricole CIB, replaced by Jacques Ripoll; insurance business line and major IT projects and their challenges on nn Pascal Célérier, Deputy General Manager Crédit Agricole S.A., 23 January 2018, and the other on 19 June 2018 regarding the Human Resources Strategy and the CACF Strategy. responsible for the segment Operation and transformation, replaced by Michel Ganzin; Directors’ attendance rate remained very high, averaging 98% (see nn Jean-Pierre Tremenbert, Group Chief Compliance Officer, replaced attendance table below) reflecting the strong commitment of all by Stéphane Priami. Directors, which has not waned from one year to the next. The appointment of the new Group Chief Compliance Officer was an Attendance Number of opportunity for the Board of Directors to apply the new provisions of its Bodies rate meetings in 2018 Rules of Procedure, amended in 2017 at the request of the European 11 (including Central Bank, with regard to the appointments of the three Heads of Board of Directors 98% 2 seminars) control functions. The appointments of the Group Risk Director, the Risk Committee 93% 6 Group Chief Compliance Officer and the Head of Group Control and Audit are now made on the recommendation of the Chief Executive Officer United States Risk Committee 100% 4 after consulting the Board of Directors. Their revocation may not take Audit Committee 100% 5 place without the approval of the Board of Directors. At its meeting of Joint Risk/Audit Committees 98% 6 2 August 2018, the Board approved the recommendation to appoint Compensation Committee 100% 5 Mr Priami, previously Chief Executive Officer of CACF France, after Strategy and CSR Committee 97% 5 obtaining the advice of the Appointments and Governance Committee, Appointments and Governance which ensured the transparency of the procedure followed and the Committee 96% 4 assessment of the candidates, and upon obtaining the advice of the Risk Committee on the adequacy of his profile to the expertise required to perform this function. Succession plans and relations with Management bodies As in previous years, the Heads of control functions reported very The relationship between the Board of Directors and the Executive Board regularly on their activities and the results related to their responsibilities is expressed foremost in the regular and numerous contacts between the to the Board and its specialised committees. Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer. In addition, the latter, as well In accordance with the legal provisions specific to the banking sector, as the Deputy Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the the Board’s Rules of Procedure provide that these three Directors have, if Corporate Secretary, attend all Board meetings. necessary, direct access to the supervisory body. Within this framework, In 2018, the Executive Management and Executive Committee were and in addition to systematic attendance at Risk Committee Meetings, organised in the same way as in 2017, with an Executive Committee the Group Chief Risk Officer attended eight out of nine Board meeting in composed of sixteen members, including the Chief Executive Officer, the 2018, while the Chief Compliance Officer and the Head of Group Control Deputy Chief Executive Officer, the three Deputy General Managers of the and Audit each attended two Board meetings. The work of the Group three key segments, the four Deputy General Managers of the business Control and Audit function was presented in April 2018 by the Head lines, and the Managers of Insurance, Italy and Human resources, the of Group Control and Audit, while the Audit Plan for 2019, previously three heads of regulatory functions and the Corporate Secretary. reviewed by the Risk Committee and, for financial projects, by the Audit Committee, was presented in November 2018. In addition to its direct involvement in the process of appointing the Heads of the three control functions, the Board of Directors remains attentive to the existence of succession plans for all functions identified as “key functions” of the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group, namely the functions 104 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance 1. Board of Directors’ Report present within the Executive Committee but also within the Management Current affairs Committee. The identification process is carried out by the Human In addition, the Board remained highly attentive to the Company’s Resources department with the support of Career Committees. The economic, political, regulatory and international climate, which has report was presented to the Appointments and Governance Committee, been the subject of discussions and exchanges with the Executive which accounted for it to the Board of Directors on 18 December 2018. Management at each of its meetings. For this reason, the Board focused In 2017, the presentation focused on the Management Committee, i.e. particular attention on the following: 51 persons. In 2018, at the Committee’s request, the presentation of nn the global and European economic situation and its prospects, succession processes and plans was focused on the members of the in particular for France and Italy, the Group’s two main domestic Executive Committee. The Board of Directors estimates that, through markets; the dual internal pool of Chief Executive Officers of the Regional Banks nn the Brexit deadlines and the Group’s state of preparedness for the and the Managers of subsidiaries or business lines, as well as through possible external recruitment facilitated by the Group’s good external various scenarios; image, there exist serious and credible succession assumptions for each nn the implementation at European level of the so-called “Basel IV” of the key functions. It has found that not only the process, but also prudential agreement, with particular attention to certain aspects of the Group’s mindset with regard to a potentially sensitive subject had the transposition of the text into European law and their potential become more mature and robust from one year to the next. impact on the competitiveness of French banks; nn any possible triggers for a consolidation movement of banks in Structural operations Europe, its impact on Crédit Agricole if it were to be triggered and the options available to it at that time; As part of its responsibilities related to the strategic orientation of the Company’s activities, three major structural operations contributed to nn the level of interest rates, their possible direction, in particular in view of the exit from the ECB’s Quantitative Easing policy, and the possible 3 the work of the Board in 2018, one of which internal. adaptation for the Group of its approach to liquidity risk; The first of these concerned the founding of CA-GIP (Crédit Agricole – nn the developments in terms of credit in France and the decision of Group Infrastructure Platform), referred to as “Joint Group IT Production”, initially combining the IT production activities of CATS, SILCA, Crédit the High Council for Financial Stability to impose a countercyclical Agricole CIB and CAAS, together 80% of the cost basis. This major cushion for equity capital of 0.25% of risk weighted assets to project, which was the subject of a consultation with employee moderate the risk of overheating; representative bodies in the various relevant entities, will enable the nn new market entrants and their competitive positioning, as well as Group to acquire the human and technological capacities for its IT the consequences that the Group has drawn both in terms of offers, Production segment, needed to build a first-rate technical centre capable with the success of EKO, and the further digitalisation of its services, of supporting its changes, particularly with regard to the acceleration of which will result in gains in Crédit Agricole’s market share in 2018; its digital transformation. This segment will have critical sizes for key nn the potential growth of the data economy and the advantages of topics such as cybersecurity or the implementation of technological banks, particularly in the face of the GAFAs, to assert themselves as partnerships that promote disruption. The project was approved by the a trusted third party in this area for consumers. Board, which reviewed in particular the social, financial, technological and governance aspects of the project. Results and risk monitoring In terms of external transactions, the Board of Directors closely monitored The quarterly review of the consolidated financial statements of the Crédit the strengthening of the global partnership on the Italian consumer credit Agricole Group and the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group provided the Board of market for the next fifteen years between CACF and Banco BPM. The Directors with an opportunity to assess the orientations and dynamics Board considered that the financial conditions and prospects offered of the Group’s commercial activities and its prudent management. Each by this agreement, especially for the development of their joint venture, quarter, the results confirmed the qualities of the Universal Retail Bank Agos, which will acquire ProFamily S.p.A. with, in a later stage, the model, with a positive “scissors effect” in all business lines, i.e. revenues option of a floating for Agos, if this would be favourable in the interests rising faster than charges and faster than the declining cost of risk. This of all stakeholders. Also, in the area of consumer credit, the Board was performance reflects both the intrinsic qualities of the business lines and informed, in the course of the proceedings, of discussions with Bankia, their ability to interact with each other to generate synergies. Spain’s fourth largest bank. They resulted in an agreement to create a In accordance with Article L. 228-40 of the French Commercial Code, the joint venture in the field of consumer credit in Spain, in which CACF will Board gave its consent for the 2018 bond issue programme, approving be the majority shareholder. the related authorisations and receiving regular progress reports. Finally, the Board has closely followed the partnership between Crédit During each quarterly review, but also at each meeting of the Risk and Agricole Assurances and Credito Valtellinese S.p.A. (“CreVal”), which has Audit Committees, the Board closely monitored the Group’s prudential resulted in an exclusive long-term life insurance distribution agreement ratios, both in terms of solvency and liquidity. The Crédit Agricole Group with this institution. On this occasion, CAA has taken an interest of 5% in remains one of the best capitalized systemic institutions in Europe, with its share capital and has a begun to repurchase its brokerage subsidiary a prudent risk profile. This strength has been taken into account by S&P, Global Assicurazioni S.p.A.. The amounts involved did not require the which in 2018 raised Crédit Agricole’s rating from “A” to “A+”, the highest formal agreed formula (negative impact of less than 2 bp on the CET1 rating for banking institutions in France. The rating agency justified this ratio), but the Board’s interest in this operation lay more particularly in increase by the Group’s financial strength, its low risk profile associated the fact that it was CAA’s first agreement with an external partner in a with a high diversification of exposures, as well as a higher level of European country other than France. coverage of doubtful loans than its peers. The ratings by Moody’s and Fitch remained unchanged, at “A1” and “A+”, respectively. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 105 3 Corporate governance 1. Board of Directors’ Report More generally, as part of its risk oversight role, the Board reviewed the Finally, the Board paid particular attention to ensuring that the risk situation at least quarterly, either at the time of a special item on the cancellation of the statutory bonus dividend clause is carried out under agenda or at the time of the systematic report drafted by the Chair of the conditions that respect the interests of all stakeholders. The cancellation Risk Committee at each of its meetings. was in response to a request from the European Central Bank, which Upon the recommendation of the Risk Committee, it regularly reviewed considered that this clause was equivalent to preferential distribution and approved the strategies and policies governing risk-taking, as well which no longer allowed the shares to account for the bonus dividend to the management, monitoring and reduction of the risks to which the be recorded in core equity capital. It was adopted successively on 4 April Group is, or could be, exposed. 2018 by the Special Meeting of holders of shares with loyalty dividend and subsequently on 16 May 2018 by an Extraordinary General Meeting, On this basis, it reviewed and/or approved risk management and with acceptance rates of 94.5% in the Special Meeting and 80.9% in control tools and systems as well as their consistency, in particular the Extraordinary General Meeting, respectively. consistency between instruments such as the Annual Internal Control Report (RACI), the Declaration of risk appetite, the Internal Capital In the field of corporate social and environmental responsibility, the Board Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) and Internal Liquidity Adequacy was informed by the Chairman of the Strategy and CSR Committee of Assessment Process (ILAAP) declarations. The Board also examined the the 2018 highlights in this area, as well as the main changes envisaged Resolution Plan and the Recovery Plan, of which it approved the update. in the commitment of Crédit Agricole S.A. to Climate Financing, and the The Board approved in particular the building and monitoring of ICAAP, assessment of the performance of the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group by the process for assessing internal capital adequacy, to which its Risk non-financial rating agencies. The Board of Directors also monitored the Committee is closely associated. The Board approved this on the basis development of the new Code of Conduct of Crédit Agricole S.A. and of a reasoned opinion from the Risk Committee, which is now included its implementation in the Group’s entities. It was also informed of the in the body of the annual statement. work carried out on the Compliance Plan implemented under the law of 27 March 2017 on the duty of vigilance of parent companies and As every two years, Crédit Agricole, as well as all the other major contracting companies (see hereunder). European institutions, has been subject to stress tests by the European Banking Authority and the European Central Bank. The Board noted with Lastly, concerning CSR, the Board was also informed by the Chairman satisfaction that, despite the potentially significant impact of adverse of the results of the FReD programme. This decentralised approach to stress on the Group’s CET1 ratio, which is correlated to its weight in the CSR commitment of the Group and its subsidiaries was deployed in financing the French and European economy, it is one of only two French 2012, based on a three-pillar framework: Fides (compliance), Respect institutions whose dividend distribution capacity and the payment of AT1 (company employees and ecosystem), and Demeter (on the environment). instrument coupons, the “MDA” (Maximum Distributable Amount), are The results are taken into account in the non-financial part of the variable preserved in an adverse situation. compensation of Executive Corporate Officers. Based on all of the information submitted to the Board in 2018, enabling Lastly, as every year in February (see “Compensation” above), following it, in particular, to understand the way in which the institution’s risk the report from the Chairwoman of the Compensation Committee, profile interacts with the tolerance level, the Board judged that the risk the Board reviewed, without their presence, the Executive Corporate management measures set up by the Group were appropriate to its Officers’ individual variable compensation and its components, as well profile and strategy. as the 2018 compensation and total variable compensation available to identified staff. The Board was kept informed – either directly or through the Chairwomen of the Risk and Audit Committees of the results of the various oversight tasks conducted by the ECB within the Group and/or the requests sent by Regulated agreements the supervisory authority to the Executive Management of Crédit Agricole In respect of its legal missions defined by the French Commercial Code, S.A., in particular: the Board notably authorised four regulated agreements governed by nn the implementation of the action plan following its ECB task on Articles L. 225-38 et seq. of the French Commercial Code. forbearance; Three of these are linked to the establishing of the CA-GIP IT production nn the implementation of the recommendations resulting from the ECB joint venture, due to the presence of joint Directors and Officers with the task on IFRS 9; Group companies that signed the agreement. These include: nn the follow-up letter from the ECB task on Conduct risk; nn the Memorandum of Understanding between the relevant Group nn the follow-up to the two ECB tasks on SME risk carried out, on the companies; one hand, with two Regional Banks and, on the other hand, with CA nn the Shareholders’ agreement between these organising companies, Italia and LCL; in particular the principles of Governance of the new entity; nn the follow-up letter and action plan of the ECB task on outsourcing nn the liabilities guarantee provided by the former shareholders of SILCA at CA Italia; to CA-GIP, into which it was merged. nn the results of the task led by the ACPR on the management of the The fourth agreement consists of an amendment to the tax consolidation anti-money Laundering and Combating the financing of terrorism agreement between Crédit Agricole S.A. and the Regional Banks, for (AML-CFT) system. financial year 2018, organising the allocation between the signatories In the context of relations with the supervisor, the Chairman, the of the net additional tax cost paid by Credit Agricole S.A. in respect of Vice-Chairman, the Chairmen of the Risk Committee and of the Audit the exceptional corporate income tax surcharge created by the First Committee participated with the Executive Board in coordination Amended Finance Act for 2017. This agreement was indeed conceived meetings with the ECB, in particular in the context of the annual “SREP” in order to benefit from the tax consolidation regime, providing for the (Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process) exercise. Representatives distribution of the tax savings linked to this regime and was therefore of the joint ECB-ACPR supervisory team also heard separately from not adapted to a situation of distribution of a “tax penalty” decided by the Risk and Audit Committees on their modus operandi and the files the legislator on an exceptional basis to offset the refund of the dividend monitored. These representatives also attended, as observers, the Board surcharge created in 2012 to which it had been subjected. meeting of 2 October 2018. 106 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance 1. Board of Directors’ Report Moreover, in accordance with the provisions of Article L. 225-40-1 of the did not meet the characteristics of the regulated agreements defined in French Commercial Code, in its meeting of 18 December 2018, the Board Articles L. 225-38 et seq. of the French Commercial Code. Its inclusion conducted an annual review of all the agreements signed and authorised in the scope of regulated agreements was entirely linked to the fact that in previous financial years and which remained in effect in 2018. the Memorandum of Understanding of Operation Eurêka, authorised These were: as a regulated agreement by the Board of Directors on 19 May 2016, mentioned the removal from the Listing Agreement of the articles relating 1. the supplemental agreement signed on 10 October 2017 authorised to the 25% interest held by Crédit Agricole S.A. in the Regional Banks by the Board of Directors on 2 August 2017 to the senior loan of Crédit Agricole through cooperative certificates (CCI and CCA) issued agreements underwritten by the Regional Banks with Crédit Agricole by the Regional Banks for their own benefit at the floating of CNCA in S.A. in the context of Operation Eurêka; November 2001. 2. the original Switch agreement, signed on 16 December 2011 by Crédit Agricole S.A. and the Regional Banks (Switch guarantee, guaranteeing equity-accounted values, including CCA/CCI and Insurance), which 1.2.2. Summary of issues examined by the Board was the object of a first supplemental agreement authorised by the in 2018 further to review by, advice Board on 10 December 2013,revisited by the Board when authorising from and/or on the recommendation its second supplemental agreement on 17 February 2016 and its third of the Specialised Committees supplemental agreement on 19 May 2016; 1) After analysis by the Audit Committee: 3. the tax consolidation agreement signed on 17 December 2015 by –– the preparation of the annual financial statements and the review of Crédit Agricole S.A. and the Regional Banks, which was the object of the half-yearly and quarterly financial statements of Crédit Agricole a supplemental agreement authorised by the Board on 19 May 2016 (which was also the object of a new supplemental agreement in S.A., Crédit Agricole S.A. Group, and Crédit Agricole Group; at each reporting date, the Board heard from the Company’s Statutory 3 2018, see below); Auditors who, having presented the conclusions of their work to 4. the tax consolidation agreement signed by Crédit Agricole S.A. and the Audit Committee, then presented them to the Board, together SACAM Mutualisation, authorised by the Board on 19 May 2016, with their reports for each interim reporting date; the Board also stipulating that the tax savings generated within the Group by looks at and, where necessary, approves the draft press releases intragroup dividends received by this entity are to be fully allocated published by the Company; to that entity; –– Special attention has been paid to the effects of IFRS 9; 5. the tax consolidation agreements authorised by the Board on –– the Group’s goodwill position; 21 January 2010 and renewed by the Board on 17 December 2015 between Crédit Agricole S.A. and SAS Rue La Boétie, SAS Ségur, –– the cancellation of the loyalty dividend clause with, on the one SAS Miromesnil and, lastly, several SACAMs, which were also the hand, the preparation of the Special Meeting of holders of shares object of supplemental agreements authorised by the Board of with loyalty dividend on 4 April 2018 and subsequently the General Directors at its meeting on 16 December 2016; Meeting of 16 May 2018; 6. the tax consolidation agreement signed in 1996 between the CNCA –– the budget of the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group. and Indosuez, now Crédit Agricole S.A. and Crédit Agricole CIB 2) After analysis by the Risk Committee: respectively, renewed on 22 December 2015, which was the object –– the developments in the Crédit Agricole S.A.’s and Crédit Agricole of a supplemental agreement authorised by the Board of Directors Group’s position in terms of shareholders’ equity and solvency, with at its meeting on 7 November 2016; particular attention to the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment 7. the agreement on the increase in Crédit Agricole CIB’s capital, Process (ICAAP); the Board also has the Internal Liquidity Adequacy authorised by the Board on 9 March 2004, under which Crédit Process (ILAAP) Statement and, upon reasoned opinion of the Risk Agricole S.A. subscribed to an issue of deeply subordinated notes Committee, the relative Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment (TSS) that were partially redeemed in 2014; Process (ICAAP); 8. the temporary distribution agreement between Crédit Agricole S.A. –– the results of the biennial EBA/ECB stress tests; and Crédit Agricole CIB for payment of the Euribor fine of –– the results and effects of the annual SREP (Supervisory Review €114,654,000, authorised by the Board of Directors in its Meeting and Evaluation Process); of 20 January 2017 and signed on 27 February 2017 between Crédit –– the Declaration of the Crédit Agricole Group’s risk appetite; Agricole S.A. and Crédit Agricole CIB, pursuant to which Crédit –– the developments in the Group’s liquidity situation, the Liquidity Agricole S.A., pending the appeal decision, pays the full amount Emergency Plan, the short-term half-yearly limits, as well as the of the fine for which the two companies were jointly and severally monitoring of the implementation of the financing programme of ordered to pay; the Crédit Agricole Group; 9. the invoicing and collection agreement (the “invoicing agreement”) –– Group limits in respect of GIRR, foreign exchange, VaR (Value at between Crédit Agricole S.A. and Crédit Agricole CIB in the context Risk) limits and limits for capital market activities; of the transfer of the IT activities of Crédit Agricole S.A. (MSI) –– the mechanism implemented by Crédit Agricole Group to comply towards the Global IT (GIT) activities of Crédit Agricole CIB under with the regulation transposing section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act which Crédit Agricole S.A., for a transitional period of 6 to 12 months (the “Volcker Rule”), effective since July 2015; invoices and collects the Services performed by GIT on behalf of certain entities. –– the management of the securities portfolio of the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group; At its meeting of May 14, 2018, the Board of Directors, after having obtained the opinion of the Statutory Auditors, downgraded the Listing –– the Annual Internal Control Report and half-year interim information Agreement signed in 2001 by Crédit Agricole S.A. and the Regional on internal control, coordinated by the Group Risk Management Banks of Crédit Agricole in light of the floating of CNCA. The Board noted department; that this Agreement, published in Crédit Agricole S.A.’s 2001 Registration –– letters sent to the Company by regulators mentioning the obligation Document and defining the relationship between the Regional Banks and to inform the Board and measures taken to respond to their Crédit Agricole’s corporate centre once it is listed on the stock exchange, observations; The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 107 3 Corporate governance 1. Board of Directors’ Report –– annual, half-yearly and quarterly developments, respectively, in –– update of the compensation policy of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group terms of credit risk, market risk, and operational and security risks, and its application note; as well as the risk dashboard; –– under regulatory provisions, the report on the compensation of –– update of the Group’s recovery plan; members of the executive body as well as identified staff whose –– the OFAC remediation plan and its timetable following its approval professional activities have a significant impact on the Company’s by the US Federal Reserve; risk profile; –– approval of risk strategies; –– capital increase reserved for employees; –– the additional Cariparma capital increase following the acquisition –– the distribution of the total amount of Directors’ fees. of the three Italian savings banks and the capital increase of LCL; 6) After review by the Appointments and Governance Committee: –– in compliance/legal matters, semi-annual and annual compliance –– the results of the self-assessment of the operation of the Board reports; the status of litigation and ongoing administrative and its individual and collective expertise, and possible ways of investigations, and the status of the OFAC remediation plan. improving governance; 3) After analysis by the US Risk Committee: –– the proposed appointment of the new Chief Compliance Officer, –– the Emergency Liquidity Plan for Group businesses in the United with the advice of the Risk Committee; States, as well as the framework for liquidity and credit risk –– updates of the Rules of Procedure of the Board and the Specialised appetite; Committees; –– update of the organisation and of the management framework –– independence of Directors under the AFEP/MEDEF Code and areas guidance note on consolidated risk management of the entities of non-compliance with this Code; in the United States. –– the progress made on succession plans for key functions within 4) After analysis by the Strategy and CSR Committee: Crédit Agricole S.A.; –– sale and acquisition projects, including the renewal of the –– the work on the Code of Conduct and its implementation in the partnership of CACF with Banco BPM in Italy and the agreement various entities, the overall system; with Bankia in Spain; –– the Board training programme for 2019; –– the planned creation of CA-GIP; –– the report on professional equality and equal pay within Crédit –– monitoring the work started under the new Strategic medium term Agricole S.A. and initiatives undertaken at Crédit Agricole S.A. plan; Group level to promote professional equality, diversity, and equal –– the integrated report, Company’s 2019 CSR performance and the representation in the management bodies. challenges for 2019, as well as the structure of the Vigilence Plan. 7) Other: issues examined by the Board include: 5) After analysis by the Compensation Committee: –– in the context of the legal work of the Crédit Agricole Group central –– the fixed compensation, annual personal variable compensation, body, the approval of the Chief Executive Officers of Regional and the terms and conditions and criteria used to determine the Banks and Deputy General Managers; annual variable compensation of the Executive Corporate Officers –– the authorisation of regulated party agreements (see below). (Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Deputy Chief Executive Officer), taking into account regulatory provisions; 1.3. ACTIVITIES OF THE SPECIALISED BOARD COMMITTEES 1.3.1. Committees’ operating principles In accordance with the provisions of the French Monetary and Financial Code and the recommendations of the European banking authorities, the Six Committees are in place within the Board of Directors: the Risk Committee members have the knowledge, skills and expertise necessary Committee, the United States Risk Committee established in 2016, for their role. These competences are assessed annually after review by the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee, the Appointments the Appointments and Governance Committee: and Governance Committee and the Strategy and CSR Committee. The nn in light of the results of the annual evaluation provided for in Article United States Risk Committee was set up in response to a US regulatory L. 511-100 of the French Monetary and Financial Code; requirement applicable, as of 1 July 2016, to foreign banks operating in nn the qualities necessary to chair and serve on Committees, as the United States and meeting certain asset threshold criteria. described in the Board’s procedural memorandum adopted on Committee members are appointed by the Board, on the Chairman’s 7 November 2017; recommendation. The Board may terminate the appointment of a nn guidelines of 27 September 2017 on the assessment of the skills Committee member at any time. A Committee member may resign of members of management bodies established by the European from office at any time. All Committee members, and all other persons Banking Authority. who attend Committee Meetings, are bound by confidentiality and professional secrecy. Members of the Specialised Committees receive a brief on the different items on the agenda, generally three to five days prior to each meeting, The operation of each Committee is governed by Rules of Procedure. In depending on the Committee. the course of their work, Board Committees may interview any executive or employee of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group or experts from outside the Just as Board members are paid for attending Board Meetings, members Company in areas that fall within the Committees’ remit. of Committees are paid Directors’ fees calculated using a scale set by the Board on the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, unless said Directors waive their fees. 108 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance 1. Board of Directors’ Report The four Committee Chairs and the Chairman of the Strategy Committee In this respect, the Committee reviewed notably the following in 2018: play a key role in the organization and functioning of the Committees nn the statement of risk appetite, which constitutes a decisive framework and in the coordination of their work. The Chairs hold regular meetings for the Committee’s control and monitoring of risks, and more in with the Directors in charge of activities within the scope of their general governance; competence, in particular the heads of the three control functions, the nn the Group’s liquidity position, emergency liquidity plan, semi-annual Chief Financial Officer and the heads of the departments in charge of short-term limits and ILAAP, solvency position and monitoring of the accounting and consolidation, subsidiaries and investments, Group solvency trend; human resources and the Corporate Secretary. The Chairs of the Risk nn the annual update of the Recovery Plan and updates to the Resolution Committee and the Audit Committee also hold regular bilateral meetings Plan; with the Statutory Auditors. They also attended several meetings with nn the organisation, operation and resources allocated to each of the the ECB Joint Supervisory Team (JST), within the framework of the SREP and in relation to the interviews of members of these two Committees three control functions (risks, compliance, internal audit); conducted by the JST. nn the situation regarding key outsourced services and the status of the Business Continuity Plan (BCP); 1.3.2. Risk Committee nn compliance of compensation policies with risk strategies; nn quarterly risk reports; At 31 December 2018, the Risk Committee had five members, including nn limits on the securities and sovereign portfolio, VaR limits, GIRR three independent Directors. One of the members chairs the Committee. limits, foreign exchange limits; Members Attendance rate Françoise Gri, Chairwoman, independent Director 100% nn monitoring the Group’s preparation for Brexit; nn internal models and internal model risks; 3 Véronique Flachaire, Chief Executive Officer nn the Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process (SREP), the of a Crédit Agricole Regional Bank 83% recommendations of the supervisor and the measures implemented Catherine Pourre, independent Director 100% by the Group to identify capital requirements under Pillar 2 as part of Christian Streiff, independent Director 83% the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP); François Thibault, Chairman of a Crédit Agricole nn follow-up letters to the ECB and ACPR tasks (Conduct risk, AML-CFT, Regional Bank 100% small businesses, key outsourced services…); nn monitoring the discussions with supervisors on the approach, The Head of Group Risk Management, the Head of Group Control and methodology and impacts of EBA stress tests; Audit, the Group Chief Compliance Officer, the Chief Financial Officer nn monitoring of the mechanism implemented by Crédit Agricole Group to and the Head of Accounting and Consolidation attend meetings of the comply with the regulation transposing section 619 of the Dodd‑Frank Risk Committee. Act (the “Volcker Rule”); The operation and duties of the Committee are set out in Rules of nn regular periodic monitoring of the implementation of the OFAC Procedure as approved by the Board of Directors. The Committee remediation plan; performs its duties under the responsibility of the Board of Directors, in the nn Control and Audit function audits, including audits conducted in areas defined by provisions of the French Monetary and Financial Code, Regional Banks, and the Control and Audit function audit plan, ECB in particular, as arising from the CRD 4 directive of 20 February 2014 audits and follow-up of recommendations; and the Decree of 3 November 2014 on the internal control of banks. nn periodic information on administrative procedures and ongoing Minutes are prepared for each Committee Meeting. Once approved by proceedings; the Chairwoman, they are distributed first to all members. In response to nn as part of the review of the risk strategies that define the limits a request made in the context of the evaluation of the Board of Directors and thresholds for the Group’s various activities/business lines, the in 2018, whenever the minutes are written prior to the Board meeting Committee has reviewed: during which they are reported, these are also sent to all Board members. –– commercial real estate, The Committee’s work is set out in an annual schedule. In the autumn –– LBOs, of each year, the Risk Committee organises a working lunch without management being present to decide on its programme of work for the –– Oil & Gas and commodities, following year and the individual and collective training requested by its –– Aerospace, members. It also examines any areas where it might improve. –– market activities, The Risk Committee met six times in 2018, in addition to the six training –– cross-industry automotive risk, events held together with the Audit Committee (see above). –– home loans, The programming of the Risk Committee is mainly organised around the –– consumer finance, regulatory issues provided for in the French Decree of 3 November 2014 –– operational risks, on internal review, review stemming from the requirements for –– sovereign risk and securities portfolio, supervisors, review of risk strategies and issues with risk implications, –– payment instruments, whether they are structural such as IT projects and cybersecurity, which are the subject of a half-yearly review, or cyclical such as Brexit. –– forbearance and non-performing loans, –– Counterparty risk on market transactions and settlement and delivery, –– LCL, –– Crédit Agricole Italia, –– climate risk, –– shadow banking. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 109 3 Corporate governance 1. Board of Directors’ Report All information given to the Committee is accompanied by a quarterly Plan within its scope of competence, i.e. essentially the missions of the risk register, which enables the Committee to perform a comprehensive Internal Audit Business Line relating to financial risks for 2019 to the periodical risk review (including risk mapping) based on the various Committee. regions and sectors (country risk, sovereign debt), highlighting areas Following the European audit reform transposed into French law by of concern for the Group, including counterparties with the highest the Order of 17 March 2016, the Committee also continued to monitor exposure. Services other than the certification of financial statements performed by the Statutory Auditors of Crédit Agricole S.A. and subject to its 1.3.3. Audit Committee authorisation under the conditions as renewed each year. At 31 December 2018, the Audit Committee had six members, including Lastly, the Committee scrutinised the effects of the ECB’s decision four independent Directors. likening the statutory bonus dividend clause of Crédit Agricole S.A. to a preferential distribution. The cancellation of this clause was successively Members Attendance rate approved by the Special Meeting of Bond Holders on 4 April 2018 and the Catherine Pourre, Committee Chairwoman Extraordinary General Meeting of 16 May 2018. and independent Director 100% Caroline Catoire, independent Director 100% 1.3.4. The Joint Risk and Audit Committee Laurence Dors, independent Director 100% The internal regulations of the Risk Committee and the Audit Committee Françoise Gri, independent Director 100% provide for the possibility of uniting these two Committees. When the Gérard Ouvrier-Buffet, Chief Executive Officer Audit Committee was split into two Committees in 2015, in order to of a Crédit Agricole Regional Bank 100% meet the new requirements of banking regulations, it seemed useful Jean-Pierre Gaillard, Chairman of a Crédit Agricole for members of the Audit and Risk Committees to have, in certain fields, Regional Bank 100% and a fortiori in areas where financial and regulatory information are interrelated, the same level of information and the opportunity to discuss The Deputy General Manager, Head of the Group Finance division, the said information with one another. When regulations expressly require Head of Accounting and Consolidation, the Group Chief Risk Officer the Risk Committee to issue an opinion to the Board of Directors on the and the Head of Group Control and Audit attend meetings of the Audit information reviewed, this opinion is given by the Committee Chair. This Committee, as do, on an as-needed basis, the Head of Financial practice of a Joint Committee is fully satisfactory to the members of both Communications and the Head of Subsidiaries and Affiliates. Committees and can now be regarded as a permanent arrangement. The operation and duties of the Committee are set out in Rules of Members Attendance rate Procedure approved by the Board of Directors (see above). Once a year, the Audit Committee organises a working lunch without management Françoise Gri, co-chair of the Committee, presence in order to decide on its programme of work for the following independent Director 100% year and to examine any areas where it might improve. Catherine Pourre, co-chair of the Committee, independent Director 100% It also reserves a part of one of its meetings during the year for a discussion with the Statutory Auditors without senior management being Caroline Catoire, independent Director 100% present. Laurence Dors, independent Director 100% During the last financial year, the Audit Committee held five meetings. Véronique Flachaire, Chief Executive Officer of a Crédit Agricole Regional Bank 100% The attendance rate was 100%. Jean-Pierre Gaillard, Chairman of a Crédit Agricole A substantial part of the Committee’s work involved an in-depth review, Regional Bank 100% in view of their presentation to the Board, of the parent company annual, Gérard Ouvrier-Buffet, Chief Executive Officer half-year and quarterly financial statements and an examination of the of a Crédit Agricole Regional Bank 100% consolidated results and the results of each Group business line, their Christian Streiff, independent Director 83% regulatory position and the line and integrity of financial communication. François Thibault, Chairman of a Crédit Agricole At each reporting date, the Committee pays particular attention to Regional Bank 100% the accounting options (provisioning for liabilities, treatment of CVA/ DVA/FVA, issuer spread on securities issued, employment-related The Risk Committee and the Audit Committee met six times in a joint commitments, ALM, etc.). On this occasion, it hears from the Statutory meeting 2018. This large number of meetings is mainly due to the Auditors on the conditions under which the financial statements were entry into force on 1 January 2018 of IFRS 9, which, by substituting the prepared and the points to which the latter would like to draw the notion of “expected loss” for that of “demonstrated loss”, combines an Committee’s attention. At each half-yearly reporting date, in addition to accounting and prudential approach to the assessment of risk and its their reports including the specific annual report to the Audit Committee, provisioning method. the Statutory Auditors submit their programme of work for the next six months to the Committee. As every year, the review of the budget for the Crédit Agricole Group, the results of the stressed budget and the risk appetite statement, which are Regulatory and normative changes are systematically reviewed every essential guidance for members of the two Committees, were covered quarter, including the preparation for the entry into force of IFRS 16 at a joint meeting. (lease contracts), as well as the Pillar III templates and the new “Prudent Valuation” reporting and the impact of financial legislation. While the Risk Committee monitored the EBA/ECB stress tests, the final results of this biennial exercise were presented to the Joint Committee The Committee also reviews goodwill each year, with three meetings in order to incorporate the Committee’s opinion on the elements of during the last financial year (August, December and February), including financial communication. Otherwise, the conditions for compensating one on methodology. the beneficiaries of the bonus dividend were in principle monitored by In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Audit Committee, the the Audit Committee, but the prudential consequences were addressed Head of Group Control and Audit presented the elements of the Audit by the Joint Committee. 110 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance 1. Board of Directors’ Report The following were also discussed in the Joint Committee meetings: Committee, this leads to the approval by the Board of Directors of the nn the financial and prudential trajectory of the “Strategic Ambition Liquidity Emergency Plan for the Group’s activities in the United States 2020” Plan; and the Liquidity Risk Appetite Framework, in this year extended to nn the Annual Internal Control Report and half-year interim information include credit risks. Similarly, the Committee paid particular attention on internal control; to the implementation of the recommendations made by the American supervisor as part of its annual “ROCA” (Risk, Operations, Compliance nn the PALMA project (an ALM Group Architecture project); and Asset Quality) review. nn the findings of roadshows which, through the feedback of questions and points of attention from investors, provide useful information to Along with recurring topics, at the Committee’s request an in-depth both Committees to guide their work; report is presented on the Group’s entities in the United States and on the activities and/or business lines in that country. In this respect, the nn depending on the date of the meetings, shared information on the Committee reviewed the following in 2018: Group’s solvency and liquidity positions, with a review of various nn Crédit Agricole CIB New York; related ratios. nn CAIWM Miami; 1.3.5. United States Risk Committee nn Amundi Pioneer; nn Activities in Central and Latin America; As of 31 December 2018, the US Risk Committee had three members, including two independent Directors. nn leverage finance; nn cyber security risks; Members Attendance rate Françoise Gri, Chairwoman, independent Director 100% nn the US component of the OFAC remediation plan, anti-money laundering and the application of the Volcker Rule; 3 Véronique Flachaire, Chief Executive Officer nn the review of new products and activities. of a Crédit Agricole Regional Bank 100% Caroline Catoire, independent Director 100% 1.3.6. Compensation Committee With a presence in the United States through Crédit Agricole CIB, Amundi At 31 December 2018, the Compensation Committee had six members, (the scope of which has increased with the acquisition of Pioneer) and including three independent Directors and one Director representing the activities of Wealth management, the Crédit Agricole Group is subject employees. to Section 165 of the Dodd-Frank Act. This regulation requires foreign Members Attendance rate banks operating in the US, and whose total consolidated assets do not Laurence Dors, Committee Chairwoman, justify the creation of a holding company to head up its businesses, to independent Director 100% have a Board of Directors’ Committee dedicated to monitoring US risks. Daniel Épron, Chairman of a Crédit Agricole It was against this backdrop that the United States Risk Committee was Regional Bank 100% established at the end of the first half of 2016. It should be noted that following its sale, the North American business of CACEIS, which was Françoise Gri, independent Director 100% carried on from Canada, was removed from the scope of consolidation François Heyman, Director representing employees 100% in 2018. Jean-Paul Kerrien, Chairman of a Crédit Agricole Regional Bank 100% US regulations recommend that this Committee should have at least three Directors, one of whom is independent. Crédit Agricole S.A. has Christian Streiff, independent Director 100% opted for mostly independent members, including its Chair, who also chairs the Risk Committee. The composition of the Committee complies with the regulatory provisions and the recommendations of the AFEP/MEDEF Code, both It holds four meetings a year, one of which is in the United States, in with respect to its membership (majority of independent Directors, accordance with a US Federal Reserve recommendation. Accordingly, presence of an employee representative) and its chairmanship (by an in 2018, the Committee met on 26 October 2018 at the headquarters of independent Director). Crédit Agricole CIB New York, along with the persons in charge of the three control functions and representatives of the Group’s business lines The Crédit Agricole Group Head of Human Resources attends in North America. The meeting was an opportunity for a discussion with Compensation Committee Meetings accompanied by the Head of representatives of the team of the American Federal Reserve responsible Compensation and Employee Benefits. for overseeing the Group’s operations in the United States. The operation and duties of the Committee are set out in Rules of The Committee organises its work on the basis of an operational note, Procedure as approved by the Board of Directors. The Committee which became a Group procedural note in 2017. This defines the performs the duties conferred upon it by the AFEP/MEDEF Code and the organisation and framework for consolidated risk management of Group French Monetary and Financial Code (particularly Article L. 511-102), as entities in the United States. It was updated in 2018 to take into account well as preparing compensation-related tasks for which the Board of the requests of the American supervisory authority. This document, on Directors is responsible under the French Commercial Code (particularly which the Rules of Procedure of the United States Risk Committee are Article L. 225-37-2). based, must be formally approved by the Board of Directors. In addition, in accordance with the provisions of Article L. 511-91 of Each United States Risk Committee Meeting is an opportunity for a the French Monetary and Financial Code and the decision of the detailed review of credit risks, market risks and operational risks from the Board of Directors of 17 December 2013, the functions assigned to Group’s activities in the United States. In addition, there are systematic the Compensation Committee under the aforementioned article are reviews of ongoing audits by the US supervisor(s) and the Control and performed by the Group’s Compensation Committee for the following Audit department, and an update on legal and compliance risks. subsidiaries: LCL, Crédit Agricole Assurances, Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance, Crédit Agricole Leasing & Factoring and CACEIS. The liquidity position, which is a major focus area for the US authorities, is discussed at each meeting. Once a year, following a review by the The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 111 3 Corporate governance 1. Board of Directors’ Report The Compensation Committee met five times in 2018. Its Chairwoman 1.3.7. Appointments and Governance Committee reported to the Board on the work accomplished by the Committee at each of its meetings and submitted the Committee’s recommendations At 31 December 2018, the Appointments and Governance Committee on matters subject to approval by the Board. comprised six members. Pursuant to the provisions of the AFEP/ MEDEF Code, the Committee is chaired by an independent Director. In 2018, the Committee set out to prepare for the transposition of the However, the proportion of independent members on the Appointments Directive on worker mobility by improving the acquisition and preservation and Governance Committee is below AFEP/MEDEF recommendations of supplementary pension rights. This transposition is planned within but reflects the ownership structure of Crédit Agricole S.A., which is the framework of the Action Plan for the Growth and Transformation controlled by a majority shareholder and where the Chief Executive of Corporates bill (loi PACTE) currently under discussion in Parliament. Officer is from one of the 39 Crédit Agricole Regional Banks that control The introduction of portability of pension rights is an important issue for it. This situation is reported in the table of non-compliance with the AFEP/ the Crédit Agricole Group. The supplementary pension scheme provided MEDEF Code. for in Article 39 of the General Tax Code, which is conditional on the presence of the beneficiary in the Company at the time of his retirement, Members Attendance rate is an important element of the total compensation of executives, in Monica Mondardini, Committee Chairwoman, return for a fixed and variable remuneration that is below the average in independent Director 100% the sector. The work of the Committee is therefore part of a process of Raphaël Appert, Deputy Chairman of the Board reflection on the total compensation of executives. of Directors, Chief Executive Officer As already initiated in 2017 with the implementation of the “say on pay” of a Crédit Agricole Regional Bank 100% reform, in 2018 the Committee was aware to ensure that the transparency Laurence Dors, independent Director 100% of information pertaining to the compensation of executive Directors and Jean-Pierre Gaillard, Chairman of a Crédit Agricole identified employees was aligned with the highest standards. At the Regional Bank 100% General Meeting of 16 May 2018 this work resulted in an approval rate of Dominique Lefebvre, Chairman of the Board resolutions relating to the compensation of Executive Corporate Officers of Directors, Chairman of a Crédit Agricole Regional Bank 100% between 92.6% and 99.8%. It should be noted that in 2018, the overall rating of Crédit Agricole S.A. assigned by non-financial rating agency Louis Tercinier, Chairman of a Crédit Agricole Regional Bank 75% Vigéo increased from 60 to 62 points, thanks to a significant progress in governance, which rose from 50 to 62 points. The improvement in The operation and duties of the Committee are set out in Rules of transparency regarding executive compensation and the internal control Procedure as approved by the Board of Directors. mechanisms implemented for the supervision of risk takers substantially contribute to this increase. The Corporate Secretary of Crédit Agricole S.A. and Secretary of the Board of Directors take part in meetings of the Appointments and The Committee also ensured that Crédit Agricole S.A. was able to Governance Committee. The Chairwoman of the Appointments and communicate on the application of the provisions of the revised AFEP/ Governance Committee reports to the Board on its work and on the MEDEF Code, recommending that no non-compete compensation shall Committee’s opinion on matters referred to it for approval. be paid when the person concerned claims his pension rights, and in any event beyond the age of 65. The Committee met four times in 2018. In preparation of the General Meeting on 21 May 2019, the Committee The appointment of the new Chief Compliance Officer was an opportunity reviewed, in its meetings of 15 January and 11 February 2019, all for the Committee to apply for the first time the new provisions with resolutions on the compensation of the Executive Corporate Officers regard to the involvement of the supervisory body in the appointments approved by the Board at its meeting on 13 February 2019. and possible dismissals of each of the Heads of control functions. As part of the Board’s regulatory obligations, the Committee also examined On the occasion of this appointment, the Committee first ensured that the compensation of individuals with supervisory responsibilities (Risk, the incumbent’s decision to exercise his pension rights was a personal Control & Audit, Compliance), the budget for the variable compensation decision. It then ensured that the recruitment process had been carried of identified employees and individual variable compensation over out in accordance with the requirements for this post, with a transparent €1 million. procedure, a precise definition of the tasks and qualifications required, an assessment of the candidates and, finally, a motivated choice. After It also considered the “compensation” section of this Board report on obtaining the opinion of the Chair of the Risk Committee and hearing the Corporate Governance prior to the Board’s approval of the entire current Chief Executive Officer, the Appointments Committee issued a favourable Corporate Governance Report on 13 February 2019. opinion to the Board on the recommendation submitted by the Chief In addition to the work described, other matters examined by the Executive Officer to appoint the Chief Compliance Officer. Committee in 2018 included: Prior to the General Meeting, the Appointments Committee reviewed the nn the update of the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group Compensation policy recommendation to appoint a new Director and the situation of Directors and its application note, submitted for the Board’s approval, and the whose terms of office were subject to renewal in the light of the criteria results of the annual audit on the Compensation policy; of availability, competence and integrity, as well as the compliance of the nn the overall budget for variable compensation within the Group, by situation of independent Directors with the criteria of the AFEP/MEDEF entity and according to the appropriate schemes (bonus pool or Code. individual variable compensation); It organised the self-assessment campaign on the functioning and nn the report in respect of 2018 on the compensation policy and competences of the Board of Directors and, in the light of the results and practices of members of the executive body, as well as individuals suggestions, proposed concrete measures to address them (see below). whose professional activities have a significant impact on the In 2018, the Committee heard the Chief Executive Officer regarding the Company’s risk profile; succession process for key functions, and to the Group Human Resources nn the distribution of the total amount of Directors’ attendance fees. Director addressed it on the measures to promote gender equality in the workplace, including in senior management bodies. It monitored the development of the Code of Conduct of Crédit Agricole S.A and ensured its deployment in the subsidiaries. 112 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance 1. Board of Directors’ Report It kept informed of the regulatory changes in the field of Governance In this context, the Strategy and CSR Committee devotes its December and proposed the Board of Directors with the necessary adaptations to meeting to CSR policy and actions each year. the Rules of Procedure for the Board and the specialised committees to As to CSR, the Board has adopted a transversal approach with the comply with, in particular with regard to the new recommendations of the involvement of four out of six Board Committees. The first of these is the revised AFEP/MEDEF Code in its version of June 2018. It also monitored Strategy and CSR Committee, which, in particular, each year analyses the updating activities of the Articles of Association of Crédit Agricole the results of the actions carried out in these areas and which draws up S.A, to be proposed to the General Meeting of 21 May 2019, drawing, guidelines for the following year. It also is involved in: on the one hand, the consequences of the regulation specific to banks nn the Appointments and Governance Committee, which followed the and preference shares and, on the other hand, various legislative and development of the Code of Conduct and its deployment in the entities regulatory changes. in 2018; Finally, it adopted this report on Corporate Governance submitted to the nn the Risk Committee, to which is reported at least annually on the Board on 13 February 2019 and the resolutions on Corporate Governance measurement of the effects of climate risk by the entities and the for the General Meeting of 21 May 2019. policies followed in this area; nn the Compensation Committee, which ensures the robustness of the 1.3.8. Strategy and Corporate Social Responsibility “FReD” indicator, an indicator that measures the Group’s progress in (CSR) Committee the social and environmental areas and which is one of the elements At 31 December 2018, the Committee comprised seven members. taken into account in determining the variable compensation of executives. Members Dominique Lefebvre, Chairman of the Board Attendance rate In its revised version revised in June 2018, the AFEP/MEDEF Code introduces the monitoring of the preparation of non-financial information 3 of Directors, Chairman of a Crédit Agricole to the scope of competence of the Audit Committee. As this task is already Regional Bank 100% carried out within the Board of Directors of Crédit Agricole S.A. by the Raphaël Appert, Deputy Chairman of the Board Strategy and CSR Committee, in coordination with the Appointments and of Directors, Chief Executive Officer of a Crédit Governance Committee, it was decided that non-financial information Agricole Regional Bank 100% and non-financial ratings would remain within the scope of competence Daniel Épron, Chairman of a Crédit Agricole of this Committee. Similarly, the non-financial risks that the AFEP/ Regional Bank 100% MEDEF Code assigns to the Audit Committee, remain within the scope Françoise Gri, independent Director 100% of competence of the Risk Committee, a mandatory committee in the Renée Talamona, Chief Executive Officer banking sector and not listed in the committees recommended by the of a Crédit Agricole Regional Bank 100% AFEP/MEDEF Code. François Thibault, Chairman of a Crédit Agricole In 2018, in the field of CSR, the Committee monitored the progress Regional Bank 100% made, which is reflected in the increasing integration of CSR topics, in Christian Streiff, independent Director 80% particular the ethical and environmental issues, into the very activity of the business lines. The strengthening of the ethical culture reflects, after The establishing of this Committee was decided by the Board of Directors the deployment of the Ethics Charter and the Personal Data Charter, in in 2003, first as the Strategy Committee and then, from 2015 on, as the implementation and appropriation by all business lines of Codes of the Strategy and CSR Committee, with an extension of its field of Conduct. competence. Under the terms of Climate Finance, the Committee has been informed of While the AFEP/MEDEF Code for a long time provided in the idea that the commitment of the business lines to the fight against climate change, strategic guidelines could be examined by an ad hoc Committee, without with the most significant examples being: issuing a recommendation on how this Committee should operate, the nn the position of world leader of Crédit Agricole CIB in November 2018 inclusion of corporate social and environmental responsibilities to the in arranging green and social bonds; Board’s scope of competence was incorporated in the revised version nn Crédit Agricole Assurances being the leading French institutional of the Code in 2018. In respect of the information provided in this investor in renewable energies; field, Crédit Agricole S.A. meets the recommendations of the French nn the decision by Amundi to impose ESG performance measurement Financial Market Authority (AMF), which, in its November 2016 report on corporate social responsibility, recommends that detailed guidelines on all funds under its management; be given regarding the frequency at which corporate social and societal nn the success of Crédit Agricole’s issuance of its first green bond for the responsibility matters should be included on the Committee’s agenda, amount of €1 billion for the refinancing of climate projects carried out while also specifying its duties and results and its interaction with other by all Crédit Agricole Group entities, with a granularity that has been Board Committees. highly appreciated by investors. The operation and duties of the Strategy and CSR Committee is The participation of Crédit Agricole in Climate Finance Day was an described in its Rules of Procedure, amended in 2016 to allow it to meet opportunity for the Group to affirm its three commitments: whenever the need arises, rather than according to an annual schedule. 1. support all its customers in the transition to a so-called “low-carbon” This method of operation was in response to a request from its members, economy aligned with the 2°C target of the Paris Agreement; made as part of the annual evaluation of the Board and to the wishes 2. incorporate environmental, social and governance (ESG) criteria to of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer. This flexibility renders a large extent into proposed financing and investment to ensure the it possible to involve the Board as early as possible in the process of coherence of economic, social and environmental impacts; considering disinvestments and acquisition transactions. 3. invest and promote investment in and financing of large-scale The Committee held five meetings in 2018, only two of which were renewable energy projects. scheduled meetings on a year-on-year basis (March and December). The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 113 3 Corporate governance 1. Board of Directors’ Report Other actions included in the assessment reviewed by the Committee nn strengthen the CSR reporting tools; are, e.g. the partnership with the National Museum of Natural History nn define a Group strategy for inclusion (financial, digital, etc.) and to support actions to protect and conserve sites and support scientific support for the Social and Solidarity Economy sector; research on biodiversity. nn improve communication on the actions on societal and environmental Finally, under social commitments, Crédit Agricole has, e.g., taken issues of the Group. measures to promote the integration of young people and access For the record, the Strategy and CSR Committee is also monitoring the to employment. In 2019, 750 first-year high-school interns from preparation of the Integrated Report, which will be the third such report disadvantaged areas will be welcomed throughout the Crédit Agricole in 2019, providing a strategic and forward-looking vision of the Company, Group, of which 300 at Crédit Agricole S.A., and the number of workintegrating financial and CSR data. study students will be doubled with a target of 6,000 young people per year by 2020. (For the strategic files and sale and acquisition files that were the subject of a public communication and were presented to the Board in 2018, see For 2019, the objectives set by the Executive Board and the Strategy and 1.2.2.: “Summary of issues examined by the Board in 2018 further to CSR Committee are to expand the various initiatives and commitments, review by, advice from and/or on the recommendation of the Specialised in particular the need to: Committees”.) nn continue to strengthen the CSR dimension of sectoral policies and ensure consistency across all business lines; 1.4. DUTY OF VIGILANCE Legal framework nn Codes of Conduct implemented by the entities of the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group operationally describe the principles of the code Law No. 2017-399 of 27 March 2017 on the duty of vigilance of parent of ethics. These principles must also be integrated into the internal companies and contracting companies applies to Crédit Agricole S.A. control procedures of the entities. The Codes of Conduct have been As a parent company, Crédit Agricole S.A. has opted for preparing a presented to the Boards of Directors of each entity for consideration. vigilance plan and reporting on its effective implementation for all Crédit The Board of Directors of Crédit Agricole S.A. is strongly involved Agricole S.A. Group companies, namely Crédit Agricole S.A. and the in promoting an ethical culture within the Group, in 2017 specifically companies it directly or indirectly controls. through the monitoring of the deployment of the code of ethics, in 2018 The vigilance plan includes, in accordance with the law, reasonable followed by its implementation in the form of Codes of Conduct. The Board measures to identify risks and prevent serious violations of human integrates the review of CSR issues and policies within the competences rights and fundamental freedoms, the health and safety of persons of its Strategic Committee and CSR. This Committee monitors ethical and the environment, which could potentially result from the activities issues within the Group in conjunction with the Appointments and of Crédit Agricole S.A. and of the consolidated companies over which Governance Committee. Crédit Agricole S.A. exercises control, as well as from the activities of sub-contractors or suppliers with whom an established commercial Managing and monitoring of the vigilance plan relationship is maintained, when such activities are related to that relationship. The vigilance plan is managed and monitored at the highest level of the Group. The Board of Directors of Crédit Agricole S.A. has been informed Our commitments of the procedures for developing and implementing the vigilance plan in its meetings of 16 May and 18 December 2018. Our vigilance measures are in line with the fundamental principles to The CSR Committee of the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group, chaired by which we adhere and the applicable international rules and regulations, the Corporate Secretary, approves the orientations and monitors the in particular with regard to respect for human rights, the fight against implementation of the vigilance plan and the associated action plans. modern slavery, the prevention of attacks on human health and safety, Twice per year it is responsible in the capacity of “Committee on the duty the protection of the environment and, in particular, the development of vigilance” and keeps the Executive Committee updated. of “climate finance” (see Chapter 2 “Social, environmental and societal contribution”). The management of the vigilance plan is entrusted to the CSR department, under the responsibility of the Corporate Secretariat, in collaboration with Beyond the applicable regulatory framework, our Group has chosen to the Group departments overseeing Purchasing, Legal, Risk, Compliance, promote a strong culture of compliance and ethics. Particular attention Human Resources, Safety and Security, as well as with the Crédit Agricole is paid to the impact of our activities on persons and the environment S.A. Group subsidiaries. in order to achieve the objectives expressed in our commitment policies towards customers, employees, partners and society. (See the chapter 2, Our approach part 1 “Promoting a culture of ethics”). For financial year 2018, Crédit Agricole S.A. Group’s vigilance plan Our ethical principles consisted of: nn the process of identifying and mapping the risks of serious violations Our commitments are reflected in policies that formalise the principles that its activities could potentially cause to fundamental human rights of compliance and ethics as applicable within our Group and in our and freedoms, the health and safety of persons, and the environment. relationships with our customers, suppliers, service providers and This approach is reported by describing the methodology used and employees (see Chapter 2, part 1 “Promoting a culture of ethics”). summarising the risks identified and the associated areas of vigilance; nn The code of ethics of the Crédit Agricole Group, which sets out nn prevention or mitigation measures and assessment procedures the framework for the principles of action and professional conduct implemented within the Crédit Agricole S.A. group to prevent these within our Group, has been approved by the Board of Directors of risks; Crédit Agricole S.A. Group and the Boards of Directors of all Group entities of the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group. It was presented to the General Meeting of Shareholders in May 2017 and distributed when it was issued. 114 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance 1. Board of Directors’ Report nn an alert system; For significant risks directly related to our activities, in the areas governed nn a system for monitoring the actions implemented and evaluating by the law on the duty of vigilance, the identification and assessment their performance. Details of policies and action plans and the process refers to priority CSR issues for the Group (see Chapter 2, associated key performance indicators are presented in the “Material CSR commitments and links with SDGs” p. 40 to 43), which statement of non-financial performance (see p. 39 and “Material are updated annually in the form of a barometer based on consultation CSR commitments and links with SDGs” p. 40 to 43). with employees (about 4,000 individuals consulted in 2018) and external stakeholders (1,200 individuals represented clients and general Pursuant to the regulations, the report on the effective implementation audience). of the vigilance plan is published each year for the financial year ending 31 December. In this context, the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group has identified the main areas in which its activities have a major socio-economic impact and The approach of the Vigilance plan is based on the principle of continuous could therefore carry significant direct risks to respect for human rights improvement. As a result, the tools used to identify and manage risks and and fundamental freedoms, human health and safety and environmental the measures implemented to prevent these may change in the light of impact. the results of risk mapping approaches, changes in the activities financed and those induced by the operations of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group, as This approach made it possible to identify the following areas of vigilance: well as priority CSR issues. From that perspective, the indicators for nn Relationships with the customers of the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group: monitoring the implementation of the vigilance plan are currently being –– ensuring the security of customer’s personal data and the evaluated and may be enhanced with new indicators for subsequent transparency of their use; years, including the use of quantitative and qualitative data provided by –– preventing discrimination in access to financial services offered by the alert reporting system. entities of the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group. nn Relationships with the employees of the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group: 3 Methodology for identifying and managing the risks –– maintaining occupational health and ensure equity in social referred to in the current vigilance system protection; In line with the law, the scope of the vigilance plan of Crédit Agricole –– ensuring the safety and security of employees; S.A. Group includes employees, suppliers and sub-contractors with –– combating discrimination; whom it has an established relationship, and covers the main activities –– maintaining social dialogue within the Group. of the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group in the exercise of its business as nn Relationships with suppliers and sub-contractors of the Crédit banker and insurer, i.e. its financing and investment activities as well Agricole S.A. Group: as the distribution of financial and insurance products and services to its customers. –– ensuring that suppliers and sub-contractors with whom we have an established relationship accept commitments related to the The risk identification process is based on two steps: Group’s vigilance system; nn a first step to identify generic risks with regard to the areas of –– assessing and managing significant environmental, societal and vigilance covered by the law and the commitments of the Group; governance (ESG) risks in our purchasing. nn a second step to identify the risks of major impacts specific to our nn Financing and investment activities of the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group: activities that require a particular vigilance. –– assessing and managing major direct environmental and societal With regard to the areas governed by the law and the Group’s CSR risks in financing and investment; commitments, the generic risks of serious violations of human rights, –– paying particular attention to climate risk management in financing. fundamental freedoms and the health and safety of individuals that we have identified are: The Group exercises vigilance within the framework of existing risk management systems (see Chapter 5, “Risk and Pillar 3”). nn the use of forced labour, slavery and child labour; nn the violation of the rights of indigenous peoples, including their right Moreover, the operational risk management system, which includes the to property; risk of non-compliance, legal risk, the risk of internal and external fraud and the risks generated by the use of key outsourced services (PSEE), is nn discrimination and harassment in the workplace; formalised in a set of common standards and procedures. nn failure to respect freedom of association and the principle of collective In accordance with the Decree of 3 November 2014, a dedicated bargaining; procedure is in place to control the risks related to the Group’s activities, nn violations of the health and safety of persons; describing in particular the respective responsibilities of its three lines nn the lack of decent working conditions, compensation and social of defence within the internal control system (business lines in the first protection; place, permanent control exercised by the Risk and Compliance business nn violating the right to privacy. lines in the second place, Audit-Inspection in the third). In terms of environmental protection, the identified serious risks of The identification and qualitative assessment of risks is carried out damage are: through risk mapping, carried out annually by the business lines and nn the worsening of climate change and associated climate risks; entities in accordance with the specific characteristics of their business nn excessive consumption of natural resources; sector. Risk indicators are set up for processes with major impact risks and, if necessary, improvement action plans are defined. nn pollution and degradation of soil, air and water quality; nn the loss of biodiversity; nn the proliferation and non-treatment of waste. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 115 3 Corporate governance 1. Board of Directors’ Report Compliance standards and the system for monitoring non-compliance Several entities of the Group (notably CA Consumer Finance, LCL, risks are described in an ad hoc body of rules (Corpus Fides). Finally, CreditPlus in Germany, Agos in Italy and CA Poland) are involved in a dedicated control system, incorporating a procedure for managing financial and budgetary education programmes that have as one of their irregularities and reporting alerts, ensures that non-compliance risks objectives the prevention of over-indebtedness (see Chapter 2, part 2.1 are managed, particularly with regard to non-compliance with rules “Supporting all customers through good and bad times”). relating to financial and banking activities, professional and ethical standards, instructions, ethics in professional conduct, as well as in Relationships with the employees the fight against money laundering, corruption or terrorist financing, of the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group and respect for the integrity and transparency of the markets. Within Maintaining occupational health and ensuring equity in social the Compliance business line, each Compliance Manager updates a protection mapping of non-compliance risks, consolidated by the Group Compliance The Crédit Agricole S.A. Group ensures that its facilities provide a department. working environment that protects the health of its employees and provides prevention, information and support services for employees Report of the implementation of measures (free screening campaigns and vaccination, ergonomic advice, nutrition to prevent or mitigate these risks and stress management, personalised support for employee carers, etc.). Relationships with the customers Measures to prevent psycho-social risks (toll-free numbers, listening of the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group units) are deployed throughout the Group. In addition, specific attention is In its business of distributing financial and insurance products and paid to organisational transformations and, if necessary, accompanying services to its customers, the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group has identified measures are put in place (training, awareness-raising, collective two areas requiring particular attention. agreements). The Group is also actively involved in the social protection of all its Ensuring the protection of personal data and transparency employees, particularly in matters related to health, retirement, death, as to their use short and long-term disability. Accordingly, in 2017, a supplementary The Crédit Agricole S.A. Group has adopted a normative framework for hospitalisation scheme was implemented at Group level in France. In the protection of personal data by implementing, in 2017, a personal data 2018, the Take Care programme continued and made it possible to charter, co-created with customers. It is based on five key principles strengthen health and provident schemes (death, short and long-term (data security, utility and loyalty, ethics, transparency and pedagogy, disability coverage) for nearly 9,000 employees and their families in customer control) aiming to reassure customers and disseminating best four countries of the International retail banking business line (Egypt, practices to employees of the Group entities. Morocco, Serbia and Ukraine). The commitments made in that charter ensure that customers have control over their data and their use and are fully consistent with the Ensuring the safety and security of employees implementation of the European regulation on the protection of personal The Crédit Agricole S.A. Group ensures the safety and security of its data that came into force in May 2018. employees and persons on its premises. Specific measures are deployed to ensure the safety of employees during business trips as well as for In 2018, a set of standards and procedures relating to the management expatriate employees. Risk prevention actions specific to employees and protection of personal data, including employees’ personal data, was in contact with customers or who travel frequently by road are also distributed throughout the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group (see Chapter 2, implemented. part 1.2 “Establishing trust-based relationships with customers”). In 2017 and 2018, the governance and organisation of the Physical Avoiding discrimination in the access to financial products, Security function within the Group were reviewed in order to strengthen services and insurance by supporting the most financially existing systems and the resources allocated. A procedure describing vulnerable customers the general framework, organisation and operation of the Security and In order to be useful to all its customers and to prevent the risk of Safety Business Line and recalling the tasks entrusted to the Physical discrimination in access to financial services, Crédit Agricole has been Security and Safety Department (“DSS”) was distributed within the committed for several years to a process of financial inclusion and Crédit Agricole Group in 2018. support for the most vulnerable customers. The Crédit Agricole S.A. Additional information on preventive measures and safety and security Group shows its commitment to this approach by committing to measures is presented in the non-financial performance statement (see preventing over-indebtedness and improving access to credit and Chapter 2, part 5.5.1 “Ensuring the health and safety of employees”). insurance for those customers. To prevent and manage situations of over-indebtedness, specific support Combating discrimination measures (support agency, national unit and adapted offer) have been The Crédit Agricole S.A. Group is a signatory of the Diversity Charter set up by Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance and LCL, that can be offered and it has already been committed to an approach aimed at promoting to customers when a situation of financial fragility is found. In addition, diversity and gender balance for several years. This diversity policy, Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance is represented in the Banque de which is based on the principles of non-discrimination and the integration France’s over-indebtedness commissions, with 14 representatives in of career and age diversity, takes the form of agreements on topics such 2018. as non-discrimination in recruitment, training, promotion, compensation Within Crédit Agricole Assurances, Pacifica has developed a Solidarity and the balance between private and professional life. Training and Health offer proposed to beneficiaries of the Assistance for payment of awareness-raising activities are regularly implemented within the Group the Health Supplement (“ACS”). CA Assurances abides by the AERAS and annual indicators make it possible to monitor the results of the agreement, which facilitates access to insurance and loans for persons measures implemented. who currently have or have had serious health problems, and offers adapted policies through its subsidiary, CACI, a loan insurer. 116 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance 1. Board of Directors’ Report The employment and integration of persons with disabilities has been resulting from their activities, in accordance with laws and/or regulations the subject of a proactive policy since 2005 under three-year Disability relating to respect for human, social and environmental rights. In 2018, agreements. The number of newly-hired persons with disabilities and all amendments to supplier contracts entered into under this system are the volume of purchase contracts signed with the Protected and Adapted being revised to include this new clause. Work Sector are among the indicators measured annually (see Chapter 2, The requirements of the law on the duty of vigilance are included in the part 5.4 “Building on our diversity for a stronger work place community”). Purchasing procedural memorandum that applies to all employees. In addition, an e-learning module “Responsible Purchasing” is offered to Maintaining a social dialogue within the Group employees in the Purchasing business line of the Crédit Agricole S.A. The Crédit Agricole S.A. Group, through its Group Human Resources Group, which raises their awareness of the Company’s challenges, Department and representatives of the Human Resources function within policies and procedures. The e-learning module, made available in the each entity, maintains a dynamic dialogue with all stakeholders in the training catalogue, is also accessible to all Crédit Agricole S.A. Group social dialogue. employees, so that all potentially affected employees understand and This dialogue is organised at several levels to take into account the can be able to identify risks in our supply chain. Finally, a “responsible multiplicity of Crédit Agricole Group’s locations in Europe. Fourteen purchasing” training module is offered in person in the training course countries (representing more than 90% of Crédit Agricole’s employees) on the fundamentals of purchasing. are represented on the European Works Council, which meets annually; The CSR evaluation of suppliers is systematically requested at each similarly, in France twice a year, employee representatives and request for proposals, it concerns their CSR management system and management discuss the Group’s strategy and social and economic their offer and is based on a documentary audit. This type of assessment situation. Moreover, two other bodies within the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group also has been entrusted to EcoVadis, an independent third party expert, since 2012. 3 facilitate maintaining the social dialogue: a Consultation Committee in In 2018, the “Supplier Relations and Responsible Purchasing” label which executives can present their projects and engage in discussions awarded by the French Mediator of the Republic has been renewed with employee representatives; meetings of union representatives are and extended to the entire Crédit Agricole S.A. group, including the also organised on a monthly basis to foster exchanges, maintain a local requirements of ISO 20400 Standard. dialogue and explain strategic developments in the Group’s business lines (see Chapter 2, part 5.5.3 “Guaranteeing a constructive social Assessing and managing significant environmental, societal dialogue within the Group”). and governance (ESG) risks in our Purchasing In 2017 and 2018, the Group Purchasing Department undertook to update Relationships with suppliers and sub-contractors its risk mapping by identifying, analysing and prioritising the categories Ensuring that suppliers and sub-contractors with whom we have of purchases presenting risks based on ethical, social and environmental an established relationship accept commitments related to the criteria. This process was carried out in two stages. First, by identifying Group’s vigilance system theoretical CSR risks in Purchasing, as part of a joint project with three The Crédit Agricole S.A. Group has a “Responsible Purchasing” policy, other banks and supported by AFNOR. Second, a mapping of the CSR which was revised in 2017 and in 2018 expanded to be applicable for risks specific to the Purchasing activities of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group the entire Crédit Agricole Group. Shared by all employees and suppliers, was established. it aims to promote, in case of a purchase, the consideration of the right This approach has made it possible to prioritise purchasing categories need and of economic, societal and environmental aspects. This policy according to four levels of CSR risk based on the intrinsic gravity of a risk is accompanied by a Responsible Purchasing Charter that formalises and its probability of occurrence. For categories with the highest levels the reciprocal commitments between the Group and its suppliers, based of risk, the Group Purchasing department has decided to strengthen its on the fundamental principles of the United Nations Global Compact. In CSR assessment system and apply specific risk prevention measures particular, it specifies the level of vigilance expected in terms of respect (diagnosis, recommendations and CSR issues specific to the offer) in for human rights and labour law, environmental impact, business ethics addition to the general measures taken as part of the “Responsible and transparency. The Charter is systematically attached to all supplier Purchasing” policy. contracts. In calls for tenders, the score obtained on the CSR criteria is an integral Moreover, in 2017 a specific clause entitled “Respect for human rights, part of the choice of a good or service in the award of the contract to the protection of the environment and fight against corruption” was included supplier. The more the purchasing category is identified as being at risk, in all the standard supplier contract models of the Crédit Agricole S.A. the more important the CSR rating becomes in the multi-criteria grid. Group, under which suppliers declare and guarantee that they will Additional elements relating to the approach taken by the Group respect and enforce in their supply chains all their obligations to identify Purchasing department are presented in the non-financial performance risks and prevent serious violations of human rights and fundamental statement (see Chapter 2, part 2.2.1 “Purchasing, all accountable”). freedoms, the health and safety of individuals and the environment The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 117 3 Corporate governance 1. Board of Directors’ Report Financing and investment activities This ESG risk management system is based on three pillars: of the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group nn the application of the Equator Principles provides an appropriate Assessing and managing climate, environmental, societal and methodological framework for assessing ESG risks for operations governance issues (ESG) risks in our financing and investments directly related to a project; For several years, the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group has been committed nn the CSR sectoral policies published by the Group, which specify to an approach that integrates environmental, societal and governance the criteria for analysis and exclusion in all transactions for sectors (ESG) risks into its decision-making criteria. where social and environmental issues have been identified as the most important: arms, energy, mining, transportation, transport Investments infrastructure, construction, agriculture and forestry (see Chapter 2, As a signatory to the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) part 4.2.2 “CSR sector policies”); since their launch in 2006, Amundi includes environmental, social nn an analysis of the environmental or social sensitivity of transactions and governance (ESG) criteria in its analysis process and investment or customers regarding the management of the environmental and decisions, in addition to financial criteria. Accordingly, Amundi’s ESG social impacts related to the projects financed or the customers’ CSR policy is as follows: approach, which is assessed in accordance with the principles of the nn a strict exclusion policy for issuers (companies and governments) that sectoral policies of the Bank. do not meet the ESG criteria adopted by the Group; Paying particular attention to climate risk management nn a systematic ESG analysis of companies, summarised by a proprietary in financing ESG rating, which takes into account major environmental, social In October 2017, at the Group Risk Committee (CRG), the Group adopted and governance issues such as climate change, child labour and an ambitious policy on climate and acceleration of energy transition. This transparency in business conduct; is reflected in particular in the evolution of climate risk management nn distribution of ESG ratings to all managers; within financing. nn a commitment policy aimed at developing companies towards best For a number of years, Crédit Agricole CIB has undertaken work designed practices; to better understand and manage climate risks and aims to continue to nn a voting policy that integrates ESG issues. do so: Amundi has developed a proprietary non-financial analysis methodology nn by estimating the carbon footprint of its financing and investment to assess the quality of the environmental, social and governance (ESG) portfolio; policies of issuers. This methodology is based on a pragmatic approach nn by drawing up sector policies for the sectors covering over 80% of called “Best-in-Class” which consists in analysing how, in a given sector, this footprint; companies manage their ESG opportunities and risks. nn by gradually introducing an analysis linked to the consideration of The Crédit Agricole Assurances Group has also been a signatory to global warming issues and a carbon price in the analysis of credit the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) since 2010. In 2017, it files. The goal is to determine the most relevant climate risk or risks developed and published a CSR policy, based on a mapping of the CSR for the Bank and to develop a methodology to assess them. risks associated with its activities, which defines its framework for action Particular attention paid to climate risk management in financing has and is divided into its three business lines: insurer, investor and employer. also resulted in the revision of the Group’s sectoral policy on energy This policy describes its approach to integrating non-financial criteria into in the oil and gas sector, excluding the financing of the least efficient its investment processes. hydrocarbons. This development is in addition to the general policy of Crédit Agricole Assurances applies the same exclusion policy for issuers withdrawing funding from coal-related activities, which has been in place that do not meet the Group’s ESG criteria, based on the list of excluded since 2015. issuers maintained by Amundi. Government debt securities issued by the Additional elements describing the approaches to integrating ESG risks countries on that list are therefore excluded from investments. Except into financing and investment activities are presented in the non-financial in justified cases, private issuers domiciled in those countries are also performance statement and in the CSR reports of the entities of the excluded. Group (see Chapter 2, part 3 “Supporting the energy transition” and part 4 “Encourage taking into account ESG factors”). Financing In the area of project financing, Crédit Agricole CIB has developed a system for assessing and managing risks resulting from the environmental and social impacts of transactions and customers, which is described in its CSR Policy published in 2017 and codified in a governance rule. Since 2003, Crédit Agricole CIB has been guided by the Equator Principles, to which it adhered from the onset. These principles are a voluntary commitment to carry out a detailed analysis of the environmental and social aspects of each new project financing and to require that projects be developed and operated in accordance with the environmental and social standards of the International Finance Corporation (IFC). 118 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance 1. Board of Directors’ Report Alert and notification system System for monitoring implemented actions The Group’s body of procedures in the area of Compliance includes a and evaluating their performance procedure on the right to alert. In order to strengthen risk prevention, the CSR issues, particularly those corresponding to areas of vigilance, are centralized system for reporting alerts and collecting notifications made the subject of specific targets and key indicators, some of which are available to all Group employees as part of the fight against fraud and included in the objectives of the “Strategic Ambition 2020” Mediumcorruption was extended in 2018 to allow facts falling within the scope Term Plan and in the FReD approach. This approach provides entities of the Group’s duty of vigilance and ethical commitments, as defined in with a common framework for formalising CSR policies adapted to their its code of ethics and in the Codes of Good Conduct adopted by each activities and for assessing their societal performance. The average Group entity. of each entity’s progress evaluation provides an index: “the Group The system, the development of which has been shared with union FReD index”. This index, like other criteria such as operating income, organisations, is now open to third parties by any written means and has an impact on the variable compensation of executives throughout will soon be accessible via an IT system collecting alert data. This tool the Group (see Chapter 2 “Managing CSR performance with FReD”, will progressively be accessible in several languages (first French and p. 43). English, then German, Spanish, Italian, Dutch and Portuguese) to anyone As part of our continuous improvement process, the indicators for wishing to make a report on human rights, health and safety, environment monitoring the measures implemented as part of the Vigilance plan will and other issues. Confidentiality about the identity of persons making a be completed and enhanced for financial year 2019, notably with regard report is the rule for alerts in accordance with European regulations. to the use of alert reporting. A common alert reception tool is being deployed within the Crédit Agricole Group to facilitate alert processing and quantitative and Information on the results of CSR policies and the associated key performance indicators are presented in the statement of non-financial 3 qualitative analysis (see Chapter 2, section I.4.4. “Deploy a responsible performance (see Chapter 2, Summary table p. 41 to 43 and elements of and compliance process”). The annual analysis of alerts (number and non-financial reporting indentified by DPEF pictograms), in accordance type of alerts) will contribute to the assessment of non-compliance risks with the Group’s approach, which aims to integrate the exercise of its duty and the development of the preventive measures implemented. of vigilance into its overall strategy, which aims to achieve sustainable performance based on principles of action and behaviour in line with the values it defends. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 119 3 Corporate governance 2. Additional information on Corporate Officers 2. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON CORPORATE OFFICERS 2.1. COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS At 31 December 2018: Dominique Lefebvre Chairman of the Board of Directors Chairman of the Caisse régionale Val de France Chairman of Fédération nationale du Crédit Agricole Chairman of SAS Rue La Boétie Raphaël Appert Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors representative of SAS Rue La Boétie Chief Executive Officer of the Caisse régionale Centre-est First Deputy Chairman of Fédération nationale du Crédit Agricole Deputy Chairman of SAS Rue La Boétie Pascale Berger Crédit Agricole Regional Banks Employee Representative Philippe Boujut Chairman of the Caisse régionale de Charente-Périgord Caroline Catoire Corporate Director Laurence Dors Corporate Director Daniel Épron Chairman of the Caisse régionale de Normandie Véronique Flachaire Chief Executive Officer of the Caisse régionale du Languedoc Jean-Pierre Gaillard Chairman of the Caisse régionale Sud Rhône-Alpes Françoise Gri Corporate Director Jean-Paul Kerrien Chairman of the Caisse régionale du Finistère Christiane Lambert Chairwoman of the FNSEA, representing professional farming associations Monica Mondardini Chief Executive Officer of CIR S.p.A. Gérard Ouvrier-Buffet Chief Executive Officer of the Caisse régionale Loire Haute-Loire Catherine Pourre Corporate Director Manager of CPO Services (Luxembourg) Christian Streiff Corporate Director Renée Talamona Chief Executive Officer of the Caisse régionale de Lorraine Louis Tercinier Chairman of the Caisse régionale Charente-Maritime Deux-Sèvres François Thibault Chairman of the Caisse régionale Centre Loire François Heyman Representing the employees (UES Crédit Agricole S.A.) Simone Védie Representing the employees (UES Crédit Agricole S.A.) Pierre Cambefort Non-voting Director Chief Executive Officer of the Caisse régionale Nord Midi-Pyrénées Philippe de Waal Non-voting Director Chairman of the Caisse régionale Brie Picardie Bernard de Drée Representative of the Works Council 120 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance 2. Additional information on Corporate Officers Risk Committee: Risk Compensation Committee COREM 5 members 6 members United States Risk Committee US Appointments and Governance Committee CNG 3 members 6 members Audit Committee Audit Strategy and CSR Committee Strat/CSR 6 members 7 members Committees Presentation of the Board of Directors First Chairman: Green at 31 December 2018 Origin Age appointed Renewal of term Attendance Member: Black Dominique Lefebvre Chairman of the Board of Directors Chairman of the Caisse régionale Val-de-France, FNCA, and SAS Rue La Boétie 57 2015(1) 2019 100% CNG; Strat/CSR Raphaël Appert Representative of SAS Rue La Boétie Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors Chief Executive Officer of the Caisse régionale Centre-est First Deputy Chairman of FNCA Deputy Chairman of SAS Rue La Boétie 57 2017 2021 100% CNG; Strat/CSR 3 Pascale Berger Representative of Crédit Agricole Regional Bank employees 57 2013 2021 100% Philippe Boujut (2) Chairman of the Caisse régionale de Charente-Périgord 64 2018 2021 100% Caroline Catoire Corporate Director 63 2011 2020 100% US; audit Laurence Dors Audit; COREM; Corporate Director 62 2009 2020 100% CNG Daniel Épron Chairman of the Caisse régionale de Normandie 62 2014 2020 100% COREM; Strat/CSR Véronique Flachaire Chief Executive Officer of the Caisse régionale du Languedoc 61 2010 2019 80% Risks; US Jean-Pierre Gaillard Chairman of the Caisse régionale Sud Rhône-Alpes 58 2014 2019 100% Audit ; CNG Françoise Gri Risks; US; audit; Corporate Director 61 2012 2020 100% COREM; Strat/CSR Jean-Paul Kerrien Chairman of the Caisse régionale du Finistère 57 2015 2019 100% COREM Monica Mondardini Chief Executive Officer of CIR S.p.A. 58 2010 2021 100% CNG Gérard Ouvrier-Buffet Chief Executive Officer of the Caisse régionale Loire Haute-Loire 61 2013 2020 100% audit Catherine Pourre Corporate Director Manager of CPO Services (Luxembourg) 61 2017 2020 100% Risks; audit Christian Streiff Risks; COREM; Corporate Director 64 2011 2020 100% Strat/CSR Renée Talamona Chief Executive Officer of the Caisse régionale de Lorraine 61 2016 2021 100% Strat/CSR Louis Tercinier Chairman of the Caisse régionale de Charente-Maritime Deux-Sèvres 58 2017 2021 100% CNG François Thibault Chairman of the Caisse régionale Centre Loire 63 2015 2020 100% Risks; Strat/CSR Christiane Lambert Chairman of the FNSEA (Fédération nationale des syndicats d’exploitants agricoles) 57 2017 2020 70% François Heyman Representing employees 59 2012 2021 100% COREM Simone Védie Representing employees 58 2018 2021 100% KEY INDICATORS AVERAGE 59.5 98% (1) 2007-2009: Director natural person; 2009-2015: representing the SAS Rue La Boétie. (2) Elected Director by the General Meeting in 2018, Philippe Boujut was previously a non-voting Director. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 121 3 Corporate governance 2. Additional information on Corporate Officers Presentation of the Board of Directors First at 31 December 2018 Origin Age appointed Renewal of term Attendance Committees Pierre Cambefort Non-voting Director Chief Executive Officer of the Caisse régionale Nord Midi-Pyrénées 54 2018 2021 100% Philippe de Waal Non-voting Director Chairman of the Caisse régionale Brie Picardie 63 2018 2021 100% Bernard de Drée Representative of the Works Council CE 64 2012 2019 100% Directors who are the Chairmen or Chief Executive Officers of a Caisse régionale de Crédit Agricole. Director who is an employee of a Regional Bank. Director, Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole Regional Bank, representing SAS Rue La Boétie. Independent Directors. Non-voting Director. Representing farming organisations, appointed by joint order of the Ministers of Agriculture and Finance. Directors elected by the staff of Unité Économique et Sociale (UES) of Crédit Agricole S.A. CE Representative of the Works Council. 122 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance 2. Additional information on Corporate Officers 2.2. OFFICES HELD BY CORPORATE OFFICERS The information appearing below on offices held by members of the Board of Directors and Executive Management is required by Article L. 225-37-4, paragraph 1, of the French Commercial Code and amended by the Order No. 2017-1180 of 19 July 2017, Article 3. Crédit Agricole S.A. Board of Directors at 31 December 2018 DOMINIQUE LEFEBVRE Main office within the Company: Chairman of the Board of Directors Chairman of the Strategy and Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Member of the Appointments and Governance Committee Business address: Caisse régionale Val-de-France – 1, rue Daniel-Boutet – 28002 Chartres BRIEF BIOGRAPHY Dominique Lefebvre is a cereal farmer and has held numerous positions within professional agricultural organisations. He got involved in Crédit Agricole’s working bodies very early on and, in 1995, was elected Chairman of Crédit Agricole de la Beauce et du Perche, now Crédit Agricole Val-de-France (1997). He also holds several national offices. Initially elected a member of the Bureau of the Fédération nationale du Crédit Agricole – FNCA (in 2004), he became Deputy Chairman thereof in 2008, then Chairman in 2010. On this basis, he was also Chairman of SAS Rue La Boétie, Crédit Agricole S.A.’s majority shareholder, before being elected Chairman of Crédit Agricole 3 S.A. in November 2015. OFFICES HELD AT 31/12/2018 OTHER OFFICES HELD WITHIN PAST YEARS Born in 1961, (2014 TO 2018) In Crédit Agricole Group companies French nationality Chairman: Caisse régionale Val-de-France, Fédération nn In Crédit Agricole Group companies Date first appointed: nationale du Crédit Agricole – FNCA, SAS Rue La Boétie, nn Deputy Chairman: Crédit Agricole S.A. (2015) November 2015(1) Sacam Participations, Sacam International, Fondation Crédit nn Chairman: Adicam (2015) Term of office ends: Agricole Solidarité et Développement (CASD) In other listed companies 2019 nn Chairman of the Management Committee: GIE Gecam – nn Deputy Chairman: Sacam Développement Number of Crédit Agricole S.A. shares nn Manager: Sacam Mutualisation In other non-listed companies held at 31/12/2018: nn Director: Crédit Agricole Foundation – Pays de France, – 4,273 SCI CAM Other offices In other listed companies nn Director: INRA (2014) – nn Chairman: Confédération nationale de la mutualité, de la coopération et du crédit agricole – CNMCCA (2015) In other non-listed companies nn Member: Conseil économique, social et environnemental (2015) – nn Manager: EARL de Villiers-le-Bois (2018) Other offices nn Chairman: Finance Commission: Chambre d’agriculture d’Eure-et-Loir nn Member of Conseil de l’agriculture française (1) 2007-2009: Director natural person; 2009-2015: representing the SAS Rue La Boétie. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 123 3 Corporate governance 2. Additional information on Corporate Officers Representative of SAS Rue La Boétie: RAPHAËL APPERT Main office within the Company: Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors Member of the Strategy and Corporate Social Responsibility Committee – Member of the Appointments and Governance Committee Business address: Caisse régionale de Centre-est – 1, rue Pierre-de-Truchis-de-Lays – 69410 Champagne-au-Mont-d’Or BRIEF BIOGRAPHY Aged 57 and a graduate of EDHEC (Lille 1983), Raphaël Appert has spent his entire career at Crédit Agricole. Having joined the network of branches of Crédit Agricole du Nord-Est in 1983, he subsequently became Manager of the Commercial Network of Crédit Agricole de la Sarthe in 1995, then Finance and Marketing Manager of Crédit Agricole de l’Anjou et du Maine in 1998. He has been Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole Centre-est since 2002. In 2005, the Board of Directors of Crédit Agricole Val de France chose him as Chief Executive Officer. He has been Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole Centre-est since 2010. Elected to the Bureau of the Fédération nationale du Crédit Agricole in 2012, he became Deputy Corporate Secretary in 2015, then First Deputy Chairman in May 2017. Within the Crédit Agricole Group, Raphaël Appert’s offices notably include those of Chairman of Sacam Développement and Director of Fondation Grameen Crédit Agricole. Born in 1961, French nationality OFFICES HELD AT 31/12/2018 OTHER OFFICES HELD WITHIN PAST YEARS Date first appointed: (2014 TO 2018) In Crédit Agricole Group companies May 2017 nn Chief Executive Officer: Caisse régionale Centre-est; Sacam In Crédit Agricole Group companies (SAS Rue La Boétie) International nn Chairman: Pacifica (2017), Crédit Agricole Assurances (2017) Term of office ends: nn Deputy Chairman: SAS Rue La Boétie nn Director: Amundi (2015), Predica (2017) 2021 nn First Deputy Chairman: Fédération nationale nn Supervisory Board member: Crédit Agricole Bank Polska (2017) Number of Crédit du Crédit Agricole – FNCA nn Deputy Corporate Secretary: Fédération nationale du Crédit Agricole S.A. shares nn Chairman: Sacam Développement, SAS Carvest Agricole – FNCA (2017) held at 31/12/2018: nn Director: Crédit Agricole Financements, Fondation du Crédit In other listed companies 5,012 (personally Agricole – Pays de France, Sacam Participations – owned) nn Management Committee member: GIE Gecam FCPE (employee share nn Manager: Sacam Mutualisation In other non-listed companies ownership plan) units – nn Director: Fondation Grameen Crédit Agricole held invested in Crédit Other offices Agricole S.A. shares at In other listed companies – – 31/12/2018: 7,712 (personally In other non-listed companies owned) nn Director: Siparex Associés Other offices nn Association des fondateurs et protecteurs de l’Institut catholique de Lyon (AFPCIL) 124 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance 2. Additional information on Corporate Officers PASCALE BERGER Main office within the Company: Director representing Crédit Agricole Regional Banks employees Business address: Caisse régionale de Franche-Comté – 11, avenue Élisée-Cusenier – 25000 Besançon BRIEF BIOGRAPHY Pascale Berger holds a DEA (diplôme d’études approfondies) in business law and a DESS (diplôme d’études spécialisées) in rural law. She spent most of her career at the Caisse régionale de Franche-Comté, first as Portfolio Manager in the Litigation department (1988-1992), then Business Manager in the Training department (1992-2005). She subsequently joined the Permanent Control department, then became an Internal Auditor. In 2014, she joined the Innovation and Transformation division, with responsibility for the documentary database. In April 2017, she became Communications Officer. She was elected Assistant Secretary and became Chairwoman of the Mutuelle (Health insurance) Commission of the Caisse régionale de Franche-Comté works council. OFFICES HELD AT 31/12/2018 OTHER OFFICES HELD WITHIN PAST YEARS Born in 1961, (2014 TO 2018) In Crédit Agricole Group companies French nationality Communications Officer: Caisse régionale de Franche-Comté nn In Crédit Agricole Group companies Date first appointed: nn Deputy Secretary: Franche-Comté works council nn Auditor: Caisse régionale de Franche-Comté within the Audit May 2013 nn Chairwoman of the Mutuelle Commission: Franche-Comté and Periodic Controls department (2014) 3 Term of office ends: works council nn Advisor: Chorale Doc (Caisse régionale de Franche-Comté 2021 documentary database, 2017) In other listed companies Number of Crédit – In other listed companies Agricole S.A. shares – held at 31/12/2018: In other non-listed companies 10 – In other non-listed companies – FCPE (employee share Other offices ownership plan) units – Other offices held invested in Crédit – Agricole S.A. shares at 31/12/2018: 940 PHILIPPE BOUJUT Main office within the Company: Director Business address: Caisse régionale Charente-Périgord – 28-30, rue d’Epagnac – 16800 Soyaux BRIEF BIOGRAPHY A winegrower, Philippe Boujut has owned vineyards in the Cognac region since 1976. He founded and developed a company selling and exporting viticulture products (1995-2005). He was elected Deputy Mayor of Saint-Preuil (1983-1995), and then Mayor of that municipality (1995-2008). He was elected Director of the Caisse locale de Crédit Agricole de Segonzac (1983) and then became its Chairman (1986). After having been a member of the Board of Caisse régionale de Charente-Périgord (1998), he was elected as its Deputy Chairman (2009), then its Chairman (2012). OFFICES HELD AT 31/12/2018 OTHER OFFICES HELD WITHIN PAST YEARS (2014 TO 2018) In Crédit Agricole Group companies Born in 1954 Chairman: Caisse régionale Charente-Périgord nn In Crédit Agricole Group companies French nationality nn Director: Fireca, Camca. Grand Sud-Ouest Capital nn Non-voting Director: Crédit Agricole S.A. (2018) Date first appointed: nn Member of the Executive Committee: Sacam Fireca In other listed companies May 2018 (Director) nn Member of the Supervisory Board: Camca Courtage – Term of office ends: nn Member of the R&D Committee and Strategy Committee: CA 2021 In other non-listed companies INNOVE – Number of Crédit In other listed companies Agricole S.A. shares Other offices – held at 31/12/2018: – 204 In other non-listed companies – Other offices nn Director: Fondation Poitiers Université nn Member: Association Agriculteurs français et développement international (AFDI), Confédération régionale de la mutualité, de la coopération et du crédit agricole (CRMCCA) The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 125 3 Corporate governance 2. Additional information on Corporate Officers CAROLINE CATOIRE Main office within the Company: Director Member of the Audit Committee – Member of the Risks Committee in the United States Business address: Crédit Agricole S.A. – 12, place des États-Unis – 92120 Montrouge Cedex – France BRIEF BIOGRAPHY A former student of École polytechnique, Caroline Catoire held various positions in the Total Group from 1980 to 1998: within the Economic Research department, the Oil Trading department, and then the Finance department as Head of Management Control, followed by Director of Corporate Finance. She then joined Société Générale and served as the Director of Management Control of the investment bank (1999-2002). She broadened her experience in the financial sector, serving as CFO in various companies: Sita France, then Saur Group and Metalor Group. Since December 2015, she has been a consultant in the financial sector. OFFICES HELD AT 31/12/2018 OTHER OFFICES HELD WITHIN PAST YEARS (2014 TO 2018) In Crédit Agricole Group companies Born in 1955, – In Crédit Agricole Group companies French nationality – In other listed companies Date first appointed: – In other listed companies May 2011 nn Director and Audit Committee member: Maurel & Prom Term of office ends: In other non-listed companies International (2015) 2020 nn Independent Director, Chairwoman of the Ethics and Sustainable Development Committee, Member of the Audit In other non-listed companies Number of Crédit Committee: Roquette Group nn Chief Financial Officer and Executive Committee member: Saur Agricole S.A. shares Group (2014), Metalor Group (2015) held at 31/12/2018: Other offices nn Director: Company Coved, Company CER, Company Sedud 1,139 nn Chairwoman: C2A Conseil (2014) nn Non-voting Director: Roquette Group (2018) Other offices – LAURENCE DORS Main office within the Company: Director Chairwoman of the Compensation Committee Member of the Audit Committee – Member of the Appointments and Governance Committee Business address: Crédit Agricole S.A. – 12, place des États-Unis – 92120 Montrouge – France BRIEF BIOGRAPHY A former senior civil servant in the French Finance Ministry and the Ministry of the Economy’s staff (1994-1995), and later the Prime Minister’s staff (1995-1997), Laurence Dors has spent much of her professional career in general management positions of international groups (Lagardère, EADS, Dassault Systèmes, Renault), then as Cofounder and Senior Partner of the consulting firm, Theano Advisors (2012-2018), she is a specialist in governance issues and an independent Director. She sits on the Board of Directors of the Institut français des administrateurs and Capgemini. OFFICES HELD AT 31/12/2018 OTHER OFFICES HELD WITHIN PAST YEARS (2014 TO 2018) In Crédit Agricole Group companies Born in 1956, – In Crédit Agricole Group companies French nationality – In other listed companies Date first appointed: nn Independent Director: Capgemini In other listed companies May 2009 In other non-listed companies – Term of office ends: 2020 nn Independent Director: EGIS SA In other non-listed companies Number of Crédit Other offices nn Senior Partner: Theano Advisors (2018) Agricole S.A. shares nn Director: Institut français des administrateurs (IFA) Other offices held at 31/12/2018: nn Member: Advisory Committee of Institut des hautes études de nn Director: Institut national des hautes études de la sécurité et de 1,126 l’Amérique latine (IHEAL); Club économique franco-allemand la justice – INHESJ (2016) (CEFA) 126 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance 2. Additional information on Corporate Officers DANIEL ÉPRON Main office within the Company: Director Member of the Strategy and Corporate Social Responsibility Committee – Member of the Compensation Committee Business address: Caisse régionale de Normandie – 15, esplanade Brillaud-de-Laujardière – 14050 Caen BRIEF BIOGRAPHY Daniel Épron is a farmer in the Orne region. He has held a number of elected mandates, especially in the agricultural sector: He was Deputy Corporate Secretary of the Young farmers’ centre (Centre national des jeunes agriculteurs) (1989-1992), a member of the Conseil économique, social et environnemental régional de Basse-Normandie (1989-2013), Chairman of the Chambre régionale d’agriculture de Normandie (1995-2007), and a Regional Councillor for Basse-Normandie (2001-2004). Chairman of the Caisse locale de Crédit Agricole de l’Aigle (1990-2005), he chaired the Caisse régionale de l’Orne from 1995 to 1997, and has chaired the Caisse régionale de Normandie (post merger) since 2006. He is Deputy Chairman of Fédération nationale du Crédit Agricole – FNCA and has been a member of the Conseil économique, social et environnemental since the end of 2015. Born in 1956 OFFICES HELD AT 31/12/2018 OTHER OFFICES HELD WITHIN PAST YEARS French nationality (2014 TO 2018) In Crédit Agricole Group companies Date first appointed: nn Chairman: Caisse régionale de Normandie, Sofinormandie In Crédit Agricole Group companies May 2014 Director: CA Consumer Finance (2014), LCL (2014) 3 nn Deputy Chairman: Fédération nationale nn Term of office ends: du Crédit Agricole – FNCA In other listed companies 2020 nn Director: SAS Rue La Boétie, Cariparma, Crédit Agricole – Number of Crédit Technologies et Services, SCI CAM nn Management Committee member: GIE Gecam; SACAM In other non-listed companies Agricole S.A. shares Participations – held at 31/12/2018: 874 In other listed companies Other offices – – In other non-listed companies – Other offices nn Manager: GFA de Belzaise nn Partner: SCI Samaro nn Director: Agence de développement pour la Normandie (ADN) nn Member: Conseil économique, social et environnemental (CESE) The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 127 3 Corporate governance 2. Additional information on Corporate Officers VÉRONIQUE FLACHAIRE Main office within the Company: Director Member of the Risks Committee – Member of the Risks Committee in the United States Business address: Caisse régionale du Languedoc – Avenue du Montpelliéret-Maurin – 34970 Lattes BRIEF BIOGRAPHY Véronique Flachaire is a chemical engineer and graduate of Sciences-Po Paris, and has spent her entire career at the Crédit Agricole Group. With an executive position in the Caisse régionale du Midi, she was then appointed Deputy Chief Executive Officer of the Caisse régionale du Sud-Ouest. She ran the Inforsud Group and then the Group’s subsidiary dedicated to means of payment – Cédicam – (20042007), before joining Crédit Agricole S.A. as Director of Relations with Regional Banks. Backed by her diverse range of experience in all areas of banking, she was appointed CEO of the Caisse régionale Charente-Maritime Deux-Sèvres in 2009 and currently serves the same position in the Caisse régionale du Languedoc since 2012. OFFICES HELD AT 31/12/2018 OTHER OFFICES HELD WITHIN PAST YEARS Born in 1957 (2014 TO 2018) In Crédit Agricole Group companies French nationality nn Chief Executive Officer: Caisse régionale du Languedoc In Crédit Agricole Group companies Date first appointed: nn Chairwoman: Crédit Agricole Technologies et Services, Crédit nn Chairwoman: Santeffi (2016) – Deltager (2016) – CA Paiement February 2010 Agricole Group Infrastructure Platform (2016) – Progica (2018) Term of office ends: nn Director: CCPMA, Adicam, Sofilaro, Crédit Agricole Payment nn Director: HECA (2016), Deltager (2018) 2019 Services In other listed companies Number of Crédit In other listed companies – Agricole S.A. shares – held at 31/12/2018: In other non-listed companies 650 In other non-listed companies – – FCPE (employee share Other offices ownership plan) units Other offices nn Chairwoman: Fédération bancaire française Languedocheld invested in Crédit – Roussillon (2016) Agricole S.A. shares at 31/12/2018: 643 JEAN-PIERRE GAILLARD Main office within the Company: Director Member of the Audit Committee – Member of the Appointments and Governance Committee Business address: Caisse régionale Sud Rhône-Alpes – 15-17, rue Paul-Claudel – 38100 Grenoble BRIEF BIOGRAPHY Jean-Pierre Gaillard is a wine grower, tourist activity manager and Municipal Councillor in Saint-Jean le Centenier. He has been Chairman of the Caisse locale de Crédit Agricole de Villeneuve de Berg since 1993. After having sat on the Board of the Caisse régionale de l’Ardèche, then of the Caisse régionale Sud Rhône-Alpes, he was elected Chairman of the latter in 2006. Being particularly committed to local development and environmental economics, he chairs Crédit Agricole Group’s Energy and Environment Committee. He holds a number of offices within national bodies, including in the Bureau fédéral of the Fédération nationale du Crédit Agricole – FNCA. OFFICES HELD AT 31/12/2018 OTHER OFFICES HELD WITHIN PAST YEARS (2014 TO 2018) In Crédit Agricole Group companies Born in 1960, Chairman: Caisse régionale Sud Rhône-Alpes, Adicam nn In Crédit Agricole Group companies French nationality nn Deputy Chairman: Fomugei Management Committee nn Director: Banca Popolare FriulAdria (2014) Date first appointed: nn Member of the Board of Directors: SAS Rue La Boétie nn Deputy Chairman: Crédit Agricole Solidarité Développement – May 2014 CASD (2015); Fédération nationale du Crédit Agricole – FNCA nn Director and Audit Committee member: LCL Term of office ends: nn Supervisory Board member: CA Titres (2018) 2019 nn Treasurer: Fédération nationale du Crédit Agricole – FNCA In other listed companies (2015) Number of Crédit – Agricole S.A. shares nn Chairman: Amicale Sud (2017) held at 31/12/2018: In other non-listed companies In other listed companies 1,246 – – Other offices In other non-listed companies nn Municipal Councillor: Saint-Jean-le-Centenier (Ardèche) – nn Director: Banque de France de l’Ardèche Other offices – 128 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance 2. Additional information on Corporate Officers FRANÇOISE GRI Main office within the Company: Director Chairwoman of the Risks Committee and of the US Risks Committee Member of the Audit Committee – Member of the Compensation Committee – Member of the Strategy and CSR Committee Business address: Crédit Agricole S.A. – 12, place des États-Unis – 92120 Montrouge – France BRIEF BIOGRAPHY Françoise Gri is a graduate of École nationale supérieure d’informatique et de mathématiques appliqués in Grenoble. She began her career in the IBM Group and was appointed Chairwoman and CEO of IBM France in 2001. 2007 saw her move to Manpower as Chairwoman and CEO of its French subsidiary, before going on to become ManpowerGroup Executive Vice-President for Southern Europe (2011). An accomplished senior manager with extensive international experience, she then took up the position of Chief Executive Officer of the Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group (2012-2014). An independent Director, she is a specialist in IT Technology and Corporate Social Responsibility. OFFICES HELD AT 31/12/2018 OTHER OFFICES HELD WITHIN PAST YEARS Born in 1957, (2014 TO 2018) In Crédit Agricole Group companies French nationality Independent Director: Crédit Agricole CIB nn In Crédit Agricole Group companies Date first appointed: 3 In other listed companies – May 2012 nn Independent Director: Edenred S.A. In other listed companies Term of office ends: nn Director and Audit Committee member: WNS Services nn Chairwoman: Viadeo (2016) 2020 In other non-listed companies nn Chief Executive Officer: Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs Group Number of Crédit (2014) nn Manager: F. Gri Conseil Agricole S.A. shares nn Independent Director: 21 Centrale Partners In other non-listed companies held at 31/12/2018: 2,076 Other offices – nn Director: École Audencia Other offices nn Deputy Chairwoman: Institut de l’entreprise (2015) nn Member: Corporate Governance High Committee; MEDEF Ethics Committee (2016); Institut français du tourisme (2015) JEAN-PAUL KERRIEN Main office within the Company: Director Member of the Compensation Committee Business address: Caisse régionale du Finistère – 7, route du Loch – 29555 Quimper BRIEF BIOGRAPHY A farmer specialising in organic vegetable production, Jean-Paul Kerrien has been Chairman of the Caisse locale de Taulé since 1996. He has been Director of the Caisse régionale du Finistère since 2006, where he became Deputy Chairman in 2009 then Chairman in 2012. Reflecting his strong investment in the Group’s agriculture, he has developed several cooperative production and distribution structures. He was a member of the Finistère Chamber of Agriculture (2006-2012), for which he chaired the Agronomy Commission. Jean-Paul Kerrien also has responsibilities in the area of innovation. Chairman of Investir en Finistère from 2014 to 2017, he is committed to developing the economic attractiveness of the Finistère region. OFFICES HELD AT 31/12/2018 OTHER OFFICES HELD WITHIN PAST YEARS Born in 1961, (2014 TO 2018) In Crédit Agricole Group companies French nationality Chairman: Caisse régionale du Finistère, Fireca nn In Crédit Agricole Group companies Date first appointed: nn Director: Cofilmo, BforBank, Crédit Agricole en Bretagne, Crédit nn Director: HECA (2015) November 2015 Agricole Egypt nn Non-voting Director: Crédit Agricole S.A. (2015) (Director) In other listed companies In other listed companies Term of office ends: – – 2019 Number of Crédit In other non-listed companies In other non-listed companies nn Partner: Earl de Kererec, Sarl photovoltaïque de Kererec – Agricole S.A. shares nn Chairman: SCIC Finistère mer vent held at 31/12/2018: Other offices 601 Other offices nn Chairman: Investir en Finistère (2017) nn Director: Investir en Finistère; YNCREA Ouest The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 129 3 Corporate governance 2. Additional information on Corporate Officers CHRISTIANE LAMBERT Main office within the Company: Director Business address: FNSEA – 11, rue de la Baume – 75008 Paris BRIEF BIOGRAPHY Born to a family of farmers, Christiane Lambert has been managing her own farm since 1980. She started in Massiac, in her native Cantal region, with a herd of dairy cows and some 40 sows. At the same time, she joined the union of young farmers (Jeunes Agriculteurs – JA), making her way up the various regional ranks: Chairwoman of the Centre cantonal des Jeunes Agriculteurs (CCJA) de Massiac (19811984), then Deputy Chairwoman of the CDJA of Cantal (1982-1988), she was also the first woman to chair the CRJA Auvergne in 1986. In 1989, she moved to Maine-et-Loire to take over her parents-in-laws’ pig farm with her husband. She continued her trade union activities and became the first chairwoman of the CNJA (1994-1998). She has been a Director of FNSEA since March 2002, and then a Board member since 2005, becoming the First Deputy Chairwoman in 2010. She is also Deputy Chairwoman of several organizations such as the Environment Commission and Institut de formation des cadres paysans (IFOCAP) and also chaired the Forum for Integrated Born in 1961, Agriculture that Respects the Environment (FARRE) from 1999 to 2004 and VIVEA, the Fonds de formation continue des entrepreneurs French nationality du vivant from 2005 to 2017. In April 2017, she became the first woman to chair the FNSEA. Date first appointed: OFFICES HELD AT 31/12/2018 OTHER OFFICES HELD WITHIN PAST YEARS September 2017 (2014 TO 2018) Term of office ends: In Crédit Agricole Group companies 2020 – In Crédit Agricole Group companies – Number of Crédit In other listed companies Agricole S.A. shares – In other listed companies held at 31/12/2018: – In other non-listed companies 295 – In other non-listed companies – Other offices nn Chairwoman: Fédération nationale des syndicats d’exploitants Other offices agricoles (FNSEA) nn Deputy Chairwoman: Fédération régionale des syndicats d’exploitants agricoles (FRSEA) des Pays de la Loire and member of the Chamber of Agriculture’s office (2014) MONICA MONDARDINI Main office within the Company: Director Member of the Appointments and Governance Committee Business address: CIR S.p.A. – Via Ciovassino, 1 – 20121 Milano BRIEF BIOGRAPHY Graduate in economics and statistics from the University of Bologna (Italy), Monica Mondardini has held several executive positions within the publishing (Hachette) and then the insurance sector (Generali) in Italy, Spain and France. In 2009 she joined one of the largest Italian publishing groups, the Gruppo Editoriale L’Espresso, which is now called GEDI Gruppo Editoriale (2018) as Deputy Director (2009-2018). While in her current role, in 2013 she became Deputy Director of CIR S.p.A., a major industrial holding company listed on the Milan stock exchange, that controls Gruppo Editoriale L’Espresso, as well as other companies active in the automotive and health sectors. OFFICES HELD AT 31/12/2018 OTHER OFFICES HELD WITHIN PAST YEARS (2014 TO 2018) In Crédit Agricole Group companies Born in 1960 – In Crédit Agricole Group companies Italian nationality – In other listed companies Date first appointed: nn Chief Executive Officer: CIR S.p.A. In other listed companies May 2010 nn Chairwoman: Sogefi S.p.A. (CIR Group) nn Chief Executive Officer: GEDI Gruppo Editoriale (CIR group) Term of office ends: nn Deputy Chairwoman: GEDI Spa (CIR group) (2018) 2021 nn Independent Director: Atlantia S.p.A. nn Independent Director: Trevi Financiaria Industriale S.p.A. (2018) Number of Crédit Agricole S.A. shares In other non-listed companies In other non-listed companies held at 31/12/2018: nn Director: Kos (CIR Group) nn Chairwoman: Aeroporti di Roma S.p.A (Atlantia Group) (2017) 519 Other offices Other offices – nn Director: Save the Children Italia (2014) 130 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance 2. Additional information on Corporate Officers GÉRARD OUVRIER-BUFFET Main office within the Company: Director Member of the Audit Committee Business address: Caisse régionale Loire Haute-Loire – 94, rue Bergson – BP 524 – 42007 Saint-Étienne Cedex 1 BRIEF BIOGRAPHY Gérard Ouvrier-Buffet has spent almost his whole career in Crédit Agricole Group. He acquired comprehensive expertise in all aspects of retail banking working in the Caisse régionale de Haute-Savoie (1982-1992), and Caisse régionale du Midi (1992-1998). Appointed Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole Sud Rhône-Alpes in 1998, he has served as Chief Executive Officer of the Caisse régionale Loire Haute-Loire since 2002. At the same time, he was Chairman of Predica and Crédit Agricole Assurances until 2013. He then spearheaded the launch and development of the real estate business line. Today, he is Chairman of Crédit Agricole Immobilier. He is Deputy Chairman of the Fédération nationale du Crédit Agricole – FNCA. OFFICES HELD AT 31/12/2018 OTHER OFFICES HELD WITHIN PAST YEARS Born in 1957 (2014 TO 2018) In Crédit Agricole Group companies French nationality nn Chief Executive Officer: Caisse régionale Loire Haute-Loire In Crédit Agricole Group companies Date first appointed: nn Chairman of the Board of Directors: Crédit Agricole Immobilier, nn Director: Crédit Agricole Immobilier (2015) August 2013 3 Cofam, Sircam, Locam nn Chairman of the Executive Committee: Square Habitat (2014) Term of office ends: nn Chairman of the Audit and Risks Committee and Supervisory nn Chairman of the Board of Directors: Logiciel Immobilier (2014) 2020 Board member: Crédit du Maroc In other listed companies Number of Crédit nn Deputy Chairman: Fédération nationale – Agricole S.A. shares du Crédit Agricole – FNCA held at 31/12/2018: nn Director: SAS Rue La Boétie, Square Habitat Crédit Agricole In other non-listed companies 2,694 Loire Haute-Loire, Edokial, Défitech, Chêne Vert, SCI CAM – FCPE (employee share nn Management Board member: Uni-Médias (formerly Other offices ownership plan) units Uni-Éditions) – held invested in Crédit nn Management Committee member: GIE Gecam Agricole S.A. shares at In other listed companies 31/12/2018: – 6,614 In other non-listed companies nn Director: Sacicap Forez-Velay nn Board Chairman: Le Village by CA Loire Haute-Loire nn Founding Director: Fondation d’Entreprise Crédit Agricole Loire Haute-Loire for innovation Other offices nn Treasurer: Foundation of the University Jean-Monnet in Saint-Étienne The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 131 3 Corporate governance 2. Additional information on Corporate Officers CATHERINE POURRE Main office within the Company: Director Chairwoman of the Audit Committee Member of the Risk Committee Business address: CPO Services – 13, rue d’Amsterdam – 1126 Luxembourg BRIEF BIOGRAPHY A graduate of ESSEC, Certified Accountant, with a degree in business law from the Catholic University of Paris, Catherine Pourre has extensive experience in audit and organisation consulting, particularly as a partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers (1989-1999) then at Capgemini Ernst & Young France, where she became Executive Director in 2000. She joined Unibail-Rodamco in 2002 as Deputy Chief Executive Officer. She carried out various executive management functions as member of the Executive Committee, then member of the Management Committee. Since August 2015, she has been Manager and Director of CPO Services (Luxembourg). Catherine Pourre is also an experienced navigator. She is a chevalier de la Légion d’honneur and a chevalier de l’Ordre national du mérite. OFFICES HELD AT 31/12/2018 OTHER OFFICES HELD WITHIN PAST YEARS Born in 1957, (2014 TO 2018) In Crédit Agricole Group companies French nationality Director: Crédit Agricole CIB nn In Crédit Agricole Group companies Date first appointed: nn Non-voting Director: Crédit Agricole S.A., Crédit Agricole CIB In other listed companies May 2017 (2017) nn Chairwoman of the Control Committee, representing the Director Strategic Investment Fund: Seb In other listed companies Term of office ends: nn Member of the Supervisory Board and member of the Audit nn Director, member of the Audit Committee and Chairwoman of 2020 Committee and Compensation Committee: Bénéteau the Compensation Committee: Neopost (2018) Number of Crédit In other non-listed companies In other non-listed companies Agricole S.A. shares nn Manager: CPO Services nn Director: Unibail-Rodamco Management BV (2015) held at 31/12/2018: nn Deputy Chief Executive Officer: Unibail Management (2014) 50 Other offices nn Member of Board Women Partners Other offices nn Director and Treasurer: Association Class 40 nn Chairwoman: Union nationale pour la course au large – nn Member: Royal Ocean Racing Club (RORC) UNCL (2015) 132 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance 2. Additional information on Corporate Officers CHRISTIAN STREIFF Main office within the Company: Director Member of the Risk Committee – Member of the Compensation Committee – Member of the Strategy and CSR Committee Business address: Crédit Agricole S.A. – 12, place des États-Unis – 92120 Montrouge BRIEF BIOGRAPHY Born in Sarrebourg, Christian Streiff graduated at the top of his class from École des mines de Paris in 1977. He has spent his entire career in the world of industry and technology. With an international profile, he has headed senior management teams in France, Germany, the United States and Italy. He speaks German, English and Italian. From 1979 to 2005, he worked for the Saint-Gobain Group, first in production (automotive foundry at Halbergerhütte in Germany, 1979-1982), then in Management and Executive Management positions: in the fibre branch at Chambéry, France (1985); in the production of fibreglass for Gevetex in Germany (1988); in the packaging sector for Vetri Spa in Italy (1991). In 1994, he returned to France where he was successively appointed Chief Executive Officer of Saint-Gobain Emballage (1996), Chairman of Pont-à-Mousson SA in Nancy (2000), Chairman of the High Performance Materials division (2003), and Chief Executive Officer of the Saint-Gobain Group (2005). He was then appointed Chairman of Airbus in 2005. In 2006, he joined the Born in 1954, PSA Peugeot Citroën SA Group, where he served as Chairman of the Management Board. In 2009, due to a serious health problem, French nationality he was forced to leave his offices and undertake a long and ambitious process to rebuild his life. From 2012, he gradually returned Date first appointed: to professional life, successively holding Director’s positions in Germany (Continental, Thyssenkrupp) and France (Crédit Agricole) and May 2011 co-heading innovative technology start-ups. In 2014, he was appointed Deputy Chairman of the Safran Group until May 2018. Christian Term of office ends: Streiff is the author of two books: Kriegspiel in 2000 and J’étais un homme pressé in 2014. 3 2020 OFFICES HELD AT 31/12/2018 OTHER OFFICES HELD WITHIN PAST YEARS Number of Crédit (2014 TO 2018) In Crédit Agricole Group companies Agricole S.A. shares – In Crédit Agricole Group companies held at 31/12/2018: – 103 In other listed companies – In other listed companies nn Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors: Safran Group In other non-listed companies (2018) nn Chairman: C.S. Conseils, Club économique franco-allemand nn Chairman: Astra (2017) (CEFA) nn Director: Finmeccanica S.p.A. – Italy (2013), Thyssenkrupp – nn Director: Expliseat, Optiréno, Zeplug Germany (2015) Other offices nn Director: Fondation pour la recherche sur les AVC (Stroke In other non-listed companies Research Foundation) nn Director: Bridgepoint – United Kingdom (2015) Other offices – The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 133 3 Corporate governance 2. Additional information on Corporate Officers RENÉE TALAMONA Main office within the Company: Director Chairman of the Strategy and Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Business address: Caisse régionale de Lorraine – 56-58, avenue André-Malraux – 57000 Metz BRIEF BIOGRAPHY Graduate in economics and econometrics, Renée Talamona has held several different positions in the banking sector. She has spent her entire career in the Crédit Agricole Group, firstly at the Caisse nationale de Crédit Agricole (CNCA) within the Economic Studies department (1980-1983), then the Finance department (1983-1986). She subsequently joined the Group Internal Audit as Inspector, then Chief Project Manager (1986-1992). In 1992, she entered the Regional Banks, first as Finance and Risk Director at the Caisse régionale Sud Méditerranée, then Deputy Director successively at the Caisse régionale de Champagne-Bourgogne and the Caisse régionale Pyrénées Gascogne. She joined Crédit Agricole S.A. in 2009 to become Deputy Group Risks Director, and in 2011 was appointed Director for the Regions of France department of Crédit Agricole CIB. Since 2013, she has been the Chief Executive Officer of the Caisse régionale de Lorraine. Born in 1957, French nationality OFFICES HELD AT 31/12/2018 OTHER OFFICES HELD WITHIN PAST YEARS Date first appointed: (2014 TO 2018) In Crédit Agricole Group companies March 2016 nn Chief Executive Officer: Caisse régionale de Lorraine In Crédit Agricole Group companies Term of office ends: nn Director and member of the Risks Committee: Amundi – 2021 nn Director, member of the Audit Committee, Risks In other listed companies Number of Crédit Committee, and Appointments Committee: Crédit Agricole nn Director: LCL (2016) Agricole S.A. shares Leasing & Factoring nn Director: BFT IM In other non-listed companies held at 31/12/2018: – 20,758 In other listed companies FCPE (employee share – Other offices ownership plan) units – In other non-listed companies held invested in Crédit – Agricole S.A. shares at 31/12/2018: Other offices 8,780 – LOUIS TERCINIER Main office within the Company: Director Member of the Appointments and Governance Committee Business address: Caisse régionale de Charente-Maritime Deux-Sèvres – 14, rue Louis-Tardy – 17140 Lagord BRIEF BIOGRAPHY After technical studies in agronomy and management, Louis Tercinier pursued a number of professional training courses, primarily in the fields of economics and auditing. A farmer specialising in both grains and vineyards, he is part of a family of producers and traders (Cognac and Pineau des Charentes) going back five generations. Louis Tercinier is Chairman of SICA Atlantique, France’s second-largest grain and oilseed export site with six units built around the original grain terminal activity. Chairman of Caisse locale de Saintes since 2005, he was elected Director of the Caisse régionale de Charente-Maritime Deux-Sèvres in 2006, of which he became Deputy Chairman in 2010, and then Chairman in 2015. OFFICES HELD AT 31/12/2018 OTHER OFFICES HELD WITHIN PAST YEARS Born in 1960, (2014 TO 2018) In Crédit Agricole Group companies French nationality Chairman: Caisse régionale Charente-Maritime Deux-Sèvres nn In Crédit Agricole Group companies Date first appointed: nn Director: Caisse locale de Crédit Agricole Mutuel de Saintes, nn Chairman: Caisse locale de Crédit Agricole Mutuel de Saintes May 2017 Cofisa, CA Home Loan SFH (2018) Term of office ends: nn Member: Commission Cadres dirigeants – FNCA In other listed companies 2021 – In other listed companies Number of Crédit – In other non-listed companies Agricole S.A. shares In other non-listed companies – held at 31/12/2018: nn Member of the Executive Committee: John Deere Financial SAS 2,205 Other offices Other offices nn EARL Tercinier (2017) nn Chairman: SICA Atlantique nn Deputy Chairman: Océalia (2018) nn Director: Océalia nn Director: Unicognac S.A. (2018) nn Director: Société Développement Atlantique (Sodevat) nn Manager: GFA des Forges 134 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance 2. Additional information on Corporate Officers FRANÇOIS THIBAULT Main office within the Company: Director Member of the Strategy and Corporate Social Responsibility Committee – Member of the Compensation Committee Business address: Caisse régionale Centre Loire – 8, allée des Collèges – 18000 Bourges BRIEF BIOGRAPHY An agricultural engineer, farmer and viticulturist by profession, François Thibault is a long-standing elected member of Crédit Agricole’s working bodies. Chairman of Caisse locale de Cosne-sur-Loire (Nièvre) since 1991. He became a Director (1995) of Caisse régionale Centre Loire, and then its Chairman (1996). He also holds a number of responsibilities in the Group’s national working bodies, in particular as Commission Chairman of Fédération nationale du Crédit Agricole – FNCA, as well as in specialised subsidiaries, in particular in insurance (CAMCA) and corporate and investment banking (Crédit Agricole CIB). OFFICES HELD AT 31/12/2018 OTHER OFFICES HELD WITHIN PAST YEARS (2014 TO 2018) In Crédit Agricole Group companies Born in 1955, Chairman: Caisse régionale Centre Loire, Foncaris, Camca and nn In Crédit Agricole Group companies French nationality Camca Courtage, SAS Centre Loire Expansion nn Chairman: Car Centre (2014), SAS Pleinchamp (2016), Date first appointed: nn Director: Crédit Agricole CIB, Car Centre, Sacam Centre Foncaris (2016) May 2015 Director In other listed companies – nn Director: Crédit Agricole Bank Polska (2016) nn Non-voting Director: Crédit Agricole S.A. (2015) 3 Term of office ends: In other non-listed companies In other listed companies 2020 nn Partner: Gaec Thibault, GFA Villargeau d’en Haut, – Number of Crédit GFA de Montour, SCI Loire et Fontbout In other non-listed companies Agricole S.A. shares held at 31/12/2018: Other offices – 1,861 – Other offices – The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 135 3 Corporate governance 2. Additional information on Corporate Officers FRANÇOIS HEYMAN Main office within the Company: Director representing the employees of UES Crédit Agricole S.A. Member of the Compensation Committee Business address: Crédit Agricole S.A. – SGL/DCG/DI – 12, place des États-Unis – 92120 Montrouge BRIEF BIOGRAPHY François Heyman has been a research and communication campaigns officer in the Group Communication division of Crédit Agricole S.A. since 2009. Alongside his banking career, he has served in a number of national trade union roles as representative of the Fédération générale agroalimentaire of the CFDT, a member of the Conseil économique, social et environnemental, Co-Chairman of Agrica (a supplementary retirement and Social Security body), Director of Arrco, and a member of the Conseil supérieur de la Protection sociale agricole. OFFICES HELD AT 31/12/2018 OTHER OFFICES HELD WITHIN PAST YEARS (2014 TO 2018) In Crédit Agricole Group companies nn Research and Communication Campaigns Officer in the Group In Crédit Agricole Group companies Born in 1959, Communication division: Crédit Agricole S.A. – French nationality In other listed companies In other listed companies Date first appointed: – – June 2012 Term of office ends: In other non-listed companies In other non-listed companies 2021 – – Number of Crédit Other offices Other offices Agricole S.A. shares – – held at 31/12/2018: 66 FCPE (employee share ownership plan) units held invested in Crédit Agricole S.A. shares at 31/12/2018: 2,705 SIMONE VÉDIE Main office within the Company: Director representing the employees of UES Crédit Agricole S.A. Business address: Crédit Agricole S.A. – DCI/RCI – 12, place des États-Unis – 92120 Montrouge BRIEF BIOGRAPHY Simone Védie began her career as a secretary in small companies specialising in import-export, then in advertising, publishing and design. In 1984, she joined Crédit Agricole S.A. (formerly Caisse nationale de Crédit Agricole), where she held various positions within the Marketing and Communications department (formerly the Private individuals and Corporate Market department). In May 2018 she became Secretary to the Head of Innovation within the Customer Relations and Innovation Division. In June 2018 she was elected Director representing the employees of UES Crédit Agricole S.A. (technical employees). OFFICES HELD AT 31/12/2018 OTHER OFFICES HELD WITHIN PAST YEARS (2014 TO 2018) In Crédit Agricole Group companies Born in 1960 Executive Secretary: Crédit Agricole S.A. nn In Crédit Agricole Group companies French nationality In other listed companies – Date first appointed: – In other listed companies June 2018 In other non-listed companies – Term of office ends: 2021 – In other non-listed companies Number of Crédit Other offices – Agricole S.A. shares – Other offices held at 31/12/2018: – 65 136 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance 2. Additional information on Corporate Officers PIERRE CAMBEFORT Main office within the Company: Non-voting Director Business address: Caisse régionale Nord Midi-Pyrénées – 219, avenue François-Verdier -81000 Albi – France BRIEF BIOGRAPHY Pierre Cambefort graduated from Stanford and is an Engineer of the École supérieure de physique et de chimie of Paris. He began his career as a research and development engineer in the chemicals industry (1989). He was a volunteer under the National Service for Companies programme in Frankfurt (1990-1991). In 1991 he joined Caisse nationale de Crédit Agricole as Inspector. In 1995 he started a career path within Caisse régionale de Crédit Agricole d’Île-de-France, where he held various positions, first as Head of the Risk Management Unit and later in the Credit Development business of which he became Director in 2000. From 2002 he headed the Marketing and Communications department. In 2004 he joined Crédit Agricole S.A. as Director of the Private Individual Markets department. He became Deputy Chief Executive Officer of the Caisse régionale Centre-est in 2006. Pierre Cambefort was appointed Deputy General Manager of Crédit Agricole CIB (2010-2013). Since September 2013, he has been the Chief Executive Officer of the Caisse régionale Born in 1964 Nord Midi-Pyrénées. Pierre Cambefort is Chairman of Crédit Agricole Payment Services. French nationality OFFICES HELD AT 31/12/2018 OTHER OFFICES HELD WITHIN PAST YEARS Date first appointed: October 2018 (2014 TO 2018) In Crédit Agricole Group companies Chief Executive Officer: Caisse régionale Nord Midi-Pyrénées In Crédit Agricole Group companies 3 Term of office ends: nn 2021 nn Chairman of the Board of Directors: Crédit Agricole Payment nn Director: CA Chèques (2018); GIE CA Technologies et Services Services, INFORSUD Gestion (2018); COPARTIS (2017); CA Paiement (2016); IFCAM (2016) Number of Crédit nn Director: EDOKIAL; Grand Sud-Ouest; CAPITAL; GIE Coopernic; nn Supervisory Board member: CA TITRES (2018) Agricole S.A. shares held at 31/12/2018: FIA-NET Europe In other listed companies 62 nn Supervisory Board member: CA Technologies et Services – (CATS) In other non-listed companies In other listed companies – – Other offices In other non-listed companies – – Other offices – PHILIPPE DE WAAL Main office within the Company: Non-voting Director Business address: Caisse régionale de Brie Picardie – 500, rue Saint-Fuscien – 80095 Amiens – France BRIEF BIOGRAPHY Philippe de Waal holds a degree from the Université de technologie of Compiègne and is a farmer specialising in cereals (with the exception of rice). He is Manager of Société civile du château de Poix in Bouillancy (1981-2016) and held several municipal offices such as Municipal councillor (1983-2008) and Mayor of Bouillancy (2008-2014). In 1995 he was appointed Director within the Caisse locale de Nanteuil-le-Haudouin (1995-2000) of which he became Chairman (2000-2017). He sat on the Board of the Caisse régionale de l’Oise (2005-2007), which became the Caisse régionale de Brie Picardie a result of a merger, where he remained Director (2007-2014). He was then appointed Deputy Chairman (2014) and Chairman (since 2015). OFFICES HELD AT 31/12/2018 OTHER OFFICES HELD WITHIN PAST YEARS Born in 1955 (2014 TO 2018) In Crédit Agricole Group companies French nationality Chairman: Caisse régionale Brie Picardie nn In Crédit Agricole Group companies Date first appointed: nn Director: SAS Rue La Boétie nn Deputy Chairman of the Caisse régionale Brie Picardie (2014) May 2018 nn Treasurer: VIVEA CNMCCA In other listed companies Term of office ends: nn Director: Representative of the Confédération nationale de la – 2021 mutualité, de la coopération et du Crédit Agricole – CNMCCA; CENECA In other non-listed companies Number of Crédit – Agricole S.A. shares In other listed companies held at 31/12/2018: – Other offices 100 – In other non-listed companies nn Manager of EARL des Buttes Other offices nn Director: Beauvais Technova nn Member of the Chambre d’agriculture de l’Oise The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 137 3 Corporate governance 3. Information on executives and management bodies 3. INFORMATION ON EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT BODIES 3.1. INFORMATION ON EXECUTIVES PHILIPPE BRASSAC Main office within the Company: Chief Executive Officer Member of the Executive Committee Business address: Crédit Agricole S.A. – 12, place des États-Unis – 92120 Montrouge Cedex – France BRIEF BIOGRAPHY A graduate of the Paris Graduate School of Economics, Statistics and Finance (ENSAE), Philippe Brassac joined Crédit Agricole du Gard in 1982. He held several executive offices there before being appointed, in 1994, Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole des Alpes-Maritimes, now Crédit Agricole Provence Côte d’Azur. In 1999, he joined Caisse nationale de Crédit Agricole as Director of Relations with Regional Banks. In 2001, he was appointed Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole Provence Côte d’Azur. In 2010, he also became Corporate Secretary of the Fédération nationale du Crédit Agricole – FNCA and Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors of Crédit Agricole S.A. In May 2015, he was appointed Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole S.A. OFFICES HELD AT 31/12/2018 OTHER OFFICES HELD WITHIN PAST YEARS Born in 1959 (2014 TO 2018) In Crédit Agricole Group companies French nationality nn Chief Executive Officer: Crédit Agricole S.A. In Crédit Agricole Group companies Date first appointed: nn Chairman and Member of the Compensation Committee: Crédit nn Corporate Secretary: Fédération nationale du Crédit Agricole May 2015 Agricole CIB – FNCA (2015) nn Chairman: LCL nn Board member: Fédération nationale du Crédit Agricole – FNCA nn Director: Fondation du Crédit Agricole – Pays de France (2015) nn Chief Executive Officer: Caisse régionale Provence Côte d’Azur In other listed companies (2015) – nn Director and Deputy Chairman: Crédit Agricole S.A. (2015), In other non-listed companies SAS Rue La Boétie (2015) – nn Director and Chairman of the Compensation Committee: Crédit Other offices Agricole CIB (2015) nn Member of the Executive Committee: Fédération bancaire nn Director: LCL (2015), Fédération régionale du CAM (2015), SCI française CAM (2015), Adicam (2015) nn Chairman: Sofipaca Gestion and Sofipaca (2015), Sacam Développement (2015) nn Chief Executive Officer: Sacam International (2015) nn Chief Executive Officer and Director: Sacam Participations (2015) In other listed companies – In other non-listed companies – Other offices nn Member of the Executive Committee: European Association of Co-operative Banks – EACB (2015) nn Member of the Board of Directors: COOP FR (2015) nn Corporate Secretary of the Management Committee: Gecam (2015) nn Member: Confédération nationale de la mutualité, de la coopération et du crédit agricole – CNMCCA (2015) nn Chairman of the Executive Committee: Fédération bancaire française (2017) 138 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance 3. Information on executives and management bodies XAVIER MUSCA Main office within the Company: Deputy Chief Executive Officer Member of the Executive Committee Business address: Crédit Agricole S.A. – 12, place des États-Unis – 92120 Montrouge Cedex – France BRIEF BIOGRAPHY Graduate from the Institut d’études politiques in Paris and the École nationale d’administration, Xavier Musca began his career at the General Finance Inspectorate in 1985. In 1989, he joined the Treasury Directorate, where he became Head of the European Affairs Bureau in 1990. In 1993, he was called to the Prime Minister’s staff, then returned to the Treasury Directorate in 1995. Between 2002 and 2004, he was Principal Private Secretary to Francis Mer, Minister for the Economy, Finance and Industry, then appointed Treasury Director in 2004. He became Deputy Secretary General to the French President in 2009, in charge of economic affairs, then Secretary General to the French President in 2011. In 2012, Xavier Musca was appointed Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole S.A., responsible for International retail banking, Asset management and Insurance. Since May 2015, he has been Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole S.A., as second Executive Director of Crédit Agricole S.A. Born in 1960, French nationality OFFICES HELD AT 31/12/2018 OTHER OFFICES HELD WITHIN PAST YEARS Date first appointed: (2014 TO 2018) In Crédit Agricole Group companies July 2012 nn Chairman: CA Consumer Finance, Amundi In Crédit Agricole Group companies Number of Crédit nn Deputy Chairman: Predica nn Chairman of the Appointments and Compensation Committee: Amundi (2015) 3 Agricole S.A. shares nn Director: Crédit Agricole Assurances, Cariparma held at 31/12/2018: nn Director, Permanent Representative of Crédit Agricole S.A.: nn Director: Amundi (2016); Crédit Agricole Creditor Insurance 18,192 Pacifica (2017) nn Member of the Compensation Committee: Cariparma (2017) In other listed companies nn Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board: Crédit du Maroc nn Director and Audit Committee member: Capgemini (2015) In other non-listed companies nn Deputy Chairman: CA Egypt (2015); UBAF (2015) – nn Director: CACEIS (2015), Other offices In other listed companies – nn Director: Banco Espirito Santo (2014) In other non-listed companies nn Director: Bespar (2014) Other offices – The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 139 3 Corporate governance 3. Information on executives and management bodies 3.2. MANAGEMENT BODIES AT 15 MARCH 2019 Composition of the Executive Committee The Chief Executive Officer Philippe Brassac The Deputy Chief Executive Officer Xavier Musca The Deputy General Manager, Head of the Development, Client and Innovation division Bertrand Corbeau The Deputy General Manager, Head of the Specialised Financial Services division Philippe Dumont The Deputy General Manager, Head of the Operations and Transformation division Michel Ganzin The Deputy General Manager, Head of the Group Finance division Jérôme Grivet The Deputy General Manager, Head of Retail Banking Subsidiaries Michel Mathieu The Deputy General Manager, Head of the Savings, Insurance and Property division Yves Perrier The Deputy General Manager, Head of the Large Clients division Jacques Ripoll The Corporate Secretary Jérôme Brunel The Group Head of Human Resources Bénédicte Chrétien The Group Head of Internal Audit Michel Le Masson The Head of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group for Italy Giampiero Maioli The Group Head of Compliance Stéphane Priami The Group Chief Risk Officer Hubert Reynier The Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole Assurances Frédéric Thomas 140 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance 3. Information on executives and management bodies Composition of the Management Committee The Management Committee consists of the Executive Committee and: The Chief Executive Officer of CACEIS Jean-François Abadie The Head of Group Public Affairs Alban Aucoin The Deputy General Manager of Crédit Agricole CIB Jean-François Balaÿ The Head of Group Information Systems Éric Baudson The Chief Operating Officer of LCL Laure Belluzzo The Global Head of Institutional division & Chief Investment Officer of Amundi Pascal Blanqué The Head of CSR and CEO of Fondation Grameen Crédit Agricole Eric Campos The Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole Leasing & Factoring Philippe Carayol The Head of the Institutional and Corporate Clients division of Amundi Dominique Carrel-Billiard The Chief Executive Officer France of CA Consumer Finance Laurent Cazelles The Head of Payment Systems Bertrand Chevallier The Group Senior Country Officer, Poland Olivier Constantin 3 The Head of International Retail Banking François-Edouard Drion The Head of Marketing and Communication Véronique Faujour The Group Senior Country Officer, Egypt Pierre Finas The Head of Group Financial Monitoring Paul Foubert The Chief Operating Officer of LCL Retail Bank Laurent Fromageau The Head of Coverage of Crédit Agricole CIB Investment Bank Didier Gaffinel The Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole CIB Isabelle Girolami The Head of Customer Relationship Multichannel Retail Banking, Relational Commitments and Innovation Michèle Guibert The Head of Regional Banks Relations Michèle Jardin The Global Head of Retail Division of Amundi Fathi Jerfel The Chief Economist Isabelle Job-Bazille The Head of Strategy Clotilde L’Angevin The Chief Executive Officer of Pacifica Thierry Langreney The Chief Executive Officer of Caci Henri Le Bihan The Chief Operating Officer of Amundi Guillaume Lesage The Group Head of Digital Journey Serge Magdeleine The Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole CIB François Marion The Head of Group Communications Denis Marquet The Head of Legal Affairs Pierre Minor The Senior Coverage and Investment Banker of Crédit Agricole CIB Régis Monfront Head of Corporates, Institutionals and Wealth Management and Private Banking of LCL Olivier Nicolas The Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole Immobilier Marc Oppenheim The Chief Executive Officer of Agos Ducato (Italy) Dominique Pasquier The Senior Regional Officer Americas of Crédit Agricole CIB Marc-André Poirier The Head of Private Banking Jacques Prost The Head of Agriculture, Agrifood and Specialised Markets Didier Reboul The Head of Group Purchasing Sylvie Robin-Romet The Senior Regional Officer Asia-Pacific of Crédit Agricole CIB Michel Roy The Senior Country Officer Group, Morocco Baldoméro Valverde The Head of Monitoring and Control of Amundi Bernard De Wit The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 141 3 Corporate governance 3. Information on executives and management bodies 3.3. TRANSACTIONS IN THE COMPANY’S SHARES Summary of trading in the Company’s shares by members of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the Deputy Chief Executive Officer and any person having the authority to make decisions concerning the development and strategy of Crédit Agricole S.A. and any person mentioned in Article L. 621-18-2 of the French Monetary and Financial Code, during financial year 2018, for transactions exceeding an aggregate ceiling of €20,000 (pursuant to Article L. 621-18-2 of the French Monetary and Financial Code and Article 223-23 of the General Regulations of the French Financial Market Authority (AMF) No person mentionned in Article L. 621-18-2 of the French Monetary Five of the six Specialised Committees (Risk, US Risk, Audit, Compensation, and Financial Code has reported trades on financial instruments issued Appointments and Governance) are chaired by an independent Director. by Crédit Agricole S.A. for an amount exceeding the aggregate ceiling Consequently, after reviewing the situation with respect to the Directors in of €20,000. the light of the AFEP/MEDEF independence criteria, the Board concluded that the existing operation enabled the Board and its committees to fulfil their duties with the required effectiveness, objectivity and independence, Specific measures concerning restrictions on or particularly with respect to preventing potential conflicts of interests, and operations by Directors with regard to trading in the to the equitable consideration of all shareholders’ interests. Company’s shares There are no service contracts between the members of the administrative or management bodies and Crédit Agricole S.A. or any of Because each Director, by definition, is a “permanent insider”, the rules its subsidiaries that grant benefits to such members. on “windows” for subscription/prohibition on trading in Crédit Agricole S.A. shares apply to each Director. The dates corresponding to these To the Company’s knowledge, there are no family ties among the windows are communicated to the Directors at the year-end for the next Corporate Officers, Directors, Chief Executive Officer and Deputy Chief financial year. Executive Officers of Crédit Agricole S.A. The Company’s Board of Directors comprises 21 Directors, including Crédit Agricole S.A. complies with the corporate governance one Corporate Officer of SAS Rue La Boétie, which is owned by the regulations applicable in France, as described in the Board of Directors’ Regional Banks and owns 56.3% of the capital of Crédit Agricole S.A. at report on corporate governance submitted to the General Shareholders’ end-December 2018, and ten Corporate Officers of the Regional Banks. Meeting of 21 May 2019, and reproduced in this Registration Document. The Regional Bank representatives therefore hold a majority of the seats The AFEP/MEDEF Code revised in June 2018 is the Company’s reference on the Board. This illustrates the will to give the Regional Banks a broad code for the purposes of preparing the report stipulated in Article representation and reflects Crédit Agricole Group’s capital structure and L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code. the financial solidarity that ties the affiliated entities. To the Company’s knowledge, as at the date hereof, no member of an For information, it is noted that Crédit Agricole S.A. acts as the central administrative or management body of Crédit Agricole S.A. has been body for the Regional Banks, in accordance with the provision of Articles convicted in relation to fraudulent offences during the last five years. L. 511-30 to L. 511-32 and L. 512-47 to L. 512-54 of the French Monetary To the Company’s knowledge, as at the date hereof, no member of an and Financial Code. administrative or management body of Crédit Agricole S.A. has been The Board of Directors currently has six independent Directors, i.e. associated with any bankruptcy, receivership or liquidation during the one-third, in line with the recommendation of the AFEP/MEDEF Corporate last five years. Governance Code for companies controlled by a majority shareholder. 142 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance 4. Reward policy 4. REWARD POLICY This section has been prepared with the assistance of the Compensation Committee. 4.1. REWARD POLICY APPLICABLE TO ALL EMPLOYEES IMPORTANT TO KNOW 4.1.1. Approach and objectives of the reward policy nn Reward combines elements of compensation in the strict sense of True to its shared values and its founding cooperative principles, Crédit the word, that have been submitted to the vote of shareholders, as Agricole S.A. has defined a responsible reward policy, respecting all its well as social benefits and peripheral compensation. It is backed stakeholders – customers, employees, service providers, associations, up by an ambitious HR policy, in order to attract, recognise public authorities and shareholders. Our policy endeavours to reconcile individual and collective performance, motivate and retain their expectations with the requirements of a competitive market to employees. position ourselves as the leader in retail banking. nn A responsible compensation policy that embodies Group The Group bases the compensation of employees and executive values, based on fairness and common rules for all employees. managers on objective foundations, which reflect the performance and nn Rules that fall under compliance with the regulatory corpus long-term responsibility of the organisation. specific to the financial sector. 3 Its policy is based on four objectives: Objectives Implementation procedures Attracting, motivating and retaining the nn Respecting the values of fairness and merit talent that the Group needs nn Consistency and competitiveness with reference markets and country laws in terms of compensation Recognising individual and collective nn Taking account of skill sets, specific business factors and the performance of the entity and of the Group performance over time Aligning the interests of employees with nn Payment of deferred variable compensation over three years using instruments based on the share price those of Crédit Agricole S.A. and its nn Promoting employee savings and shareholding, a collective variable compensation system to enable the shareholders sharing of value created Promoting sound and efficient risk nn Respecting the declaration and risk appetite framework approved by Group governance management nn Setting variable compensation consistent with the ability of Group entities to strengthen their equity capital nn Taking account of all risks, including the liquidity risk and the cost of capital nn Guaranteed bonuses authorised only on recruitment and for a period that may not exceed one year, subject to the deferred compensation plan applicable over the financial year 4.1.2. Regulatory corpus shaping compensation policies Crédit Agricole S.A.’s compensation policy must be seen within a closely regulated environment specific to its sector. Through its local universal customer-focused banking model, the Group is responsible for three different regulatory corpora corresponding to its three activities. It ensures that its compensation policy complies with the applicable national, European and international legal and regulatory frameworks. It also includes the provisions of the Volcker Rule, France’s law on the separation of banking and finance activities, the MIF Directive and the Insurance Distribution Directive. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 143 3 Corporate governance 4. Reward policy Regulations governing the compensation policies Identified staff of Crédit Agricole S.A. entities These regulations involve in particular the identification of employees who OF REGULATIONS have an impact on the risk profile of the Group or of their entity through BODY their function, their level of delegation or their level of compensation, M European directive UC hereinafter “identified staff”. The scope is defined by a joint decisionAIF position into nation al la IT V ans w making process between Group and entity Human Resources functions Tr and Risk and compliance functions. The criteria applied are summarised on page 169. Asset management companies The following paragraphs specify its general principles. The annual D i r e c t a p p li c a t i o n n D e report relating to the policy and to the compensation practices for i r E u r o c t a p p li c a t i o n identified staff sets out a more detailed presentation for employees o E u r o p ea n r e g ul a ti coming under CRD 4. It is available on the Crédit Agricole S.A. website: p e a n r e g ul a tio n CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. www.credit-agricole.com. Credit institutions Insurance and and investment reinsurance Identified staff compensation companies companies 2 a Identified staff compensation stems from a highly controlled regulatory CRD e c ti o n Tra n n cy 4 os i tiv a l l lv e environment that imposes rules on their structure. tio s p E ur on e aw op n in i n t ir So In accordance with regulatory obligations, Crédit Agricole S.A. has ea to n io n an d n d a ti o s i t defined strict rules surrounding the compensation policy for identified ire c n a l l a w po e ti v e Trans Europ staff: A compensation policy that promotes sound and efficient risk management: the amounts and distribution of variable compensation must not impair the institutions’ ability to strengthen their equity as CRD 4: Capital Requirement Directive 4 required. AIFM: Alternative Investment Fund Managers UCITS: Undertakings for collective Investment in Transferable Securities A balance between fixed and variable compensation: for any employee of a credit institution or investment firm, the variable component of their compensation cannot be greater than 100% of The compensation policies of Crédit Agricole S.A. entities are governed the fixed component; nevertheless, each year, the General Meeting of by three distinct sets of regulations: Shareholders can vote to apply a higher maximum ratio provided that the total variable component never exceeds 200% of the fixed component nn those applicable to credit institutions and investment companies (the for any employee. “CRD 4” package); A variable compensation partly deferred and paid in the form nn those applicable to asset management companies and alternative of instruments: investment funds (hedge funds and private equity funds) under the European Alternative Investment Fund Managers directive (Directive nn 40% to 60% of variable compensation is deferred over three years. 2011/6 of 8 June 2011, or “AIFMD”) and to UCITS management The deferred portion vests in three equal instalments in Y+1, Y+2 companies under the European UCITS V directive (Directive 2014/91/ and Y+3, subject to presence and performance conditions being met; EU of 23 July 2014); nn each instalment is granted in Crédit Agricole S.A. shares or sharenn those applicable to insurance and reinsurance companies that come linked instruments (credit institution, investment companies, insurance under the Solvency framework. and reinsurance company) or by a portfolio of funds representative of the activity (asset management); This regulatory framework clarifies the definition of “identified staff” who nn for credit institution employees, there is a six-month retention period are subject to more stringent compensation rules. after each deferred variable compensation instalment has vested. A portion of the non-deferred variable compensation is also paid in Crédit Agricole S.A. share-linked instruments, at 10% of the total variable compensation, at the end of a six-month retention period. 144 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance 4. Reward policy Deferred compensation structure overview 1/3 Y+1 1/3 Y+2 SHARES OR SHARE-LINKED INSTRUMENTS 1/3 Y+3 Deferred portion Risk-adjusted variable compensation: a monitoring system Communication: compensation paid during the financial year to all for at-risk behaviour by identified staff is deployed at Crédit Agricole identified staff of credit institutions or investment companies is subject S.A. subsidiaries in cooperation with the Group Risk Management to a resolution submitted each year to the Crédit Agricole S.A. General and Permanent Controls and Compliance business lines. This system specifically includes annual monitoring and assessment of the system Meeting. 3 by the governance body as well as an arbitration procedure at Executive Find out more: Management level for observed cases of at-risk behaviour. nn Definition of identified staff: detailed on page 169. Crédit Agricole S.A. has also put in place two systems that enable nn Identification and compensation policy of identified staff: annual adjustment or even restitution to the Group of variable compensation, in report relating to the compensation policy and practices of identified the event of at-risk behaviour: staff (in accordance with Articles 266 et seq. of the Decree of nn a malus clause: in the event of observing non-compliant behaviour, 3 November 2014 relating to internal controls of credit institutions the variable compensation initially awarded may be reduced in full or and investment companies and with Article 450 of (EU) Regulation in part in accordance with Article L. 511-84 of the French Monetary No. 575/2013 of 26 June 2013). and Financial Code; nn a clawback clause: if it is discovered within a period of five years after payment that an employee is responsible for or has contributed to significant losses to the detriment of the Group or has demonstrated particularly serious at-risk behaviour, the Group reserves the right, subject to local laws in force, to demand the restitution in full or in part of amounts already paid. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 145 3 Corporate governance 4. Reward policy 4.1.3. Governance of the compensation policy The Group exercises oversight of all Group entities to ensure consistent compliance with Group-wide guidelines and rigorous application of compensation policies and procedures for all entities and employees. Process of defining the compensation policy Governance of employee compensation policy of Crédit Agricole S.A. 1. Policy creation 2. Review The Group Human Resources department drafts and The Compensation Committee gives an opinion adjusts the employee compensation policy and submits on the employee compensation policy. It checks its it to the operational departments of the Compensation compliance and monitors the implementation of the Policy Control Committee (CCPR) for opinion. 01 policy, overall and by major business lines. The Compensation Committee puts forward the compensation policy to the Board of Directors. 02 3. Approval 06 The Board of Directors approves 6. Adjustments the policy. The shareholders The Human Resources department gathered in a General Meeting and the Compensation Committee take vote on certain elements(1) of the into account the conclusions of the compensation policy. CCPR, internal audit and the voting of shareholders to adjust, if necessary, the compensation policy. The changes 03 decided upon apply from the following year. 05 4. Implementation 5. Monitoring The Group Finance department checks the The Compensation Committee with the support 04 consistency of the procedures for determining of internal departments monitors the implementation variable compensation packages in the light of the of policies and checks their compliance. The Risks Committee Group’s risks and financial capacity. examines the compliance of compensation policies with risk The Human Resources department oversees the strategies. The Group Internal Audit department conducts implementation of the compensation policy. an annual audit subsequent to the definition and application of the policy. (1) The voting of shareholders relates in particular to the compensation policy and elements of compensation of Executive Corporate Officers, as well as to the planned capital increases reserved for Group employees. Find out more: nn Governance of the compensation policy for Executive Corporate Compensation Policy Control Committee Officers: 4 “Compensation policy”, Chapter 4.3. The Compensation Policy Control Committee is composed of representatives from the Risk Management and Permanent Controls, Functions involved in the process of defining Compliance and Human Resources departments. It issues an opinion the compensation policy on the compensation policy formulated by the Group Human Resources department before it is presented to the Compensation Committee and Group Human Resources department then submitted to the Board of Directors for consideration. The Group Human Resources department drafts the compensation Its main duties and responsibilities are as follows: policy. Its main duties and responsibilities are as follows: nn assessing the information on general policies for presentation to nn preparing the work of the Compensation Committee; the Compensation Committee, a pre-requisite to fulfilling the duty nn drawing up the compensation policy to be submitted to the Committee to alert; for opinion; nn ensuring the validity of the principles applied to implement the nn collecting from various entities the information necessary to fulfil the compensation policy within the Group, in light of the new regulatory Committee’s tasks; requirements; nn managing the compensation policy defined by the Board of Directors; nn reviewing the compliance of the rules applied within each entity: nn bringing together the various players in the implementation of this definition of identified staff; principles used to calculate total variable policy. compensation; management of non-compliant behaviour, which will be taken into consideration when calculating variable compensation for the current year or previous years; nn coordinating the actions to be introduced in the entities by the Risk Management and Compliance functions. 146 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance 4. Reward policy Compensation Committee nn fixed compensation, annual personal variable compensation, as well The Compensation Committee of Crédit Agricole S.A. prepares the as the terms and conditions and criteria used to determine the annual proposals and notices to be submitted to the Board of Directors. variable compensation of the Executive Corporate Officers (Chairman, These notices concern in particular: Chief Executive Officer and Deputy Chief Executive Officer), taking into account regulatory provisions; nn general principles of the Group compensation policy; nn the report on the compensation practices of members of the executive nn compensation of Corporate Officers; body and identified staff; nn decisions to be submitted to the General Meeting of Shareholders nn the share capital increases reserved for Group employees; relating to the compensation of Executive Corporate Officers and identified staff; nn the distribution of the total amount of Directors’ fees. nn potential share capital increases reserved for Group employees. Find out more: Its work takes into account changes in the regulations and the Group’s nn Composition, role, operation and work of the Board of Directors: strategic guidelines and its human resources policy. They concern all Registration Document, Chapter 3.1 “Board of Directors’ Report”. employees of Crédit Agricole S.A. As at 31 December 2018, the Committee had six members, including Group shareholders three independent Directors and one Director representing employees, Shareholders are invited to adjudicate each year on all or part of the selected because of their skill sets in the areas addressed. compensation policy of Crédit Agricole S.A. at the Group’s General It met five times in 2018, with an attendance rate of 100%. It examined Meeting. The resolutions put forward may involve: the following items in particular: nn review of the variable compensation packages of all employees; nn potential share capital increases reserved for Group employees and, where applicable, the share subscription or purchase plans and 3 bonus share plans; nn individual review of annual variable compensation over a threshold nn compensation of identified staff; set by the Board; nn the compensation policy of Executive Corporate Officers and nn adjustment of the compensation policy according to Group performance and results; elements of compensation allocated for the past financial year. nn summary review of the implementation of compensation policies by Find out more: entities; nn Participation of shareholders in the compensation policy of Executive nn review of decisions to be submitted to the General Meeting of Corporate Officers: Registration Document, Chapter 3.3 “Information Shareholders; on executives and management bodies”. nn analysis of French and international regulatory changes. nn Participation of shareholders in the compensation policy of identified Find out more: staff: annual report relating to the policy and to the compensation practices for identified staff. nn Composition, role, operation and work of the Compensation Committee: Registration Document, Chapter 3.1 “Board of Directors’ Group Finance department Report”. The Group Finance department validates the terms and conditions for determining the total amount available for variable compensation, Risk Committee taking the full range of risks into account. It also checks that variable The Risk Committee ensures that the Group’s compensation policies and compensation does not hinder the ability of Group entities to strengthen practices are in line with proper and effective risk management practices. their solvency. Board of Directors Group Internal Audit department After analysis by the Compensation Committee, the Board of Directors The Group Internal Audit function carries out an “a posteriori” audit deliberates on the compensation policy. It examines and decides in on an annual basis examining the definition and implementation of particular on: compensation policy. nn updating of the compensation policy of all employees and its application note; The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 147 3 Corporate governance 4. Reward policy 4.1.4. Elements of reward The reward of Crédit Agricole S.A. employees is composed of fixed, variable and peripheral elements, corresponding to the various objectives – notably in terms of compensation for short, medium and long-term performance. All or part of these elements may be offered to each employee, according to their level of responsibility, skills and performance. Compensation and short, medium and long-term performance criteria Year Y-1 Year Y Year Y+1 Year Y+2 Year Y+3 Employee skill Fixed compensation sets and level of responsibility Individual Annual variable compensation and/or collective objectives Annual Collective variable compensation performance of the entity Financial, stock market and societal Long-term variable compensation performance of the Group Rules for determining elements of reward The Group has set common rules for all employees to guide the determination of compensation elements: nn within each of its various business lines, Crédit Agricole S.A. regularly compares its practices to those of other financial groups at the national, European and international level; nn performance is assessed by precise measurement of the results obtained relative to specific annual objectives (how much), taking into account the conditions in which the objectives were achieved (how); nn it takes into account intrinsic financial performance, the Group’s non-financial performance and its performance compared to that of other European banks; nn the compensation systems are differentiated according to level of responsibility within the organisation; nn peripheral compensation is governed by Group or entity agreements. 148 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance 4. Reward policy Procedures for determining elements of compensation Elements of compensation System People eligible Fixed compensation Base salary All employees Objectives Skills and responsibility level are rewarded by a basic salary in line with the specific characteristics of each business line Offering competitive and in its local market. attractive compensation Annual variable Crédit Agricole S.A. has put in place two annual variable compensation systems – depending on the business lines and compensation consistent with market practices: Objectives nn an individual variable compensation (RVP) system based on the calculation of benefits that is the sum of target Linking the interests individual variable compensation adjusted by a performance rate; of employees with those nn a “Bonus Pool” system based on the calculation of benefits directly linked to the entity’s financial results and defined of the Group and shareholders according to a percentage of the “Contribution” to Group results. The contribution represents an entity’s capacity to fund bonuses, taking into account the cost of risk, the cost of capital and the cost of liquidity. It is defined as: Revenues (NBI)(1) – direct and indirect expenses before bonuses – cost of risk – cost of capital before tax 3 = Contribution The payout ratio represents the portion of the Contribution that the entity wants to pay out in bonuses. It is dependent on the entity’s financial performance and the practices of competing companies operating in comparable businesses. The individual award of variable compensation is defined in compliance with regulatory principles. The amounts must not hamper the ability of Group entities to strengthen their equity as necessary. As well as economic and financial criteria, the performance assessment takes all risks into account, including liquidity risk, as well as the cost of capital. Variable compensation is related directly to annual performance. Unsatisfactory performance, failure to comply with rules and procedures or at-risk behaviour have a direct impact on variable compensation. Individual variable compensation (RVP) Employees and executive managers: nn central Support functions; nn retail banking; nn specialised financial services; nn insurance; nn real estate; nn other. Individual variable compensation (RVP) reflects the employee’s individual performance, assessed by line management on the basis of the attainment of individual and/or collective objectives. The objectives are described precisely and measurable over the year. They systematically take into account the customer, employee and societal aspects of activities. The degree of attainment or exceeding of objectives is the principal criterion for the award of RVP. It is supplemented by a qualitative assessment of the procedures for achieving these objectives (autonomy, involvement, context, impact on other company players and activities, etc.). Bonus Employees and executive managers: nn corporate and investment banking; nn wealth management; nn asset management; nn capital investment. The award of a bonus is decided upon by line management based on a formal annual individual performance appraisal, which looks at the achievement of both quantitative and qualitative objectives. There is therefore no direct and automatic link between the level of financial results of an employee and their variable compensation level. Employees are evaluated on their results, those of their activity and the conditions under which such results have been achieved. Similarly to individual variable compensation, targets are clearly defined and measurable over the year. Qualitative objectives are individualised, related to the professional activity and to the level of responsibility. They include the quality of risk management, resources allocated and behaviour implemented to achieve the results (cooperation, teamwork and management). Guaranteed variable compensation restrictions Employees Executive managers Guaranteed variable compensation is strictly limited to new hires, for a period that may not exceed one year. Guaranteed variable compensation is awarded subject to the deferred compensation plan applicable to the financial year. Accordingly, all rules on variable compensation for identified staff (deferred payment schedule, performance conditions and reporting) also apply to guaranteed bonuses. (1) It being understood that, by definition, revenues are calculated net of the cost of liquidity. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 149 3 Corporate governance 4. Reward policy System People eligible Long-term variable Long-term incentive plan Executive managers compensation Key Group executives Objectives This aspect of variable compensation, which is unifying, motivating and encourages loyalty, completes the annual Rewarding the long-term variable compensation mechanism. collective performance It is characterised by compensation in shares and/or cash, indexed to the share prices, with long-term performance of the Group and its entities conditions based on economic, financial and societal criteria consistent with the long-term strategy of the Group and its entities. Collective variable Profit sharing All employees in France and employee of certain compensation international entities Objectives Collective variable compensation plans are defined separately for each entity in order to reflect value creation as closely Linking all employees to as possible. In France, Group companies therefore negotiate their own profit-sharing and incentive plan agreements, the Group’s results to enable complemented by contribution matching systems through their Company Savings Plan (PEE) and Collective Retirement the collective sharing of value Savings Plan (PERCO). created Employee shareholding All employees with the exception of a few countries Employee shareholding, rooted in the corporate culture of Crédit Agricole S.A., has grown over the years. Since its initial public offering in 2001, the Group has carried out six capital increases reserved for employees in France and in some 20 countries abroad. From 2018, the Group is committed to making this an annual arrangement. Peripheral compensation System People eligible Peripheral compensation Private healthcare insurance scheme All employees Objectives Supplementary pension Executive managers Providing/Supplementing In addition to direct compensation, peripheral compensation in terms of retirement, healthcare and pensions are put healthcare reimbursement in the in place within collective schemes specific to each entity. event of employee sickness Protecting employees against all life’s uncertainties Find out more: The capital increase reserved for employees in 2018 enabled more than nn HR “Developing people” policy: Registration Document, Chapter 2.5. 18,500 subscribers worldwide to invest close to €136 million in shares nn Rules and specific procedures for determining the compensation of of Crédit Agricole S.A. At end-2018, employees and former employees executive managers: Registration Document, Chapter 3, section 4.2. of the Group held 4.42% of the capital. nn Rules and specific procedures for determining the compensation of Find out more: Executive Corporate Officers: Registration Document, Chapter 3, section 4.3. nn Social indicators: Registration Document, Chapter 2.5.6. nn Amount of compensation of executive managers: Registration 4.1.5. Amount of compensation Document, Chapter 3, section 4.2.3. nn Amount of compensation of Executive Corporate Officers: Registration In 2018, total employee expenses amounted to €7.1 billion for Crédit Document, Chapter 3, section 4.3.5. Agricole S.A. Group. The overall total distributed, including profit-sharing and the employer contribution matching of employee savings plans, was €279.2 million. 150 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance 4. Reward policy 4.2. REWARD POLICY APPLICABLE TO EXECUTIVE MANAGERS IMPORTANT TO KNOW Annual variable compensation criteria of executive managers nn Variable compensation based on mutual objectives and ECONOMIC RESULTS aligned to the strategy of the Group in order to unify executive managers around shared challenges. nn People eligible for the long-term incentive plan to align the interests of executive managers to those of shareholders and the 50 % performance of the Group over the long term. Group and entity measure value creation for shareholders The Group’s 660 executive managers are members of the management teams and break down into two management circles: nn executives in the first circle prepare the definition of strategy for INDIVIDUAL their business line or a Group cross-cutting function and steer PERFORMANCE implementation, in line with Group strategy; 10 to 20 % 10 to 20 % nn in the second circle, executives are responsible for defining functional S o c ia measure the social measure the creation or operational policies that have a strategic impact on their businesses. l re value creation 10 to 20 % of societal value tal api 3 4.2.1. Objectives specific to executive managers spo measure the value nc ns ma Crédit Agricole S.A. has implemented a variable compensation policy for ibi creation for internal Hu lit y executive managers, aimed in particular at: and external customers nn correlating their compensation levels with actual long-term In te rn al rs performance; a n d ex t e r n a l c u s t o m e NON S nn aligning the interests of management with those of the Group by -ECONOMIC RESULT including financial and non-financial performance (customer satisfaction, management effectiveness and societal impact). Measure the social responsibility, respect for values exceeding legal obligations, environmental impact, partnerships, ethics, etc. Measure the satisfaction of services and advices provided 4.2.2. Elements of reward of executive managers Measure the ability to attract, develop and retain employees Measure the achievement of financial objectives within the scope of the Group Executive managers receive elements of fixed, variable and peripheral and of the scope of responsibility compensation, adapted to their specific objectives, in line with the Group’s compensation structure adapted to their specific objectives. The financial objectives set for each executive manager, whatever his/ her business line or function, are partly based on Group-wide financial Elements of compensation objectives, commensurate with the executive manager’s level of Fixed compensation responsibility. The other part is based on the financial objectives of the The fixed compensation of executive managers is determined using the executive manager’s entity. same rules as those of all employees. Long-term variable compensation Annual variable compensation The Group established a long-term incentive plan in 2011 to reward longAll executive managers of Crédit Agricole S.A. are eligible for the Group’s term performance. Accordingly, taking an entity’s societal impact into variable compensation schemes, for which the structure of objectives is consideration strengthens the link between compensation and long-term common regardless of the entity. performance. This means that their individual variable compensation comes either The long-term variable compensation plan for executive managers from the individual variable compensation plan (RVP) or from the bonus consists of compensation in instruments linked to the Crédit Agricole system. As for all employees, the system on which they are dependent S.A. share. is defined according to their home entities. Amounts are deferred over three years. One-third vests each year, Annual variable compensation is calculated based on two sets of criteria: subject to performance conditions and according to the following criteria: nn the intrinsic financial performance of Crédit Agricole S.A. defined nn financial criteria (50%), within the scope of Crédit Agricole S.A. and the scope of the executive manager’s responsibility; as growth of its operating income increased by the Group share of equity-accounted net income; nn non-financial criteria (50%), measuring the creation of managerial, nn the relative performance of Crédit Agricole S.A. shares compared to social and customer value. a composite index of European banks (Euro Stoxx Banks); nn the societal performance of Crédit Agricole S.A., measured by the FReD index; the index is assessed by means of measurement on the basis of progress achieved by CSR projects (the assessment is certified by PricewaterhouseCoopers, see description in Chapter 2). The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 151 3 Corporate governance 4. Reward policy S.A. entities have signed up to the retirement regulation by a collective REPRESENTS 1/3 company agreement in accordance with Article L. 911-1 of the French Social Security Code. This scheme comprises a combination of defined-contribution pension Performance in relation schemes and a supplementary defined-benefit scheme: to the Crédit Agricole S.A. nn the aggregate contributions to the two defined-contribution share supplementary pension schemes (the industry scheme and the Company scheme) are equal to 8% of gross salary capped at eight times the French social security ceiling (of which 5% is paid by the employer and 3% by the beneficiary); LONG TERM GROUP nn the rights to the defined-benefit top-up scheme are determined after PERFORMANCE the rights paid under the defined-contribution schemes. The rights The Group's Societal currently outstanding in Crédit Agricole S.A. are equal, subject to economic performance 1/3 REPR continued employment conditions at retirement and five years or more NTS E performance SE seniority, to between 0.125% and 0.30% of reference compensation ESE NT S1 for each quarter of length of service up to a limit of 120 quarters. PR /3 RE The reference compensation is defined as the average of the three highest gross annual compensations out of the last 10 years of service in Crédit Agricole entities, including both fixed and variable compensation, with the latter capped at between 30% and 60% of fixed compensation. In any event, at retirement, the total retirement annuity of all schemes is capped at 70% of the reference compensation in accordance with the The members of the Crédit Agricole S.A. Executive Committee and the supplementary retirement regulations for executive managers of Crédit Group’s senior executives are eligible for this long-term plan, whose grant Agricole S.A. is determined on an annual basis by the Group Chief Executive Officer. The rights established by the Group prior to the effective date of the applicable rules are maintained in accordance with the rules and, if Peripheral compensation applicable, are added to the rights resulting from the application of those rules, particularly when calculating the maximum annuity that can be paid. Private healthcare insurance Executive managers benefit from the same private healthcare insurance 4.2.3. Amount of reward of executive managers schemes as other employees. At 31 December 2018, the compensation of members of the Board of Supplementary pension Directors and the Executive Committee paid by Crédit Agricole S.A. Since 2010, a common supplementary pension scheme has been put in amounted to €28.2 million, of which €3.9 million in post-employment place for Crédit Agricole Group Senior Executives. Most Crédit Agricole benefits. 4.3. REWARD POLICY APPLICABLE TO EXECUTIVE CORPORATE OFFICERS IMPORTANT TO KNOW 4.3.1. Specific objectives of Executive nn Policy reviewed annually by the Board of Directors and Corporate Officers approved by the shareholders. The main goal of the compensation policy of Executive Corporate nn Compensation consistent with those of employees, executive Officers is the recognition of performance over the long term and smooth managers of the Group and with the social interests of the implementation of the Group’s strategic plan. Aligned with the social Company. interests of the Company, it takes into account aspects of sustainable nn Consideration of expectations of stakeholders, and balance performance over and above short-term financial results. between all elements of compensation and benefits granted. It is consistent with the policy of compensation of all executive managers of Crédit Agricole S.A., as described above, in order to unify the Group’s Crédit Agricole S.A. has historically opted for the separation key players around common and shared challenges. of the duties of direction and control in executive functions in accordance with Article L. 511-58 of the French Monetary and 4.3.2. Specific regulatory corpus of Executive Financial Code. Corporate Officers The Group therefore has three Executive Corporate Officers: In addition to the regulatory corpus specific to the banking sector, the nn Dominique Lefebvre, as Chairman of the Board of Directors since compensation of Executive Corporate Officers of Crédit Agricole S.A. 4 November 2015; complies with: nn Philippe Brassac, as Chief Executive Officer since 20 May 2015; nn the recommendations and principles of the Corporate Governance nn Xavier Musca, as Deputy Chief Executive Officer and second in Code for listed companies, as revised in June 2018 (the “AFEP/ command since 20 May 2015. MEDEF Code”) with the exception of certain recommendations listed in the areas of non-compliance with the code on page 103; The Chief Executive Officer and Deputy Chief Executive Officer nn the provisions of law No. 2015-990 of 6 August 2015 on growth, have decided upon a shared responsibility across the Board, activity and equal economic opportunities, modifying in particular which is reflected in their solidarity regarding the performance Article L. 225-42-1 of the French Commercial Code on the vesting of criteria used. conditional annual supplementary defined-benefit rights. 152 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance 4. Reward policy 4.3.3. Specific governance of Executive Corporate Officers To ensure that the compensation of executives is in line with the interests of shareholders and the performance of the Group, the Board of Directors and its Compensation Committee play a key role in the governance of the corresponding policy. The same applies to shareholders who vote each year at the General Meeting on the policy and on the elements paid through a binding vote. Process of defining the compensation policy Governance of the compensation policy for Executive Corporate Officers of Crédit Agricole S.A. 1. Policy creation 2. Review At the start of the year, the The Board of Directors determines the Compensation Committee supported compensation policy based on the proposals of the by the Human Resources department Compensation Committee. It sets the criteria for drafts proposals on the compensation 01 allocation of annual variable compensation and of Executive Corporate Officers. the targets to be achieved for the year (ex ante). Each year, the Compensation Committee assesses the performance of Executive 02 Corporate Officers over the financial year ended in the light of results obtained and 6. Adjustments The Board of Directors reviews the 06 targets set (expost). It may consult the Chief Executive Officer about the 3 compensation policy according to performance of the Deputy Chief changes in the context of corporate Executive Officer. strategy as well as feedback from investors and shareholders. The changes decided upon apply from the 3. Approval following year. 03 The shareholders gathered in a General Meeting vote on the elements of compensation allocated for the financial 05 year ended and on the compensation policy for the coming year. 5. Monitoring The Group Internal Audit department conducts 04 4. Implementation an annual audit subsequent to the definition The Human Resources department and application of the compensation policy of Executive oversees the implementation of the Corporate Officers. compensation policy. Functions involved in the process General Meeting of Shareholders Compensation Committee Each year, shareholders give their opinion on the compensation policy The Compensation Committee drafts proposals on the compensation of of Executive Corporate Officers, and on their elements of compensation Executive Corporate Officers. These proposals cover fixed and variable for the previous year. compensation, other benefits offered (retirement, allowances, benefits In the event of a negative vote: in kind, etc.), as well as the decisions to be submitted to the General nn on the compensation policy: the compensation policy for the previous Meeting of Shareholders on these subjects. With the consent of the year is applied; Compensation Committee, the Human Resources department may nn on elements of compensation: the variable compensation of the participate in its meetings. Executive Corporate Officer concerned by the resolution is not be paid; Board of Directors nn the Board of Directors meets within a reasonable time period On the proposal of the Compensation Committee, the Board of Directors following the General Meeting to look into the reasons for such vote, defines the compensation policy of the Executive Corporate Officers of and the expectations expressed by shareholders. Crédit Agricole S.A. In particular, it determines their annual fixed and variable compensation (ceiling, thresholds, procedures and allocation At the General Meeting of Shareholders held on 16 May 2018: criteria). nn 96.2% of the shareholders voted in favour of the compensation The Board of Directors reviews this policy annually in light of allocated to the Chief Executive Officer for 2017; developments in the industry and the competitive environment. It also nn 96.2% supported the compensation decision for the Deputy Chief determines the amounts of fixed and variable compensation due for the Executive Officer; financial year ended 31 December of the previous year for each Executive nn 92.6% approved the compensation principles and criteria for the Corporate Officer. It sets the financial and non-financial criteria on which Chief Executive Officer in 2018; the variable compensation for the coming year will be based. nn 94.4% approved the compensation principles and criteria for the Deputy Chief Executive Officer in 2018. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 153 3 Corporate governance 4. Reward policy 4.3.4. Elements of reward for Executive Corporate Their annual variable compensation is 50% based on financial criteria Officers and 50% based on non-financial criteria, defined each year by the Board of Directors, on the recommendation of the Compensation Executive Corporate Officers receive fixed, variable and peripheral Committee. elements of compensation, adapted to their specific objectives, in line with the Group’s reward policy. The Board endeavours to strike a balance between the various components of compensation and to take market practices into account. To ensure that the principles and levels of compensation are consistent, Non-financial criteria annual surveys are carried out with the firm Willis Towers Watson to 50% assess how the Group’s compensation of Executive Corporate Officers compares with other CAC 40 and financial sector companies, based on the annual reports and press releases of those companies. Financial criteria Calculation procedures and rules 50% Elements of compensation Fixed compensation Financial criteria The amount of annual fixed compensation is decided by the Board Financial criteria take account of financial results, levels of investment of Directors acting on the recommendation of the Compensation and risks generated, cost of capital and liquidity in accordance with Committee, taking into account: regulatory requirements in the French Monetary and Financial Code nn the experience and scope of responsibilities of Executive Corporate and Decree of 3 November 2014 on internal control. They are defined in Officers; accordance with the development strategy of the Group and its business nn market practices and compensation packages observed for the same lines. or similar functions in other major listed companies. The financial criteria relate to the scope of Crédit Agricole S.A.group. For Fixed compensation accounts for a significant proportion of total each of these, the target is set on the basis of the budget approved by compensation. the Board of Directors. Net income Annual variable compensation Group share 12.5% 12.5% Cost/income ratio Chairman of the Board of Directors In order to guarantee complete independence in the performance of his duties, the Chairman of the Board of Directors is not eligible for any variable compensation, including long-term incentive plans, stock-options or performance share award plans, or any other long-term 12.5% 12.5% compensation schemes existing within Crédit Agricole S.A. Revenues 50% RoTE Chief Executive Officer and Deputy Chief Executive Officer (NBI) In 2010, the Board of Directors drafted a demanding variable FINANCIAL CRITERIA compensation policy for the Chief Executive Officer and the Deputy Chief Executive Officer that aims to align their compensation with the Group’s Non-financial criteria performance and innovates by taking sustainable long-term performance Non-financial criteria are determined each year on the basis of the into account in addition to short-term financial results. This policy is Group’s strategic priorities. They are based on four sets of objectives: part of the framework established for the variable compensation of the nn the progress and implementation of Crédit Agricole Group’s MediumGroup’s executive managers. Term Plan; Variable compensation is expressed as a percentage of annual nn the Group’s transformation in order to improve industrial efficiency; fixed compensation. In accordance with the AFEP/MEDEF Code nn the organisational restructuring and oversight of control functions in (paragraph 24.3.2), variable compensation is capped and may not view of tighter regulation; exceed the maximum levels set out in the compensation policy: nn employee engagement with the Crédit Agricole Group reflected in nn it can vary from 0% to 100% (target level) of fixed compensation for the ability to promote and deliver shared projects, to underpin the the Chief Executive Officer, if all objectives are attained, and up to image of a unified Group and to involve all Group employees whose a maximum of 120% (maximum level) of fixed compensation for commitment level will be measured using the Engagement and exceptional performance; Recommendation Index (see description in Chapter 2). nn for the Deputy Chief Executive Officer, variable compensation The performance of the Chief Executive Officer and Deputy Chief can vary from 0% to 80% (target level) of fixed compensation if all Executive Officer is evaluated for each indicator, by comparing results objectives are attained and up to a maximum of 120% (maximum achieved with the annual targets defined by the Board. The Deputy level) of fixed compensation for exceptional performance. Chief Executive Officer’s performance assessment is presented to the The overall performance of each Executive Corporate Officer combines Compensation Committee by the Chief Executive Officer, before being an equal weighting of their financial results and managerial performance. presented to the Board for decision. 154 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance 4. Reward policy Terms and conditions for payment of annual variable of retirement or exceptional circumstances, the grounds for which compensation must be substantiated by the Board of Directors. In such cases, Following the assessment of the annual performance, a portion of the unaccrued instalment of deferred variable compensation are delivered variable compensation awarded by the Board of Directors for a year is at their normal vesting date depending on the level of achievement of deferred, subject to approval by the General Meeting of Shareholders, performance conditions. in the interests of aligning the compensation of Executive Corporate If it is found within a period of five years after payment that an Executive Officers with the Group’s long-term performance and to comply with Corporate Officer: (i) is responsible for or has contributed to significant regulations. losses to the detriment of the Group or (ii) has demonstrated particularly Deferred portion of annual variable compensation, accounting for serious risky behaviour, the Group reserves the right to demand the 60% of the total restitution in full or in part of amounts already paid subject to French law 60% of annual variable compensation is awarded in instruments linked in force (clawback clause). to the Crédit Agricole S.A. share price. Vesting is contingent on achieving Non-deferred portion of total variable compensation, accounting for three complementary performance objectives, whose overall achievement 40% of the total rate cannot exceed 100%. These performance conditions take into The non-deferred variable compensation approved by the General account both the Group’s intrinsic performance, its relative performance Meeting and accounting for 40% of the total, is paid in part (30 points) and its societal performance. They are identical to those applied to the on the approval by the shareholders in May, and with an amount equal executive managers’ long-term incentive plan (see details on page 151). to 10 points paid in September. The latter payment is indexed against If an Executive Corporate Officer leaves the Group before the vesting the change in the Crédit Agricole S.A. share price between March and of a given instalment of deferred compensation, the payment of this instalment of deferred compensation is excluded, except in the event September. 3 Overview of the compensation structure over time Y-1 Y Y+1 Y+2 Y+3 Fixed Compensation Y-1 Undeferred 30% May Y portion 10% Sept. Y Annual variable 20% Sept. Y+1 compensation Deferred 20% Sept. Y+2 portion 20% Sept. Y+3 Subject to clawback and for the deferred portion to performance and presence conditions Paid in cash. Paid in instruments linked to the Crédit Agricole S.A. share price after a holding period of six months. Long-term variable compensation The benefit represented by this supplementary pension scheme No Crédit Agricole S.A. stock options have been allocated to Executive was taken into account by the Board of Directors in determining the Corporate Officers since 2006. No performance shares were awarded to total compensation of Executive Corporate Officers. This benefit was Executive Corporate Officers in 2018. approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders on 19 May 2016, under the procedure governing related-party agreements. Specific peripheral compensation The plans currently in force are a combination of a defined-contribution The Chairman of the Board of Directors does not benefit from any scheme and a supplementary defined-benefit plan. The rights to the severance payment or non-competition compensation, nor any additional defined-benefit scheme are determined after the rights paid under the pension scheme or private healthcare insurance in force within the Group. defined-contribution scheme: nn contributions to the defined-contribution retirement plan equal 8% of Private healthcare insurance The Chief Executive Officer and Deputy Chief Executive Officer gross salary capped at eight times the social security ceiling (of which are covered by the same private healthcare insurance schemes as 3% paid by the Executive Corporate Officer); employees. nn defined benefit plan top-up rights are equal to 1.20% of the reference compensation for every year of service, capped at 36% of the Post-employment benefits reference compensation, on the condition that the beneficiary is a Retirement Corporate Officer or an employee when exercising his or her pension The Chief Executive Officer and Deputy Chief Executive Officer do not entitlements. benefit from retirement plans specific to Corporate Officers. Philippe In any event, at retirement, the total retirement annuity is capped, for Brassac, as Chief Executive Officer, and Xavier Musca, as Deputy all Company retirement plans and mandatory basic and complementary Chief Executive Officer and Second Executive Director, are covered plans, by contractual provisions, at sixteen times the annual social by the Group supplementary pension scheme for Senior Executives of security cap for the Chief Executive Officer and the Deputy Chief Executive the Crédit Agricole Group. Crédit Agricole S.A. joined the scheme in Officer, and at 70% of the reference compensation in application of the January 2010 when it introduced its pension regulations, approved by supplementary retirement regulations for Crédit Agricole S.A. Senior collective bargaining agreement under Article L. 911-1 of the French Executives. Social Security Code. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 155 3 Corporate governance 4. Reward policy The rights established by the Group prior to the effective date of the rules The Chief Executive Officer will receive severance payment if his office in effect are maintained and, if applicable, added to the rights resulting is terminated by Crédit Agricole S.A., under the following conditions and from application of the rules in effect, notably for the calculation of the in accordance with the current recommendations of the AFEP/MEDEF ceiling for the annuity paid. Code. The reference compensation is determined as the average of the three If, on termination of the Chief Executive Officer’s office, Crédit Agricole highest gross annual compensations received over the last ten years S.A. is unable, within three months, to offer an equivalent or comparable of activity within the Crédit Agricole Group, including fixed and variable position to that currently held by the members of the Executive Committee compensation, the latter being taken into account with a maximum of of Crédit Agricole S.A. in the form of an offer for at least two positions, he 60% of fixed compensation. will be eligible, if termination of the office was initiated by Crédit Agricole The Board of Directors Meeting on 19 May 2015 approved the membership S.A. and a result of a change in control or strategy, to severance payment of Philippe Brassac and Xavier Musca in the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group’s as follows. supplementary pension schemes prior to the date of publication of The severance payment will be calculated based on twice the total gross law No. 2015-990 dated 6 August 2015 for growth, activity and equal annual compensation received for the calendar year preceding the year economic opportunities; therefore the provisions of Article L. 225-42-1 of termination of Mr Brassac’s office. Note that such severance payment of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), which makes the includes all other compensation including, notably, the redundancy pay acquisition of annual supplementary pension entitlements subject to due for Mr Brassac’s employment contract with Crédit Agricole S.A. performance conditions, do not apply. under the collective agreement, the severance pay described in Article 10 The supplementary defined-benefit pension scheme in effect for of his suspended employment contract, any other severance pay of any Executive Corporate Officers complies with the recommendations set type whatsoever due for any reason and, potentially, compensation in out in the AFEP/MEDEF Code, the provisions of law No. 2015-990 of application of the non-competition clause. 6 August 2015 on growth, activity and equal economic opportunities, The payment of this compensation, excluding the compensation granted and notably Article L. 225-42-1 of the French Commercial Code on the to him by his employment contract, will depend on performance criteria vesting of annual contingent rights for supplementary defined-benefit set for each business line of the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group over the pensions: two financial years preceding the termination date. The goals are based nn the group of potential beneficiaries is substantially broader than on the following indicators that take into account the internal growth of Executive Corporate Officers alone; these activities as well as the cost of risk: nn revenues (NBI) of operational business lines (excluding Corporate nn minimum length of service: five years (the AFEP/MEDEF Code requires only two years’ service); Centre); nn operating income from operational business lines (excluding nn progression: proportional to the length of service capped at 120 quarters (30 years), with a vesting rate of between 0.125% and Corporate Centre). 0.30% per quarter validated, i.e. between 0.5% and 1.2% per annum In any event, it is agreed by Mr Brassac and the Company that, in the (vs. 3% maximum required); event that a severance payment is made and he is able to retire on his nn estimated supplementary pension below the mentioned ceiling of full pension, he may not claim his retirement rights before a period of 45% of fixed and variable compensation due for the reference period; twelve months as of the date the severance payment is made. Otherwise, nn obligation for the beneficiary to be a Corporate Officer or an employee Mr Brassac will be required to waive the severance payment. when exercising their pension entitlements. Deputy Chief Executive Officer Management of the defined-benefit plan is outsourced to an organisation In the event of termination of the Deputy Chief Executive Officer’s governed by the French Insurance Code. office, his employment contract will be reinstated under compensation conditions equivalent to the average annual compensation paid to Funding of the outsourced assets is accomplished via annual premiums the members of the Management Committee of Crédit Agricole S.A., entirely paid for by the employer and subject to the 24% contribution excluding Executive Corporate Officers, during the 12 months preceding required by Article L. 137-11 of the French Social Security Code. the date of termination of his office. The Company undertakes to offer him at least two positions corresponding to the duties of members of Retirement allowances for the Deputy Chief Executive Officer Crédit Agricole S.A.’s Management Committee. of Crédit Agricole S.A. If his employment contract is subsequently terminated, the Deputy Philippe Brassac and Xavier Musca qualify for the retirement benefits Chief Executive Officer will receive severance payment, calculated on a scheme that applies to all employees under the terms of the Crédit base corresponding to twice the annual gross compensation (excluding Agricole S.A. collective agreement. This can amount to six months’ fixed benefits in kind) received during the 12 months preceding the termination salary plus variable compensation capped at 4.5% of fixed salary. of his office, including any other compensation and, in particular, Severance payment traditional redundancy pay and any applicable non-competition payment. If he becomes eligible for post-employment benefits, no compensation Chief Executive Officer will be paid. In the event of termination of the Chief Executive Officer’s office, his employment contract will be reinstated under compensation conditions In accordance with the AFEP/MEDEF Code (paragraph 24.5.1), the Chief equivalent to the average annual compensation paid to the members Executive Officer and the Deputy Chief Executive Officer are not entitled of the Management Committee of Crédit Agricole S.A., excluding to a specific increase in their compensation during the period preceding Executive Corporate Officers, during the 12 months preceding the date their departure. of termination of his office. 156 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance 4. Reward policy Non-competition clause In the event that a new Executive Corporate Officer is appointed, their The Chief Executive Officer and the Deputy Chief Executive Officer are compensation will be determined by the Board of Directors: subject to a non-competition clause forbidding them from accepting nn either in accordance with the principles and criteria approved by the employment in France in a company with an activity which competes General Meeting; with that of Crédit Agricole S.A. This commitment applies for a term of nn or in accordance with existing practices for the same role, adapted as one year from termination of the employment contract. In exchange, they appropriate when this person exercises new functions or holds new will be paid monthly compensation equal to 50% of their last fixed salary office without equivalent in the previous financial year. for the duration of the obligation. Finally, and in accordance with the French AFEP/MEDEF Code 4.3.5. Individual compensation of Executive (paragraph 24.5.1), the aggregate compensation paid in respect of a Corporate Officers severance payment and non-competition compensation may not exceed In accordance with the provisions of Article L. 225-100 of the French two years of annual compensation. Commercial Code amended by law No. 2016-1691 of 9 December 2016 The Board of Directors reserves the right to partially or fully lift the on transparency, the fight against corruption and the modernisation of non-competition obligation on the departure of the Chief Executive Officer the economy, it is proposed to the General Meeting of 21 May 2019 or Deputy Chief Executive Officer. In any event, in accordance with the to approve the compensation of Dominique Lefebvre, Chairman of the AFEP/MEDEF Code, no non-competition compensation will be granted Board of Directors, Philippe Brassac, Chief Executive Officer and Xavier should the Chief Executive Officer or Deputy Chief Executive Officer claim Musca, Deputy Chief Executive Officer: retirement benefits, or should they leave after their 65th birthday. nn paid or awarded for the financial year ended 31 December 2018; nn to be awarded for 2019. 3 Elements of compensation paid or awarded for financial year 2018 to each Executive Corporate Officer of the Company, to be approved by shareholders Elements of compensation paid or awarded for financial year 2018 to Dominique Lefebvre, Chairman of the Board of Directors, subject to approval by shareholders Elements of compensation paid or awarded for the financial year ended to be approved by shareholders Amount Presentation Fixed compensation €520,000 Dominique Lefebvre receives annual fixed compensation of €520,000. This compensation was set by the Board of Directors at its meeting on 4 November 2015; it has not changed since. Annual variable compensation No payment for 2018 Dominique Lefebvre is not entitled to any variable compensation. Long-term variable compensation Collective variable compensation Exceptional compensation No payment for 2018 Dominique Lefebvre is not entitled to any exceptional compensation. Directors’ fees No payment for 2018 Dominique Lefebvre waived receipt of Directors’ fees paid in respect of offices held in Crédit Agricole Group companies for the duration of his term of office or at the end of his term. Benefits in kind €40,000 Dominique Lefebvre receives compensation for company housing. Elements of compensation paid or awarded for the financial year ended, submitted for the approval of shareholders and that were voted on by the General Meeting as part of the procedure governing related party agreements and commitments Amount Presentation Severance payment No payment made for 2018 Dominique Lefebvre is not entitled to any severance payment. Non-competition compensation No payment made for 2018 Dominique Lefebvre is not entitled to any non-competition compensation. Supplementary pension No payment for 2018 Dominique Lefebvre is not a beneficiary of the supplementary pension scheme in place within the Group. Rate of achievement of variable compensation criteria awarded for 2018 for Executive Corporate Officers At its meeting of 13 February 2019, the Board of Directors, on the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, set the amount of the variable compensation of Philippe Brassac and Xavier Musca for financial year 2018, subject to its approval by the General Meeting of 21 May 2019. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 157 3 Corporate governance 4. Reward policy Criteria governing the annual variable compensation of Executives Corporate Officers Net income Group share 12.5% 12.5% Cost/income ratio 12.5% 12.5% Revenues 50% RoTE (NBI) FINANCIAL CRITERIA Chief Executive Officer Deputy Chief Executive Officer NON-FINANCIAL CRITERIA NON-FINANCIAL CRITERIA MTP 7.5% 50% 50% 12.5% Collective 7.5% Collective dynamic dynamic MTP 17.5% 10% Control function Transformation 17.5% 17.5% Control function Transformation 10% monitoring monitoring Financial criteria, accounting for 50% of variable compensation awarded Financial criteria Weighting Actual performance 2018 Revenues (NBI) 12.5% 12.2% Net income Group share 12.5% 14.2% Cost/income ratio 12.5% 13.4% Return on Tangible Equity (RoTE) 12.5% 14.3% TOTAL 50.0% 54.1% The achievement level of financial objectives, of 108.2%, is explained reinvention and strengthening of the day-to-day customer relationship mainly by the good performance of the Net Income Group Share that (successful launch of EKO, continued deployment of digitalized achieved the target of the Medium-Term Plan Ambition 2020 one year services, launch of the “Trajectoires Patrimoine” and “Mon Logement” ahead, driven by an increase in all the business lines’ contributions. initiative, etc.), progression of revenue synergies and strengthening The NIGS benefits in particular from the continuous improvement of of external growth dynamics and major commercial partnerships; operational efficiency and the cost of risk that remains very low leading to nn the Group’s ongoing transformation projects continued in an achievement rate of 113.6% for the NIGS and of 114.6% for the RoTE. 2018, enabling improvements in operating efficiency in each of the The efficient cost control enables a performance of 107% on the cost/ Group’s business lines; income ratio criterion, despite an unfavourable market environment for nn the steering of control functions in view of regulatory revenues (NBI) whose achievement rate is of 97.7%. intensification: the governance of Risks and Compliance functions continues to strengthen and enable increased monitoring of the Non-financial criteria, accounting for 50% of variable Group’s major regulatory projects, whether in terms of protecting compensation awarded the customer base, protecting personal data or combating money The Board of Directors set the Chief Executive Officer’s performance at laundering. 2018 also saw the end of settlements of deferred 117.3% and the Deputy Chief Executive Officer’s performance at 110% proceedings with the US authorities related to breaches of embargoes; in relation to the non-financial criteria defined at the start of the financial nn collective employee engagement with the Group continues to year, which include a specific weighting applied to each of their duties. strengthen, as seen by the ongoing progress over the past three years It thus notes specific successes for the Medium-Term Plan: made on the Engagement and Recommendation Index introduced in nn implementation of the Medium-Term Plan translates into several 2016, which shows that pride in belonging to the Group has improved, successes: the increasing power of the Customer project, particularly and that understanding and support for the strategy has deepened. in terms of digitalization (3rd on the D-Rating classification(1) for the quality of digital services offered by the Group to its customers), (1) Rating agency specialising in the digital sector. 158 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance 4. Reward policy Elements of compensation paid or awarded for 2018 to Philippe Brassac, Chief Executive Officer, subject to approval by shareholders Elements of compensation paid or awarded for the financial year ended to be approved by shareholders Amount Presentation Fixed compensation €1,025,269 Philippe Brassac received an annual fixed compensation of €1,025,269 in 2018. Since 16 May 2018, he receives an annual fixed remuneration of €1,100,000. Indeed, this compensation was set by the Board of Directors on 13 February 2018, and approved by the General Meeting of 16 May 2018(1). Annual variable €346,740 At its meeting of 13 February 2019, the Board of Directors, on the recommendation of the Compensation compensation Committee, set the amount of the variable compensation for Philippe Brassac for financial year 2018. Non-deferred variable In view of the achievement of financial and non-financial objectives decided by the Board at its meeting compensation of 13 February 2018 and approved by the General Meeting of 16 May 2018, the amount of variable compensation has been determined on the following basis: nn achievement level of financial objectives: 108.2%; nn achievement level of non-financial objectives: 117.3%. Details of the achievement of these objectives can be found on page 158 of the Registration Document. Based on the weighting of the criteria, Philippe Brassac earned €1,115,800 in variable compensation for financial year 2018, reflecting a target achievement ratio of 112.7%. This was equivalent to 112.7% of his fixed reference compensation. 30% of the variable compensation, namely €346,740 will be paid in May 2019 subject to approval by the General Meeting of 21 May 2019. Variable compensation €115,580 10% of the variable compensation, namely €115,580, is indexed to the Crédit Agricole S.A. share price 3 indexed to the Crédit and will be paid in September 2019 subject to approval by the General Meeting on 21 May 2019. Agricole S.A. share price Deferred and €693,480 60% of the variable compensation, or €693,480 at the grant date, subject to the approval of the General conditional variable Meeting of 21 May 2019, are awarded in instruments linked to the Crédit Agricole S.A. share price, compensation which vest progressively over a deferred period of three years, conditional upon the attainment of three performance targets. Details of the principle used to measure these objectives can be found on pages 155 and 165 of the Registration Document. Long-term variable No payment Philippe Brassac was not awarded any stock options or performance shares or any other long-term compensation for 2018 compensation for 2018. Exceptional No payment Philippe Brassac has received no exceptional compensation for 2018. compensation for 2018 Directors’ fees No payment Philippe Brassac waived receipt of Directors’ fees for the duration of his term of office as Director of for 2018 Group companies. Benefits in kind €33,698 Since May 2018, Philippe Brassac has no longer received any benefits in kind, with this figure being included in his fixed salary. (1) The raise of fixed compensation of Philippe Brassac as of May 2018 is detailed in 2017 Registration Document p. 156. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 159 3 Corporate governance 4. Reward policy Elements of compensation paid or awarded for the financial year ended, submitted for the approval of shareholders and that were voted on by the General Meeting as part of the procedure governing related party agreements and commitments Amount Presentation Severance payment No payment made Philippe Brassac will receive a severance payment if Crédit Agricole S.A. terminates his contract under for 2018 the conditions approved by the Board of Directors at its meeting on 19 May 2015 and ratified by the General Meeting of 19 May 2016. Non-competition No payment made In the event of termination of his position as Chief Executive Officer, on any grounds whatsoever, Philippe compensation for 2018 Brassac may be bound by a non-competition clause for a period of one year from the date of termination, as approved by the Board at its meeting on 19 May 2015 and ratified by the General Meeting of 19 May 2016. Supplementary No payment No supplementary pension amount is payable to Philippe Brassac for financial year 2018. In accordance pension for 2018 with the provisions of Article L. 225-37-3-3 of the French Commercial Code, Philippe Brassac’s annual and conditional individual supplementary pension entitlements as at 31 December 2018 include: nn a life annuity under a defined-contribution supplementary pension scheme, for an estimated gross amount of €5,000; nn a life annuity under a defined-benefit supplementary pension scheme, for an estimated gross amount of €519,000. The estimated total of these supplementary pension entitlements, taken together with estimated pensions from mandatory retirement schemes, corresponds to the application of the contractual cap of sixteen times the annual social security cap as of the closing date, for all schemes. The uncertain entitlements under the defined-benefit supplementary pension scheme are subject to continued employment at retirement and are estimated on the basis of 36 years’ service recorded on the closing date, corresponding to 34% of the reference compensation at 31/12/2018, or a zero increase in contingent rights compared with financial year 2017. On that basis, the provisions of Article L. 225-42-1 of the French Commercial Code, as amended under law No. 2015-990 of 6 August 2015 for growth, activity and equal economic opportunities, limiting the annual increase in contingent rights to 3% have been met. The published estimated amounts are the gross amounts before taxes and social security charges applicable at the closing date, particularly income tax payable by individuals and supplementary contributions of 7% and 14%, payable by the beneficiary, which are deducted from the life annuities payable under the defined-benefit supplementary pension scheme. Details of these schemes can be found on pages 155 and 156 of the Registration Document. 160 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance 4. Reward policy Elements of compensation paid or awarded for financial year 2018 to Xavier Musca, Deputy Chief Executive Officer, subject to approval by shareholders Elements of compensation paid or awarded for the financial year ended to be approved by shareholders Amount Presentation Fixed compensation €700,000 Xavier Musca received annual fixed compensation of €700,000 in 2018. This compensation remains unchanged since May 2015. Annual variable €183,300 At its meeting of 13 February 2019, the Board of Directors, on the recommendation of the Compensation compensation Committee, set the amount of the variable compensation of Xavier Musca for 2018, subject to its approval Non-deferred variable by the General Meeting of 21 May 2019. compensation In view of the achievement of financial and non-financial objectives decided by the Board at its meeting of 13 February 2018 and approved by the General Meeting of 16 May 2018, the amount of variable compensation has been determined on the following basis: nn achievement level of financial objectives: 108.2%; nn achievement level of non-financial objectives: 110%. Details of the achievement of these objectives can be found on page 158 of the Registration Document. Variable compensation earned by Xavier Musca for financial year 2018 was set at €611,000, reflecting a target achievement rate of 109.1%. This is equivalent to 87.3% of his fixed reference compensation. 30% of the variable compensation, namely €183,300 will be paid in May 2019 subject to approval by the General Meeting of 21 May 2019. Variable compensation €61,100 10% of the variable compensation, namely €61,100, is indexed to the Crédit Agricole S.A. share price and 3 indexed to the Crédit will be paid in September 2018 subject to approval by the General Meeting of 16 May 2018. Agricole S.A. share price Deferred and €366,600 60% of the variable compensation, or €366,600 at the grant date, subject to the approval of the General conditional variable Meeting of 21 May 2019, are awarded in instruments linked to the Crédit Agricole S.A. share price, compensation which vest progressively over a deferred period of three years, conditional upon the attainment of three performance targets. Details of the principle used to measure these objectives can be found on pages 155 and 165 of the Registration Document. Long-term variable No payment Xavier Musca was not awarded any stock options or performance shares or any other long-term compensation for 2018 compensation for 2018. Exceptional No payment Xavier Musca received no exceptional compensation for 2018. compensation for 2018 Directors’ fees No payment Xavier Musca waived receipt of Directors’ fees for the duration of his term of office as Director of Group for 2018 companies. Benefits in kind No benefits Xavier Musca did not receive any benefits in kind. in kind Elements of compensation paid or awarded for the financial year ended, submitted for the approval of shareholders and that were voted on by the General Meeting as part of the procedure governing related party agreements and commitments Amount Presentation Severance payment No payment Xavier Musca will receive severance payment if Crédit Agricole S.A. terminates his employment contract for 2018 under the conditions approved by the Board of Directors at its meeting on 19 May 2015 and ratified by the General Meeting of 19 May 2016. Non-competition No payment In the event of termination of his office as Deputy Chief Executive Officer, on any grounds whatsoever, compensation for 2018 Xavier Musca may be bound by a non-competition clause for a period of one year from the date of termination, as approved by the Board at its meeting on 19 May 2015 and ratified by the General Meeting 19 May 2016. Supplementary No payment No supplementary pension benefit is payable to Xavier Musca for financial year 2018, in accordance pension for 2018 with the provisions of Article L. 225-37-3-3 of the French Commercial Code, Xavier Musca’s annual and conditional individual supplementary pension entitlements as at 31 December 2018 include: nn a life annuity under a defined-contribution supplementary pension scheme, for an estimated gross amount of €4,000; nn a life annuity under a defined-benefit supplementary pension scheme, for an estimated gross amount of €83,000. The uncertain entitlements under the defined-benefit supplementary pension scheme are subject to continued employment at retirement and are estimated on the basis of 6.5 years’ service recorded on the closing date, corresponding to 7.4% of the reference compensation at 31/12/2018, i.e. a 1.1% increase in contingent rights compared with 2017. On that basis, the provisions of Article L. 225-42-1 of the French Commercial Code, as amended under law No. 2015-990 of 6 August 2015 for growth, activity and equal economic opportunities, limiting the annual increase in contingent rights to 3% have been met.The published estimated amounts are the gross amounts before taxes and social security charges applicable at the reporting period end date, particularly income tax payable by individuals and supplementary contributions of 7% and 14%, payable by the beneficiary, which are deducted from the life annuities payable under the defined-benefit supplementary pension scheme. Details of these schemes can be found on pages 155 and 156 of the Registration Document. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 161 3 Corporate governance 4. Reward policy Compensation in 2018 of Executive Corporate Officers in relation to maximum compensation Chief Executive Officer Deputy Chief Executive Officer Maximum Maximum compensation compensation 45% 16% 5% 33% 45% 16% 5% 33% 2018 2018 compensation compensation 47% 16% 5% 32% 53% 14% 5% 28% 0 500,000 1,000,000 1,500,000 2,000,000 0 500,000 1,000,000 1,500,000 Fixed compensation Non-deferred variable compensation in cash Non-deferred variable compensation in instruments Variable compensation deferred over 3 years indexed to shares Principles and criteria for the calculation, distribution and award of elements of compensation for 2019 to each Executive Corporate Officer of the Company subject to shareholder approval The elements of compensation for the Chairman are decided by the Board If a new Executive Corporate Officer is appointed, his or her compensation of Directors, on the advice and/or recommendations of the Compensation will be decided by the Board of Directors either in accordance with the Committee, in accordance with the principles defined by the Crédit principles and criteria approved by the General Meeting, or in accordance Agricole S.A. Group compensation policy reviewed and adopted by the with existing practices for the same role, adapted as appropriate when Board of Directors on 13 February 2019 and the statutory and regulatory this person exercises new functions or holds a new office without provisions in force. equivalent in the previous financial year. Principles and criteria used to determine, distribute and award the elements of compensation of the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Crédit Agricole S.A. The principles used to determine the elements of compensation of the Chairman of Crédit Agricole S.A. are described in the “Calculation procedures and rules” paragraph of section 4.3.4. Elements of reward for Executive Corporate Officers. Elements of compensation Comments Fixed compensation The annual fixed compensation of the Chairman of the Board of Directors has been €520,000 since 4 November 2015. There are no plans to change this in 2019. Annual variable compensation To ensure that the Chairman remains independent, the Chairman of the Board of Directors is excluded from Long-term variable compensation any variable compensation scheme, including stock option plans or performance share award plans, or any other long-term compensation existing within Crédit Agricole S.A. Collective variable compensation Exceptional compensation There are no plans at present to grant the Chairman of the Board of Directors exceptional compensation for financial year 2019. Directors’ fees The Chairman of the Board of Directors also waived any Directors’ fees due in respect of offices held in Group companies during and at the end of his term of office as Chairman of the Board of Directors. Benefits in kind The Chairman of the Board of Directors has the use of company housing by virtue of his appointment which was reclassified as a benefit in kind under current rules. For information, this was valued at €40,000 in 2018 As a reminder, under the commitments authorised by the Board of procedures and rules” section of Chapter 4.3.4. Elements of reward for Directors and approved by the General Meeting, the Chairman of the Board Executive Corporate Officers. of Directors receives neither a severance payment nor non-competition The payment of elements of variable and exceptional compensation compensation in the event of termination of his office, nor is he a member awarded to each Executive Corporate Officer concerned for the current of the supplementary pension scheme in effect within the Group. financial year (2019) is in any event conditional on approval of those elements by the Ordinary General Meeting to be held in 2020. Principles and criteria used to determine, distribute and award the elements of compensation of Executive Corporate Officers of Crédit Agricole S.A. The principles used to determine the elements compensation of the Executive Corporate Officers are described in the “Calculation 162 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance 4. Reward policy Apportionment and award criteria for elements of compensation for the Chief Executive Officer Presentation Fixed compensation The fixed annual compensation of the Chief Executive Officer has been €1,100,000 since May 2018. There are no plans to change this in 2019. Annual variable compensation The Chief Executive Officer has a target annual variable compensation of 100% of his fixed compensation, capped at 120% if performance exceeds the target. The performance assessment linked to the annual variable compensation is 50% based on financial criteria and 50% on non-financial criteria. At its meeting on 13 February 2019, the Board of Directors set four financial criteria: Weighting Threshold Target Ceiling Revenues (NBI) 12.5% 80% 100% 150% Net Income Group share 12.5% 80% 100% 150% 50% Cost/income ratio 12.5% 80% 100% 150% Return on tangible equity 12.5% 80% 100% 150% The financial criteria relate to the scope of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group. For each of these, the target is set on the basis of the budget approved by the Board of Directors at its meeting on 13 February 2019. These criteria each account for one-quarter of the financial portion, i.e. one-eighth of annual variable compensation and for each criterion: nn the maximum achievement rate cannot exceed 150%; 3 nn a trigger threshold is applied, below which the achievement rate will be considered zero. Performance between the trigger threshold and target as well as between the target and ceiling is calculated on a straight-line basis. The non-financial criteria are determined each year on the basis of the Group’s strategic priorities. In keeping with the previous year and in terms of the ambitions of the Medium-Term Plan, “Ambition 2020”, the Board of Directors meeting on 13 February 2019 selected four sets of objectives for 2019: nn the finalisation of the Crédit Agricole Group’s Medium-Term Plan “Strategic Ambition 2020” (17.5%); nn the Group’s transformation in order to improve operational efficiency (10%); nn the steering of control functions in view of tighter regulation (10%); nn employee engagement with the Crédit Agricole Group (12.5%). The achievement rate of non-financial criteria cannot exceed 150%. Performance is assessed for each indicator, by comparing results achieved with the annual targets defined by the Board of Directors. Long-term variable compensation The Chief Executive Officer is not eligible for stock option plans or performance share awards or any other long-term compensation or multi-annual variable compensation scheme for 2019. Exceptional compensation There are no plans at present to award the Chief Executive Officer exceptional compensation for 2019. Directors’ fees The Chief Executive Officer waived receipt of Directors’ fees for the duration of his term of office as Director of Group companies. Benefits in kind The Chief Executive Officer does not receive any benefits in kind. Under the commitments authorised by the Board of Directors on nn non-competition compensation if a non-competition clause is 19 May 2015 and approved by the General Meeting of 19 May 2016 and triggered, for a period of one year from the termination of his office, as described on pages 155 to 157 of this document, the Chief Executive regardless of the cause; Officer receives: nn the supplementary pension scheme for executive managers of Crédit nn severance payment in the event that his office is terminated by Crédit Agricole Group, which supplements the collective and mandatory Agricole S.A.; pension and death & disability schemes. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 163 3 Corporate governance 4. Reward policy Criteria for apportioning and awarding elements of compensation for the Deputy Chief Executive Officer Presentation Fixed compensation The annual fixed compensation of the Deputy Chief Executive Officer has been €700,000 since 19 May 2015. There are no plans to change this in 2019. Annual variable compensation The Deputy Chief Executive Officer has a target annual variable compensation of 80% of his fixed compensation, capped at 120% if performance exceeds the target. The performance assessment linked to the annual variable compensation is 50% based on financial criteria and 50% on non-financial criteria. At its meeting on 13 February 2019, the Board of Directors set four financial criteria: Weighting Threshold Target Ceiling Revenues (NBI) 12.5% 80% 100% 150% Net Income Group share 12.5% 80% 100% 150% 50% Cost/income ratio 12.5% 80% 100% 150% Return on tangible equity 12.5% 80% 100% 150% The financial criteria relate to the scope of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group. For each of these, the target is set on the basis of the budget approved by the Board of Directors at its meeting on 13 February 2019. These criteria each account for one-quarter of the financial portion, i.e. one-eighth of annual variable compensation and for each criterion: nn the maximum achievement rate cannot exceed 150%; nn a trigger threshold is applied, below which the achievement rate will be considered zero. Performance between the trigger threshold and target as well as between the target and ceiling is calculated on a straight-line basis. The non-financial criteria are determined each year on the basis of the Group’s strategic priorities. In keeping with the previous year and in terms of the ambitions of the Medium-Term Plan, “Ambition 2020”, the Board of Directors meeting on 13 February 2019 selected four sets of objectives for 2019: nn the finalisation of the Crédit Agricole Group’s Medium-Term Plan “Strategic Ambition 2020” (7.5%); nn the Group’s transformation in order to improve operational efficiency (17.5%); nn the steering of control functions in view of tighter regulation (17.5%); nn employee engagement with the Crédit Agricole Group (7.5%). The achievement rate of non-financial criteria cannot exceed 150%. Performance is assessed for each indicator, by comparing results achieved with the annual targets defined by the Board of Directors. The Deputy Chief Executive Officer’s performance assessment is presented to the Compensation Committee by the Chief Executive Officer, before being presented to the Board of Directors for decision. Long-term variable compensation The Deputy Chief Executive Officer is not eligible for stock option plans or performance share awards or any other long-term compensation or multi-annual variable compensation scheme for 2019. Exceptional compensation There are no plans at present to award the Deputy Chief Executive Officer exceptional compensation for 2019. Directors’ fees The Deputy Chief Executive Officer waived receipt of Directors’ fees for the duration of his term of office as Director of Group companies. Benefits in kind The Deputy Chief Executive Officer does not receive any benefits in kind. Under the commitments authorised by the Board of Directors on nn non-competition compensation if a non-competition clause is 19 May 2015 and approved by the General Meeting of 19 May 2016 and triggered, for a period of one year from the termination of his office, as described on pages 155 to 157 of this document, the Deputy Chief regardless of the cause; Executive Officer receives: nn the supplementary pension scheme for executive managers of Crédit nn severance payment in the event that his office is terminated by Crédit Agricole Group, which supplements the collective and mandatory Agricole S.A.; pension and death & disability schemes. 164 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance 4. Reward policy Projected compensation of the Executive Corporate Officers in 2019 Chief Executive Officer Deputy Chief Executive Officer Maximum Maximum compensation compensation 45% 16% 5% 33% 45% 16% 5% 33% Target Target compensation compensation 50% 15% 5% 32% 56% 13% 4% 27% 0 500,000 1,000,000 1,500,000 2,000,000 0 500,000 1,000,000 1,500,000 Fixed compensation Non-deferred variable compensation in cash 3 Non-deferred variable compensation in instruments Variable compensation deferred over 3 years indexed to shares Performance conditions applicable to the deferred portion of annual variable compensation of Executive Corporate Officers, accounting for 60% of the total The performance conditions applied to the deferred portion of annual variable compensation for 2019 remain unchanged compared to 2018. Trigger threshold Target Ceiling Achievement Achievement Achievement Weighting rate: 80% rate: 100% rate: 120% Intrinsic financial performance of Crédit Agricole S.A.: annual growth in the operating income of Crédit Agricole S.A. increased by the share of net income of equity-accounted entities 33.3% 80% of budget 100% of budget 120% of budget The relative performance of the Crédit Agricole S.A. share price compared with a composite index of European banks (Euro Stoxx Banks), on a cumulative basis over each reference period 33.3% 3rd quartile Median positioning 1st quartile Annual societal performance of Crédit Agricole S.A. as measured by the FReD index 33.3% +0.75 FReD point +1.5 FReD point +2.25 FReD point Each of these conditions accounts for one-third of the overall performance For each year, the overall performance is equal to the average assessment. For each condition: achievement rate for each performance criterion, which is capped at nn the maximum achievement rate cannot exceed 120%; 100%. Performance between the trigger threshold and target as well nn a trigger threshold is applied, below which the achievement rate will as between the target and ceiling is calculated on a straight-line basis. be considered zero. 4.3.6. Summary tables in line with AFEP/MEDEF recommendations Dominique Lefebvre, Chairman of the Board of Directors Table 1 – Compensation, shares and stock options awarded to Executive Corporate Officers of Crédit Agricole S.A. Gross amount (in euros) 2017 2018 Compensation awarded for the financial year(1) 560,000 560,000 Value of options awarded during the financial year(2) Value of performance shares awarded during the financial year(2) (1) The compensation shown in this table represents amounts awarded for the year indicated. The itemised tables below show compensation awarded for a given year and compensation received during that year. (2) No Crédit Agricole S.A. stock options were awarded to Corporate Officers in 2018. No performance share plan was put in place at Crédit Agricole S.A. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 165 3 Corporate governance 4. Reward policy Table 2 – Summary of gross compensation 2017 2018 Amount Amount awarded Amount paid awarded Amount paid (in euros) for 2017 in 2017 for 2018 in 2018 Fixed compensation 520,000 520,000 520,000 520,000 Non-deferred variable compensation paid in cash Non-deferred variable compensation indexed to the Crédit Agricole S.A. share price Deferred and conditional variable compensation Exceptional compensation Directors’ fees(1) Benefits in kind 40,000 40,000 40,000 40,000 TOTAL 560,000 560,000 560,000 560,000 (1) Net amounts, after the following deductions from the sums payable to individual beneficiaries resident in France: income tax prepayment (12.8%) and social contributions (17.2%). Performance conditions achievement rate determining variable compensation payable in 2018 for Executive Corporate Officers Actual Actual Actual Trigger threshold Target Ceiling performance performance performance Achievement Achievement Achievement of the 2015 of the 2016 of the 2017 Weighting rate: 80% rate: 100% rate: 120% plan plan plan Intrinsic financial performance 33.3% 80% of budget 100% of budget 120% of budget 117% 117% 117% Relative share performance Crédit Median Agricole S.A. 33.3% 3rd quartile positioning 1st quartile 120% 120% 117% Societal +0.75 FReD +1.5 FReD +2.25 FReD performance 33.3% point point point 105% 105% 105% TOTAL 100% 100% 100% 100% In view of the performance recorded in respect of the three criteria, the final percentage vested is 100% for the variable compensation instalments awarded in 2015, 2016 and 2017. Philippe Brassac, Chief Executive Officer Table 1 – Compensation, shares and stock options awarded to Executive Corporate Officers of Crédit Agricole S.A. Gross amount (in euros) 2017 2018 Compensation awarded for the financial year(1) 2,020,744 2,214,767 Value of options awarded during the financial year(2) ‑ Value of performance shares awarded during the financial year(2) ‑ (1) The compensation shown in this table represents amounts awarded for the year indicated. The itemised tables below show compensation awarded for a given year and compensation received during that year. (2) No Crédit Agricole S.A. stock options were awarded to Corporate Officers in 2018. No performance share plan was put in place at Crédit Agricole S.A. 166 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance 4. Reward policy Table 2 – Summary of gross compensation 2017 2018 Amount Amount awarded Amount paid awarded Amount paid (in euros) for 2017 in 2017 for 2018 in 2018 Fixed compensation 900,000 900,000 1,025,269 1,025,269 Non-deferred variable compensation paid in cash 312,540 295,620 346,740(3) 312,540 Non-deferred variable compensation indexed to the Crédit Agricole S.A. share price 104,180 124,161 115,580(3) 88,553 Deferred and conditional variable compensation(1) 625,080 179,800 693,480(3) 340,920 Exceptional compensation Directors’ fees(2) Benefits in kind 78,944 78,944 33,698 33,698 TOTAL 2,020,744 1,578,525 2,214,767 1,800,980 (1) The amounts paid correspond to the amounts vested, detailed in Table 2A and indexed to changes in the share price as stated in Notes 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the same table. (2) Net amounts, after the following deductions from the sums payable to individual beneficiaries resident in France: income tax prepayment (12.8%) and social contributions (17.2%). (3) Amounts set by the Board of Directors of Crédit Agricole S.A. subject to the approval of the General Meeting of 21 May 2019. 3 Table 2A – Details of deferred variable compensation 2016 2017 2018 Total amount Amount Amount Amount Amount Amount Amount awarded(1) awarded(1) vested(2) awarded(1) vested(3) awarded(1) vested(4) Plan awarded in 2015 Plan awarded in 2016 348,000 116,000 116,000 116,000 116,000 Plan awarded in 2017 591,240 197,080 197,080 (1) The share value at the grant date was €12.86 for the 2015 plan, €9.67 for the 2016 plan and €11.94 for the 2017 plan. (2) The share value at the payment date was €8.28 for the 2015 plan. (3) The share value at the payment date was €15.01 for the 2015 and 2016 plans. (4) The share value at the payment date was €11.97 for the 2015, 2016 and 2017 plans. Deferred variable compensation vested in 2018 (Table 2A above) nn the second year of payment of deferred variable compensation Philippe Brassac received €313,080 in deferred variable compensation awarded in 2016 for 2015, instalment for which €116,000 were for previous years. At the payment date this was equivalent to €340,920 awarded, at a share price on the grant date of €9.67. after indexation to the Crédit Agricole S.A. share price. This amount In view of the performance recorded in respect of the three criteria, represents: the final percentage vested is 100% for the variable compensation nn the first year of payment of deferred variable compensation awarded instalment awarded in 2015, 2016 and 2017. in 2017 for 2016, instalment for which €197,080 were awarded, with a share price on the grant date of €11.94; Xavier Musca, Deputy Chief Executive Officer Table 1 – Compensation, shares and stock options awarded to Executive Corporate Officers of Crédit Agricole S.A. Gross amount (in euros) 2017 2018 Compensation awarded for the financial year(1) 1,321,700 1,311,000 Value of options awarded during the financial year(2) ‑ ‑ Value of performance shares awarded during the financial year (2) ‑ ‑ (1) The compensation shown in this table represents amounts awarded for the year indicated. The itemised tables below show compensation awarded for a given year and compensation received during that year. (2) No Crédit Agricole S.A. stock options were awarded to Corporate Officers in 2017. No performance share plan was put in place at Crédit Agricole S.A. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 167 3 Corporate governance 4. Reward policy Table 2 – Summary of gross compensation 2017 2018 Amount Amount awarded Amount paid awarded Amount paid (in euros) for 2017 in 2017 for 2018 in 2018 Fixed compensation 700,000 700,000 700,000 700,000 Non-deferred variable compensation paid in cash 186,510 177,630 183,300(3) 186,510 Non-deferred variable compensation indexed to the Crédit Agricole S.A. share price 62,170 74,605 61,100(3) 52,845 Deferred and conditional variable compensation(1) 373,020 375,772 366,600(3) 323,525 Exceptional compensation ‑ ‑ ‑ ‑ Directors’ fees(2) ‑ ‑ ‑ ‑ Benefits in kind ‑ ‑ ‑ ‑ TOTAL 1,321,700 1,328,007 1,311,000 1,262,880 (1) The amounts paid correspond to the amounts vested, detailed in Table 2A and indexed to changes in the share price as stated in Notes 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the same table. (2) Net amounts, after the following deductions from the sums payable to individual beneficiaries resident in France: income tax prepayment (12.8%) and social contributions (17.2%). (3) Amounts set by the Board of Directors of Crédit Agricole S.A. subject to the approval of the General Meeting of 21 May 2019. Table 2A – Details of deferred variable compensation 2016 2017 2018 Total amount Amount Amount Amount Amount Amount Amount awarded(1) awarded (1) vested(2) awarded (1) vested(3) awarded (1) vested(4) Plan awarded in 2015 244,804 81,597 81,597 81,597 81,597 81,610 81,610 Plan awarded in 2016 312,600 ‑ ‑ 104,200 104,200 104,200 104,200 Plan awarded in 2017 355,260 ‑ ‑ ‑ ‑ 118,420 118,420 (1) The share value at the grant date was €12.86 for the 2015 plan, €9.67 for the 2016 plan and €11.94 for the 2017 plan. (2) The share value at the payment date was €8.28 for the 2015 plan. (3) The share value at the payment date was €15.01 for the 2015 and 2016 plans. (4) The share value at the payment date was €11.97 for the 2015, 2016 and 2017 plans. Deferred variable compensation vested in 2018 (Table 2A above) Table 4 – Stock options granted to Executive Corporate Officers in 2018 Xavier Musca received €304,230 in deferred variable compensation for by Crédit Agricole S.A. and other Group companies previous years. At the payment date this was equivalent to €323,525 No stock options were awarded to Executive Corporate Officers in 2018. after indexation to the Crédit Agricole S.A. share price. This amount Table 5 – Stock options exercised by Executive Corporate Officers in 2018 represents: No Crédit Agricole S.A. stock options were exercised by Executive nn the first year of payment of deferred variable compensation awarded Corporate Officers in 2018. in 2017 for 2016, instalment for which €118,420 were awarded, with a share price on the grant date of €11.94; Table 6 – Performance shares awarded to Executive Corporate Officers in 2018 nn the second year of payment of deferred variable compensation Crédit Agricole S.A. did not offer a performance share plan. awarded in 2016 for 2015, instalment for which €104,200 were Table 7 – Performance shares made available over 2018 to Executive awarded, at a share price on the grant date of €9.67; Corporate Officers nn the third year of payment of deferred variable compensation awarded Not applicable. Crédit Agricole S.A. did not offer a performance share in 2015 for 2014, instalment for which €81,610 were awarded, at a plan. share price on the grant date of €12.86. Table 8 – History of stock option awards In view of the performance recorded in respect of the three criteria, Not applicable. the final percentage vested is 100% for the variable compensation instalment awarded in 2015, 2016 and 2017. Table 9 – History of performance share awards Not applicable. Table 3 – Directors’ fees received by Crédit Agricole S.A. Directors See p. 97. Table 10 – Summary of multi-annual variable compensation of each Executive Corporate Officer Not applicable. 168 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance 4. Reward policy Table 11 – Employment contract/Supplementary pension scheme/Severance payment/Non-competition clause Indemnities and benefits Indemnity under a Employment Supplementary due or likely to be due upon non-competition Executive Corporate Officers contract(1) pension termination or change in office clause Dominique Lefebvre Chairman Term of office commenced: 04/11/2015 No No No No Philippe Brassac Chief Executive Officer Term of office commenced: 20/05/2015 Yes Yes Yes Yes Xavier Musca Deputy Chief Executive Officer Term of office commenced: 19/07/2012 Yes Yes Yes Yes (1) The AFEP/MEDEF recommendation against holding a corporate office while being covered by an employment contract applies to the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Executive Officer. The employment contract of Xavier Musca, Deputy Chief Executive Officer, was, however, suspended by supplemental agreement. It will take effect again at the end of his corporate office, at the updated compensation and role conditions applicable prior to his term of office. 4.4. APPENDIX 3 Definition and characteristics of the compensation of identified staff Asset management Credit institutions and investment companies(1) companies Insurance companies Reference Decree of 3 November 2014 on internal control of credit institutions AMF position 2013-11 under Delegated Act 2015/35 regulatory and investment companies. AIFM European Directive of 10 October 2014. corpus Delegated Act of the European Commission No. 604/2014. 2011/6 of 8 June 2011 and Insurance and AMF Decree of 6 April 2016 reinsurance companies under UCITS V Directive are excluded from the 2014/91/EU. scope of European Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No. 604/2014. Identified staff Within Crédit Agricole S.A. Within other entities by virtue of their nn Corporate Officers; nn Corporate Officers or Chief nn executive managers; nn Corporate Officers or role nn members of the Board of Executive Officers; nn investment managers; executive managers; Directors; nn members of the Executive nn decision-making managers; nn members of the nn members of the Executive Committee or employees nn Heads of the three control Executive Committee Committee; reporting directly to Chief functions: Risk Management of CA Assurances; nn Heads of Central Support Executive Officers; and Permanent Controls, nn employees functions responsible for finance, nn Heads of the three control Compliance and Audit; performing the key legal affairs, taxation, human functions: Risk Management and nn Heads of the support functions referred resources, compensation policy, Permanent Controls, Compliance functions: Legal, Finance, to in Articles 269 to information technology, financial and Audit; Administration and Human 272 of Delegated control and economic analysis; nn employees who chair the Resources. Act 2015/35: Risk nn Heads of the three control “new activities/new products” management, functions: Risk Management and committees of these entities. Compliance audit, Permanent Controls, Compliance Internal audit, and Audit; Actuarial function; nn employees nn employees reporting directly to the Head of Risk and Permanent responsible for Controls, Compliance and Audit; underwriting nn employees heading a Committee and business responsible for managing development; nn investment managers. operational risk for the Group. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 169 3 Corporate governance 4. Reward policy Asset management Credit institutions and investment companies(1) companies Insurance companies Identified staff nn employees with authorisation or powers to take credit risk of more Additional condition: by virtue of than 0.5% of Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital in the subsidiary to Those who earn variable their level of which they belong and of at least €5 million, or with authorisation or compensation of more than authorisation or powers to structure this type of product with a significant impact on €100,000. compensation the risk profile of the subsidiary to which they belong; nn employees who can take market risks of more than 0.5% of the CET1 capital or 5% of the Value at Risk (VaR) of the subsidiary to which they belong; nn the hierarchical managers of employees who are not individually identified but who are collectively authorised to take credit risks of more than 0.5% of CET1 capital in the subsidiary to which they belong and at least €5 million, or to take market risks of more than 0.5% of the CET1 capital or 5% of the Value at Risk (VaR) of the subsidiary to which they belong; nn employees who have earned total gross compensation of more than €500,000 in the previous financial year; nn employees who are not identified under any of the previous criteria but whose total compensation puts them in the 0.3% top earners in the entity in the previous year (for entities with a balance sheet of more than €10 billion or with equity of more than 2% of their parent company’s equity). Characteristics In view of the proportionality principle, employees whose bonus or Total variable Deferred The deferred of deferred variable compensation is less than €120,000 are excluded from the compensation portion compensation compensation scope of application of rules on deferred compensation in all Group for year Y framework is the entities, unless otherwise stipulated by the regulatory authorities in < €100,000 Not applicable same as that of the countries in which the Group’s subsidiaries are located. credit institutions and The deferred portion is determined based on the overall variable €100,00050% from the investment companies, compensation awarded for the financial year. €600,000 first euro unless the portion of the > €600,000 60% from non-deferred variable Total variable compensation Deferred portion the first euro compensation granted for year Y with minimum in shares or sharenon-deferred linked instruments as < €120,000 Not applicable amount of well as the application €300,000 of a retention period, €120,000-€400,000 40% from the first euro that is not required. €400,000-€600,000 50% from the first euro with minimum non-deferred amount of €240,000 > €600,000 60% from the first euro with minimum non-deferred amount of €300,000 Payment in securities or equivalent instruments The deferred variable compensation and a percentage of the non-deferred portion carried for six months are granted in the form of Crédit Agricole S.A. shares or share-linked instruments. As a result, at least 50% of variable compensation for identified staff is awarded in shares or equivalent instruments. Any hedging or insurance strategies limiting the scope of alignment provisions on risks contained in the compensation scheme are prohibited. Performance conditions The deferred portion is vested in thirds: for an award in year Y, one third in year Y+1, one third in year Y+2 and one third in year Y+3, provided the vesting criteria are met. Each vesting date is followed by a six-month retention period. The performance conditions for executive managers and identified employees are aligned with those for long-term variable compensation as indicated in the “Long-Term Variable Compensation” paragraph of Chapter 4.2.2 “Elements of reward of executive managers”. For other identified staff, the performance conditions are determined relative to the target net income Group share for the entity, which is determined during the year in which the variable compensation under consideration is awarded. (1) The credit institutions and investment companies concerned are those covered by the scope of application of the Decree of 3 November 2014 on the internal control of credit institutions and investment companies. For the Group, this concerns Crédit Agricole S.A. along with all entities whose balance sheet total is greater than €10 billion, or whose shareholders’ equity exceeds 2% of the equity of their parent company. 170 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance 5. Rules of Procedure of the Board of Directors 5. RULES OF PROCEDURE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS RULES OF PROCEDURE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS (UPDATED AS OF DECEMBER 2018) At its meeting of 18 December 2018, the Board of Directors of Crédit The Chairman may invite any person whose opinion he would like to Agricole S.A. approved, on the recommendation of its Chairman and of canvass to assist the Officers of the Board in their work. the Appointments and Governance Committee, the update to its Rules The Secretary to the Board of Directors acts as secretary to the Officers of Procedure setting out the operation of the Board of Directors and of the Board. Executive Management of the Company, taking account of the AFEP/ MEDEF Corporate Governance Code for listed companies published in 1.3. Board Committees June 2018. The Board of Directors has established six Specialised Committees Article 1: Organisation of the Board of Directors. tasked with preparing Board Meetings and/or providing it with their Article 2: Powers of the Board of Directors and of the Chief Executive opinions and recommendations. These include: Officer. nn the Risks Committee; Article 3: Operation of the Board of Directors. nn the Audit Committee; Article 4: Board Committees. nn the US Risks Committee; 3 Article 5: Crédit Agricole S.A. Directors’ Code of Conduct. nn the Compensation Committee; Crédit Agricole S.A. is a company with a Board of Directors that splits nn the Strategy and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee; the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, in accordance with and Group practice and current regulations, namely separating the guidance, nn the Appointments and Governance Committee. decision-making and control functions from the executive functions. The Board of Directors draws up the Rules of Procedure for these Pursuant to the provisions of the French Commercial Code, the Chairman Specialised Committees and determines their duties and composition in of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole line with applicable laws and regulations. S.A. are Corporate Officers. The remit of these Committees is defined in Article 4 below. Pursuant to the provisions of the French Monetary and Financial Code, The Chairman or the Board of Directors may canvass the opinion of a the Board of Directors must ensure that Crédit Agricole S.A. has a Committee on any matter within its remit. sound governance system comprising in particular a clear organisation The Board of Directors, on the recommendation of the Chairman, may resulting in responsibilities being shared in a well-defined, transparent appoint one or more non-voting Directors, who may attend Specialised and coherent manner, effective procedures for identifying, managing, Committee meetings in the same manner as Directors. monitoring and reporting risks to which the Company is or may be exposed, an adequate internal control system, sound administrative and The Rules of Procedure of each Committee are appended to these accounting procedures, compensation policies and practices enabling Board’s Rules of Procedures. and facilitating sound and effective risk management. It should also be recalled that the Chief Executive Officer and the Deputy Article 2: Powers of the Board of Directors Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole S.A. are the Company’s and of the Chief Executive Officer Executive Management. 2.1. Powers of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors exercises the powers granted to it by law and Article 1: Organisation of the Board of Directors under the Company’s Articles of Association. To this effect, in particular: 1.1. Chairman of the Board of Directors nn the Board approves the annual parent company financial statements The Chairman of the Board of Directors guides and organises the Board’s (balance sheet, income statement, notes), the management report work. He is responsible for its proper operation as well as that of its detailing the Company’s position for the year just ended or the Committees. current year, and its outlook, along with forecasts; it approves the To this end he ensures that the information provided to the Directors is consolidated financial statements of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group and adequate to make reasoned decisions; to this effect, he contributes to receives the interim financial statements; the smooth flow of information between the Board and the Executive nn the Board approves the consolidated financial statements of the Management, and between the Board and its Committees; Crédit Agricole Group; nn the Board decides to call the Company’s General Meetings; it sets the He encourages and promotes open, critical discussions and ensures that all viewpoints can be expressed within the Board; agenda and prepares the draft resolutions; nn the Board: He calls Board Meetings and sets the agenda. –– elects and dismisses the Chairman of the Board of Directors, 1.2. Officers of the Board of Directors –– on the recommendation of the Chairman, appoints and dismisses the Chief Executive Officer, The Board of Directors appoints the Chairman and Deputy Chairmen as Officers of the Board. The Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole S.A. –– temporarily fills one or more Director positions in the event of a takes part in the work of the Officers of the Board. vacancy due to death or resignation, –– on the recommendation of the Chief Executive Officer, appoints The Officers of the Board are responsible for preparing the Board’s work. and dismisses the Deputy Chief Executive Officer(s); They meet when called by the Chairman, as needed. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 171 3 Corporate governance 5. Rules of Procedure of the Board of Directors nn the Board decides on the compensation of Corporate Officers and the nn ensures that executive Directors have implemented an antiallocation of Directors’ fees; discrimination and diversity policy, particularly in terms of balanced nn the Board must first authorise any agreement that falls under Articles representation of men and women within governance bodies; L. 225-38 et seq. of the French Commercial Code and, in particular, nn defines the criteria used to assess the independence of Directors; any agreement between the Company and any Corporate Officer; nn is notified in advance by Executive Management of changes in the nn the Board submits the corporate governance report, annexed to the Group’s organisation and management structures; management report to the General Meeting; in this report, in addition nn conducts any inspections or audits that it deems necessary. to the information on Corporate Officer compensation and on the With respect to the role of central body assigned to Crédit Agricole S.A. agreements signed between Corporate Officers and the Company, by the French Monetary and Financial Code: the Board provides information on its composition, organisation, nn the Board authorises: operations, work performed during the period ended and a description of the diversity policy applicable to the members of the Board of –– any foreign expansion of the Regional Banks, Directors and to Company Executives. –– any creation, by a Regional Bank, of a financial institution or The Board also: insurance company, as well as the acquisition of any interest in nn determines the Group’s strategic orientations, on the recommendation any such company, of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; –– any financial support for any Regional Bank in difficulty, nn gives prior approval to strategic investment projects and any –– the establishment of a Committee responsible for the interim transaction, specifically any acquisition or disposal transaction, management of a Regional Bank; that is likely to have a significant effect on the Group’s earnings, the nn the Board decides to: structure of its balance sheet or its risk profile; –– give Crédit Agricole S.A.’s approval for the appointment of Chief nn defines the general principles applicable to the Crédit Agricole Executive Officers of the Crédit Agricole Mutuel Regional Banks. Group’s internal financial organisation; The Chief Executive Officer also asks the Board for its prior opinion nn decides or authorises the issuance of Crédit Agricole S.A. bonds; regarding any decision by the former to dismiss a Chief Executive Officer nn grants the Chief Executive Officer the necessary powers to implement of a Regional Bank. the decisions set out above; nn approves and regularly reviews the risk appetite framework, strategies 2.2. Powers of the Chief Executive Officer and policies governing the taking on, management, monitoring and The Chief Executive Officer has the fullest powers to act in the name reduction of the risks to which Crédit Agricole S.A. and the Group are of the Company in all circumstances and to represent it with respect to or may be exposed, including social and environmental risks; third parties. nn notably approves the various commitment and risk limits for the He must, however, secure the Board of Directors’ approval prior to the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group and, where applicable, for the Crédit following transactions: Agricole Group; nn the creation, acquisition or disposal of any subsidiaries and equity nn issues an opinion, after having obtained the opinions of the Risks investments in France or abroad for total amounts exceeding Committee and Appointments and Governance Committee, on the €150 million; CEO’s appointment proposals for each Head of the Group’s internal nn any other investment of any kind for amounts exceeding €150 million. control functions, i.e. the Head of Risk Management, the Head of Periodic Control, and the Compliance Officer, where necessary, the If, due to the urgency of the situation, the Board cannot be called to Board issues an opinion, under the same conditions, on the dismissal deliberate on a transaction that exceeds this ceiling, the Chief Executive of the above-mentioned Heads of functions, who cannot be removed Officer will do all in his power to canvass all Directors or, at the very least, from their positions without the prior approval of the Board; the Officers of the Board and the members of the relevant Specialised Committee prior to making any decision. Where this is not possible, the nn determines and regularly reviews the general principles of the Chief Executive Officer may, with the Chairman’s approval, make any compensation policy of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group, in particular decisions that are in the Company’s interest in the areas set forth above. regarding employee categories whose activities have a significant He reports such decisions to the Board at its subsequent meeting. impact on the Group’s risk profile; nn reviews the governance system, periodically evaluates its Article 3: Operation of the Board of Directors effectiveness and ensures that corrective steps have been taken to remedy any identified deficiencies; 3.1. Meetings of the Board of Directors nn determines the strategy and checks implementation by Executive The Board is convened by its Chairman, or any person authorised for Management (the Chief Executive Officer and the Deputy Chief that purpose by the Board of Directors and meets as often as required Executive Officer(s)) of the monitoring systems to ensure effective by the Company’s interests and at least six times each year. Should the and prudent management of the activities of Crédit Agricole S.A. and Chairman be unable to attend, the Board is chaired by the oldest Deputy in particular the segregation of functions within the organisation and Chairman who is thus authorised to convene it. the prevention of conflicts of interests; The Board of Directors may hold its meetings by means of video nn ensures that a Code of Conduct or similar and efficient policies conferencing or other means of telecommunication, in accordance with have been set up and implemented to identify, manage and mitigate the provisions of Article 3.3. below. conflicts of interest and prevent corruption and influence peddling; Directors with an interest in matters deliberated by the Board shall abstain from voting on such matters. 172 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance 5. Rules of Procedure of the Board of Directors The Chief Executive Officer, Deputy Chief Executive Officer(s), the The Board of Directors may also issue Procedure Memos describing the Corporate Secretary participate in Board Meetings but do not have the way in which it implements and organises its Governance, in accordance right to vote. with the above-mentioned legal requirements, in particular to comply The Chief Executive Officer appoints representatives of Executive with the process formalisation requests made by supervisory authorities. Management to participate in Board Meetings. Once approved by the Board of Directors, these Procedure Memos The Board of Directors may appoint one or several non-voting Directors – drawn up on the proposal of the Appointments and Governance who participate in Board Meetings. Committee – are binding on all members. They may be amended or repealed at any time by the Board of Directors, after consultation of the 3.2. Provision of information to Board members above-mentioned Committee, in particular if they loose their significance due to changes in regulations. The Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are required to supply to each Director all documents and information needed for the Director to Article 4: Board Committees fulfil his duties. Pursuant to the provisions of the French Monetary and Financial Code, 4.1. Strategy and CSR Committee the Board of Directors is informed, by Executive Management, of all The Strategy and CSR Committee’s key duty is to conduct in-depth material risks, risk management policies and any changes made thereto. reviews of the Group’s strategic planning for its various business lines The Heads of the Group’s Risk Management, Periodic Control, and Group in France and internationally, under the responsibility of the Board of Compliance functions may report directly to the Board of Directors and, Directors. As such, the Committee reviews plans for strategic investments or acquisitions and formulates an opinion on such plans. where applicable, to the Risk Committee. Prior to Board Meetings, Directors will receive a file including the agenda It does a review, at least every 12 months, of the corporate, social and 3 items that require an in-depth review ahead of the meeting, provided that environmental responsibility actions of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group and confidentiality guidelines allow the communication of such information. Crédit Agricole Group. In this respect, it monitors the preparation of the Integrated Report with a general focus on the non-financial information All Board members receive all relevant information on the Company, in reported by the Group and a specific focus on that reported by Crédit particular the press releases issued by the Company. Agricole S.A. Board members can also seek information directly from the Chief The Board receives reports on the work and opinions of the Strategy Executive Officer, the Deputy Chief Executive Officer(s) and the Corporate Committee from the Committee Chairman or a Committee member Secretary of Crédit Agricole S.A., after having informed the Chairman designated by the Chairman. that they plan to do so. In the course of their work, Board Committees may interview Group 4.2. Risks Committee employees or experts in areas that fall within the remit of said Committees. The Risks Committee’s duties, under the responsibility of the Board of Directors, in accordance with the provisions of the French Monetary and 3.3. Participating in Board Meetings by means of video Financial Code and the Decree of 3 November 2014 are to: conferencing or other means of telecommunication nn review the overall strategy and risk appetite of Crédit Agricole S.A. Unless the purpose of the Board meeting is to perform the duties set and of Crédit Agricole Group, along with the risk strategies, including out in Articles L. 232-1 and L. 233-16 of the French Commercial Code social and environmental risks, and to advise the Board of Directors (approval of the financial statements and the management report for the on such matters; year ended), the Board meeting may, upon decision of the Chairman, be nn help the Board of Directors assess the implementation of this strategy held using videoconferencing or other telecommunication means. by Executive Management and by the Head of the Risk Management In such case, the video conferencing or other means of telecommunication function; allow for the identification of the Directors and ensure their full participation. nn examine, without prejudice to the tasks of the Compensation As a minimum, the methods used shall transmit participants’ voices as a Committee, whether the incentives built into the compensation policy minimum and meet the technical requirements to allow continuous and and practices of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group are consistent with the simultaneous transmission of the Board’s deliberations. Group’s position with respect to the risks it is exposed to, its capital Directors attending a meeting by means of video conferencing or other position, its liquidity position and the probability and the spreading means of telecommunication are deemed present for the purpose of over time of the expected profits. calculating the quorum and majority. The Board receives reports on the work and proposals of the Risks The attendance records and the minutes must indicate the names of Committee from the Committee Chairman or a Committee member Directors participating in the meeting by means of video conferencing or designated by the Chairman. other means of telecommunication. The minutes must also record any technical incident that may have affected the proceedings. 4.3. US Risks Committee The US Risks Committee’s duties, under the responsibility of the Board 3.4. Board of Directors’ Procedure Memos of Directors and in line with US regulations, are to: The operation of the Board of Directors is governed by its Rules of nn review the risk management policies pertaining to the operations of Procedure and by applicable laws and regulations. Group entities in the United States; nn ensure the implementation of appropriate oversight of management of these risks; and nn submit all decisions on such matters to the Board for approval. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 173 3 Corporate governance 5. Rules of Procedure of the Board of Directors 4.4. Audit Committee nn the compensation of Corporate Officers by ensuring compliance with The Audit Committee, under the responsibility of the Board of Directors the legal and regulatory provisions applicable to them; and in line with the provisions of Article L. 823-19 of the French nn the total amount of Directors’ fees and their allocation amongst the Commercial Code, is responsible for: Directors; nn reviewing the parent company and consolidated financial statements nn proposed capital increases reserved for the Group’s employees and, of Crédit Agricole S.A. prior to submission to the Board of Directors; where applicable, stock option plans and bonus share distribution nn reviewing documents or reports within its area of expertise that are plans to be submitted to the General Meeting of Shareholders, as well intended for the Directors; as the terms and conditions for implementing these capital increases and plans. nn monitoring the process for preparing financial information and, where necessary, making recommendations to ensure its integrity; The Board receives reports on the work and proposals of the nn monitoring the effectiveness of the internal control, risk management Compensation Committee from the Committee Chairman or a Committee and, where applicable, internal audit systems, with respect to the member designated by the Chairman. procedures for preparing and processing accounting and financial information, without impinging on its independence; 4.6. Appointments and Governance Committee nn making a recommendation regarding the Statutory Auditors The Committee’s duties, under the responsibility of the Board of Directors submitted for the approval of the General Meeting of Shareholders. and in compliance with the provisions of the French Monetary and This recommendation, which is made to the Board of Directors, is Financial Code, are to: prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article 16 of Regulation nn identify and recommend to the Board suitable candidates for (EU) No. 537/2014; it also makes a recommendation to the Board Director, with a view to their submission to the General Meeting of when one or more Statutory Auditors are being considered for Shareholders; reappointment in the manner provided for in Article L. 823-3-1; nn periodically assess, at least every 12 months, the balance and nn monitoring the performance of the duties of the Statutory Auditors; range of knowledge, skills and experience of Board members. This it considers the findings and conclusions of the Haut Conseil du assessment is done individually and collectively; Commissariat aux comptes (H3C) following audits carried out nn specify the roles and credentials required for Board duties and assess pursuant to Articles L. 821-9 et seq.; the time to be spent on such duties; nn ensuring the Statutory Auditors satisfy the independence criteria nn review the policy applicable to the members of the Board of established by the French Commercial Code; where necessary, it Directors with regard to criteria such as age, gender, qualifications agrees, together with the Statutory Auditors, the steps to be taken to and professional experience, as well as a description of this policy’s safeguard their independence, in accordance with the provisions of objectives, its implementation procedures, and the results obtained the aforementioned EU Regulation; during the past financial year; nn approving the provision of the services covered by Article L. 822-11-2 nn periodically assess, and at least every 12 months, the Board’s of the French Commercial Code. structure, size, composition and effectiveness having regard to its The Board receives reports on the work and proposals of the Audit duties and to make all necessary recommendations to the Board; Committee from the Committee Chairman or a Committee member nn periodically review the Board’s policies regarding the selection and designated by the Chairman. appointment of Executive Management, Deputy Chief Executive Officer(s) and the Head of the Risk Management function, and make 4.5. Compensation Committee recommendations in this regard. The Compensation Committee’s duties, under the responsibility of The Board receives reports on the work and proposals of the Committee the Board of Directors and in compliance with the provisions of the from the Committee Chairman or a Committee member designated by French Monetary and Financial Code, are to draw up proposals and the Chairman. recommendations to be submitted to the Board relating to: nn the general principles of the compensation policy applicable to all Article 5: Crédit Agricole S.A. Directors’ Code Crédit Agricole S.A. Group entities, and, in particular: of Conduct –– the definition of compensation structures, in particular by Every member of the Board of Directors of Crédit Agricole S.A. fully distinguishing between fixed compensation and variable subscribes to the Code appended to these Rules of Procedure, of which compensation, it forms an integral part, and every Board member has received a copy –– the principles for determining total amounts of variable thereof. compensation, taking into account the impact of the risks and capital requirements inherent to the business activities concerned, Article 6: Group code of ethics –– the application of regulatory provisions concerning identified individuals within the meaning of the European regulations. Every member of the Board of Directors of Crédit Agricole S.A. fully subscribes to the provisions of the code of ethics of Crédit Agricole Group In this respect, the Committee in particular: and undertakes to respect them. –– gives an opinion on the compensation policy of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group, prior to any Board decision, –– monitors the implementation of this policy, overall and by major business line, by means of an annual review, to ensure regulatory compliance; 174 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance 5. Rules of Procedure of the Board of Directors CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. DIRECTORS’ CODE OF CONDUCT The purpose of this Code of Conduct is to contribute to the quality of the Article 5 – Performance of duties: Guidelines Directors’ work by encouraging them to apply the principles and best practices of corporate governance. Directors must act independently, fairly, professionally and with integrity in the performance of their duties. Crédit Agricole S.A. Directors undertake to abide by the guidelines contained in this Code and to implement them. Article 6 – Independence and duty to speak out Article 1 – Corporate administration and interests Directors must ensure that they retain their independence and freedom of judgement, decision and action in all circumstances. They must be Directors, regardless of how they are appointed, must consider impartial and undertake not to be influenced by any factor that may be themselves as representing all shareholders and other stakeholders detrimental to the corporate interests that they are bound to defend. and must act in their interests and in the Company’s interests under all circumstances. They should disclose to the Board any matter that may come to their attention and that they deem to be a potential threat to the Company’s Article 2 – Compliance with the law and Articles interests. of Association They are duty bound to clearly express their questions and opinions. In the event that they disagree, they should request that their objections be When Directors first assume their office and throughout their term of expressly recorded in the minutes of the meeting. office, they must be fully conversant with their general and/or special rights and obligations. They must know and comply with the legal and Article 7 – Independence and conflict of interests 3 regulatory provisions applicable to the Company and to their office, the applicable Codes of Governance and Best Practice, as well as the Directors shall inform the Board of any conflict of interest, including Company’s own rules as set out in the Articles of Association and Rules any potential conflict of interest, that they could be directly or indirectly of Procedure. involved in. They shall refrain from participating in related discussions and the vote on the corresponding resolution. Article 3 – Attention and Diligence Article 8 – Integrity, fairness and propriety Directors shall dedicate the necessary time, care and attention to their duties. Directors shall act in good faith in all circumstances and shall not do anything that could be detrimental to the interests of the Company or Directors must comply with the legal and regulatory provisions applicable other Crédit Agricole Group companies. to Directors of credit institutions. The Directors personally undertake to keep confidential all information To this end, upon taking up office, Directors must inform the Chairman received, all discussions in which they participate, and all decisions of the Board of all offices held in other companies, along with the name made. and legal form of the entities in which these offices are held. Directors must demonstrate sufficient honesty, integrity and Directors must inform the Chairman of the Board, in a timely manner, independence of mind to enable them to assess and, where necessary, of any change (termination, resignation, non-renewal, redundancy, new question the decisions of Executive Management and ensure the office) to the declared list of offices. supervision and effective monitoring of management decision-making. Directors undertake to resign their offices if they feel they are no longer in a position to carry out their duties on the Board and on the Specialised Article 9 – Inside information – insider trading Committees on which they sit. Unless genuinely unable to do so, they must diligently attend and actively Directors shall not use inside information to which they have access for participate in all meetings of the Board and of any Committees on which their personal gain or for the gain of any other person. they may sit. Crédit Agricole S.A. shares and related financial Article 4 – Information and training instruments: Directors aware of non-public information regarding the Company in The Chairman ensures that all relevant information and documents are which they exercise their term of office shall refrain from using such made available to the Directors in sufficient time to properly carry out information to engage in trading in Crédit Agricole S.A. shares, whether their duties. Likewise, the Chairman of each Specialised Committee directly or through a third party. They are thus added to the list of ensures that all relevant information and documents are made available “Permanent Insiders” with respect to Crédit Agricole S.A. shares made to the Directors in sufficient time to properly carry out their duties. available to the French financial markets authority (Autorité des marchés Directors, regardless of their experience, have a responsibility to remain financiers, AMF). informed and acquire knowledge on an ongoing basis. They must keep They undertake to comply with the rules that stipulate that “Permanent themselves informed so as to be able to give full consideration to the Insiders” may trade in Crédit Agricole S.A. shares within a period of six matters covered in the meeting agenda. weeks following the release of quarterly, half-yearly and annual results, To this end, Crédit Agricole S.A. allocates the necessary human and provided that, during such periods, they are not aware of any non-public financial resources to train Directors and the latter are required to information on the Company. dedicate the necessary time to the training offered by Crédit Agricole S.A. They receive a letter notifying them of these obligations from the Directors are made aware of any legislative and regulatory changes, Compliance department of Crédit Agricole S.A., which they must including those relating to inside information. acknowledge. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 175 3 Corporate governance 5. Rules of Procedure of the Board of Directors Crédit Agricole S.A. may from time to time prohibit trading in any Crédit be required to comply with the related restrictions of which they will be Agricole S.A. financial instrument, including during those periods. informed, and in particular those relating to the duty not to trade in Crédit Directors are required to disclose any trading in the Company’s shares Agricole S.A. shares during a project. and related financial instruments, whether on their own account or for closely related parties, in accordance with the applicable laws and Financial instruments other than those issued by or related regulations. to Crédit Agricole S.A. Persons who are required to file disclosures must send their disclosures In addition, Directors are required to disclose to Crédit Agricole S.A. any to the French financial markets authority (AMF) by electronic means trading in financial instruments other than those issued by or related to within three (3) trading days after completion of the trades. Each Crédit Agricole S.A., whether on their own account or for closely related disclosure is published on the AMF website. parties, if they believe this will result in a potential conflict of interest At the General Meeting of Shareholders, the shareholders are informed of or if they hold confidential information that can be deemed to be inside significant transactions by Directors during the past financial year. This information acquired in the performance of their duties as Director of is presented in a summary statement in the Company’s management Crédit Agricole S.A. Crédit Agricole S.A. may from time to time prohibit report. trading in any financial instrument (so-called “Occasional Insiders” list) on which specific information that has not been publicly disclosed is In addition, by virtue of their work within Crédit Agricole S.A., Directors revealed at a Crédit Agricole S.A. Board Meeting (such as a strategic may also be added to the list of so-called “Occasional Insiders”. They will transaction, an acquisition or the formation of a joint venture). CRÉDIT AGRICOLE GROUP CODE OF ETHICS This new code of ethics expresses Crédit Agricole Group’s commitment Our long-standing values, close customer relationships, responsibility to behaviour that reflects all its values and principles of action vis-à-vis and solidarity mean that people drive our actions and are central to our its customers, mutual shareholders, shareholders, as well as its suppliers purpose. and all stakeholders with whom it engages. It acts as a responsible Crédit Agricole promotes the cooperative values of democratic employer. governance, relationships of trust and respect for and between its It is the responsibility of Directors and executives to respect the values set members. It relies on each person’s sense of responsibility and out in this Code and to set an example. Executives must ensure that these entrepreneurial spirit. Customer satisfaction, regional development and values are applied and shared by all Crédit Agricole Group employees, the search for long-term performance inform its actions. regardless of their level of responsibility, business line or place of work. Our identity and values require each person to act in an irreproachable Our code of ethics, beyond merely applying all the legal, regulatory and manner. Each Group entity shares the belief that these values drive industry rules governing our various businesses, reflects our desire to strength and growth. do even more to better serve our customers, who have been our raison Built on its sense of ethics and fairness and true to its cooperative culture, d’être since day one. compliance helps enhance customer trust and the Group’s image. It is All Directors and employees are made aware of our code of ethics. central to our business lines and to the governance of Crédit Agricole It is applied by each entity in a form that reflects its specific characteristics Group. and incorporated into its internal control procedures. Crédit Agricole Group undertakes that its principles of action help further The Compliance principles are compiled into a set of rules (Fides). its goal of being the fair bank, open to everyone, multi-channel, providing each person with support over time and with the ability to make fully Our principles of action and behaviour comply with the fundamental informed decisions. principles found in the various international documents(1). Our identity and values Our principles of action apply Vis-à-vis our customers Crédit Agricole Group is built around regional cooperative and mutual banks, with a European calling and open to the world. Respect and support for customers, and fairness towards them Thanks to its universal customer-focused retail banking model – based Each employee brings his or her experience and expertise to bear in on the close cooperation between its retail banks and their related listening to and serving customers and mutual shareholders, and in business lines –, Crédit Agricole Group aims to build a multi-channel supporting them over time, all in a multi-channel environment. They listen relationship with its customers, streamlining and facilitating their plans and provide customers with fair advice, help customers make decisions in France and worldwide, helping them make optimal decisions, and by offering solutions that are tailored to their profile and interests while supporting them over time, with determination, flexibility and innovation. informing them of the related risks. To help its customers and meet their needs, the Crédit Agricole Solidarity Group provides them with a wide range of expertise and know-how Built on the Group’s mutual base, the relationships we establish with on: day-to-day banking, loans, savings products, insurance, asset our customers, mutual shareholders and all our stakeholders embody management, real estate, lease financing, factoring, corporate and solidarity, the fulfilment of all commitments made. investment banking, etc. (1) These include the principles in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights published by the UN in 1948, the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the OECD anti-corruption guidelines and recommendations, International Labour Organization conventions. 176 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Corporate governance 5. Rules of Procedure of the Board of Directors Usefulness and convenience Through ethical behaviour Our Group is committed to its universal customer-focused bank model, Professionalism and skills a fount of values and beneficial for our customers, who get access to the Directors, executives and employees, regardless of their entity or expertise and know-how of all the Group’s business lines. It remains true geographic area, must be aware of and apply the laws, regulations, to its local commitment by spurring regional development. rules and professional standards as well as the procedures applicable to their entity, in order to ensure compliance and to implement them in Protection of personal data and transparency in their use a responsible manner. The Group has established a standard framework by means of a personal data code to ensure our customers’ data is protected. Responsible behaviour Every Director, executive, and employee reflects the Group’s image. Vis-à-vis society Responsible and ethical behaviour is required at all times and in all Fundamental rights circumstances: no action is permitted that may harm the reputation and The Group operates worldwide in compliance with human rights and integrity of the Group’s image. basic social rights. Confidentiality and integrity of information Corporate social responsibility (CSR) Group Directors, executives and employees are subject to the same duty The Group reaffirms its corporate social and environmental responsibility of secrecy and are forbidden from improperly disseminating or using, approach across all its business lines and within corporate operations. for their own account or on behalf of third parties, any confidential information they may have. Employees must endeavour to provide reliable This approach is built on a value-creating CSR strategy and is designed to support our regional areas, strive for excellence in our dealings with and accurate information to our customers, shareholders, supervisory authorities, the financial community and stakeholders in general. 3 our customers, partners, mutual shareholders and employees. Prevention of conflicts of interests Vis-à-vis our employees Group Directors, executives and employees must be free of all conflicts Responsible human resources policy of interests in order to, at all times, ensure that the interests of our For the Group, being a responsible employer means ensuring customers take precedence. non-discrimination, equal treatment, encouraging personal development, particularly through training actions, promoting gender equality, diversity Vigilance of backgrounds and profiles and helping people with disabilities, Everyone, Directors, executives and employees, must work to safeguard encouraging social dialogue and quality of working life, and creating a the interests of customers, combat money laundering and terrorist safe work environment in which all employees are treated with dignity financing, comply with international sanctions, combat corruption, and respect. prevent fraud and safeguard market integrity. Each person must ensure an appropriate level of vigilance given the Group’s business lines and, if necessary, use the alert mechanism, in line with current regulations and procedures. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 177 2018 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 4 Operating and financial Information on Crédit Agricole information180 S.A.’s financial statements Presentation of the consolidated financial statements (parent company) 202 of Crédit Agricole S.A. 180 Analysis of Crédit Agricole S.A.’s results (parent company) 202 Economic and financial environment 180 Five-year financial summary 203 Crédit Agricole S.A. operations and consolidated results 181 Operations and results by business segment 184 Crédit Agricole S.A. consolidated balance sheet 196 Recent trends and outlook 198 178 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. 2018 operating and financial review A BALANCED BUSINESS MIX Underlying net income Increase in gross Group share breakdown operating income 17% €7.1 bn Retail banking 16% Specialised financial services €6.7 bn +6.0% 38% 29% Asset Large 2017 2018 gathering customers 4 Rise underlying net income RoTE improvement Group share 12.70% 11.10% +1.6% €3.9 bn 2017 €4.4 bn 2017 2018 2018 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 179 4 2018 operating and financial review Operating and financial information OPERATING AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION PRESENTATION OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. Changes to accounting policies and principles Changes in the scope of consolidation Changes to accounting policies and principles are described in Note 1 to the Changes in the scope of consolidation are described in Notes 2 consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018. and 11 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENT Overview of 2018 monetary tightening (two-year sovereign yields rose by +75 basis points over the year, reaching 2.65% at year-end). Despite a period slightly Despite tighter monetary and financial conditions in the US, the above 3%, long rates did not “overreact”. Without any clear inflation risk latter’s protectionist approach to trade, a highly volatile oil price (which or strong inflationary anticipations, and profiting from bouts of strong registered an increase on average over the year(1)) and political and aversion to risk, they increased by only around +30 basis points over the geopolitical tensions, the global economy continued to grow at a steady year to just 2.8% at the end of December, leading to a marked flattening pace. This dynamic trend did not give rise to imbalances (inflation and of the yield curve. external deficits) usually fuelled by strong growth and which traditionally signal an imminent downturn. Price formation (previously the close link In the Eurozone, growth dipped in the first quarter of 2018 (2.5% between falling unemployment and rising wages) was transformed by year-on-year after 2.7% at the end of 2017) on foot of destocking (the structural factors (expansion of the tertiary sector, “uberisation” of restocking process had proved excessive) and temporary disruptions the economy, increased competition), hence inflation remained low. such as strikes, weather effects, and the timing effect of tax measures The depth of the 2008 financial crisis was also a factor hindering the in France. This decline raised several questions to which exaggeratedly development of patent imbalances, notably in the form of inflation. pessimistic if not alarming responses were frequently given, even However, the synchronous acceleration of growth in the major zones though the fundamentals remained solid, suggesting it was a temporary disappeared. Growth in the US remained strong, but there were signs phenomenon. Households and businesses alike continued to consolidate of a gradual weakening in the Eurozone, and further still in emerging their financial positions while also maintaining strong expenditure. countries. Growth in wages and disposable income underpinned household consumption (at the cost of a slight fall in the savings rate) while good The United States continued to register a steady pace of high economic profit trends enabled an acceleration of investment expenditure and growth (2.8% after 2.2% in 2017). driven by household consumption, an increase in the investment rate. Anticipations were that economic the recovery, albeit disappointing, in investment, and “over-stimulation” growth would evolve gradually closer to its potential rate (estimated at by a substantial but equally untimely budget plan. Fiscal stimulus 1.5%), therefore still a normal trajectory, i.e. slowing from an annual rate measures added +0.8 percentage points of growth in 2018 (with of 2.8% at its 2017 peak to 2.2% in spring 2018. After the summer, the estimated additional growth in 2019 of +0.6 percentage points). slowdown amplified and despite the publication of positive data, surveys Bolstered by tax savings at a time when the economy operated at full revealed a deterioration in sentiment. Threats of protectionism by Donald capacity, the cycle, although mature, had yet to peak. The current Trump created a climate of uncertainty and a wait-and-see approach cycle, which started in June 2009, has already seen 114 consecutive that was not conducive to investment. In the meantime, the appointment months of growth, versus records of 106 months and 119 months in of a populist government in Italy created fresh shock waves in Europe. the early 1960s and 1990s respectively. Although growth surpassed its The ramp-up of trade tension and the Italian political crisis weighed potential rate (2%) and unemployment (3.7% versus a peak of 10% in heavily on Europe’s financial markets. GDP fell to 1.6% year-on-year in October 2009) fell below the equilibrium level (according to the Federal the third quarter after 2.2% in the second quarter. Temporary factors Reserve, at a rate of 4.5% the economy is at full employment), headline linked to new European standards caused disruption in the automotive inflation did not rise significantly (annual average of 2.4% after 2.1% in sector, but a catch-up is expected. Despite such jolts, exaggerated fears 2017). The Federal Reserve continued its cycle of monetary tightening. of a possible drastic and imminent downturn in the cycle and weaker It introduced four 25 basis points rate hikes in its policy rate, bringing foreign demand, growth had the potential to reach 1.9% in 2018 versus it to 2.50% at the end of 2018. Since the start of monetary tightening 2.6% in 2017: a commendable rate that would not fuel inflation (1.6% in December 2015, the Fed Funds rate has increased by +225 basis after 1.5% in 2017). The European Central Bank (ECB) thus prolonged points. The Federal Reserve also continued “quantitative tightening” (a its quantitative easing programme until December 2018 (after which gradual reduction in its balance sheet). This more restrictive approach it said it would discontinue its net purchases) while reducing the led to a significant rise in short term rates, incorporating continued (1) At the start of 2018, the Brent price stood at US$67 a barrel, and peaked at US$86 in early October before plummeting to US$53 at the end of December. Over the first nine months, the increase was fuelled by production cuts by OPEC, a collapse in production in Venezuela and the return of US sanctions on Iranian oil exports. A temporary halt in production cuts by OPEC and Russia combined with a sharp increase in production in the US sparked a tumble in the price during the last quarter of 2018. On average Brent reached US$71 a barrel over the year (versus US$54 a barrel in 2017). 180 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. 2018 operating and financial review Operating and financial information monthly amount of its sovereign security purchases (from €30 billion end of December the spread between French yields and the Bund was to €15 billion starting in September 2018). Despite monetary tightening close to 45 basis points, i.e. 10-15 basis points more than before the in the US and the implementation of a gradually less accommodative start of the “yellow vest” crisis, while the spread in relation to Italian monetary policy, core European rates did not suffer. After increasing yields tightened to less than 260 basis points versus a peak of 320 basis to nearly 0.8% at the end of February (rising by +35 basis points in points at end-November during the height of the contentious budget two months), German 10-year yields began to fall again, reaching a negotiations with the European Commission. After strong losses in low of 0.25% at the height of the Italian political crisis. After small December, both the European and US equity markets registered spikes while remaining weak, they moved back to 0.2% at the end of a decline over the year (Eurostoxx 50 and S&P 500 down by nearly December, taking advantage of a surge in aversion to risk caused by -15% and -8.5% respectively). Finally, although it is generally deemed US protectionist policies as well as uncertainties around the extent of undervalued but exposed to bouts of risk aversion, the euro depreciated the economic slowdown (actual data and announcements). French and by nearly 5% against the US dollar in 2018. Italian yields evolved in line with internal political developments: at the CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. OPERATIONS AND CONSOLIDATED RESULTS In full-year 2018, reported net income reached €4,400 million, Since 1 January 2018 and the transition to IFRS 9, the impact of issuer compared with €3,649 million in full-year 2017, representing an spread on the fair value of liabilities has been recognised directly in increase of +20.6%. equity, without any impact on prudential capital. This effect in terms of Specific items in full-year 2018 had a negative impact of just net income Group share amounts to +€397 million for full-year 2018. -€5 million on reported net income. The most notable effects are Excluding these specific items, underlying net income Group share the adjustment of the amount of negative goodwill recorded upon rose by +12.2% versus full-year 2017 to €4,405 million, beating the acquisition of the three Italian banks for +€66 million (+€86 million target set out in the Strategic Ambition 2020 Medium-Term before non-controlling interests), the costs of integration of Pioneer for Plan (€4.2 billion), which it has thus reached one year ahead -€29 million (-€56 million before taxes and non-controlling interests) of schedule. and recurring accounting volatility items for +€30 million (+€41 million Underlying earnings per share came to €1.39, an increase of before tax). +13.8% compared with 2017. Specific items for full-year 2017 had an impact of -€276 million on net income. These comprised the share of the liability management Crédit Agricole S.A.’s Board of Directors will propose to the General Shareholder’s Meeting of 21 May 2019 an all-cash dividend per share 4 operations for +€26 million (+€39 million before tax), the impact of of €0.69, which is higher than the minimum level of €0.60 per share the disposal of BSF for +€99 million and of Eurazeo for +€103 million, set in the third quarter of 2016 and +9.5% higher that the dividend changes in goodwill for +€91 million (+€186 million before tax and paid for 2017. The dividend pay-out ratio stands at 50% of both non-controlling interests), integration costs of Pioneer and the three reported and underlying earnings per share. Italian banks for -€60 million respectively (-€135 million before tax Underlying RoTE(1) (return on tangible equity) reached 12.7% in fulland non-controlling interests) and -€22 million (-€41 million before tax year 2018, a significant increase of +1.6 percentage points compared and non-controlling interests) and recurring volatile accounting items, to 2017, thanks to improvements in most business lines. namely issuer spread for -€131 million (-€216 million before tax), DVA for -€42 million (-€66 million before tax), loan portfolio hedges in the Large customers division for -€36 million(-€57 million before tax) and provisions for home purchase savings plans for +€143 millions (+€221 million before tax). (1) See details on the calculation of the RoTE (return on tangible equity) and business lines’ RoNE (return on normalised equity) on p. 195. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 181 4 2018 operating and financial review Operating and financial information ∆ 2018/2017 2018 2017 ∆ 2018/2017 (in millions of euros) 2018 stated 2017 stated stated underlying underlying underlying Revenues 19,736 18,634 +5.9% 19,694 18,772 +4.9% Operating expenses excl.SRF (12,287) (11,961) +2.7% (12,228) (11,785) +3.8% SRF (301) (242) +24.5% (301) (242) +24.5% Gross operating income 7,147 6,431 +11.1% 7,165 6,745 +6.2% Cost of risk (1,002) (1,307) (23.4%) (1,002) (1,307) (23.4%) Cost of legal risk (80) (115) (30.8%) (75) (115) (34.8%) Equity-accounted entities 256 728 (64.9%) 323 523 (38.3%) Net income on other assets 89 6 x15.5 89 14 x6.5 Change in value of goodwill 86 186 (54.1%) 0 (100.0%) Income before tax 6,496 5,929 +9.6% 6,500 5,859 +10.9% Tax (1,466) (1,733) (15.4%) (1,471) (1,433) +2.7% Net income from discont'd or held-for-sale ope. (3) 20 n.m. (3) 20 n.m. Net income 5,027 4,216 +19.2% 5,026 4,447 +13.0% Non controlling interests (627) (568) +10.5% (620) (521) +18.9% NET INCOME GROUP SHARE 4,400 3,649 +20.6% 4,405 3,925 +12.2% Earnings per share (€) 1.39 1.12 +23.4% 1.39 1.22 +13.8% COST/INCOME RATIO EXCL.SRF (%) 62.3% 64.2% -1.9PP 62.1% 62.8% -0.7PP Underlying net banking income rose by nearly €1 billion to The underlying contribution from equity-accounted entities €19,694 million, +4.9% compared to 2017. Growth was boosted by the decreased by -38.3% between 2017 and 2018 due to the sale of the full impact of acquisitions carried out in 2017, namely Amundi’s acquisition stake owned in Eurazeo and the partial sale of BSF, which contributed a of Pioneer (positive impact equal to +€394 million corresponding to total of €203 million in 2017. On a like-for-like basis, the contribution Pioneer’s revenues in the first-half 2017 before integration) and the of equity-accounted entities increased by +18.0%, attributable mainly acquisition of the three Italian banks by Crédit Agricole Italia (equivalent to the excellent performance of Amundi’s joint ventures in Asia and to to +€111 million in first-half 2018, impact not calculated in the second the automotive partnerships in Consumer finance. half of the year because the legal entities were merged with CA Italia). Underlying pre-tax income before discontinued operations and Even if we exclude these scope effects, underlying revenues would still non-controlling interests increased by +10.9% to €6,500 million. have increased, albeit to a lesser degree. The underlying tax charge amounted to €1,471 million in 2018, an Underlying operating expenses remained well controlled, rising increase of +2.7% compared to 2017. The underlying effective by +3.8%, or +€443 million to €12,228 million excluding SRF. This tax rate (excluding the contribution of equity-accounted entities, increase can mainly be attributed to the scope effect, i.e. +€255 million already subject to tax, and non-specific legal provisions which are not related to Pioneer (figure for first-half 2017 before integration) and deductible) decreased to 23.8% in 2018 compared with 26.8% in 2017. +€97 million related to the three Italian banks in the first half of 2018 These developments combined led to an increase in underlying net only (impact not calculated for the second half). The contribution to income before non-controlling interests of +13.0% compared to 2017. the Single Resolution Fund increased substantially to €301 million, i.e. Non-controlling interests rose by +18.9%, essentially due to the +24.5% compared to 2017, concentrated in the first two quarters of decrease in the Group’s stake in Amundi from 74.1% to 68.5% in the 2017 and 2018. second quarter of 2017 and the strong growth in this subsidiary’s profit, The underlying cost of credit risk fell by -23.4% to €1,002 million, largely attributable to the scope effect related to Pioneer. This effect compared with €1,307 million in full-year 2017, excluding non-specific accounts for half of the increase in non-controlling interests, with the provisions for legal risk of €75 million for 2018 and recorded in remainder attributable to growth in profitability of the Italian retail the fourth quarter, and €115 million for 2017 and recorded in the first banking (CA Italia) and Consumer finance (Agos) subsidiaries, despite quarter of 2017 (€40 million) and the third quarter of 2017 (€75 million). the disappearance of non-controlling interests in CACEIS since their buyback at the end of 2017. Underlying net profit increased by +12.2% to €4,405 million. 182 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. 2018 operating and financial review Operating and financial information The specific elements that have had an impact on Crédit Agricole S.A’s accounts in 2018 and 2017 are as follows: 2018 2017 Gross Impact Gross Impact (in millions of euros) impact(1) on NIGS impact(1) on NIGS Issuer spreads (CC) (216) (131) DVA (LC) 22 16 (66) (42) Loan portfolio hedges (LC) 23 17 (57) (36) Home Purchase Savings Plans (FRB) (1) (1) 65 40 Home Purchase Savings Plans (CC) (3) (2) 156 103 Liability management upfront payment (CC) 39 26 Check Image Exchange penalty (59) (58) Total impact on revenues 41 30 (138) (100) Pioneer integration costs (AG) (56) (29) (135) (60) Three Italian banks integration costs (IRB) (2) (1) (41) (22) Total impact on operating expenses (59) (30) (176) (82) ECB fine (CC) (5) (5) Total impact Non-allocated legal risk provisions (5) (5) Eurazeo sale (CC) 103 103 Disposal of BSF (LC) 102 99 FCA Bank fine (SFS) (67) (67) Total impact on equity affiliates (67) (67) 205 203 Change of value of goodwill (CC) Total impact on change of value of goodwill 86 86 66 66 186 186 91 91 4 Tax surcharge (326) 3% dividend tax refund 69 Deferred tax revaluation (128) Total impact on tax (384) CA Italy acquisition costs (IRB) (8) (4) Total impact on Net income on other assets (8) (4) TOTAL IMPACT OF SPECIFIC ITEMS (4) (5) 70 (276) Asset gathering (56) (29) (135) (176) French Retail banking (1) (1) 44 (79) International Retail banking (2) (1) (49) (26) Specialised financial services (67) (67) 43 Large customers 45 33 (21) (67) Corporate centre 78 59 231 28 (1) Impact before tax and before minority interests. Solvency Solvency ratios were also impacted over the year by regulatory requirements including the deduction in respect of irrevocable payment At end-December 2018, Crédit Agricole S.A.’s financial strength commitments to the Single Resolution Fund, the impacts of the TRIM remained at a high level, reflected by its unchanged CET1 ratio of and an anticipation of the effects of Basel 4 on non-financial operating 11.5%, unchanged compared to 1 January 2018, taking into account risks for a total of -23 basis points. the implementation of IFRS 9 at that date for -24 basis points. This At the same time, risk-weighted assets remained at a level of €307 billion apparent stability is the result of mixed changes. at end-December 2018, compared to €296 billion at end-December Crédit Agricole S.A. generated strong earnings over the year, allowing 2017, with the increase in risk-weighted assets focused on the Large it to pay out a dividend of €0.69 per share, up +9.5% on the previous customers business, whose profitable activity grew during the year, and financial year. Retained earnings had a +63 basis point positive impact which was also affected by the regulations. on the CET1 ratio over the year. However, equity was impacted by At 11.5%, the fully-loaded ratio is higher than the target of 11% set for -21 basis points following the fall in OCI reserves following the decline end-2019, and offers a substantial buffer of +300 basis points above in the markets during the year, especially in the fourth quarter. The the 2019 SREP/P2R proforma threshold applicable to Crédit Agricole stock of OCI reserves in the CET1 ratio at end-December 2018, net of S.A. as from 1 January 2019, set by the ECB at 8.5% (not factoring in the effect of the risk-weighted assets of insurance reserves thus stands the counter-cyclical buffer). at 29 basis points. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 183 4 2018 operating and financial review Operating and financial information The impact on the fully-loaded CET1 ratio of the first-time application At end-December 2018, the numerator of the LCR ratio (including the of IFRS 16, which is applicable from 1 January 2019, in 2019 has been HQLA securities portfolio, cash and central bank deposits, excluding estimated based on the financial statements at 31 December 2018 at mandatory reserves), calculated as an average over 12 months, -6 basis points. stood respectively at €208.8 billion for Crédit Agricole Group and at The phased-in total capital ratio stood at 17.8% at 31 December 2018. €174.1 billion for Crédit Agricole S.A. The denominator of the ratio (representing net cash outflows), calculated as an average over Lastly, Crédit Agricole S.A.’s phased-in leverage ratio stood at 4.0% 12 months, stood respectively at €156.6 billion for Crédit Agricole Group at end-December 2018. The leverage ratio stood at 4.2% at that date and at €130.6 billion for Crédit Agricole S.A. subject to the issue by the ECB of an authorisation to exempt exposures linked to the centralisation of deposits with the Caisse des Dépôts et The average LCR ratios over 12 months of Crédit Agricole Group and Consignations to take account of Judgement T-758/16 of the General of Crédit Agricole S.A. stood at respectively 133.4% and 133.3% at Court of the European Union of 13 July 2018. end-December 2018. They exceeded the Medium-Term Plan target of around 110%. Credit Institutions are subject to a threshold for this ratio, The intra-quarter average measure of phased-in leverage ratio, which set at 100% from 1 January 2018. refers to the average of end of month measures for the first two month of this fourth quarter was 3.7%. The Group continues to follow a prudent policy as regards medium-to long term funding, with a very diversified access to markets in terms of Liquidity investor base and products. The Group’s main issuers raised €34.1 billion equivalent of medium-to Liquidity is measured at Crédit Agricole Group level. long term debt on the markets up to the end of September 2018, of which The liquidity position of Crédit Agricole Group is solid. The Group’s 41% issued by Crédit Agricole S.A. (€14.1 billion equivalent), against banking cash balance sheet of €1,238 billion at 31 December 2018, €36.1 billion equivalent for the whole of 2017. Besides, €4.4 billion were shows a surplus of stable sources over stable uses of also placed in Crédit Agricole Group’s retail networks (Regional Banks, €115 billion, up by €4 billion compared to September 2018, but down LCL and CA Italia) or borrowed from supranational institutions in 2018. by €7 billion compared to December 2017. As the main issuer of the Group, Crédit Agricole S.A. raised the equivalent The Group’s liquidity reserves, at market value and after haircuts, of €14.1 billion of medium-to-long-term debt on the markets through amounted to €272 billion at 31 December 2018, up by +€10 billion 2018, i.e. €2.1 billion more than its 2018 medium-to-long-term market compared with end-September 2018 and by +€24 billion compared funding programme which was thus 118% completed. This figure is with 31 December 2017. They covered short term debt more than two broken down as follows: €7.3 billion equivalent of senior preferred times and HQLA securities covered more than three times over shortand of secured senior debt, as well as €6.8 billion equivalent of senior term debt net of central bank deposits. non-preferred and Tier 2 debt. OPERATIONS AND RESULTS BY BUSINESS SEGMENT Crédit Agricole S.A. Group’s businesses are housed in five business The Group’s business lines are described in Note 5 to the consolidated lines: financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 – “Operating nn Savings management and Insurance; segment information”. The organisation and activities are described in nn Retail banking in France – LCL; section 1 of this document. nn International retail banking; nn Specialised financial services; nn Large customers. plus the Corporate Centre. Contribution of business lines to net income Group share of Crédit Agricole S.A. (in millions of euros) 2018 2017 French retail banking – LCL 557 488 International retail banking 341 234 Asset gathering 1,908 1,720 Specialised financial services 738 766 Large customers 1,528 1,307 Corporate Centre (672) (865) TOTAL 4,400 3,649 184 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. 2018 operating and financial review Operating and financial information Asset gathering (AG) This core business encompasses Insurance (Crédit Agricole Assurances), Asset management (Amundi) and Wealth management (Indosuez Wealth Management). Asset gathering (AG) – Contribution to results, stated and underlying 2018 ∆ 2018/2017 2018 2017 ∆ 2018/2017 (in millions of euros) 2018 stated 2017 stated stated underlying underlying underlying Revenues 5,778 5,263 +9.8% 5,778 5,263 +9.8% Operating expenses excl.SRF (2,833) (2,706) +4.7% (2,777) (2,571) +8.0% SRF (3) (3) +22.9% (3) (3) +22.9% Gross operating income 2,941 2,555 +15.1% 2,998 2,690 +11.4% Cost of risk (17) (25) (31.0%) (17) (25) (31.0%) Equity-accounted entities 47 33 +43.8% 47 33 +43.8% Net income on other assets (3) 4 n.m. (3) 4 n.m. Income before tax 2,969 2,567 +15.6% 3,025 2,703 +11.9% Tax (774) (647) +19.7% (789) (581) +35.9% NET INCOME GROUP SHARE 1,908 1,720 +10.9% 1,937 1,895 +2.2% COST/INCOME RATIO EXCL.SRF (%) 49.0% 51.4% -2.4PP 48.1% 48.8% -0.8PP At 31 December 2018, assets under management of this business of +2.2%/+€41 million. The scope effect came to +€70 million, division stood at €1,879.2 billion. Two very different event equivalent to what Pioneer’s contribution would have been in the first sequences underpinned the modest growth generated by it in 2018 half of 2017 had it been integrated on 1 January of that year rather (+0.6%/+€11.6 billion). Over the first nine months of 2018, assets than 3 July 2017. By contrast, net income Group share in 2017 included under management increased by +€66.8 billion thanks to strong net inflows (+€58.5 billion), a scope effect of +€5.1 billion linked to the a capital gain on the sale of the reinsurance subsidiary CARE for €30 million, which was not restated in specific items, and had a negative 4 acquisition by Indosuez Wealth Management of Banca Leonardo, and impact on growth in the activity’s net income. limited positive market and currency effects (+€3.3 billion). Conversely, At 31 December 2018, capital allocated to the business division in the last quarter of 2018, there was a much less favourable market was €8.5 billion, of which €2.0 billion for Asset gathering (Asset environment, which had a strong impact leading to an overall negative management and Wealth management) and €6.6 billion for Insurance. market and currency effect of -€51.4 billion. Net inflow was negative at The business division’s risk-weighted assets totalled €23.9 billion, -€3.9 billion (of which -€6.5 billion for Amundi). of which €13.3 billion for Asset and Wealth management and Assets under management after elimination of double counting €10.6 billion for Insurance. amounted to €1,587.4 billion at 31 December 2018, a slight decrease These risk-weighted assets are calculated taking into account the of -0.3% compared to 31 December 2017. “Switch” guarantee, which allowed Crédit Agricole S.A. Group to save The financial statements for full-year 2018 include the integration costs €34 billion in risk-weighted assets in the prudential treatment of the of Pioneer. They amounted to -€56 million before tax (-€29 million in Insurance business line, but which cuts about -€50 million per quarter net income), classified as specific items. Specific items for full-year from its net income. 2017 also include integration costs for the period in the amount of Underlying return on normalised equity (RoNE) was 25.2% in 2018, -€135 million before tax (-€60 million in net income) and non-recurring compared to 22.8% in 2017. tax impacts in the amount of -€114 million. Asset gathering contributed 38% of Crédit Agricole S.A.’s underlying In 2018, the business division’s reported net income Group share net income Group share of the business divisions (excluding the came to €1,908 million, an increase of +10.9% compared with 2017. Corporate centre) in 2018 and 29% of underlying revenues also Underlying net income amounted to €1,937 million, an increase excluding the Corporate centre. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 185 4 2018 operating and financial review Operating and financial information Insurance (CA Assurances) The Insurance business line reflects the results of Crédit Agricole Assurances, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Crédit Agricole S.A., which covers all insurance businesses: savings/retirement, property & casualty, death & disability, creditor and group insurance. Insurance – Contribution to results, stated and underlying 2018 ∆ 2018/2017 2018 2017 ∆ 2018/2017 (in millions of euros) 2018 stated 2017 stated stated underlying underlying underlying Revenues 2,451 2,243 +9.3% 2,451 2,243 +9.3% Operating expenses (694) (743) (6.6%) (694) (743) (6.6%) Income before tax 1,753 1,500 +16.9% 1,753 1,500 +16.9% Tax (454) (357) +27.2% (454) (238) +90.8% Net income from discont'd or held-for-sale ope. (1) 21 n.m. (1) 21 n.m. NET INCOME GROUP SHARE 1,288 1,161 +10.9% 1,288 1,280 +0.6% COST/INCOME RATIO EXCL.SRF (%) 28.3% 33.1% -4.8PP 28.3% 33.1% -4.8PP Over full-year 2018, the business line’s total revenues reached casualty insurance, Crédit Agricole Assurances continued to enjoy €33.5 billion, a +10.1% increase from 2017. steady growth, both in France and abroad. Over 2018, revenues posted In the Savings/Retirement activity, revenues reached 25.6 billion, an strong growth of +8.2%, particularly in France thanks to Pacifica which increase of +10.9% versus 2017, with strong trends in the international outperformed the market. It stood at €4.2 billion, with a net contribution activities (notably +24.6% in Italy). This strong growth was evident in of some 700,000 new contracts over 2018, while still exerting good net inflows of both UL contracts, which reached +€5.05 billion that control over the termination rate. The strong growth in equipment year (up +15.7% versus 2017) and euro-denominated contracts, which rates among individual customers(2) in LCL networks (23.7% at reached +€2.25 billion (versus a net outflow in 2017 of -€0.09 billion). end-December 2018, up over 5 percentage points in five years, of The proportion of UL contracts therefore reached 69% for total net which +1.3 points for 2018) and Regional Banks networks (36.2% at inflows over the year of €7.3 billion, representing 2.6% of outstandings end-December 2018, up over +6 percentage points in five years, of at the start of the period, the highest level in at least three years. which +1.6 points for 2018) demonstrated both exceptional business momentum, as well as the potential for considerably higher growth. In Assets under management continued to rise, to stand at the Death & Disability/Creditor/Group segment, in full-year 2018, €285.2 billion(1) at end-December 2018, up +2.4% year-on-year, total premium income for these three segments reached €3.7 billion, an mainly driven by a 2.9% increase in euro assets managed, despite increase of +7.1%, driven by creditor insurance (+8.4% versus full-year markets being much less favourable in the third and fourth quarters 2017) and group insurance (+35%). of 2018. At end-December 2018, UL contracts accounted for 21.0% of assets under management, a decrease of -0.4 percentage point in relation to end-December 2017, with the challenging market Partnerships environment in the fourth quarter of 2018 generating a negative market In 2018, Crédit Agricole Assurances reaffirmed its strategy of developing effect of a little bit more than -€3 billion. The average rate of return on partnerships with external banking groups, which enable to strengthen assets was 2.71% for 2018, reflecting the good quality of Crédit Agricole its presence abroad. Assurances’ investment portfolio. In July 2018, Crédit Agricole Assurances announced a partnership with At end-December 2018, the Policyholder Participation Reserve the Italian bank Credito Valtellinese in the life-insurance sector. The stood at €9.8 billion (versus €1 billion in 2012 and €8.9 billion at partnership is effective since 20 December 2018 and was marked by end-2017), resulting in strong coverage, 4.7% of outstanding eurothe launch of a first multi-support life-insurance policy from 28 January denominated contracts, equivalent to several years of rates paid to 2019. In October 2018, Crédit Agricole Assurance and Seguradores policyholders based on the rates paid in 2016 and 2017. This coverage Unidas announced an agreement, effective since 21 December 2018, is higher than the average on the French market. for the purchase of a 25% stake in GNB Seguros, which increases Crédit In personal and property protection (property & casualty, death Agricole Assurances’ share within GNB Seguros from 50% to 75%. The & disability, creditor and group insurance) revenues for full year 2018 remaining 25% stake is still held by Portuguese banking group Novo stood at €7.9 billion, a +7.3% increase from 2017. In property & Banco. (1) Savings/retirement/death & disability assets under management. (2) Equipment rate: percentage of individual banking clients holding at least one insurance product (Pacifica estimates). Scope: auto, home, health, life accidents and legal protection insurance. 186 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. 2018 operating and financial review Operating and financial information In 2018, the Insurance business line’s reported net income Group These risk-weighted assets are calculated taking into account the share came to €1,288 million, an increase of +10.9% compared with “Switch” guarantee, which allowed Crédit Agricole S.A. Group to save 2017. After excluding specific tax items recorded in the fourth quarter of €34 billion in risk-weighted assets in the prudential treatment of the 2017, underlying net income increased by +0.6%. After restatement Insurance business line, but which cuts about -€50 million per quarter for net income from discontinued operations or held for sale operations from its net income. (capital gain of €30 million on the sale of CARE in the second quarter of The solvency ratio of Crédit Agricole Assurances was 188% at 2017), the change was +3.0%. 31 December 2018. Revenues came out at €2,451 million in 2018, a year-on-year increase of +9.3%. The increase in life assurance can notably be attributed Asset management (Amundi) to an increase in the recognition level of investment margin (this rate was particularly low in 2017) and a relatively favourable comparison Asset management comprises the results of Amundi, a subsidiary base (negative impact of the exceptional tax in France in the fourth 70.0% owned by Crédit Agricole Group, including 68.4% held by Crédit quarter of 2017). In non-life insurance, the combined ratio remained Agricole S.A. under control at 95.5% throughout 2018, showing an improvement of At the time of Amundi’s €1.4 billion rights issue at end-March 2017, 1.3 percentage point in relation to end-December 2017 despite adverse Crédit Agricole Group sold some of its preferential rights to reduce its weather events in 2018 (hail, flooding). percentage interest, which was 75.7% before that date, including 74.1% Operating expenses reached €694 million, a decrease of -6.6% held by Crédit Agricole S.A. The new holding rates are applicable from the compared with 2017. They decreased by -2.4% after excluding second quarter 2017. A slight dilution (-0.1 percentage point) occurred non-recurring IT depreciation expenses of -€32 million in the fourth in the third quarter of 2018 owing to the capital increase reserved for quarter of 2017. The cost/income ratio came to 28.3%, an Amundi employees. improvement of 4.8 percentage points compared to 2017. The 2018 financial statements include the contribution of Pioneer, Insurance contributed 25% of Crédit Agricole S.A.’s underlying net Unicredit’s asset management company, which was acquired on income Group share of the business lines (excluding the Corporate 3 July 2017. However, the 2017 financial statements include Pioneer centre) in full-year 2018 and 12% of their underlying revenue. only in the second half of the year. At 31 December 2018, capital allocated to Insurance was €6.6 billion The integration costs related to this acquisition are categorised as and risk-weighted assets totalled €10.6 billion. specific items. These costs amounted to -€56 million before tax, i.e. -€29 million in net income Group share (-€135 million and -€60 million in full-year 2017 respectively). 4 Asset management – Contribution to results, stated and underlying 2018 2018 2017 ∆ 2018/2017 2018 2017 ∆ 2018/2017 (in millions of euros) stated stated stated underlying underlying underlying Revenues 2,504 2,255 +11.1% 2,504 2,255 +11.1% Operating expenses excl.SRF (1,416) (1,328) +6.6% (1,359) (1,192) +14.0% SRF (1) (1) +12.5% (1) (1) +12.5% Gross operating income 1,087 926 +17.5% 1,144 1,061 +7.8% Cost of risk (11) (13) (15.3%) (11) (13) (15.3%) Equity-accounted entities 47 33 +43.8% 47 33 +43.8% Tax (297) (279) +6.4% (311) (332) (6.1%) Net income 827 666 +24.3% 869 748 +16.1% Non controlling interests (266) (205) +29.3% (279) (231) +20.6% NET INCOME GROUP SHARE 561 460 +22.0% 590 517 +14.1% COST/INCOME RATIO EXCL.SRF (%) 56.5% 58.9% -2.4pp 54.3% 52.9% +1.4pp Amundi posted assets under management(1) of €1,425 billion to +€0.5 billion in its Retail segment (versus +€14.2 billion in the fourth end-December 2018, nearly unchanged compared to end-December quarter of 2017) and net outflows of -€7.0 billion in the Institutional 2017 (-0.1%). Yet behind the near stability year-on-year were contrasting segment (versus -€1.1 billion in the fourth quarter of 2017). trends between the first nine months and the fourth quarter of 2018. In full-year 2018, Amundi posted resilient levels of business with a During the former, net inflows continued to show strong growth to positive net inflow of +€42.0 billion, of which +€30.7 billion in the +€48.5 billion, with a limited market effect of +€0.6 billion. Retail segment and +€11.4 billion in the Institutional segment; In contrast, the fourth quarter of 2018 was significantly impacted by medium and long-term assets posted a net inflow of +€36.3 billion a much more difficult market environment. Amundi registered a very and remained unchanged compared to end-2017 despite a strong negative market effect over the quarter of -€43.7 billion and net outflows negative market effect. of -€6.5 billion, which breaks down as slightly positive net inflows of (1) Assets managed, advised and distributed including 100% of AuM and inflows of Asian JVs, except Wafa in Morocco, for which AuM and inflows are reported on a proportional consolidation basis. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 187 4 2018 operating and financial review Operating and financial information In full-year 2018, underlying net income Group share was ratio than Amundi prior to the acquisition (underlying cost/income ratio €590 million, an increase of +14.1% compared with full-year 2017. of 51.2% in the first half of 2017). Revenues came to €2,504 million, an increase of +11.1% and a Asset management contributed 12% of Crédit Agricole S.A.’s decrease of -5.5% on a like-for-like basis(1). Underlying operating underlying net income Group share of the business lines expenses came to €1,359 million, an increase of +14.0% but a (excluding the Corporate centre) in 2018 and 13% of their underlying decrease of -6.1% on a like-for-like basis6. Full-year 2018 includes a revenue. contribution to the Single Resolution Fund (SRF) of €1 million, which was the same in 2017. Wealth management (CA Indosuez Wealth Equity-accounted entities recorded a sharp increase in their Management) contribution to €47 million (+43.8% versus 2017), driven notably by the joint ventures in India and China. The assets under management referred to in the business activities figures only include those of the Indosuez Wealth Management group. On a like-for-like basis, underlying net income Group share was As a reminder, LCL’s private banking customer assets amounted unchanged (-0.4%) from 2017. to €46.1 billion at end-December 2018, up +3.6% compared with The underlying cost/income ratio excluding SRF amounted end-December 2017. to 54.4%, a 1.5 point deterioration in relation to 2017, reflecting the The results generated by LCL’s private banking business are recognised impact of the integration of Pioneer, which had a higher cost/income under LCL. Wealth management – Contribution to results, stated and underlying 2018 2018 2017 ∆ 2018/2017 2018 2017 ∆ 2018/2017 (in millions of euros) stated stated stated underlying underlying underlying Revenues 822 765 +7.5% 822 765 +7.5% Operating expenses excl.SRF (723) (635) +13.9% (723) (635) +13.9% SRF (2) (1) +32.4% (2) (1) +32.4% Gross operating income 97 129 (24.5%) 97 129 (24.5%) Cost of risk (5) (11) (51.6%) (5) (11) (51.6%) Income before tax 92 123 (25.4%) 92 123 (25.4%) Tax (24) (11) x2.1 (24) (11) x2.1 Net income 68 112 (39.1%) 68 112 (39.1%) NET INCOME GROUP SHARE 59 98 (40.3%) 59 98 (40.3%) COST/INCOME RATIO EXCL.SRF (%) 87.9% 83.0% +5.0pp 87.9% 83.0% +5.0pp Wealth management’s assets under management increased by Operating expenses excluding contribution to SRF was €723 million, +3.8% year-on-year to €122.8 billion at end-December 2018, an up 13.9% compared to 2017. This increase was due to specific costs increase of +€4.5 billion. This substantial increase was notably due related to the integration of activities acquired in 2017 and 2018 and to the acquisition of Banca Leonardo in Italy in the second quarter of expenses related to additional regulatory projects. 2018, which brought in +€5.1 billion, and to organic growth, with net In 2018, the Wealth Management business line’s net income Group inflows of +€3.0 billion in 2018. However, there was a negative market share was €59 million, down -40.3% compared to 2017. effect of -€3.6 billion. Asset management contributed 1% of Crédit Agricole S.A.’s underlying Over the year 2018, net banking income of the CA Indosuez Wealth net income Group share of the business lines (excluding the Management group stood at €822 million, up 7.5% on 2017, benefiting Corporate Centre) over 2018 and 4% of their underlying income. from the rise in assets managed relating to the acquisition of Banca Leonardo and from organic growth. (1) Combined contributions to underlying income of Amundi and Pioneer taking account of the amortisation of distribution agreements in 2017. 188 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. 2018 operating and financial review Operating and financial information Retail banking in France (LCL) For Crédit Agricole S.A., Retail banking in France includes only the results of its subsidiary LCL, in which it owns 95.6%. The results of Crédit Agricole’s Regional Banks have been excluded from the Crédit Agricole S.A. scope since the beginning of 2016. Retail banking in France (LCL) – Contribution to results, stated and underlying 2018 2018 2017 ∆ 2018/2017 2018 2017 ∆ 2018/2017 (in millions of euros) stated stated stated underlying underlying underlying Revenues 3,433 3,492 (1.7%) 3,434 3,447 (0.4%) Operating expenses excl.SRF (2,363) (2,427) (2.6%) (2,363) (2,427) (2.6%) SRF (28) (15) +87.7% (28) (15) +87.7% Gross operating income 1,043 1,050 (0.7%) 1,044 1,005 +3.8% Cost of risk (220) (204) +7.5% (220) (204) +7.5% Income before tax 873 851 +2.5% 874 807 +8.3% Tax (288) (338) (14.8%) (288) (211) +36.8% Net income 584 513 +13.7% 584 596 (2.0%) NET INCOME GROUP SHARE 558 488 +14.3% 558 567 (1.5%) COST/INCOME RATIO EXCL.SRF (%) 68.8% 69.5% -0.7PP 68.8% 70.4% -1.6PP LCL’s commercial activity continued its dynamic trend in 2018, with Over the year 2018, changes in the home purchase savings provision outstanding loans up +8% over the year to stand at €120.0 billion at were the only recurring specific item in LCL’s financial statements, end-December 2018 compared to €111 billion at end-December 2017. which help to explain the difference between the reported result and the Home loans outstanding surpassed €75 billion (63% of total loans), underlying result. The impact was -€1 millions in net banking income showing strong growth of +7% year-on-year at end-December 2018. (-€1 million in net income Group share). Over the year 2017, to the home Origination volumes returned to a high level while early repayments were purchase savings provision (+€65 million in net banking income, thus stabilised at around €1 billion per quarter. Consumer credit outstanding grew by +6% to stand at €7.6 billion, while loans to small businesses +€40 million in net income Group share), must be added the Exchange Image Cheque fine for -€21 million in net banking income (-€20 million 4 and SMEs consolidated their growth in the second half of the year, in net income Group share) and tax adjustments for -€105 million in tax reaching +10% and +11% year-on-year respectively at end-December (-€100 million in net income Group share). Details of these items can be 2018, underpinned mainly by long-term production. found on page 183 of this document. Overall customer assets grew by +2.5% to €191.9 billion at LCL’s underlying revenues totalled €3,434 million, unchanged on end-December 2018. Balance sheet deposits grew by +7.3% to the previous financial year (-0.4%). Note the decline in renegotiation €114.1 billion at end-December 2018 and was underpinned by the SMEs commissions and early repayment fees, which fell to €17.5 million in market (+€6.9 billion, of which +€3.7 billion in the fourth quarter of 2018 from €95 million last year. Excluding these fees, the underlying 2018). Off-balance sheet deposits stood at €77.8 billion, down 3.8% net banking income increased in comparison to last year. The low compared to end-2017, with a significant fall over the last quarter of interest rate environment continued to be restrictive, but interest income 2018 due to the stock market decline. continued to stabilise, as has been the case since the third quarter LCL continued to acquire new customers and sustain the momentum 2018, and the volume effect offset the negative margin effect, which built up over the course of the year in terms of customer take-up. It confirmed a turning point after several years of declining interest income. registered +364,000 new customer relationships in 2018. The stock of Net interest income was also impacted over the fourth quarter 2018 by premium cards saw a year-on-year increase of +5.9%, while the stock negative security revaluations. The level of commissions was high in of Home-Car-Health insurance policies was up +77,000 contracts, i.e. 2018, up 4% compared to 2017, thanks to favourable trends across +8.9%. The take-up rate for the different insurance products continued all sub-funds. This was driven in particular by payment instruments to rise steadily. (strong trends in electronic banking activities) and non-life insurance which offset the impact of the market environment on securities over In the French market, the average interest rate on new fixed-rate the final quarter 2018. home loans was 1.43%(1) in the fourth quarter of 2018, down -5 basis points compared to the first quarter of 2018 and down -7 basis points Underlying operating expenses excluding SRF continued to fall in all compared to the fourth quarter of 2017. As a result, new loans had an sub-funds to stand at €2,363 million at end-December 2018, down adverse effect on the interest margin, since they replaced maturing -2.6% compared to end-December 2017. Note that operating expenses in loans that had been granted at higher interest rates. Nevertheless, the the fourth quarter include a provision for variable employee remuneration strong origination momentum reported for home loans in the second in the context of tax-free compensation exempt of social security half of the year (+40% compared to the first half of 2018) helped to contributions (“Macron grants” measures) in the amount of €8.8 million. offset this ongoing negative rate effect. Renegotiation volumes in the The underlying cost/income ratio excluding the SRF was 68.8%, an fourth quarter of 2018 represented €0.4 billion. After a continuous improvement of 1.6 percentage points versus the same period in 2017, decline between January and October 2017, loan renegotiations started thanks to a positive jaws effect over the full year: underlying revenues to stabilise from the third quarter of 2017 at a very low level. Lastly, were practically unchanged at -0.4%/-€13 million while underlying early repayment volumes have remained at around €1 billion since the operating expenses decreased by -2.6% over the full year. fourth quarter of 2017. (1) Source: Crédit Logement monthly observatory. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 189 4 2018 operating and financial review Operating and financial information As a result, gross operating income increased by +3.8% and the At 31 December 2018, capital allocated to LCL stood at €4.7 billion cost of risk over the full-year increased (+7.5%) in proportion to (14% of the total) and risk-weighted assets were €49.6 billion (16% loan outstandings, while remaining low overall. The cost of risk on of the total). outstandings remained stable at a very low level of 17 basis points at LCL’s underlying return on normalised equity (RoNE) was 11% in 2018, end-December 2018. compared to 12.3% in 2017. Underlying net income Group share stood at €558 million at end-December 2018, a decrease of just -1.5% versus 2017 despite a International retail banking (IRB) sharp increase in the contribution to the Single Resolution Fund – SRF (+87.7%/+€13 million in 2018 compared to 2017), the decrease over International retail banking encompasses the local banking networks in that period of loan renegotiation and early repayment fees (-€78 million), Italy, grouped under the name “Gruppo Bancario Crédit Agricole Italia” and the return to a more standard effective tax rate (from 26.1% to (hereafter referred to as “CA Italia”), notably Cariparma, Friuladria and 33.0%). Carispezia, and now the three banks acquired in late December 2017, namely Cassa di Risparmio (CR) di Cesena, CR di San Miniato and CR LCL contributed 11% of Crédit Agricole S.A.’s underlying net di Rimini, as well as all of the Group’s retail banks abroad, mainly Crédit income Group share of the business lines (excluding the Corporate Agricole Poland (wholly owned(1)), Crédit Agricole Ukraine (wholly owned(1)), centre) in 2018 and 17% of their underlying revenue. Crédit Agricole Egypt (60.2% (1)), and Crédit du Maroc (78.7% (1)). Note that the legal merger of the three banks with CA Italia has been completed since September 2018. International retail banking (IRB) – Contribution to results, stated and underlying 2018 2018 2017 ∆ 2018/2017 2018 2017 ∆ 2018/2017 (in millions of euros) stated stated stated underlying underlying underlying Revenues 2,732 2,482 +10.1% 2,732 2,482 +10.1% Operating expenses excl.SRF (1,716) (1,547) +11.0% (1,714) (1,506) +13.8% SRF (22) (10) x2.1 (22) (10) x2.1 Gross operating income 994 924 +7.5% 996 965 +3.2% Cost of risk (358) (429) (16.7%) (358) (429) (16.7%) Net income on other assets 14 (12) n.m. 14 (4) n.m. Income before tax 650 483 +34.5% 652 532 +22.7% Tax (185) (152) +21.7% (186) (166) +12.0% Net income from discont'd or held-for-sale ope. 0 n.m. 0 n.m. Net income 465 331 +40.3% 467 366 +27.5% Non controlling interests (124) (97) +28.1% (125) (106) +17.5% NET INCOME GROUP SHARE 341 234 +45.4% 342 260 +31.6% COST/INCOME RATIO EXCL.SRF (%) 62.8% 62.3% +0.5PP 62.7% 60.7% +2.0PP Over 2018 as a whole, the underlying net income of international International retail banking contributed 7% of Crédit Agricole retail banking stood at €342 million, an increase of +31.6% compared S.A.’s underlying net income Group share of the business lines to 2017, mainly driven by growth in gross operating income (+3.2% (excluding the Corporate Centre) in 2018 and 14% of their underlying versus 2017) thanks to a now-positive jaws effect at CA Italia, and to an revenue. improvement in credit quality (a -16.7% fall in the cost of risk compared At 31 December 2018, capital allocated to the International Retail to the same period in 2017). Also of note is the realisation of a capital banking division was €3.8 billion (11% of the total allocation); and riskgain over the fourth quarter on the disposal of real estate assets at weighted assets stood at €39.7 billion (13% of the total). Crédit du Maroc in the amount of +€14 million. The cost/income ratio for In Italy, business momentum was strong against an uncertain the year stood at 62.7%. Excluding CA Italia’s contribution to the Italian backdrop, with instability on the financial markets at the end of 2018. deposit guarantee fund (-€18 million in the fourth quarter of 2018 versus The integration of the three banks acquired at the end of 2017 was -€16 million in the fourth quarter of 2017), the underlying cost/income finalised at end-September 2018, after which a gradual improvement ratio for the quarter was 62.2%. of business activity was recorded for the three banks on all market As a reminder, the legal entities of the three banks were all merged with segments. CA Italia at end-September 2018 and it is no longer possible to isolate Total customer savings decreased by -2.3% from 31 December 2017, their scope effect when making comparisons with 2017. reaching €74.3 billion at end-December 2018, excluding assets under custody. As a reminder, inflow data for the three acquired banks were integrated from end-2017 at their consolidation date, the change therefore is no longer distorted by a scope effect. (1) Percentage owned at 31 December 2018. 190 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. 2018 operating and financial review Operating and financial information Off-balance sheet customer savings held up well against a backdrop points, down -25 basis points year-on-year (92 basis points in Q4 2017). of market instability over the year. They reached €33.7 billion at Since the integration of the three banks at end-December 2017, the end-December 2018, excluding assets under custody, unchanged sharp drop reflects an improvement in the quality of the portfolio for the compared to 31 December 2017. Excluding market effect, off-balance scope in full, and the favourable risk profile of the three banks, following sheet customer savings were up. Balance sheet deposits amounted their clean-up prior to acquisition. The impaired loans ratio was 8.4% to €40.6 billion at end-December 2018, down -4.2% versus versus 11.5% at end-December 2017, attributable to disposals of 31 December 2017 due to the continuation of measures implemented €1.4 billion of non-performing loans in 2018 (€445 million in the second since the third quarter to reduce volatile resources that generate high quarter, €700 million in the third quarter and €230 million in the fourth costs, notably among SMEs. quarter), representing 26% of IRB Italy’s gross non-performing loans Loans outstanding stood at €42.2 billion at end-December 2018, portfolio. The coverage ratio increased for the same reason (sale of unchanged (-0.1%) from end-December 2017. Note that in 2018, CA non-performing loans with a low probability of recovery and therefore Italia sold €1.4 billion of non-performing loans (around 26% of its high coverage) to 60% versus 50.1% at end-December 2017. gross non-performing loans portfolio). Excluding these disposals, loans The business division’s underlying net income Group share came to outstanding are up +2.9% reflecting a very positive momentum. The €196 million, an increase of +22% compared with 2017. Italian home loan market shows a moderate growth, and CA Italia has Italy, the Group’s second largest domestic market after France, continued to outperform the market for several quarters. Accordingly, accounted for between two-thirds (revenues) and four-fifths (loans and at the end-December 2018, home loan outstandings showed a year-onon-balance sheet deposits) of this business, followed by Poland and year increase of +10% versus growth of +1%(1) for the Italian market. Morocco. Although CA Italia is 76.9% owned by the Group, it accounted The three banks acquired also reported good business growth, with for 51% of the division’s underlying net income. an increase of +29% in the number of new home loans in the fourth International retail banking excluding Italy (Other IRB) continued to quarter of 2018 compared to third quarter 2018 after +26% in the deliver strong business momentum and a strong financial performance third quarter versus the second quarter (seasonal effect) and +61% this year. in the second quarter versus the first quarter. This growth doubled in the fourth quarter versus the first quarter of 2018, which was also Total onand off-balance sheet assets increased by +9.9%(2) between the first quarter in which the three banks were integrated. Note that end-December 2017 and end-December 2018 to €13.3 billion. demand for SMEs loans was weaker at the end of 2018, which reflects On-balance sheet deposits totalled €11.6 billion at end-December 2018, a decline in economic confidence indicators and uncertainties around a year-on-year increase of +10%. The increase was primarily driven the international economic environment. There was an acceleration of customer acquisition with almost by sharp increases in Egypt (+23%(2)), Ukraine (+17%(2)) and Serbia (+16%(2)). Loans outstanding stood at €10.7 billion at end-December, 4 a year-on-year increase of +6.5%(2). 140,000 new customer relationships in 2018. The surplus of deposits over loans remained at €1.5 billion at The financial statements for 2018 include, as a specific item, the end-December 2018. integration costs of the three Italian banks for -€2 million in operating expenses (-€1 million in net income Group share). In 2017, these items In full-year 2018, net banking income was up 3.3% compared to 2017 represented -€41 million in operating expenses and -€8 million in net at €847 million. Note that the performance in the fourth quarter 2018 gains/losses on other assets (an impact of -€26 million in net income was the best in 2018. Group share). Details of these items can be found on page 183 of this Operating expenses saw a slight rise of 3.2% over the same period, document. thus allowing a slightly positive jaws effect to be generated over the The underlying net banking income of IRB Italy stood at €1,885 million, year. The underlying cost/income ratio was 61.9%, which was stable up 13.4% on 2017. It should be noted that net banking income for the over the period. fourth quarter is the highest level of revenues generated during the year, Thus, operating income posted solid growth of 3.5% to end-December reflecting the successful integration of the three banks. The strength 2018 compared to the same period in 2017. of the interest margin and fees and commissions during the year is of The cost of risk fell by a sharp -28.4% over the same period to note, given the market context. -€83 million. Underlying expenses excluding SRF stood at €1,190 million, an increase A capital gain of +€14 million related to the disposal of real estate at of 19.2% compared to end-December 2017. The programme to Crédit du Maroc over the fourth quarter is recognised under gains or streamline the cost base will continue after finalisation of the merger of losses on other assets. the three banks at end-September 2018. We note a positive jaws effect over the fourth quarter 2018, for the first time since the three banks In 2018, the business division’s underlying net income Group share were integrated at end-December 2017. The underlying cost/income came to €146 million, an increase of +47% compared with 2017. ratio for the year stood at 63.1%. All subsidiaries saw their income rise in 2018 compared to 2017 (Poland The cost of risk stood at €275 million at end-December 2018, a +15%(2), Egypt +10%(2), Morocco +28%(2), Ukraine +43%(2)) significant drop of -12.3% compared to end-December 2017, despite the This business now accounts for 3% of Crédit Agricole S.A.’s increase in scope. The cost of risk on outstandings came to 67 basis underlying net income Group share of the business lines (excluding Corporate centre). (1) Source: ABI (Italian Banking Association). (2) Excluding currency effect. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 191 4 2018 operating and financial review Operating and financial information Specialised financial services (SFS) Specialised financial services includes the Consumer finance (CA Consumer Finance – CACF) and leasing and factoring (CA Leasing & Factoring – CAL&F) activities. It should be noted that Crédit Agricole Leasing Italie (Calit) was transferred from CAL&F to IRB Italy as of 1 January 2017. This transfer has no effect on comparisons of 2018 and 2017. Specialised financial services (SFS) – Contribution to results, stated and underlying 2018 2018 2017 ∆ 2018/2017 2018 2017 ∆ 2018/2017 (in millions of euros) stated stated stated underlying underlying underlying Revenues 2,769 2,721 +1.7% 2,769 2,721 +1.7% Operating expenses excl.SRF (1,363) (1,393) (2.2%) (1,363) (1,393) (2.2%) SRF (17) (14) +19.9% (17) (14) +19.9% Gross operating income 1,389 1,314 +5.7% 1,389 1,314 +5.7% Cost of risk (467) (440) +6.1% (467) (440) +6.1% Cost of legal risk n.m. n.m. Equity-accounted entities 187 241 (22.4%) 254 241 +5.4% Net income on other assets 1 (1) n.m. 1 (1) n.m. Change in value of goodwill n.m. n.m. Income before tax 1,110 1,114 (0.3%) 1,177 1,114 +5.7% Tax (244) (230) +6.2% (244) (272) (10.4%) Net income 866 883 (1.9%) 933 841 +11.0% Non controlling interests (128) (118) +8.7% (128) (118) +8.7% NET INCOME GROUP SHARE 738 766 (3.6%) 805 723 +11.4% CACF saw a dynamic year with assets under management on the up by growth (+5.7%) surpassing growth in expenses excluding SRF (+3.0%), +7.2% year-on-year, to stand at €88.5 billion, exceeding the strategic which gave a jaws effect of nearly +3 points, and an improvement objective. Managed outstandings with the entities of the Crédit Agricole in the cost/income ratio excluding SRF of 1.3 percentage points. Group networks (+10.0%) and the automotive partnerships (+11.2%) The contribution to the Single Resolution Fund (SRF) for 2018 was showed a sharp increase, in line with the increase in new loans. The -€7 million, an increase of +31.3% versus 2017. Factored revenues 2019 MTP objective was largely reached in 2018 (70% by end 2019), grew by +5.4% over the year, with excellent business momentum at and CACF posted a self-financing flow of 83.6% at end-December 2018. international level (49.8%), particularly in Germany and Belgium, where Many partnerships were agreed upon in 2018, including the renewal business grew by +6.3%. of the partnership with Banco BPM (third-largest Italian bank), via a The factoring app for smartphones (Cash in time) launched by CAL&F 15-year extension distribution agreement. Additionally, there was the in 2017, had attracted 11,515 customers at end-December 2018, with launch of a joint venture in Spain with Bankia (the fourth-largest Spanish total factored revenues of €332.8 million and revenues of €6.9 million bank), expected to begin commercial activity at the end of the second in 2018. quarter 2019. The underlying net income Group share 2018 of the division reached In full-year 2018, the net income Group share of CACF came to €805 million, an increase of +11.4% versus 2017, linked notably to a €639 million, an increase of +9.3% in relation to 2017. The slight decrease in operating expenses excluding SRF of -2.2% and an increase increase in the cost of risk (+5.7%) somewhat offset the increase in in the contribution from equity-accounted entities of +5.4%. There was underlying gross operating income (+5.1%) linked to a very positive jaws also a substantial jaws effect of nearly +4 points (revenue growth of effect of over +4 points: revenues increased by +0.8% while operating +1.7%). This gave rise to a cost/income ratio excluding SRF of 49.2% expenses excluding SRF decreased by -3.4%. The contribution to the in 2018, an improvement of 2 percentage points in relation to 2017. Single Resolution Fund (SRF) in 2018 was €10 million, an increase of Note there was a sharp increase of nearly +19.9% in the SRF charge in +12.3% in relation to 2017. The cost/income ratio excluding SRF came 2018 to €17 million. to 48.9%, an improvement of 2.1 percentage points compared to 2017. Specialised financial services contributed 16% of Crédit Agricole The decrease in the underlying tax charge of -7.7% helped to boost the S.A.’s underlying net income Group share of the business lines operating performance and bring growth in net income Group share to (excluding the Corporate centre) in 2018 and 14% of underlying +9.3%. revenues on the same basis. The Group’s RoNE was 16.3% in 2018, FCA Bank (a 50% subsidiary of CACF and FCA) was fined by the Italian compared with 14.1% in 2017, a level well above the medium-term plan competition authority for a total amount of €178.9 million. CACF set targets of 13%. aside the amount of the fine representing its share of FCA Bank (50%). At 31 December 2018, capital allocated to the Specialised financial CAL&F also had a great 2018, with a net income Group share of services division was €5.1 billion (15% of the total allocation), and risk€167 million, an increase of +20.2% versus 2017 thanks to revenue weighted assets stood at €53.6 billion. 192 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. 2018 operating and financial review Operating and financial information Large customers (CIB and Asset Servicing) The Large customers division includes the Capital Markets, Investment Banking, Structured Finance and Commercial Banking business lines housed within Crédit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank (CACIB), as well as Asset Servicing, hosted within CACEIS. Large customers (LC) – Contribution to results, stated and underlying 2018 2018 2017 ∆ 2018/2017 2018 2017 ∆ 2018/2017 (in millions of euros) stated stated stated underlying underlying underlying Revenues 5,368 5,332 +0.7% 5,323 5,455 (2.4%) Operating expenses excl.SRF (3,169) (3,099) +2.3% (3,169) (3,099) +2.3% SRF (170) (139) +21.8% (170) (139) +21.8% Gross operating income 2,030 2,094 (3.1%) 1,984 2,217 (10.5%) Cost of risk 64 (203) n.m. 64 (203) n.m. Cost of legal risk (115) (100.0%) (115) (100.0%) Equity-accounted entities 0 277 (99.9%) 0 175 (99.8%) Net income on other assets 14 13 +8.5% 14 13 +8.5% Change in value of goodwill n.m. n.m. Income before tax 2,108 2,065 +2.1% 2,062 2,086 (1.1%) Tax (550) (710) (22.5%) (539) (663) (18.8%) Net income from discont'd or held-for-sale ope. n.m. n.m. Net income 1,557 1,355 +15.0% 1,524 1,423 +7.1% Non controlling interests (30) (48) (38.2%) (29) (49) (41.5%) NET INCOME GROUP SHARE 1,528 1,307 +16.9% 1,495 1,374 +8.8% o/w Corporate & Investment Banking 1,354 1,184 +14.4% 1,321 1,254 +5.3% o/w Asset servicing 174 123 +41.2% 174 120 +45.5% COST/INCOME RATIO EXCL. SRF (%) 59.0% 58.1% +0.9PP 59.5% 56.8% +2.7PP 4 In an adverse environment for market activities, particularly in the fourth In addition, the Debt Optimisation and Distribution activities are wellquarter 2018, and in a challenging and competitive market in terms starred, thanks to acquisition financing that enjoyed major transactions of customer business, the division’s underlying revenues were down and the implementation of substantial bilateral loans. Crédit Agricole -2.4% over the year, to stand at €5,323 million in 2018. This trend was CIB improved its position on syndicated loans by moving from fourth to contrasted over the division’s various businesses. second place(3) on the syndication activities of Corporates in the EMEA The income from financing activities was up 7.6% to €2,481 million, zone. with good performance across all business lines. Underlying revenues from Capital Markets and Investment The growth in income from structured financing is mainly driven by the Banking were down -16.1% to €1,963 million in the adverse market Telecoms and Energy sectors, thanks to major deals. Crédit Agricole CIB environment for fixed income activities, despite trade volumes on the remains the world leader in aeronautics financing(1) and is now the world up in the first quarter, except for credit. Interest rate activities continued number four in project financing, up three places(2). Furthermore, as to suffer from the drop in margins. Credit was penalised by both an part of its Distribute to Originate model, financing activities recorded an adverse environment for issues, and a high basis of comparison in average primary syndication rate of 39% in 2018, unchanged compared 2017, which benefited from a very high level of primary and secondary to 2017 and up 13 percentage points compared to 2013, the year this income. Securitisation and foreign exchange activities both performed policy was ramped up. well. In 2018, Crédit Agricole CIB was ranked global number one in supranational bond issuance(4) and gained market share of 2.4 points Commercial bank income was on the up, led by export financing versus 2017.In green financing, Crédit Agricole CIB remained global activities, international trade finance and cash management activities leader in Green bonds(5).Income from investment banking was down, (International Trade & Transaction Banking – ITB) as well as corporate especially on M&A activities. Crédit Agricole CIB made third place(6) loans and distribution activities (Debt Optimisation and Distribution).In in France on the equity issues classification, and gained 3.6 points in fact, on ITB this performance was confirmed with: market share. nn a growth driver contributed by the Private Equity Financing Solutions Asset servicing (CACEIS) posted solid organic growth and thanks activity in partnership with CACEIS; to strong commercial momentum it captured new customers across nn the upturn in oil prices with a favourable effect on Global Commodities all of its core activities. However, that was not enough to offset a Finance business; very negative market over the year. Assets under custody thus stood nn Trade Finance with very high levels of activity, along with the income at €2,633 billion at end-December 2018, down -0.9% year-on-year. from the integration of Crédit Agricole S.A.’s Correspondent Banking At €1,692 billion, assets under administration are also down -4.0% business. compared to end-2017.The year-on-year decrease also reflects the outflow of -€13 billion in assets linked to the sale by CACEIS of its North American activities. (1) Source: Air Finance Journal. (2) As a mandated arranger based on volume – Source Refinitiv X02. (3) As a bookrunner – Source: Refinitiv T78. (4) As a bookrunner – Source: Refinitiv N5. (5) As a bookrunner – Source: Bloomberg. (6) As a bookrunner – Source: Refinitiv. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 193 4 2018 operating and financial review Operating and financial information In terms of results, changes in the DVA as well as loan book RoNE (Return on Normalised Equity calculated on the basis of capital hedges, represent recurring specific items in the financial statements allocation) continued to increase, reaching 12.5% versus 11.2% over of Crédit Agricole CIB. In 2017, certain specific non-recurring items full-year 2017, well above the minimum target in the Medium Term Plan were recognised to reconcile posted amounts and variations against of 11%, despite the deconsolidation of the stake in BSF which had a underlying amounts and changes: the disposal of a portion of the equity negative effect on RoNE and had not been anticipated in the Medium investment (16.2% of the capital) in BSF – Banque Saudi Fransi – as well Term Plan. as the adjustment of the net gain on this disposal, and tax adjustments The Large customers division contributed 29% of Crédit Agricole (surcharge and revaluation of deferred taxes in France and the United S.A.’s underlying net income Group share of the business lines States). (excluding the Corporate centre) in 2018 and 27% of their underlying Operating expenses excluding SRF contribution stood at €3,169 million income (excluding Corporate centre) on the same basis. over the year, an increase of 2.3% due in essence to organic growth and investments, particularly in information technology. The underlying Corporate centre (CC) cost/income ratio excluding SRF fell 3 points to stand at 59.5%. The Corporate centre acts as Crédit Agricole S.A.’s central body and is The cost of risk saw a net upturn over the year at €64 million in 2018, responsible for asset and liability management, and management of due to a low specific cost of risk, the removal from the balance sheet of debt related to acquisitions of subsidiaries and equity interests. It also some items, and net recoveries on Buckets 1 and 2. includes: The share of results from equity-accounted entities was zero, while in nn the results of the private equity business and results of various other 2017 this included the share of Banque Saudi Fransi for €175 million. Crédit Agricole S.A. Group companies (Unimédias, Foncaris, CA In 2018, net income Group share came to €1,495 million, an increase of Immobilier, etc.); +8.8% compared to 2017. Full-year 2018 includes a contribution to the nn results of resource pooling companies and property operating Single Resolution Fund (SRF) of €170 million, compared to €139 million companies and reorganisation activities involving business premises in 2017, an increase of +21.8%. During the period no non-specific allocated to several divisions; provision for legal risk was recognised for the division although a nn net effects of Crédit Agricole S.A.’s group tax relief arrangements and provision of €­ 115 million was booked in 2017. the revaluation of structured debt issued by Crédit Agricole CIB. At 31 December 2018, capital allocated to the Large customers division The 2018 financial statements include the provision for home-purchase was €11.3 billion and risk-weighted assets for the division totalled savings provision established by Crédit Agricole S.A. (-€3 million in net €118.4 billion. banking income, -€2 million in net income Group share) along with Risk-weighted assets for Corporate & investment banking alone reached the ECB fine (-€5 million in cost of legal risk). In 2017, specific items €109.8 billion, an increase of +10.3% compared to end-December 2017. impacted income for -€70 million and net income Group share for The growth over the year was mainly linked to the anticipation of Basel 4 -€276 million. These items specifically included the impact of the issuer on non-financial operational risks, measured following the standard spread for -€131 million, effects related to taxation for -€124 million, method. Organic RWA remained stable and business momentum was the Exchange Images Cheques fine for -€38 million, and positively, the profitable. In Financing activities, the revenue to average risk-weighted change in goodwill for +€91 million, the sale of investments in Eurazeo assets ratio for the period rose by +14 basis points compared to 2017. for +€103 million, and change in the home-purchase provision for +€103 million. Corporate centre (CC) – Contribution to results, stated and underlying 2018 2018 2017 ∆ 2018/2017 2018 2017 ∆ 2018/2017 (in millions of euros) stated stated stated underlying underlying underlying Revenues (344) (656) (47.5%) (341) (597) (42.8%) Operating expenses excl.SRF (842) (789) +6.8% (842) (789) +6.8% SRF (62) (61) +1.9% (62) (61) +1.9% Gross operating income (1,249) (1,505) (17.1%) (1,245) (1,446) (13.9%) Cost of risk (5) (6) (26.0%) (5) (6) (26.0%) Cost of legal risk (80) n.m. (75) n.m. Equity-accounted entities 21 177 (88.4%) 21 74 (72.1%) Net income on other assets 13 (4) n.m. 13 (4) n.m. Change in value of goodwill 86 186 (54.1%) n.m. Income before tax (1,213) (1,152) +5.3% (1,291) (1,383) (6.6%) Tax 576 344 +67.3% 575 460 +24.8% Net income (638) (808) (21.1%) (717) (922) (22.3%) Non controlling interests (35) (58) (40.0%) (15) 29 n.m. NET INCOME GROUP SHARE (672) (865) (22.3%) (731) (894) (18.2%) In full-year 2018, the underlying net loss came to -€731 million, At 31 December 2018, risk-weighted assets stood at €21.6 billion an improvement of -18.2%/+€162 million compared to 2017. This and allocated capital at €2.1 billion. included a contribution to the SRF of €62 million, up slightly (+1.9%) compared to 2017. 194 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. 2018 operating and financial review Operating and financial information RoTE Measures the return on tangible equity (the bank’s net assets restated Posted and underlying rates of RoTE rose respectively by 2.5% and for intangibles and goodwill). 1.6% in 2018 to stand at 12.7%, highlighting the improvement in the profitability of Crédit Agricole S.A.’s business lines. RoTE (%) (in millions of euros) 2018 2017 Net income Group share attributable to ordinary shares [H] 3,957 3,194 Tangible NBV (TNBV), not revaluated attrib. to ord. sh. – avg(1) [J] 31,120 31,182 Stated RoTE (%) [H]/[J] 12.7% 10.2% Underlying Net income attrib. to ord. shares (annualised) [I] 3,962 3,471 UNDERLYING ROTE (%) [I]/[J] 12.7% 11.1% (1) Including assumption of dividend for the current exercise. 12.7% 12.7% 11.1% 10.2% Stated Underlying 4 2017 2018 Earnings per share Earnings per share represent a company’s net profit divided by the average number of shares outstanding excluding treasury shares. It indicates the portion of profit attributable to each share (not the portion of earnings paid out to each shareholder, which is the dividend). It may decrease, with total profit unchanged, if the number of shares increases. Crédit Agricole S.A. – data per share (in millions of euros) 2018 2017 ∆ 2018/2017 Net income Group share – reported 4,400 3,649 +20.6% nn Interests on AT1, including issuance costs, before tax (443) (454) -2.5% NIGS attributable to ordinary shares – reported [A] 3,957 3,194 +23.9% Average number shares in issue, excluding treasury shares (m) [B] 2,853.7 2,843.6 +0.4% Net earnings per share – reported [A]/[B] €1.39 €1.12 +23.4% Underlying net income Group share (NIGS) 4,405 3,925 +12.2% Underlying NIGS attributable to ordinary shares [C] 3,962 3,471 +14.2% NET EARNINGS PER SHARE – UNDERLYING [C]/[B] €1.39 €1.22 +13.8% Posted earnings per share were up +23.4% in 2018 to €1.39 and the underlying profit per share was up +13.8% also to €1.39. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 195 4 2018 operating and financial review Operating and financial information Tangible asset profitability (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Shareholder's equity Group share 58,811 58,056 nn AT1 issuances (5,011) (5,011) nn Unrealised gains and losses on OCI Group share (1,696) (3,500) nn Payout assumption on annual results (1,975) (1,802) (1) Net book value (NBV), not revaluated, attributable to ordin. sh. [D] 50,129 47,743 nn Goodwill & intangibles Group share (17,843) (17,672) (2) Tangible NBV (TNBV), not revaluated attrib. to ordinary sh. [E] 32,286 30,072 Total shares in issue, excluding treasury shares (period end, m) [F] 2,862.1 2,844.0 NBV per share, after deduction of dividend to pay (€) [D]/[F] 17.5 16.8 + Dividend to pay (€) [H] 0.69 0.63 NBV per share, before deduction of dividend to pay (€) 18.2 17.4 TNBV per share, after deduction of dividend to pay (€) [G]=[E]/[F] 11.3 10.6 TNBV per share, before deduction of dividend to pay (€) [G]+[H] 12.0 11.2 (1) Dividend proposed to the Board meeting to be paid. (2) Including goodwill in the equity-accounted entities. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET Crédit Agricole S.A. – Consolidated balance sheet (in millions of euros) Notes(1) 31/12/2018 01/01/2018 31/12/2017 Change Cash, central banks 6.1 66,976 50,755 50,761 31.9% Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss 6.2-6.9 365,475 363,737 321,404 13.7% Hedging derivative instruments 3.2-3.4 14,322 16,429 16,435 (12.9%) Available-for-sale financial assets 6.4-6.7-6.8-6.9 307,058 (100%) Loan and receivables due from credit institutions 3.1-3.3-6.5-6.8-6.9 412,981 388,716 394,051 4.8% Loan and receivables due from customers 3.1-3.3-6.5-6.8-6.9 369,456 341,114 360,079 2.6% Revaluation adjustment on interest rate hedged portfolios 6,375 5,978 5,978 6.6% Held-to-maturity securities 6.6-6.7-6.9 20,179 (100%) Current and deferred tax assets 6.13 4,480 4,741 4,462 0.4% Accruals account and sundry assets 6.14 38,013 36,197 36,197 5.0% Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 257 495 495 (48.1%) Investment in equity-accounted entities 6.15 6,368 5,108 5,177 23.0% Fixed assets 6.16-6.17 12,764 12,586 12,586 1.4% Goodwill 6.16 15,491 15,421 15,421 0.5% TOTAL ASSETS 1,624,394 1,551,572 1,550,283 4.8% (1) Details Chapter 6 Consolidated Financial Statements. 196 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. 2018 operating and financial review Operating and financial information (in millions of euros) Notes(1) 31/12/2018 01/01/2018 31/12/2017 Change Central Banks 6.1 949 3,185 3,185 (70.2%) Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss 6.2 228,111 227,848 227,887 0.1% Hedging derivative instruments 3.2-3.4 12,085 13,271 13,271 (8.9%) Due to credit institutions 3.3-6.10 131,960 125,590 125,590 5.1% Due to customers 3.1-3.3-6.10 597,170 550,746 550,746 8.4% Debt instruments 3.2-3.3-6.11 184,470 163,759 163,708 12.7% Reavaluation adjustment on interest rate hedged portfolios 6,612 6,565 6,565 0.7% Current and deferred tax liabilities 6.13 2,376 3,287 3,482 (31.8%) Adjustment account and sundry liabilities 6.14 42,309 40,530 40,530 4.4% Liabilities associated with non-current assets held for sale 229 354 354 (35.3%) Insurance company technical reserves 6.19 324,033 322,516 320,417 1.1% Provisions 6.20 5,809 4,935 4,421 31.4% Subordinated debt 3.2-3.3-6.11 22,765 25,421 25,421 (10.4%) Total Liabilities 1,558,878 1,488,007 1,485,577 4.9% Equity 65,516 63,565 64,706 1.3% Equity Group Share 58,811 57,135 58,056 1.3% Non-controlling interests 6,705 6,430 6,650 0.8% TOTAL LIABILITIES 1,624,394 1,551,572 1,550,283 4.8% (1) Details Chapter 6 Consolidated Financial Statements. Main changes in the consolidated balance sheet CIB saw its assets under management fall by -€1.2 billion, of which 4 -€1.5 billion on accounts and loans. At 31 December 2018, the consolidated balance sheet of Crédit Agricole S.A. amounted to €1,624.4 billion, up +€74.1 billion (+4.8%) compared Amounts due to credit institutions and customers totalled with the 2017 balance sheet. At 31 December 2018, the consolidated €729.2 billion at end-2018, up +7.8% or +€52.9 billion compared with balance sheet of Crédit Agricole S.A. amounted to €1,624.4 billion, end-2017. up +€74.1 billion (+4.8%) compared with the 2017 balance sheet. Amounts due to credit institutions rose +€6.4 billion to €132.0 billion 2018 was the first time IFRS 9 was applied, which resulted in a total (+5.1%). This increase was due mainly to CACIB (+€8.6 billion). increase of €1.3 billion on the balance sheet. Excluding this impact, the Amounts due to customers rose +€46.5 billion (+8.4%) to €597.2 billion. rise is attributable to €72.8 billion in organic growth for the following This rise was due to Crédit Agricole S.A., which saw a high level of aggregates: deposits on regulated savings (+€10.7 billion on passbook accounts, nn the rise in financial assets at amortised cost totalling €58.7 billion; Livret A accounts and home-purchase savings plans). CACIB for nn the rise in central banks and Regional Banks for €16.2 billion. +€16.5 billion including +€7 billion for CACIB Japan, +€4 billion for CACIB Paris, and +€3 billion for CACIB New York, LCL for +€8.9 billion To recall, the application of IFRS 9 eliminated the categories of availableand CACEIS for +€10.2 billion related to ongoing business. for-sale financial assets and financial assets held to maturity, and simultaneously created the category of financial assets at fair value Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss amounted through equity. to €365.5 billion at 31 December 2018, a rise of +13.7% year-on-year. Of this increase of +€44.1 billion, +€42.3 billion is attributable to the Analysis of the main items initial application of IFRS 9.The FTA impact mainly concerns Prédica for +€32.8 billion. Loans and receivables from customers and credit institutions Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss stand at totalled €782.5 billion at end-December 2018, an increase of +3.8% or €228.1 billion at 31 December 2018, a very slight rise of +€0.2 billion +€28.4 billion compared with 2017. year-on-year (+0.1%) thus practically unchanged. Loans and receivables due from customers (including lease financing Financial assets at fair value through equity stood at €253.6 billion operations) totalled €369.5 billion at 31 December 2018, compared with at end-December 2018. €360.1 billion a year earlier, an increase of +2.6%. The increase was attributable chiefly to growth in customer transactions at LCL in the Debt securities stood at €57.8 billion at end-December 2018. amount of +€9.5 billion, particularly on home loans (+€5.6 billion). This class was launched with the implementation of IFRS 9 and the disappearance of the “available-for-sale financial assets” and “heldLoans and receivables due from credit institutions also increased to-maturity financial assets” classes. to €413.0 billion (+4.8%), at 31 December 2018 compared with €394.1 billion at end-2017. The +€18.9 billion increase was mainly due to The amount of investments in equity-accounted entities stood at a rise in internal transactions with the Regional Banks (+€20.7 billion – €6.4 billion at end-2017, an increase of +23.1%, due mainly to the good advances to the Regional Banks in a low rate environment, mirror performance of the Group’s auto JVs. advances in connection with the higher savings deposits and new Hedging derivatives recorded declines of -12.8% in assets and -9.0% repurchase agreements involving the Regional Banks) and the increase in liabilities, attributable chiefly to the change in the fair value of micro in CACEIS outstandings (+€8.5 billion). At the same time, Crédit Agricole and macro-hedging swaps at Crédit Agricole S.A. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 197 4 2018 operating and financial review Operating and financial information Insurance companies’ technical reserves increased by +1.1% Capital management and regulatory ratios in 2018 from 2017, reaching €324.0 billion. This increase comes in essence from other Group insurers contributing +€5.6 billion to this The amendment to IAS 1 adopted by the European Union on increase, in connection with the growth in business and the transfer 11 January 2006 requires quantitative and qualitative disclosures on the of a portfolio. issuer’s capital and management of its capital i.e. objectives, policies and processes for managing capital. This information is provided The Debt securities increase year-on-year +12.7% to amount to in Note 3.6 to the financial statements and in “Pillar 3 disclosures”, €184.5 billion at end-2018. provided below. For full-year 2018, return on assets(1) was 0.27%, Equity amounted to €65.5 billion at 31 December 2018, a year-on-year unchanged from 2017. increase of +1.1%. Equity – Group share increased slightly (+1.2%) to €58.8 billion at end-2018, mainly reflecting the inclusion of income for the year (+€4.4 billion) and dividends (-€2.2 billion). RECENT TRENDS AND OUTLOOK The risks on the horizon are numerous, with various origins and varying In the Eurozone, while growth is being underpinned by an consequences and probabilities of occurrence: a trade war and more accommodative monetary policy and the budgetary policy, still strong generally protectionism and doubts around multilateralism, a slowdown fundamentals signal the maturing of the cycle, although no change is in China, the winding down of fiscal stimulus in the US, Brexit, and imminent yet. Fears around the strength of growth have changed in social and political tension in Europe, France in particular. Although we nature. The concerns about supply constraints that appeared at the don’t underestimate the uncertainties, we believe economic growth cycle peak at end-2017 have faded. The latter are no longer capable in 2019 will slow down rather than collapse, but we are nevertheless of causing an erosion in margins that would spark a sudden downturn. maintaining prudent assumptions. First-of-all we expect the Chinese-US However, new worries, as revealed in less positive surveys, have trade war to continue despite recent rumours of a possible hiatus. The emerged which contrast with the good results borne out in the actual US and China’s announced agreement at the G20 summit to allow further data. These are mainly exogenous (and have been raised before), negotiations for ninety days before threatened tariff increases by the US weighing on the outlook for growth in external demand and investment, from 10% to 25% on US$200 billion of products imported from China and suggest a more marked slowdown in growth than would naturally and efforts by China to increase imports from the US is but a temporary be expected. Our scenario factors in a weakening of growth (1.9% in truce. It cannot be seen as a prelude to a resolution of the trade conflict 2018 followed by 1.6% in 2019, close to its potential level of 1.5%) between the two sides given their entrenched positions. That said, the mainly attributable to growing uncertainties, leading in turn to more US is likely to keep this war confined to China without targeting other cautious investment trends. In France, growth is expected to remain victims, such as the European Union. Our scenario also factors in an close to its 2018 level (1.6% after 1.5% in 2018). The implementation in adjustment of Saudi Arabia’s oil supply in line with the market, which will early 2019 of measures to stimulate purchasing power should underpin partly offset continued strong production in the US: this would allow the household consumption and push growth up by +0.2 percentage point oil price to remain at around US$70 a barrel, but there is a risk of high in 2019. However, given the deterioration in economic indicators and volatility. The varying degrees of economic slowdown already evident in growing uncertainty, we have revised down slightly our anticipations 2019 come therefore against the backdrop of this trade war and “well for investment and exports. Although we cannot rule out further social behaving” oil prices. While the Eurozone is struggling to catch its breath, unrest, our projection assumes a relative easing of demonstrations Japan is having trouble bolstering domestic demand, Chinese growth is by the “yellow vest” movement in 2019. In the United Kingdom, after expected to disappoint (in the early part of the year at any rate) despite Parliament’s rejection on 15 January of the withdrawal agreement the government stimulus plan, and the US is likely to see another year signed by Theresa May and the European Union, the country’s economic of strong growth. outlook is highly uncertain. An extension of negotiations beyond The current cycle, which started in June 2009, is the longest in US 29 March seems increasingly likely if the European Union is in favour. history. After peaking at close to 3% in 2018, US growth is starting Optimists believe an orderly Brexit is still possible with support from to slow. But it is likely to remain above potential (2%) at close to 2.6% the UK Parliament. However, a no-deal scenario if nothing is done to in 2019. Spontaneous forces (from the production investment cycle avoid it by 29 March also looks more likely the nearer the withdrawal notably) are nevertheless fading and monetary and fiscal stimulus are date comes. This environment is weighing on the confidence of UK being wound down. As a result, corporate investment should be weaker investors and consumers but is not impacting the overall scenario for in 2019. And the outlook for an improvement in housing investment is the Eurozone. gloomy. At the end of 2019, when the fiscal stimulus that propelled the In Japan, the outlook remains gloomy. In December 2018, the cycle well beyond its natural high over two years almost comes to an “Abenomics” programme of policies reached its seventh year in end, a new more restrictive monetary policy and ongoing US-Chinese operation. Exports continue to stimulate growth, while private trade tensions are likely to herald the end of a period of exceptionally consumption lags behind. The latter will be further aggravated by a strong and lasting growth. The risk of a recession hangs in 2020. VAT increase scheduled for 2019. After reaching nearly 0.7% in 2018, growth is expected at just 0.6% in 2019. (1) Referring to Article R. 511-16-1 of the Monetary and Financial Code, profitability of assets is obtained by dividing the net accounting income with the total balance-sheet, on a consolidated basis. 198 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. 2018 operating and financial review Operating and financial information Finally, after a difficult year in 2018 that saw the emerging financial to 3.3% and 0.6% respectively at the end of 2019. As regards the risk markets (foreign exchange markets in particular) in turmoil, economic premiums offered by French and Italian sovereign bonds in relation to growth in those countries is likely to continue slowing to roughly 4.1% the Bund, we put these at close to 30 basis points and 240 basis points after reaching around 4.4% in 2018. 2019 looks very uncertain both in respectively at the end of 2019. terms of growth and the markets, particularly given that China could be a specific source of volatility in the early part of 2019. Like other Recent events emerging countries, China suffered a slowdown, which its specific efforts to reduce its debt are amplifying. In 2019, against the backdrop Main objectives of the “Strategic Ambition 2020” Mediumof a trade war, the negative impact on external trade from the imposition of higher trade tariffs by the US will materialise. Since China had ramped Term Plan up its exports in anticipation of the threatened tariff increases in January On 9 March 2016, Crédit Agricole Group unveiled its Medium-Term 2019, exports could slow in early 2019. Policy makers have thus far Plan, “Strategic Ambition 2020”, which is based on its leadership responded to the decline with a series of budgetary and monetary in retail banking and its specialised business lines as well as measures and moves to stimulate credit. But they have been careful its ability to deliver results in line with its commitments in not to overreact and aggravate the internal debt problem. Before an environment of lasting economic, regulatory and banking those stimulus measures fully take effect, activity could dip during the change. initial months and raise concerns of an aggravation of the economic The strategic ambition of the plan slowdown. Over full year 2019, however, growth could edge close to 6.4%, registering just a small and painless decline in relation to 2018 The plan is designed around four priorities: simplifying the Group’s (around 6.6%). capital structure, rolling out its customer project, strengthening the Group’s growth momentum in its core business lines and improving its Monetary policy in 2019 is likely to be prudent in light of the industrial efficiency: slowdown while inflation, which would normally be reaching the end nn the simplification of the Group’s structure, called Eurêka, of its cycle, is not likely to show any obvious signs of change, such is the distended nature of the link between wages and prices. In the was completed in the third quarter 2016: it consisted of transferring US, while headline inflation has fallen on average (from 2.4% to 1.8%), the 25% interest without voting rights in the Regional Banks held inflation as measured by the central bank (expected at 2.1%) is likely by Crédit Agricole S.A. since its IPO through CCIs/CCAs, to Sacam to largely surpass the target level. Given the downward revision to the Mutualisation, an entity wholly owned by the Regional Banks, for a Fed Funds target rate (2.75%) in particular the Federal Reserve can pursue monetary tightening at its ease. As it is more dependent on final sale price of €18.5 billion; nn the Plan is supported by Crédit Agricole Group’s robust Universal 4 economic data, and thus more uncertain, US monetary policy is only Customer-focused Banking model, a source of value for its customers: likely to be tightened around the end of 2019. We are projecting two the aim is to roll out the Customer Project and enhance the 25 basis points increases in the Fed Funds rate, bringing it to 3% at the digital transformation to serve customers by strengthening the end of 2019. Where the ECB is concerned, the end of its quantitative distribution model. The latter combines multi-channel with local easing programme (end of its net purchases under the Expanded Asset service thanks to the digital transformation of all business lines, while Purchase Programme since January 2019) signals just the beginning of also combining the ease and flexibility sought by customers with the normalisation. This preliminary stage does not in any way signify that added value of tailored advice; monetary policy will become much less accommodative. Although the nn the strengthening of the Group’s growth momentum on its ECB says it is confident that inflation will recover, convergence with the core business is based on several priorities: improving its positions 2% target seems highly uncertain. The prospects for a recovery are in Retail banking, Asset gathering, Specialised financial services tenuous: headline inflation (1.6% at end-2018 and core inflation of 1%) and Large customers, stepping up the digital transformation, while could decrease in 2019 (1.2% at end-2019 and core inflation of 1%) controlling the cost base, and developing intragroup synergies: and fall as low as 0.6%/0.7% at the end of the summer. With inflation by strengthening internal partnerships and accelerating crosslow and under control, and few traditional tools to hand, the ECB is left selling between the business lines and Group’s retail banks, the somewhat helpless. In addition to its commitment to keep interest rates plan anticipates revenue synergies of +€1 billion for the Group, low for a long period, the ECB could announce a new series of LTRO +€700 million of which for Crédit Agricole S.A. and +€300 million in March. The Eurozone economy is still in need of an accommodative for the Regional Banks, between 2015 and 2019; monetary policy. nn improving operational efficiency will improve Crédit Agricole The end of the cycle looks like it will not bring with it unmanageable S.A.’s cost/income ratio by six percentage points and bring it to inflationary pressures; the central banks remain prudent; monetary below 60% by 2019, which represents €900 million of savings over tightening, whether actual measures or just announcements, will be a three-year period. gradual; and finally, several economic and political uncertainties that Financial and prudential trajectory could cause a drastic surge in risk aversion are obscuring the horizon. Risky assets (equities, corporate bonds, emerging markets) are thus The Plan is based on prudent assumptions. The assumption was for more vulnerable. This context is nevertheless conducive to a very moderate growth in the Eurozone and in the Group’s two main domestic modest rise in long-term risk-free rates but accompanied by high markets, France and Italy, as well as persistently low interest rates volatility. Our scenario factors in US and German 10-year rates close (3-month Euribor and 10-year OAT). The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 199 4 2018 operating and financial review Operating and financial information Main assumptions and objectives of “Strategic Ambition 2020” Crédit Agricole Group o/w Crédit Agricole S.A. At 31/12/2015 2019 targets At 31/12/2015 2019 targets Business CAGR(1) Revenues 2015-2019 €31,836 m >+1.5% €17,194 m >+2.5% Cost/income ratio 63% <60% 66% <60% Cost of risk/outstandings 30bp(2) <35bp 41bp <50bp Profitability Net income Group share €6.0bn >€7.2bn €3.5bn >€4.2bn Return on Tangible Equity (RoTE) 10.0% >10% Solvency Fully-loaded Common Equity Tier 1 ratio 13.7% 16% 10.7% ≥11% TLAC(3) ratio excl. eligible senior debt 19.7% 22% Risk-weighted assets €509bn €534bn €296bn(4) €303bn(4) (1) Annual growth rate versus 2015 restated for the Group’s capital simplification operation. (2) Basis points. (3) Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity. (4) Pro forma calculation of the Group’s capital simplification operation. The financial targets were to be achieved through balanced revenue The Crédit Agricole Group aims to remain one of the strongest banks in growth and cost control in each business line, the cost-cutting efforts Europe in terms of solvency. The forecasts assume an earnings payout releasing €4.4 billion in funding for the investments planned for Crédit ratio by Crédit Agricole S.A. of 50% in cash, the risk weighting of the Agricole S.A.’s business lines. At the same time, the contribution from capital and reserves of Crédit Agricole Assurances at 370% and the the Corporate Centre was to be reduced to around -€700 million per Switch 2 guarantee between the Regional Banks and Crédit Agricole annum in 2019. S.A., eliminated at Crédit Agricole Group level. Liquidity management Regulatory requirement Situation at end-2015 2016-2019 target LCR 70% at 01/01/2016 Crédit Agricole S.A. >100% ~110%  100% from 01/01/2018 Crédit Agricole Group >100% ~110% NSFR(1) 100% from 01/01/2018 Crédit Agricole Group >100% >100% PRS(2) Crédit Agricole Group €108bn >€100bn (1) Estimate made on the basis of our understanding of the EBA guideline dated 18 December 2015. (2) Stable resources: surplus stable balance sheet resources. Review of the strategic plan nn IDIA launched the “Energy, Agricultural and Agrifood Transitions” fund for €200 million, along with the energy sector (servicing platform Customer project and acquisition by Unifergie); With solid customer acquisition anchored around the universal nn digitalisation indicators increased in all business lines: for example, customer-focused, multi-channel and relationship-based banking 70% of loan offers are now eligible for Habitat electronic signature model (1.3 million new customer relationships with the Regional Banks for Regional Banks, i.e. the most extensive digitalisation offer on the in 2018), the Group has deployed an ambitious Customer Project, market; which has been strengthened by the digital revolution. nn the new “Trajectoires Patrimoine” offer was launched in October 2018, The individual customer demand deposit market grew for the second allowing each CA customer to choose the best options for increasing consecutive year by 26.1% (+0.4 points) and the financing of the French their wealth, from the first euro; economy and regions posted a record increase for the Corporates nn a digital solution for connecting corporate customers internationally market, +16.6% (i.e. 12.8 billion in financing from the Regional Banks began with the launch of the “Trade Club”. in 2018). New approaches in the consulting business line and new offers have Synergies been established in an effort to transform customer experience and Thanks to the various initiatives between the various business lines and optimise cross-selling: the genuine collective strategy followed, major progress was made in nn this cooperative dynamic has been strengthened, notably resulting terms of synergies. These stood at €8.7 billion for the Crédit Agricole in the Group insurance contracts of Group entities being brought Group during financial year 2018, up 12% on 2015, and very much in-house: CAA became the health insurer of 27 Regional Banks, in line with the target of €8.8 billion by 2019. Three main sources of 12 Crédit Agricole S.A. Entities, and manages the IFCs for 38 Regional synergies are of note: the insurance business contributed €5.3 billion, Banks; asset management came to €1 billion, and consumer credit accounted for €0.7 billion. 200 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. 2018 operating and financial review Operating and financial information Structural initiatives regarding the organisation of our business within The savings plans will continue to produce gains in 2019 and the IT the Group have been undertaken, in particular via the establishment projects undertaken will have results beyond the plan (a potential of new structural partnerships, both with banking players and €185 million in annual savings, through a €260 million investment plan non-banking technological players, and startups: over approximately five years as part of the creation of CAGIP). nn an exclusive long-term insurance (fifteen years) partnership All of these measures have favourably impacted the course of the cost/ agreement was signed by CAA with Credito Valtellinese (Creval), income ratio of Crédit Agricole S.A., which totalled 62.1% in late 2018, with a 5% stake acquired in Creval by CAA; up 6.4 points from end-2015. nn in consumer finance, a joint venture was created in Spain with Bankia, and the partnership between Agos and Banco BPM in Italy Summary on the achievement of Crédit Agricole S.A.’s targets was strengthened with an agreement allowing an expansion of this At end-2018, Crédit Agricole S.A. had already exceeded the targets it global partnership over the next fifteen years; had set itself in the plan, in particular in terms of growth rate in net nn a technological and capital structure partnership was agreed between income Group share (underlying), control of cost of risk (cost of risk/ Azqore (formerly CAPBS) and Cap Gemini, aimed at creating a new outstandings), profitability (underlying RoTE) and solvency (fully-loaded global reference for the outsourcing of IT and banking services, in Core equity Tier 1 ratio). Crédit Agricole S.A. posted underlying net particular for Wealth management; income Group share of €4.4 billion in 2018 (compared to €2.6 billion in nn an agreement was signed with Wirecard in the sphere of payment 2015) thus surpassing one year early the 2019 target for the Mediumservices for merchant customers of the Group’s banks, with the main Term Plan of €4.2 billion. The cost/income ratio excluding SRF stood at aim of marketing the multi-channel acceptance solution for French 62.1% in 2018 (versus 68.6% in 2015) for a 2019 target of below 60%. merchants. The adapted fully-loaded Common Equity Tier 1 ratio target has already been achieved: for Crédit Agricole S.A. the ratio was 11.5% at end-2018 Operational efficiency against a 2019 target of over 11%. The Group implemented several cross-functional operational efficiency Moreover, the dividend policy set out in the plan (payout ratio of 50%, in programmes with the aim of generating, for Crédit Agricole S.A., cash) and supplemented in November 2016 (minimum dividend of €0.60 €900 million in savings over the course of the plan. They amounted to per share) also applies for 2018. €563 million in late 2018, i.e. approximately two thirds of the target, Lastly, the Group’s capital structure has already been adapted to the and notably include: future requirements of the TLAC ratio, without taking into account nn the “Transformons ensemble” project, centred around the support functions of Crédit Agricole S.A. (€157 million); eligible senior debt, which is an additional buffer of 2.5% to 3.5%. As at 31 December 2018, the Crédit Agricole Group’s TLAC ratio rose to 4 nn the “Save” Purchasing optimisation programme (€140 million); 21.4%, excluding eligible preferred senior debt. The objective of a 22% nn the IT system efficiency programme (€56 million with a potential TLAC ratio by the end of 2019, excluding eligible preferred senior debt, €185 million in future annual savings); has been confirmed. To reach this objective, a volume of TLAC debt of nn the Business Line operational efficiency plans (€211 million). between €5 to €6 billion is expected to be issued in 2019. Crédit Agricole S.A. 2015 2018 2019 targets CAGR underlying revenues 17,379(2) +4.3%(1) >+2.5% Cost/income ratio excl. SRF 68.6% 62.1% <60% Cost of risk/outstandings (in basis points) 41 23 <50 Underlying net income Group share (in billions of euros) 2.6 4.4 4.2 Fully loaded CET1(2) 11% 11.5% ≥11% Underlying RoTE (%) 7.8% 12.7% >10% Dividend(3) €0.60 (scrip option) €0.69 in cash 50% in cash (min. €0.60) (1) CAGR 2015-2017. (2) Pro forma calculation of the Group’s capital simplification operation. (3) Dividend proposed to the General Meeting. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 201 4 2018 operating and financial review Information on Crédit Agricole S.A.’s financial statements (parent company) INFORMATION ON CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A.’S FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (PARENT COMPANY) ANALYSIS OF CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A.’S RESULTS (PARENT COMPANY) At 31 December 2018, Crédit Agricole S.A. revenues stood at “Net gains (losses) on fixed assets” totalled -€10 million in 2018, down €2,908 million, up by +€1,451 million on 2017. -€644 million year-on-year. This decrease was attributable to the This change was attributable to: +€393 million gain on the disposal of the equity investments in Eurazeo nn a -€344 million reduction in the interest margin, mainly due to early and Finasic in the first half of 2017 (generating a gain of +€427 million repayments on loans and receivables to the Regional Banks, resulting and a capital loss of -€34 million, respectively). in a -€363 million reduction in income; Moreover, following an impairment test of the equity investments, a net nn a +€2,267 million increase in income from variable-income securities charge of -€36 million was recognised in 2018 compared with a net (primarily dividends from subsidiaries and equity investments) due reversal of +€211 million in 2017, representing a negative change of to an increase in dividends from Crédit Agricole Assurances, Crédit €248 million mainly attributable to: Agricole CIB and CACEIS of +€1,520, +€968 and +€96 million, nn a positive effect of €356 million on LCL in 2018 on the back of an respectively, offset by a -€319 fall in dividends from CA Consumer improvement in the value in use calculated as part of the impairment Finance; tests; nn a -€7 million reduction in net fees and commissions, mainly nn a positive effect of €76 million on EFL (charge of -€23 million in 2018 attributable to a -€65 million reduction in commissions received versus -€99 million in 2017); under the mechanism to pool funds held in special savings accounts nn a negative effect of €744 million on Cariparma (impairment of collected by the Regional Banks (home purchase savings schemes, -€344 million in 2018 compared with a reversal of +€400 million Livret A passbook accounts and popular savings passbook accounts in 2017). (Livrets d’épargne populaire)) and then reinvested by Crédit Agricole The income tax charge stood at €638 million, +€383 million up on 2017. S.A. with the CDC. There was also a +€47 million change in liquidity Tax gains, resulting from the tax consolidation mechanism headed by commissions during the financial year following a reduction in the Crédit Agricole S.A., totalled €718 million in 2018, up +€337 million Regional Banks’ requirements; year-on-year including +€192 million attributable to the 2017 nn a -€548 million reduction in net income from the trading book mainly extraordinary contribution. At 31 December 2018, 1,270 entities had due to a -€507 million change in gains on foreign exchange positions signed tax consolidation agreements with Crédit Agricole S.A. compared of AT1 securities issued in foreign currency; with 1,254 at 31 December 2017. nn a +€36 million change in short-term investment portfolio and In addition, on 27 April 2018, following the withdrawal of the tax equivalent mainly related to the +€174 million gain generated in 2018 authorities from proceedings before the Council of State, Crédit Agricole on the early redemption by Crédit Agricole Assurances of the super S.A. received €85 million in connection with the case brought against it subordinated T2 securities, whereas in 2017 the disposals of French regarding the tax rates used in 2008 and 2009 on foreign tax credits. Government securities had generated gains of +€114 million; In parallel, in the dispute with the tax authorities regarding Emporiki, nn a +€47 million increase in other banking income. on 17 May 2018, Crédit Agricole S.A. obtained a favourable decision At 31 December 2018, Crédit Agricole S.A. recognised €737 million in from the Versailles Administrative Court of Appeal recognising that the operating expenses, -€16 million down on 2017. securities resulting from the July 2012 capital increase were indeed As a result of these changes, gross operating income recorded a gain short-term investment securities confirming the deductibility of the of €2,161 million at 31 December 2018, up +€1,466 million compared associated provision. As this decision is enforceable, in the second with 2017. half Crédit Agricole S.A. received the sum of €954 million in respect of the tax deduction of the provision plus default interest. As the Appeal The cost of risk amounted to -€9 million for 2018, i.e. a charge of Court’s decision is not final, a provision for the full amount was booked -€23 million compared with 2017. The convergence of French GAAP in the financial statements at 31 December 2018. with IFRS 9 aimed at transposing the new credit risk provisioning model in line with the IFRS 9 approach of estimating expected losses, Lastly, there was a -€69 million change in the provision for tax disputes resulted in Crédit Agricole S.A. recognising a -€4.5 million impairment between 2017 and 2018 to cover risks arising from the tax audit of the loss in 2018. Moreover, on 16 August 2018, Crédit Agricole S.A. paid 2014-2015 financial years. a €4.3 million fine for including capital increases in capital without the The FGBR and regulated provisions item changed by -6€ million in 2018. prior approval of the ECB. Overall, the net income of Crédit Agricole S.A. amounted to +€2,740 million at 31 December 2018. 202 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. 2018 operating and financial review Information on Crédit Agricole S.A.’s financial statements (parent company) FIVE-YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Equity at year end (in euros) 7,729,097,322 7,917,980,871 8,538,313,578 8,538,313,578 8,599,311,468 Number of shares outstanding 2,576,365,774 2,639,326,957 2,846,104,526 2,846,104,526 2,866,437,156 Operations and net income for the period (in millions of euros) Gross Revenues 17,684 15,792 15,112 14,296 15,138 Earnings before tax, employee profit-sharing, depreciation, amortisation and provision expense 967 1,501 12,916 815 2,172 Employee profit-sharing 1 1 2 2 1 Income tax charge (1,509) (1,357) (213) (255) (638) Earnings after tax, employee profit-sharing, depreciation, amortisation and provision expense 3,112 1,446 13,819 1,564 2,740 Earnings proposed for distribution at the date of the General Meeting of Shareholders 907 1,593 1,718 1,804 1,978 Earnings per share (in euros) Earnings after tax and employee profit-sharing but before depreciation, amortisation and provision expense 0.961 1.082 4.462 0.375(1) 0.980 Earnings after tax, employee profit-sharing, depreciation, amortisation and provision expense 1.208 0.548 4.855 0.550 0.956 Ordinary dividend 0.35 0.60 0.60 0.63 0.69 Loyalty dividend 0.385 0.66 0.66 0.693 Employees Average headcount(2) 2,307 2,251 2,238 2,148 1,776 Total payroll for the period (in millions of euros) Cost of benefits paid during the period (costs and social welfare) 191 191 186 190 171 4 (in millions of euros) 121 156 145 133 92 (1) Calculated based on the number of shares issued as of the General Meeting of Shareholders on 16 May 2018, or 2,846,104,526 shares. (2) Refers to headquarters employees. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 203 RISKS AND PILLAR 3 5 1. Risk factors 206 4. Pillar 3 disclosures 264 4.1. Management of regulatory capital  264 2. Major risks taxonomy 215 4.2. Economic capital management 280 4.3. Appendix to the regulatory capital 282 3. Risk management 217 4.4. Composition and changes in risk-weighted assets 284 3.1. Risk appetite, governance and organisation 4.5. Asset encumbrance339 of risk management risks217 4.6. Liquidity coverage ratio 342 3.2. Stress testing 220 4.7. Compensation policy 343 3.3. Internal control and risk management procedures 221 4.8. Cross-reference table 344 3.4. Credit risk 227 3.5. Market risk 235 3.6. Asset and liability management 241 3.7. Insurance sector risks 248 3.8. Operational risks 256 3.9. Developments in legal risk 258 3.10. Non-compliance risks 262 204 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 A CONSTRAINED REGULATORY CONTEXT AN EFFECTIVE CONTROL OF RISKS SOLVENCY RATIOS Phased CET1 ratio Non-phased CET1 ratio Financial conglomerate ratio 11.5% 11.5% Leverage ratio TLAC 4.0% 21.4% excluding senior debt 100% required 179% R I SK W EIGHTED A SSETS Breakdown by risk type Breakdown by business line 8.4% 10.2% 3.5% 18.8% Asset Operational risk Market risk gathering Specialised financial services 5 41.5% Large customers 86.3% 31.3% Credit risk Retail banking Changes over one year (in billion euros) 307 307 296 December 2017 June 2018 December 2018 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 205 5 Risks and Pillar 3 1. Risk factors 1. RISK FACTORS This part of the management report sets out the main types of risks Within each category, the risks that the Crédit Agricole S.A. group to which the Crédit Agricole S.A. group is exposed, as well as certain currently considers to be most significant, based on an assessment risks related to holding securities of Crédit Agricole S.A. Other parts of of likelihood of occurrence and potential impact, are presented first. this chapter discuss the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s risk appetite and However, even a risk that is currently considered to be less important the policies employed to manage these risks. The information on the could have a significant impact on the Crédit Agricole S.A. group if it management of the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s risks is presented in were to materialise in the future. accordance with IFRS 7, relating to disclosures on financial instruments. B. Credit and counterparty risks A. Overview of risks to which the Crédit The Crédit Agricole S.A. group is exposed to the credit risk Agricole S.A. group is subject of other parties The Crédit Agricole S.A. group is primarily exposed to the following As a credit institution, the Crédit Agricole S.A. group is exposed to categories of risks in connection with the conduct of its activities: the creditworthiness of its customers and counterparties. Credit nn Credit and counterparty risks: risks of losses arising from a default risk impacts the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s consolidated financial by a counterparty leading to that counterparty’s inability to meet its statements when a counterparty is unable to honour its obligations commitments to the Crédit Agricole S.A. group. The counterparty and when the book value of these obligations in the bank’s records may be a bank, a financial institution, an industrial or commercial is positive. The counterparty may be a bank, a financial institution, enterprise, a government and its various entities, an investment an industrial or commercial enterprise, a government and its various fund, or a natural person. Credit risk arises in lending activities entities, an investment fund, or a natural person. If the level of and also in various other activities where the Crédit Agricole S.A. counterparty defaults increases compared to recent historically low group is exposed to the risk of counterparty default, such as its levels, the Crédit Agricole S.A. group may have to record significant trading, capital markets, derivatives and settlement activities. Credit charges for possible bad and doubtful debts, affecting its profitability. risk also arises in connection with the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s While the Crédit Agricole S.A. group seeks to reduce its exposure to factoring businesses, although the risk relates to the credit of the credit risk by using risk mitigation techniques such as collateralization, counterparty’s customers, rather than the counterparty itself. obtaining guarantees, entering into credit derivatives and entering into nn Financial risks: risks of losses arising from changes in market netting agreements, it cannot be certain that these techniques will parameters (interest rates, exchange rates, share and commodity be effective to offset losses resulting from counterparty defaults that prices, credit spreads, etc.), as well as the risk of not having the are covered by these techniques. Moreover, the Crédit Agricole S.A. necessary resources to meet commitments (liquidity risk). group is exposed to the risk of default by the party providing the credit nn Operational risks and related risks: risks of losses resulting risk coverage (such as a counterparty on derivatives) or to the risk of primarily from the unsuitability or failure of processes, systems or loss of value of any collateral. In addition, only a portion of the Crédit people in charge of transaction processing, as well as risks relating Agricole S.A. group’s overall credit risk is covered by these techniques. to external events such as floods, fires, windstorms, earthquakes Accordingly, the Crédit Agricole S.A. group has significant exposure to or terrorist attacks. Related risks include legal and compliance the risk of counterparty default. risks arising from the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s exposure to civil or criminal proceedings, non-compliance risks relating to A deterioration in the quality of corporate debt obligations failure to comply with regulations and legislation governing the could adversely impact the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s banking and financial activities, and results of operations reputational risks that may arise in cases of non-compliance with The credit quality of corporate obligors could experience a deterioration, legal or regulatory obligations, or with ethical standards. primarily from increased economic uncertainty and, in certain sectors, nn Risks relating to the environment in which the Crédit the risks associated with trade policies of major economic powers. Agricole S.A. group operates: risks related to the macroeconomic The risks could be exacerbated by the recent practice by which lending environment, market conditions and the legislative and regulatory institutions have reduced the level of covenant protection in their loan framework applicable to the Crédit Agricole S.A. group and its documentation, making it more difficult for lenders to intervene at an activities. early stage to protect assets and limit the risk of non-payment. If a nn Other risks relating to the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s trend towards deterioration in credit quality were to appear, the Crédit activities: includes risks relating to the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s Agricole S.A. group may be required to record asset impairment charges strategy, insurance sector risks and competition. or to mark down the value of its corporate debt portfolio, which would The remainder of this part of the management report discusses each in turn impact the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s profitability and financial of the categories of risks discussed above as applied to the Crédit condition. Agricole S.A. group’s activities, indicating (to the extent applicable) Please see paragraph 3.4 for quantitative information on the credit quality where quantitative information relating to such risks can be found of the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s portfolios. in this document. Certain risks related to the particular role of Crédit Agricole S.A. within the Crédit Agricole group are also discussed in this section. 206 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 1. Risk factors The soundness and conduct of other financial institutions group’s commercial lending portfolio was represented by borrowers in and market participants could adversely affect the Crédit France, and 12% by borrowers in Italy. Adverse conditions that particularly Agricole S.A. group affect these countries would have a particularly significant impact on the Crédit Agricole S.A. group. In addition, the Crédit Agricole S.A. group has The Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s ability to engage in funding, investment significant exposures in countries outside the OECD, which are subject and derivative transactions could be adversely affected by the soundness to risks that include political instability, unpredictable regulation and of other financial institutions or market participants. Financial services taxation, expropriation and other risks that are less present in more institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, developed economies. funding or other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumours or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the loss of Please see paragraphs 3.4.III.2.1 and 3.4.III.2.4 for quantitative confidence in the financial services industry generally, may lead to marketinformation relating to the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s geographical wide liquidity contractions and could lead to further losses or defaults. exposures. The Crédit Agricole S.A. group has exposure to many counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, Any significant increase in charges for loan losses investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients or changes in the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s estimate with which it regularly executes transactions. Many of these transactions of the risk of loss in its loan and receivables portfolio expose the Crédit Agricole S.A. group to credit risk in the event of default could adversely affect its results of operations and or financial distress. In addition, the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s credit financial condition risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by it cannot be realized In connection with its lending activities, the Crédit Agricole S.A. upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of group periodically establishes asset impairment charges, whenever the loan or derivative exposure due to it. necessary, to reflect actual or potential losses in respect of its loan and Please see note 3.1.3 to the consolidated financial statements for receivables portfolio, which are recorded in its profit and loss account quantitative information on the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s exposure to under “cost of risk.” The Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s overall level of credit institutions. such asset-impairment charges is based upon its assessment of prior loss experience, the volume and type of lending being conducted, The Crédit Agricole S.A. group may be adversely affected industry standards, past due loans, economic conditions and other by events impacting sectors to which it has significant factors related to the recoverability of various loans, or scenario-based exposure statistical methods applicable collectively to all relevant assets. Although The Crédit Agricole S.A. group is subject to the risk that certain events the Crédit Agricole S.A. group seeks to establish an appropriate level of may have a disproportionately large impact on a particular industrial asset-impairment charges, its lending businesses may cause it to have to sector to which the Crédit Agricole S.A. group is significantly exposed. increase their charges for loan losses in the future as a result of increases As of 31 December 2018, 19.7% of the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s in non-performing assets or for other reasons, such as deteriorating commercial lending portfolio involved borrowers in the public sector, market conditions or factors affecting particular countries or industry including local authorities, while 7.4% of the portfolio involved borrowers sectors. Any significant increase in charges for loan losses or a significant in the energy sector. Public sector borrowers can be affected by national change in the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s estimate of the risk of loss and local budgetary policies and spending priorities. Energy sector inherent in its portfolio of non-impaired loans, as well as the occurrence borrowers are subject to risks relating to volatility in energy prices. If these or other sectors that represent a significant share of the Crédit of loan losses in excess of the charges recorded with respect thereto, could have an adverse effect on the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s results of 5 Agricole S.A. group’s portfolio were to experience adverse conditions, operations and financial condition. the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s profitability and financial condition could be adversely affected. The Crédit Agricole S.A. group is subject to counterparty Please see paragraph 3.4.II.2.2 for quantitative information on the risk in connection with its market activities sectors represented in the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s commercial The Crédit Agricole S.A. group could incur losses from counterparty lending portfolio. defaults in connection with its securities, foreign exchange, commodities and other market activities. When the Crédit Agricole S.A. group holds The Crédit Agricole S.A. group is exposed to country risk portfolios of debt securities, including in connection with its marketand may be vulnerable to concentrated counterparty risk making activities, it is subject to the risk of a deterioration in the credit in certain countries where it operates quality of the issuer, or of a default in payment. In connection with its trading activities, the Crédit Agricole S.A. group is at risk in case a The Crédit Agricole S.A. group is subject to country risk, meaning the counterparty fails to perform its obligations to settle trades. The Crédit risk that economic, financial, political or social conditions in a given Agricole S.A. group’s derivatives activities are also subject to the risk of country in which it operates will affect its financial interests. The Crédit counterparty default, as well as significant uncertainties relating to the Agricole S.A. group monitors country risk and takes it into account amounts due in connection with a default. While the Crédit Agricole S.A. in the fair value adjustments and cost of risk recorded in its financial group often obtains collateral or uses setoff rights to address these statements. However, a significant change in political or macroeconomic risks, these may not be sufficient to protect it fully, and the Crédit environments may require it to record additional charges or to incur Agricole S.A. group may suffer significant losses as a result of defaults losses beyond the amounts previously written down in its financial by major counterparties. statements. As of 31 December 2018, 49% of the Crédit Agricole S.A. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 207 5 Risks and Pillar 3 1. Risk factors C. Financial risks in the future. Unexpected market developments may also reduce the effectiveness of the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s hedging strategies. In The Crédit Agricole S.A. group is exposed to risks addition, the manner in which gains and losses resulting from certain associated with changes in market prices and volatility ineffective hedges are recorded may result in additional volatility in the with respect to a wide number of market parameters Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s reported earnings. The Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s businesses are materially affected by conditions in the financial markets, which in turn are impacted The Crédit Agricole S.A. group may generate lower by current and anticipated future economic conditions in France, revenues from its asset management, brokerage Europe and in the other locations around the world where the Crédit and other businesses during market downturns Agricole S.A. group operates. Adverse changes in market, economic or Market downturns have in the past reduced the value of the client geopolitical conditions could create a challenging operating environment portfolios of the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s savings management for financial institutions. In particular, the risks to which the Crédit affiliates and increased the amount of withdrawals, reducing the Agricole S.A. group is exposed include fluctuations in interest rates, revenues it received from its asset management and private banking security prices, exchange rates, the specific yield premium on a bond businesses. In the year ended 31 December 2018, 29% of the issue and the prices of oil, precious metals and other commodities. Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s revenues were generated from its asset The Crédit Agricole S.A. group uses a “value at risk” (VaR) model to management and private banking businesses. Future downturns could quantify its exposure to potential losses from market risks, and also have similar effects on its results of operations and financial position. performs stress testing with a view to quantifying its potential exposure In addition, financial and economic conditions affect the number and in extreme scenarios, as described and quantified in paragraphs size of transactions for which the Crédit Agricole S.A. group provides 3.5.III.1 and 3.5.IV of this chapter. However, these techniques rely securities underwriting, financial advisory and other investment banking on statistical methodologies based on historical observations, which services. The Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s revenues, which include fees may turn out to be unreliable indicators of future market conditions. from these services, are directly related to the number and size of Accordingly, the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s exposure to market risk in the transactions in which it participates and can thus be significantly extreme scenarios could be greater than the exposures predicted by its affected by market downturns. Moreover, because the fees that the quantification techniques. Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s affiliates charge for managing their clients’ portfolios are in many cases based on the value or performance of those Significant interest rate changes could adversely affect portfolios, a market downturn that reduces the value of such clients’ the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s consolidated revenues portfolios would reduce the revenues that the Crédit Agricole S.A. or profitability group’s affiliates receive for such services. The amount of net interest income earned by the Crédit Agricole S.A. Even in the absence of a market downturn, below-market performance group during any given period significantly affects its overall by its mutual funds and life insurance products may result in increased consolidated revenues and profitability for that period. Interest rates are withdrawals and reduced inflows, which would reduce the revenues highly sensitive to many factors beyond the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s the Crédit Agricole S.A. group receives from its asset management and control. Changes in market interest rates could affect the interest rates insurance businesses. charged on interest-earning assets differently than the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Any adverse change in the yield curve Adjustments to the carrying value of the Crédit could cause a decline in the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s net interest Agricole S.A. group’s securities and derivatives portfolios income from its lending activities. In addition, increases in the interest and the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s own debt could have rates at which short-term funding is available and maturity mismatches an impact on its net income and shareholders’ equity may adversely affect the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s profitability. The carrying value of the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s securities and derivatives portfolios and certain other assets, as well as its own debt, The Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s hedging strategies in its balance sheet is adjusted as of each financial statement date. may not prevent losses The valuation adjustments include a component that reflects the credit If any of the variety of instruments and strategies that the Crédit risk inherent in the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s own debt. Most of the Agricole S.A. group uses to hedge its exposure to various types of adjustments are made on the basis of changes in fair value of the assets risk in its businesses is not effective, the Crédit Agricole S.A. group or liabilities during an accounting period, with the changes recorded may incur losses. Many of its strategies are based on historical trading either in the income statement or directly in shareholders’ equity. patterns and correlations. For example, if the Crédit Agricole S.A. group Changes that are recorded in the income statement, to the extent not holds a long position in an asset, it may hedge that position by taking offset by opposite changes in the fair value of other assets, affect its a short position in an asset where the short position has historically consolidated revenues. All fair value adjustments affect shareholders’ moved in a direction that would offset a change in the value of the long equity and, as a result, its capital adequacy ratios. The fact that fair position. The Crédit Agricole S.A. group may only be partially hedged, value adjustments are recorded in one accounting period does not mean however, or these strategies may not be fully effective in mitigating its that further adjustments will not be necessary in subsequent periods. risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk 208 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 1. Risk factors The Crédit Agricole S.A. group may suffer losses D. Operational risks and related risks in connection with its holdings of equity securities The Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s risk management Equity securities held by the Crédit Agricole S.A. group could decline in policies, procedures and methods may leave it exposed value, causing the Crédit Agricole S.A. group to realize losses. The Crédit to unidentified or unanticipated risks, which could lead Agricole S.A. group bears the risk of a decline in value of equity securities to material losses in connection with its market-making and trading activities, mainly with respect to listed equity securities, in its private equity business, and in The Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s risk management techniques and connection with transactions in which it acquires strategic participations strategies may not be fully effective in mitigating its risk exposure in all in a company with a view to exercising control and influencing the types of market environments or against all types of risk, including risks management policies of the issuer. In the case of strategic participations, that it fails to identify or anticipate. Furthermore, the risk management the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s degree of control may be limited, and any procedures and policies used by the Crédit Agricole S.A. group do not disagreement with other shareholders or with management may adversely guarantee effective risk reduction in all market configurations. These impact the ability of the Crédit Agricole S.A. group to influence the procedures may not be effective against certain risks, particularly policies of the relevant company. If the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s equity those that the Crédit Agricole S.A. group has not previously identified or securities decline in value significantly, the Crédit Agricole S.A. group may anticipated. Some of the qualitative tools and metrics used by the Crédit be required to record fair value adjustments or asset impairment charges Agricole S.A. group for managing risk are based upon its use of observed in its consolidated financial statements, which could negatively impact its historical market behaviour. It applies statistical and other tools to these results of operations and financial condition. observations to assess its risk exposures. These tools and metrics may fail to predict future risk exposures. These risk exposures could, for Protracted market declines can reduce liquidity in the example, arise from factors it did not anticipate or correctly evaluate in markets, making it harder to sell assets and possibly its statistical models or from unprecedented market movements. This would limit its ability to manage its risks and affect its results. The Crédit leading to material losses Agricole S.A. group’s losses could therefore be significantly greater than In some of the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s businesses, protracted those anticipated based on historical measures. In addition, certain of market movements, particularly asset price declines, can reduce the processes that the Crédit Agricole S.A. group uses to estimate risk the level of activity in the market or reduce market liquidity. These exposure are based on both complex analysis and factors that could lead developments can lead to material losses if the Crédit Agricole S.A. to uncertain assumptions. Both qualitative and quantitative models used group cannot close out deteriorating positions in a timely way. This may by Crédit Agricole S.A. group may not be comprehensive and could lead especially be the case for assets the Crédit Agricole S.A. group holds Crédit Agricole S.A. group to significant or unexpected losses. While no for which there are not very liquid markets to begin with. Assets that are material issue has been identified to date, risk management systems are not traded on stock exchanges or other public trading markets, such as also subject to the risk of operational failure, including fraud. derivatives contracts between banks, may have values that the Crédit Agricole S.A. group calculates using models other than publicly-quoted Future events may be different from those reflected prices. Monitoring the deterioration of prices of assets like these is in the management assumptions and estimates used difficult and could lead to losses that the Crédit Agricole S.A. group did in the preparation of the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s not anticipate. financial statements, which may cause unexpected losses The Crédit Agricole S.A. group must ensure that its assets in the future 5 and liabilities properly match in order to avoid exposure to Pursuant to IFRS rules and interpretations in effect as of the date of losses this Registration Document, the Crédit Agricole S.A. group is required to use certain estimates in preparing its financial statements, including The Crédit Agricole S.A. group is exposed to the risk that the maturity, accounting estimates to determine loan loss impairment charges, interest rate or currencies of its assets might not match those of its reserves related to future litigation, and the fair value of certain assets liabilities. The timing of payments on many of the Crédit Agricole S.A. and liabilities, among other items. Should the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s assets is uncertain, and if the Crédit Agricole S.A. group receives group’s determined values for such items prove substantially inaccurate, lower revenues than expected at a given time, it might require additional or if the methods by which such values were determined are revised in funding from the market in order to meet its obligations on its liabilities. future IFRS rules or interpretations, the Crédit Agricole S.A. group may While the Crédit Agricole S.A. group imposes strict limits on the gaps experience unexpected losses. between its assets and its liabilities as part of its risk management procedures, it cannot be certain that these limits will be fully effective The Crédit Agricole S.A. group is exposed to risks related to eliminate potential losses arising from asset and liability mismatches. to the security and reliability of its information systems Please see paragraph 3.6.4 for quantitative information relating to and those of third parties liquidity risk and asset and liability management. The Crédit Agricole S.A. group is subject to cyber risk, which is the risk caused by a malicious and/or fraudulent act, perpetrated digitally in an effort to manipulate data (personal, banking/insurance, technical or strategic data), processes and users, with the aim of causing material losses to companies, their employees, partners and customers. Cyber risk has become a top priority in the field of operational risks. A company’s data assets are exposed to new, complex and evolving threats which could have material financial and reputational impacts on The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 209 5 Risks and Pillar 3 1. Risk factors all companies, and specifically those in the banking sector. Given the favourable, the Crédit Agricole S.A. group may incur substantial costs increasing sophistication of criminal enterprises behind cyber-attacks, and have to devote substantial resources to defending its interests. regulatory and supervisory authorities have begun highlighting the Please see paragraph 3.9 (Litigation and exceptional events) in this importance of risk management in this area. chapter for information regarding ongoing judicial, arbitration and As with most other banks, the Crédit Agricole S.A. group relies heavily on regulatory proceedings to which the Crédit Agricole S.A. group is subject. communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure or interruption or breach in security of these systems could result The international scope of the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s in failures or interruptions in its customer relationship management, operations exposes it to legal and compliance risks general ledger, deposit, servicing and/or loan organization systems. The international scope of the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s operations If, for example, the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s information systems exposes it to risks inherent in foreign operations, including the need to failed, even for a short period of time, it would be unable to serve in comply with multiple and often complex laws and regulations applicable a timely manner certain customers’ needs and could thus lose their to activities in each of the countries involved, such as local banking business. Likewise, a temporary shutdown of its information systems, laws and regulations, internal control and disclosure requirements, data even though it has back-up recovery systems and contingency plans, privacy restrictions, European, U.S. and local anti-money laundering and could result in considerable costs required for information retrieval and anti-corruption laws and regulations, international sanctions and other verification. The Crédit Agricole S.A. group cannot provide assurances rules and requirements. Violations of these laws and regulations could that such failures or interruptions will not occur or, if they do occur, harm the reputation of the Crédit Agricole S.A. group, result in litigation, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures civil or criminal penalties, or otherwise have a material adverse effect or interruptions could have a material adverse effect on its financial on its business. condition and results of operations. Despite the implementation and improvement of procedures designed The Crédit Agricole S.A. group is also exposed to the risk of an to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no operational failure or interruption of one of its clearing agents, foreign assurance that all employees or contractors of the Crédit Agricole S.A. exchange markets, clearing houses, custodians or other financial group will follow its policies or that such programs will be adequate to intermediaries or external service providers that it uses to execute or prevent all violations. It cannot be excluded that transactions in violation facilitate its securities transactions. As its interconnectivity with its of the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s policies may be identified, potentially customers grows, the Crédit Agricole S.A. group may also become resulting in penalties. The Crédit Agricole S.A. group does not have direct increasingly exposed to the risk of operational failure of its customers’ or indirect majority voting control in certain entities with international information systems. The Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s communications operations, and in those cases its ability to require compliance with its and information systems, and those of its customers, service providers policies and procedures may be even more limited. and counterparties, may also be subject to malfunctions or interruptions resulting from cybercrime or cyber terrorism. The Crédit Agricole S.A. group cannot guarantee that malfunctions or interruptions in its systems Damage to the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s reputation or in those of other parties will not occur or, if they do occur, that they could have a negative impact on the Crédit Agricole S.A. will be adequately resolved. group’s business The Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s business depends in large part on The Crédit Agricole S.A. group is exposed to the risk of the maintenance of a strong reputation for compliance and ethical paying significant damages or fines as a result of legal, behavior. If the Crédit Agricole S.A. group were to become subject to arbitration or regulatory proceedings legal proceedings or adverse publicity relating to compliance or similar issues, the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s reputation could be affected, The Crédit Agricole S.A. group and its affiliates have in the past been, and resulting in an adverse impact on its business. These issues include may in the future be, subject to significant legal proceedings (including inappropriately dealing with potential conflicts of interest, legal and class action lawsuits), arbitrations and regulatory proceedings. regulatory requirements, competition issues, ethical issues, money When determined adversely to the Crédit Agricole S.A. group, these laundering laws, information security policies and sales and trading proceedings can result in significant awards of damages, fines and practices. The Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s reputation could also be penalties. Legal and regulatory proceedings to which the Crédit damaged by an employee’s misconduct or fraud or embezzlement by Agricole S.A. group has been subject involve issues such as collusion financial intermediaries. Any damage to the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s with respect to the manipulation of market benchmarks, violation of reputation might lead to a loss of business that could impact its earnings international sanctions, inadequate controls and other matters. While and financial position. Failure to address these issues adequately could the Crédit Agricole S.A. group in many cases has substantial defences, also give rise to additional legal risk, which might increase the number even where the outcome of a legal or regulatory proceeding is ultimately of litigation claims and expose the Crédit Agricole S.A. group to fines or regulatory sanctions. 210 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 1. Risk factors E. Risks relating to the environment More generally, increased volatility of financial markets could adversely in which the Crédit Agricole S.A. group affect the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s trading and investment positions in the debt, currency, commodity and equity markets, as well as its operates positions in other investments. Severe market disruptions and extreme Adverse economic and financial conditions have in the past market volatility have occurred in recent years and may occur again had and may in the future have an impact on the Crédit in the future, which could result in significant losses for the Crédit Agricole S.A. group and the markets in which it operates Agricole S.A. group. Such losses may extend to a broad range of trading The businesses of the Crédit Agricole S.A. group are sensitive to and hedging products, including swaps, forward and future contracts, changes in the financial markets and more generally to economic options and structured products. Volatility of financial markets makes conditions in France, Europe and the rest of the world. In the year ended it difficult to predict trends and implement effective trading strategies. 31 December 2018, 53% of the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s revenues It is difficult to predict when economic or market downturns will occur, were generated in France, 16% in Italy, 15% in the rest of Europe and and which markets will be most significantly impacted. If economic or 16% in the rest of the world. A deterioration in economic conditions in market conditions in France or elsewhere in Europe, or global markets the markets where the Crédit Agricole S.A. group operates could have more generally, were to deteriorate or become more volatile, the Crédit some or all of the following impacts: Agricole S.A. group’s operations could be disrupted, and its business, nn adverse economic conditions could affect the business and operations results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. of customers, resulting in an increased rate of default on loans and receivables; The Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s profitability and financial nn a decline in market prices of bonds, shares and commodities could condition may be impacted by either the continuation or impact many of the businesses of the Crédit Agricole S.A. group, the end of the current low interest rate environment including in particular trading, investment banking and asset In recent years, global markets have been characterized by low management revenues; interest rates. If the low interest rate environment continues, the Crédit nn macro-economic policies adopted in response to actual or anticipated Agricole S.A. group’s profitability may be affected. During periods of economic conditions could have unintended effects, and are likely low interest rates, interest rate spreads tend to tighten, and the Crédit to impact market parameters such as interest rates and foreign Agricole S.A. group may be unable to lower funding costs sufficiently exchange rates, which in turn could affect the businesses of the Crédit to offset reduced income from lending at lower market interest rates. Agricole S.A. group that are most exposed to market risk; Efforts to reduce the cost of deposits may be restricted by the prevalence, nn perceived favourable economic conditions generally or in specific particularly in the Crédit Agricole group’s home market of France, of business sectors could result in asset price bubbles, which could in regulated savings products (such as plan d’épargne logement (PEL) home turn exacerbate the impact of corrections when conditions become savings plans) with interest rates set above current market levels. Low less favourable; interest rates may also negatively affect the profitability of the insurance activities of the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s affiliates, which may not be nn a significant economic disruption (such as the global financial crisis able to generate an investment return sufficient to cover amounts paid of 2008 or the European sovereign debt crisis of 2011) could have a out on certain of their insurance products. Low interest rates may also severe impact on all of the activities of the Crédit Agricole S.A. group, adversely affect commissions charged by the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s particularly if the disruption is characterized by an absence of market liquidity that makes it difficult to sell certain categories of assets at their estimated market value or at all. asset management affiliates on money market and other fixed income products. In addition, given lower interest rates, the Crédit Agricole S.A. 5 group’s affiliates have experienced an increase in early repayment and European markets may be affected by a number of factors, including refinancing of mortgages and other fixed-rate consumer and corporate continuing uncertainty resulting from the decision of the United loans as clients look to take advantage of lower borrowing costs. If interest Kingdom to leave the European Union, political activism in France, rates remain low, a similar trend of early repayments could occur again. uncertain political and economic conditions in Italy and leadership This, along with the issuance of new loans at the low prevailing market changes in Germany. Markets in the United States may be affected by interest rates, could result in an overall decrease in the average interest factors such as trade policy or a tendency towards political stalemate, rate of loan portfolios. A reduction in credit spreads and a decline in which has resulted in government shutdowns and affected credit retail banking income resulting from lower portfolio interest rates may and currency markets globally. Asian markets could be impacted by adversely affect the profitability of the retail banking operations of the factors such as slower than expected economic growth rates in China Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s affiliates and the overall financial condition or by geopolitical tensions on the Korean peninsula. Share prices have of the Crédit Agricole S.A. group. An environment of persistently low recently experienced significant volatility and could fall if economic interest rates can also have the effect of flattening the yield curve in the conditions deteriorate, or if the market perceives that they are likely to market more generally, which could reduce the premiums generated by deteriorate. Credit markets and the value of fixed income assets could the Crédit Agricole S.A. group and its affiliates from their funding activities be adversely affected if interest rates were to rise as the European and negatively affect their profitability and financial condition. A flattening Central Bank, the Federal Reserve Bank and other central banks yield curve can also influence financial institutions to engage in riskier continue to scale back the extraordinary support measures they put in activities in an effort to earn the desired level of returns, which can place in response to recent adverse economic conditions. The price of oil increase overall market risk and volatility. has been particularly volatile in recent months, and could be impacted by unpredictable geopolitical factors in regions such as the Middle East and Russia. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 211 5 Risks and Pillar 3 1. Risk factors On the other hand, the end of a period of prolonged low interest rates methodologies (particularly with respect to insurance businesses), carries risks. In this respect, the U.S. Federal Reserve has increased periodic stress testing and the creation of new and strengthened interest rates in recent months (although it recently announced it regulatory bodies. Some of the new measures adopted after the financial would pause its policy of interest rate increases), and the ECB ended crisis are expected to be modified, impacting the predictability of the its asset purchase programme in December 2018 (although it recently regulatory regimes to which the Crédit Agricole S.A. group is subject. announced it would maintain its interest rate guidance and interest As a result of some of these measures, the Crédit Agricole S.A. group rates would stay at current levels through 2019). If market interest rates has reduced the size of certain of its activities in order to allow it to were to rise, a portfolio featuring significant amounts of lower interest comply with the new requirements. These measures have also increased loans and fixed income assets as a result of an extended period of compliance costs and are likely to continue to do so. In addition, certain low interest rates would be expected to decline in value. If the Crédit of these measures may also increase the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s Agricole S.A. group’s hedging strategies are ineffective or provide only funding costs, particularly by requiring the Crédit Agricole S.A. group to a partial hedge against such a change in value, the Crédit Agricole S.A. increase the portion of its funding consisting of capital and subordinated group could incur losses. Moreover, any rate increase that is sharper debt, which carry higher costs than senior debt instruments. or more rapid than expected could threaten economic growth in the In addition, the general political environment has evolved unfavourably European Union, the United States and elsewhere. On the lending side, for banks and the financial industry, resulting in additional pressure this could cause stress in loan and bond portfolios possibly leading to on legislative and regulatory bodies to adopt more stringent regulatory an increase in non-performing exposures and defaults. More generally, measures, despite the fact that these measures can have adverse the ending of accommodative monetary policies may lead to severe consequences on lending and other financial activities, and on the corrections in certain markets or assets (e.g., non-investment grade economy. Because of the continuing uncertainty regarding the new corporate and sovereign borrowers, certain sectors of equities and real legislative and regulatory measures, it is not possible to predict what estate) that particularly benefitted from the prolonged low interest rate impact they will have on the Crédit Agricole S.A. group. and high liquidity environment, and such corrections could potentially be contagious to financial markets generally, including through substantially increased volatility. F. Other risks relating to the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s activities The Crédit Agricole S.A. group operates in a highly The Crédit Agricole group may not realize the targets regulated environment, and its profitability and financial in its Medium-Term Plan condition could be significantly impacted by ongoing On 9 March 2016, the Crédit Agricole group announced its mediumlegislative and regulatory changes term plan, Strategic Ambition 2020 (the “Medium-Term Plan”). The A variety of regulatory and supervisory regimes apply to the Crédit Medium-Term Plan contemplates a number of initiatives, including a Agricole S.A. group in each of the jurisdictions in which the Crédit strategic ambition embedded in four priorities: (i) simplify the Crédit Agricole S.A. group operates. Non-compliance with such regimes Agricole group’s capital structure; (ii) deploy a new customer project, could lead to significant intervention by regulatory authorities and enhanced by the digital transformation; (iii) strengthen the Crédit fines, international sanctions, public reprimand, reputational damage, Agricole group’s growth momentum in its core business lines; and enforced suspension of operations or, in extreme cases, withdrawal of (iv) transform the Crédit Agricole group to sustainably improve its authorization to operate. In addition, the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s operational efficiency. ability to expand its business or to pursue certain existing activities may The Medium-Term Plan includes a number of financial targets relating be limited by regulatory constraints. to revenues, expenses, net income and capital adequacy ratios, among Legislation and regulations have been enacted or proposed in recent other things. These financial targets were established primarily for years with a view to introducing or reinforcing a number of changes, purposes of internal planning and allocation of resources, and are based some permanent, in the global financial environment. While the objective on a number of assumptions with regard to business and economic of these measures is to avoid a recurrence of the global financial crisis, conditions. The financial targets do not constitute projections or the new measures have changed substantially, and may continue to forecasts of anticipated results. The actual results of the Crédit Agricole change, the environment in which the Crédit Agricole S.A. group and group are likely to vary (and could vary significantly) from these targets other financial institutions operate. for a number of reasons, including the materialization of one or more of The measures that have been or may be adopted include more the risk factors described elsewhere in this section. stringent capital and liquidity requirements (particularly for large global The plan’s success depends on a very large number of initiatives (both institutions and groups such as the Crédit Agricole S.A. group), taxes significant and modest in scope) within different business units of the on financial transactions, limits or taxes on employee compensation Crédit Agricole group. While many of these could be successful, it is over specified levels, limits on the types of activities that commercial unlikely that all targets will be met, and it is not possible to predict which banks can undertake (particularly proprietary trading and investment objectives will and will not be achieved. The Medium Term Plan also and ownership in private equity funds and hedge funds), ring-fencing contemplates significant investments, but if the objectives of the plan requirements relating to certain activities, restrictions on the types of are not met, the return on these investments will be less than expected. entities permitted to conduct swaps activities, restrictions on certain If the Crédit Agricole group does not realize the targets of its Medium types of activities or financial products such as derivatives, mandatory Term Plan, its financial condition and results of operations could be write-downs or conversions into equity of certain debt instruments, adversely affected. enhanced recovery and resolution regimes, revised risk-weighting 212 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 1. Risk factors Claims experienced by the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s The Crédit Agricole S.A. group, along with its corporate insurance affiliates could be inconsistent with the and investment banking subsidiary, must maintain high assumptions they use to price their products and establish credit ratings, or their business and profitability could their reserves be adversely affected The earnings of the insurance affiliates of the Crédit Agricole S.A. group Credit ratings have a significant impact on the liquidity of the Crédit depend significantly upon the extent to which the their actual claims Agricole S.A. group and the liquidity of each of its affiliates that are experience is consistent with the assumptions they use in setting the active in financial markets (principally its corporate and investment prices for their products and establishing technical provisions. Crédit banking subsidiary, Crédit Agricole CIB). A downgrade in credit ratings Agricole Assurances uses both its own empirical analysis and industry could adversely affect the liquidity and competitive position of the data to develop its products and estimate future policy benefits, including Crédit Agricole S.A. group or Crédit Agricole CIB, increase borrowing information used in pricing the insurance products and establishing costs, limit access to the capital markets, trigger obligations in the the related actuarial liabilities. However, there can be no assurance Crédit Agricole group’s covered bond program or under certain bilateral that actual experience will match these estimates, and unanticipated provisions in some trading, derivative and collateralized financing risks such as pandemic diseases or natural disasters could result in contracts or adversely affect the market value of the Notes. loss experience inconsistent with the relevant assumptions related to The Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s cost of obtaining long-term unsecured the pricing of these products and the establishment of reserves. To funding from market investors, and that of Crédit Agricole CIB, is directly the extent that the actual benefits paid by Crédit Agricole Assurances related to their credit spreads (the amount in excess of the interest to policyholders are higher than the underlying assumptions used in rate of government securities of the same maturity that is paid to debt initially establishing the future policy benefit reserves, or if events or investors), which in turn depend to a certain extent on their credit trends cause Crédit Agricole Assurances to change the underlying ratings. Increases in credit spreads can significantly increase the Crédit assumptions, it may be exposed to greater than expected liabilities, Agricole S.A. group’s or Crédit Agricole CIB’s cost of funding. Changes which may adversely affect the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s insurance in credit spreads are continuous, market-driven, and subject at times business, results of operations and financial condition. to unpredictable and highly volatile movements. Credit spreads are also influenced by market perceptions of issuer creditworthiness. In Adverse events may affect several of the Crédit addition, credit spreads may be influenced by movements in the cost to Agricole S.A. group’s businesses simultaneously purchasers of credit default swaps referenced to the Crédit Agricole S.A. While each of the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s principal activities are group’s or Crédit Agricole CIB’s debt obligations, which are influenced subject to risks specific to them and are subject to different market both by the credit quality of those obligations, and by a number of cycles, it is possible that adverse events could affect several of the market factors that are beyond the control of the Crédit Agricole S.A. Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s activities at the same time. In such event, group and Crédit Agricole CIB. the Crédit Agricole S.A. group might not realize the benefits that it otherwise would hope to achieve through the diversification of its The Crédit Agricole S.A. group faces intense competition activities. For example, adverse macroeconomic conditions could impact The Crédit Agricole S.A. group faces intense competition in all financial the Crédit Agricole S.A. group in multiple ways, by increasing default risk services markets and for the products and services it offers, including in its lending activities, causing a decline in the value of its securities retail banking services. The European financial services markets are portfolios and reducing revenues in the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s commission-generating activities. Where an event adversely affects mature, and the demand for financial services products is, to some extent, related to overall economic development. Competition in this 5 multiple activities, the impact on the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s results environment is based on many factors, including the products and of operations and financial condition could be particularly significant. services offered, pricing, distribution systems, customer service, brand recognition, perceived financial strength and the willingness to use The Crédit Agricole S.A. group is subject to risks capital to serve client needs. Consolidation has created a number of associated with climate change firms that, like the Crédit Agricole S.A. group, have the ability to offer While the Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s activities generally are not a wide range of products, from insurance, loans and deposit taking to exposed directly to climate change risks, the Crédit Agricole S.A. group brokerage, investment banking and asset management services. is subject to a number of indirect risks that could be significant. When In addition, new rivals that are more competitive (including those utilizing the Crédit Agricole S.A. group lends to businesses that conduct activities innovative technology solutions), which may be subject to separate or that produce significant quantities of greenhouse gases, the Crédit more flexible regulation, or other requirements relating to prudential Agricole S.A. group is subject to the risk that more stringent regulations ratios, are also emerging in the market. Technological advances and the or limitations on the borrower’s activities may adversely impact its credit growth of e-commerce have made it possible for non-bank institutions quality, causing the Crédit Agricole S.A. group to suffer losses on its loan to offer products and services that traditionally were banking products, portfolio. The Crédit Agricole S.A. group also conducts activities relating and for financial institutions and other companies to provide electronic to trading of emissions allowances, and it could suffer losses due to and Internet-based financial solutions, including electronic securities adverse movements in prices for such allowances. As the transition to trading. These new players exert downward price pressure on the a more stringent climate change environment accelerates, the Crédit Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s products and services and can succeed Agricole S.A. group will have to adapt its activities appropriately in order in winning market share in areas that have been historically stable to achieve its strategic objectives and to avoid suffering losses. and dominated by traditional financial institutions. In addition, new applications, particularly in payment processing and retail banking, new currencies, such as bitcoin, and new technologies facilitating transaction processing, such as blockchain, have been gradually transforming the The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 213 5 Risks and Pillar 3 1. Risk factors financial sector and the ways in which customers consume banking As a general matter, a resolution procedure may be initiated in respect services. It is difficult to predict the effects of the emergence of such new of an institution if (i) it or the group to which it belongs is failing or likely technologies, for which the regulatory framework is still being defined, to fail, (ii) there is no reasonable prospect that another measure would but their increased use may transform the competitive landscape of avoid such failure within a reasonable time period, and (iii) a resolution the banking and financial industry. The Crédit Agricole S.A. group must measure is required (a) to ensure the continuity of critical functions, therefore strive to maintain its competitiveness in France and in the (b) to avoid a significant adverse effect on the financial system, (c) to other major markets in which it operates by adapting its systems and protect public funds by minimizing reliance on extraordinary public strengthening its technological footprint to maintain its current market financial support, and (d) to protect client funds and assets, in particular share and level of results. those of depositors. If an issuing institution is failing or likely to fail and there is no reasonable The Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s ability to attract prospect that another measure would avoid such failure within a and retain qualified employees is critical to the success reasonable time period or if the issuing institution or the group to which of its business and failure to do so may materially affect it belongs requires extraordinary public support, resolution authorities its performance must write down capital instruments such as shares or convert such The Crédit Agricole S.A. group’s employees are its most important instruments (excluding shares) into equity before initiating resolution resource and, in many areas of the financial services industry, procedure. If such a resolution procedure is commenced thereafter, the competition for qualified personnel is intense. the Crédit Agricole S.A. resolution authority may decide to exercise the bail-in power in respect group’s results depend on its ability to attract new employees and to of any remaining capital instruments (i.e., capital instruments (including retain and motivate its existing employees. The Crédit Agricole S.A. shares) whose nominal amount has not been fully written down or group’s ability to attract and retain qualified employees could capital instruments (excluding shares) that have not been converted potentially be impaired by legislative and regulatory restrictions on to equity at the beginning of a resolution procedure), as well as other employee compensation in the financial services industry. Changes in eligible liabilities issued by the relevant institution (i.e., subordinated the business environment may cause the Crédit Agricole S.A. group to debt instruments, senior non-preferred debt instruments and finally move employees from one business to another or to reduce the number senior preferred debt instruments) in reverse order of seniority, excluding of employees in certain of its businesses. This may cause temporary certain limited categories of liabilities. disruptions as employees adapt to new roles and may reduce the Crédit As the Central Body of the Crédit Agricole Network (which includes Agricole S.A. group’s ability to take advantage of improvements in the primarily Crédit Agricole S.A., the Regional Banks, the Local Banks and business environment. In addition, current and future laws (including Crédit Agricole CIB and BforBank, as affiliated members (the “Crédit laws relating to immigration and outsourcing) may restrict the Crédit Agricole Network”)), Crédit Agricole S.A. must implement the financial Agricole S.A. group’s ability to move responsibilities or personnel from solidarity mechanism provided for in Article L. 511-31 of the French Code one jurisdiction to another. This may impact its ability to take advantage monétaire et financier in order to mobilize the equity of the affiliated of business opportunities or potential efficiencies. members of the Crédit Agricole Network to maintain the liquidity and solvency of both the Crédit Agricole Network and each of its members, G. Risks to Crédit Agricole S.A. security holders including Crédit Agricole S.A. If those measures prove insufficient, and the conditions related to the commencement of a resolution procedure Holders of securities of Crédit Agricole S.A. could suffer as described above are met, the resolution authority’s exercise of losses if a resolution procedure is commenced or if there its resolution powers could result in the write-down or full or partial is a significant deterioration in the financial condition conversion of capital instruments and eligible liabilities issued by Crédit of the Group Agricole S.A. The European Bank Resolution and Recovery Directive 2014/59/EU In addition, the BRRD provides resolution authorities with broader (“BRRD”) and the single resolution mechanism (“Single Resolution powers to implement other resolution measures, which may include, Mechanism”), as transposed into French law by decree-law dated among other things, the sale of the institution’s business to a third party 20 August 2015 (ordonnance n° 2015-1024 du 20 août 2015 portant or a bridge institution, the separation of assets, the replacement or diverses dispositions d’adaptation de la législation au droit de l’Union substitution of the institution as obligor in respect of debt instruments, européenne en matière financière), each of which is the subject of modifications to the terms of debt instruments (including altering the pending modification proposals at the European level, provide resolution maturity and/or the amount of interest payable and/or imposing a authorities with the power to “bail in” capital instruments and eligible temporary suspension on payments) and discontinuing the listing and liabilities of an issuing institution such as Crédit Agricole S.A., meaning admission to trading of financial instruments. writing them down or (except with respect to shares) converting them If the financial condition of the Crédit Agricole group or of Crédit to equity as further described below. Agricole S.A deteriorates, or is perceived to deteriorate, the exercise of bail-in powers and other resolution measures by the resolution authority as described above could accelerate the decline of the market value of the shares and other securities of Crédit Agricole S.A. 214 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 2. Major risks taxonomy The structure of the Crédit Agricole group is different To assist Crédit Agricole S.A. in assuming its duties and commitments from that of other major banking groups as Central Body of the Crédit Agricole Network, and in particular to Crédit Agricole S.A. does not have a majority ownership interest in the enable it to take action with respect to members of the Crédit Agricole Regional Banks (other than the Caisse régionale de la Corse). As a result, Network that may encounter financial difficulties, a fund for liquidity and Crédit Agricole S.A. does not control the Regional Banks in the same solvency banking risks (known by its French acronym as the “FRBLS”) way a majority shareholder would. In its capacity as Central Body of the has been established. For information on the amount in the FRBLS as Crédit Agricole Network, Crédit Agricole S.A. has important powers of of 31 December 2018 and the manner in which the FRBLS is financed, control granted by law over each of the members of the Crédit Agricole please see chapter 6 of this Registration Document. Although Crédit Network (which includes the Regional Banks). These powers give Crédit Agricole S.A. is not aware of circumstances likely to require recourse Agricole S.A. the ability to exercise administrative, technical and financial to the FRBLS to support a member of the Crédit Agricole Network as supervision over the organisation and management of these institutions of the date of this Registration Document, there can be no assurance and to take extraordinary measures under certain circumstances. that it will not be necessary to call upon the capital of the FRBLS. In However, Crédit Agricole S.A’s powers over the Regional Banks differ in the event the FRBLS is used and its resources prove insufficient, Crédit nature from the relationship of voting control that would arise from the Agricole S.A. would be required to exercise all other available measures direct ownership of a majority stake in the Regional Banks. in order to mobilize the resources and capital of the Crédit Agricole Network, including its own resources. If any member of the Crédit Agricole Network encounters future financial difficulties, Crédit Agricole S.A. would be The Regional Banks (through SAS Rue de La Boétie) hold a required to mobilize the resources of the Crédit Agricole majority interest in the share capital of Crédit Agricole S.A. Network (including its own resources) to support such By virtue of their controlling interest in Crédit Agricole S.A. through SAS member Rue de La Boétie, the Regional Banks own a majority of the share capital of Crédit Agricole S.A. and consequently have the power to determine As the Central Body of the Crédit Agricole Network, Crédit Agricole S.A. the outcome of all votes at ordinary meetings of Crédit Agricole S.A.’s is required to ensure that each member of the Crédit Agricole Network, shareholders, including votes on decisions such as the appointment or as well as the network as a whole, maintains adequate liquidity and approval of members of its board of directors and the distribution of solvency pursuant to Article L. 511-31 of the French Code monétaire dividends. et financier. To this end, if one of the members of the Crédit Agricole Network were to encounter financial difficulties, Crédit Agricole S.A. would be required to call on support from other members of the Crédit Agricole Network whenever and in any manner deemed necessary. 2. MAJOR RISKS TAXONOMY To ensure a consistent understanding of risk categories, the Group maintains an internal taxonomy of major risks. This taxonomy is reviewed and validated at least annually by the Executive Committee or Risk Committee. A risk is considered to be major when its occurrence results in a significant deviation from the profit, solvency or liquidity objectives for a Group 5 activity or entity. The notion of major risk is defined either when the impact has already been observed historically, or when it is a risk considered minor until now but could, under certain circumstances, materialise at a much higher level than what can currently be observed. This notion can also include emerging risks related to new activities. Type of risk Definition Credit risks Global Credit Risk Risk incurred in the event of default by a counterparty or counterparties that are considered to be a same group of related customers. NB: for corporate debt securities in the investment portfolio, Global Credit Risk includes the risk of default by the issuer but not the spread risk, which is classified as Issuer Risk. Sectoral and individual Risk arising from exposure to each counterparty, including central counterparties, to counterparties considered Concentration risk to be the same group of related customers, to counterparties operating in the same economic sector or geographic area, or from the provision of credit for the same activity, or from the application of credit risk mitigation techniques, in particular security interests issued by the same issuer. Country and Sovereign Risk The risk of concentration of exposures in the credit and investment portfolios from the country or sovereign component. NB: For sovereign debt securities in the investment portfolio, Country and Sovereign Risk includes the risk of default by the issuer, but not the spread risk, which is classified as Issuer Risk. Retail Banking risks – Credit risk on the specific area of retail banking in France. France Retail Banking risks – Credit risk on the specific area of retail banking abroad. International Counterparty Risk on Market Risk incurred in the event of default or deterioration in the credit quality of a counterparty or counterparties transactions considered as the same group of related customers, on transactions processed in the trading book (securities, derivatives, etc.). Securitisation Risk Credit risk arising from securitisation transactions in which the reporting company acts as an investor, initiator or sponsor, including reputational risks such as those arising in connection with complex structures or products. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 215 5 Risks and Pillar 3 2. Major risks taxonomy Type of risk Definition Settlement Risk Delivery Scope: any transaction requiring the cross-exchange of debt securities, shares, currencies or commodities, provided that such exchange is neither subject to a bilateral netting agreement nor carried out via a third party guaranteeing delivery (or payment) to both counterparties against payment. The risk arises when a counterparty fails to deliver the debt securities, shares, currencies or commodities it owes at the end of a transaction, whereas the Bank has already delivered to it the debt securities, shares, currencies or commodities that the Bank owed it on the same transaction. The risk base is the gross equivalent value of securities, shares, currencies or commodities to be received from a given counterparty on the same due date. Financial risks Equity Risk/Investment risk Risk of a decrease in the value of equity investments (of any type, including listed shares, unlisted shares, etc.) made with the aim of influencing the Company’s administration, whether they are securities “the long-term ownership of which is considered useful to the Company’s business, in particular because it enables it to influence or control the Company issuing the securities”, or equity investments in the context of a private equity activity. Market risk Scope: trading portfolios (excluding equity and investment portfolios). Risk of losses on onand off-balance sheet positions resulting from changes in market prices (also includes equity risk in this portfolio). Issuer Risk Risk of a decrease in the value of securities held in the banking book and recorded at fair value, the acquisition of which is carried out in order to generate a return and/or manage liquidity reserves. This risk is materialised by the decrease in the value of the financial asset linked to changes in the issuer’s credit quality for debt securities (CSRBB – Credit Spread Risk in the Banking Book) or by the decrease in the share price for listed shares. Foreign exchange risk Risk arising from operational foreign exchange positions (including trading and securities portfolios) and structural foreign exchange positions (equity investments): nn impact on P&L of operational foreign exchange positions left open; nn impact on equity of structural exchange rate positions left open. Liquidity risk Risk of not having sufficient funds to meet commitments. This risk is assessed and monitored as part of the ILAAP process. Global Interest Rate Risk Risk of loss on future net interest margin due to interest rate stress. Risk of excessive leverage Risk of vulnerability of an institution resulting from potential leverage or leverage that may require corrective measures to be taken in the event of losses or financing difficulties of the institution, such as an emergency sale of assets that may result in additional losses or a downward revaluation of the remaining assets. Operational risks and associated risks Other Operational Risks From a general perspective, the risk of loss resulting from shortcomings or failure in internal procedures, staff, information systems or external events; operational risk includes in particular risks related to events with a low probability of occurrence but a high impact. Non-compliance risk/ nn Risk of judicial, administrative or disciplinary sanction, significant financial loss or damage to reputation arising Misconduct risk/ from non-compliance with provisions specific to banking and financial activities: Legal risk nn current or potential risk of loss for an institution resulting from the inappropriate provision of financial services, including cases of wilful or negligent misconduct; this includes the risks of non-compliance with customers, products, business practices and the risk of internal fraud; nn risk of any dispute with a counterparty, resulting from any imprecision, deficiency or insufficiency that may be attributable to the reporting entity in respect of its operations. Model risk Model risk is the risk of loss resulting from the use of inadequate models for price calculation, revaluation, position hedging, or risk management purposes, due either to the quality of the data used, the modelling technique, the implementation or the use of these. Accounting risk Risk related to the quality of banking and financial information, whether intended for effective managers or the supervisory body, transmitted to regulatory and supervisory authorities or included in documents to be published. Information Systems Security Risks inherent to security, continuity of information systems and integrity and confidentiality of information. Risks External risk (cyberspace) of which telecommunication systems and means are the vectors – National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) definition. Physical Risk: Safety, Security, Risks inherent to the safety of personnel, work tools and equipment. Prevention Other risks Business related and strategic Risk related to losses, revenue or income decreases due to decisions related to strategic choices risk and/or competitive positioning. Systemic (macro-economic Overall risk related to the macroeconomic, political and regulatory environment (particularly prudential and fiscal). environment) and regulatory risk Insurance Risk Underwriting risk, provisioning risk and reinsurance risk. Conglomerate risk Aggregate of specific risks borne by a financial conglomerate. Climate risk (physical and First level risks that may arise as a result of climatic events (floods, storms). energy transition) Risk resulting from the transition to a less carbon-intensive economy. This risk factor mainly pertains to the evolution of the price of financial assets exposed to carbon. 216 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management 3. RISK MANAGEMENT This section of the management report presents the Group’s risk In order to cover all risks inherent in the banking business, additional appetite, the nature of the main risks to which the Group is exposed, information is provided concerning: their magnitude and the measures implemented to manage them. nn operational risks; The information presented under IFRS 7 on financial instrument nn legal risks; disclosures covers the following main types of risks(1): nn non-compliance risks. nn credit risks; In accordance with legislation and best professional practices, risk nn market risks; management within Crédit Agricole S.A. Group is reflected by a form of nn structural balance sheet risks: global interest rate risk, foreign governance in which the roles and responsibilities of each individual are exchange risk and et liquidity risk, including risks associated with clearly identified, as well as by effective and reliable risk management the insurance industry. methodologies and procedures which make it possible to measure, supervise and manage all the risks to which the Group is exposed. 3.1. RISK APPETITE, GOVERNANCE AND ORGANISATION OF RISK MANAGEMENT RISKS Concise statement on risks nn formalise, standardise and make explicit the acceptable level of risk for a given strategy; (Statement prepared in compliance with Article 435(1)(f) of Regulation nn fully integrate risk/return considerations into the strategic planning EU 575/2013) and decision-making processes; The Board of Directors of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group makes a formal nn define advance indicators and alert thresholds so that senior statement every year regarding its risk appetite. For 2018, this was Management can anticipate excessive deteriorations in strategic discussed and approved on 13 February 2019 after first having been indicators and improve resilience by taking action as soon as alerts reviewed and recommended by the Risk Management Committee. for risk appetite standards are triggered; The Group’s risk appetite statement is prepared in line with the risk nn improve external communications to third parties on financial appetite approach applied in the various entities. This statement is an strength and risk management. integral and strategic part of the governance framework which covers strategy, commercial objectives, risk management and global financial The Group’s risk appetite is defined through: management for the Group. The strategic thrusts of the Medium-Term nn key indicators: Plan, the risk appetite statement, the budgetary process and the –– Crédit Agricole S.A.’s external rating which has a direct allocation of resources to the business lines are mutually coherent. impact on refinancing terms, the Group’s image in the market and The Risk Appetite of the Crédit Agricole Group is the type and the price of its securities, aggregate amount of risk that the Group is ready to take on, in the framework of its strategic objectives. –– solvency which guarantees the Group’s sustainability by ensuring it has sufficient capital to back the risks it is taking on, 5 The Group’s risk appetite is determined by particular reference to the –– liquidity, the management of which aims to prevent the Group’s financial policy and the risk management policy, which are based on: sources of finances drying up with the consequent threat of default nn a policy of selective and responsible financing that takes account of on payments, or even resolution, a prudent lending policy framed by the risks strategy, the corporate –– business risk which provides a measure of progress towards the social responsibility policy and the authorisation system; strategy laid down by the Group, thereby facilitating its long-term nn the objective of keeping market risk exposure low; survival, nn the strict management of operational risk exposure; –– profit, because the direct source of future solvency and shareholder dividends and therefore a key part of the Group’s nn limits on non-compliance risk to exposures, which are strictly framed; financial communications, nn management of the growth of risk-weighted assets; –– credit risk of Crédit Agricole Group, which constitutes its main nn management of risks related to asset and liability management. risk; The formal definition of risk appetite allows Executive Management nn limits, alert thresholds and risk envelopes defined in line with and the Board of Directors to define the Group’s development direction these indicators: credit, market, interest rate and operational risks; consistent with the Medium-Term Plan and translate it into operational nn qualitative priorities, inherent to the Group’s strategy and strategies. This results in a consistent approach shared by the Strategy, businesses, essentially looking at risks which are not currently Finance, Risk and Compliance departments. quantified. The qualitative criteria are largely based on the Corporate The risk appetite statement is coordinated with the Operational Social Responsibility (CSR) policy of the Company, which embodies departments of the various entities and aims to: the Group’s concern with supporting sustainable development and nn engage Directors and senior Management in reflection and dialogue controlling all risks including non-financial risks. on risk taking; (1) These disclosures are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 and, as such, are covered by the Statutory Auditors’ report. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 217 5 Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management The key indicators reflect three levels of risk: ensure that the risks to which the Group is exposed are consistent with nn appetite is used for managing normal everyday risk. It is expressed the risk strategies defined by the business lines (in terms of global and in budget targets framed by operational limits, any breach of which individual limits and selection criteria) and compatible with the Group’s is immediately flagged up to Executive Management, which decides growth and profitability targets. on corrective action; DRG performs consolidated Group-wide monitoring of risks using a nn tolerance is used for exceptional management of a deteriorated network of Risk Management and Permanent Controls Officers who report level of risk. Breach of tolerance thresholds in key indicators or hierarchically to the head of Risk Management and Permanent Controls limits triggers an immediate report to the Chairman of the Risk and functionally to the executive body of their entity or business line. Management Committee which is then, if necessary, referred up to To ensure a consistent view of risks within the Group, the DRG has the the Board of Directors; following duties: nn capacity is the maximum risk that the Group could theoretically take nn it coordinates the risk identification process and the implementation on without infringing its operational or regulatory constraints. of the Group’s risk appetite framework in cooperation with the The Group’s risk appetite system is based on the risk identification Finance, Strategy and Compliance functions and the business lines; process which aims to list as exhaustively as possible the Group’s major nn it defines and/or validates methods and procedures for analysing, risks and to apply a standard approach to placing them in categories measuring and monitoring credit, market and operational risks; and sub-categories. nn it takes part in the critical analysis of the business lines’ commercial Overall risk profile: development strategies, focusing on the risk impact of these The Group’s activity is built around customer-focused universal banking strategies; model in Europe with a low level of defaults and prudent provisioning. nn it provides independent opinions to Executive Management on risk The market risk profile has also considerably reduced, as a result of a exposure arising from business lines’ positions (credit transactions, change in the Group’s strategy since 2007. setting of market risk limits) or anticipated by their risk strategy; The Group’s risk profile is monitored and presented at least every nn it lists and analyses Group entities’ risks, on which data is collected quarter to the Group Risk Management Committee and to the Board of in risk information systems. Directors. Breach of tolerance levels for central indicators or limits on The Financial Management unit of the Group Finance department (FIG) the system are reported and corrective actions proposed to the Board manages structural asset/liability risk (interest rate, exchange rate and of Directors. The executive Directors and the supervisory body are thus liquidity) along with the refinancing policy and supervision of capital kept regularly informed of how the risk profile corresponds to the risk requirements. appetite. Supervision of these risks by Executive Management is carried out The main components of the Group’s risk profile at 31 December 2018 through Treasurery and ALM (Asset Liability Management) Committee are broken down in the “Risk Management” and “Pillar 3” sections, Meetings, in which DRG takes part. respectively, of this Registration document: DRG keeps the executive Directors and supervisory body informed of the nn Credit risk: Part 3.4 (Risk management) and Part 4.2 (Pillar 3); degree of risk control in the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group, presents various nn Market risk: Part 3.5 (Risk management) and Part 4.4 (Pillar 3); risk strategies of the major business lines of the Group for validation, nn Financial risks (interest rate, exchange rate, liquidity and financing): and warns them of any risk of deviation from risk strategies or policies Part 5 (Risk factors) and Parts 5 and 6 (Pillar 3); approved by executive bodies. It informs them of the outcomes and nn Operational Risk: Part 3.8 (Risk management) and Part 4.6 (Pillar 3). performance of prevention measures, whose organisational principles are approved by them. It makes suggestions for any improvement of At 31 December 2018, the Group’s risk appetite indicators are within such measures that may be required as a result of changes to business the risk appetite levels defined by the Group. They have not reached the lines and their environment. tolerance thresholds. At consolidated level, this action falls within the remit of governance Adequacy of the institution’s risk management arrangements bodies, in particular: pursuant to Article 435.1 (e) of Regulation (EU) No. 575/2013 nn the Risk Management Committee (a Board of Directors At its meeting of 13 February 2019, the Board of Directors of Crédit sub-committee): it analyses key factors in the Group’s risk appetite Agricole S.A. Group concluded, having regard to all the information statement defined by Executive Management, regularly examines the submitted to it in 2018 providing it, in particular, with a view of how the Group’s risk management and internal control issues, reviews the risk profile of the institution interacts with the tolerance level, that the half-yearly information and annual report on internal control and risk risk management arrangements put in place by Crédit Agricole Group measurement and monitoring; are appropriate given its profile and strategy. nn the Group Internal Control Committee (GICC – chaired by the Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole S.A.): it examines internal Organisation of risk management control issues common across the Group, looks at cross-functional Risk management, which is inherent in banking activities, lies at the actions within the Group, approves the annual report and half-yearly heart of the Group’s internal control system. All staff involved, from the information on internal control, and coordinates the three control initiation of transactions to their final maturity, play a part in this system. functions; nn the Group Risk Committee (GRC) chaired by the Chief Executive Officer Measuring and supervising risk is the responsibility of the dedicated Risk Management function (headed by the DRG – Group Risk Management of Crédit Agricole S.A.: approves risk strategies and lending decisions department), which is independent from Group functions and reports at Crédit Agricole S.A. level, on the advice of the Risk Management directly to the Executive Management. function in line with the risk appetite framework approved by the Board of Directors, reviews major risks and sensitive issues, and Although risk management is primarily the responsibility of the business provides feedback on Group entities’ processes and rating models; lines which oversee growth in their own operations, DRG’s task is to 218 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management nn Asset/Liability and Liquidity Committee – Crédit Agricole Group equity nn the Group Security Committee (GSC), chaired by the Deputy General (ALM Committee chaired by the Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Manager in charge of Operations and Transformation is a decisionAgricole S.A., four meetings per year): analyses the financial risks making committee that defines the strategy and assesses the facing Crédit Agricole Group (interest rate, exchange rate and liquidity Group’s level of control in the following four areas: business continuity risks) and validates the guidelines for the management thereof; plans, data protection, security of people and property and IT systems nn the Group Compliance Management Committee (CCMG – chaired security. It reports to the Executive Committee; by the Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole S.A. – minimum nn the Group Risk Monitoring Committee chaired by the Chief Executive four meetings per year): it defines the Group’s Compliance policy, Officer of Crédit Agricole S.A. is a committee that reviews loans examines all draft compliance-related standards and procedures, where the level of risk significantly deteriorates. It also examines as prior to their implementation, examines all significant dysfunctions early as possible warnings regarding risks of all types reported by the and approves corrective measures, makes all decisions related to business lines or control functions that may have an adverse effect remedial action for deficiencies, takes note of the main complianceon the Group’s profile or its cost of risk. related conclusions of audits conducted, approves the annual compliance report; Main Group-level committees dealing with risk BOARD OF DIRECTORS Compensation Strategy and CSR Risks Committee US Risks Committee Audit Committee Committee Committee Authorises, directs and monitors Informs and consults EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Informs Human Resources Cross-functional decision-making committees chaired by Committee(1) the Chief Executive Officer or Deputy Chief Executive Officer Crédit Agricole Group Crédit Agricole Group Crédit Agricole Group Internal Control Acquisitions and Disposals Compliance Management Crédit Agricole Group Committee (CCIG) Committee (CCAG) Committee (CMCG) Risk Management Committee (CRG) Crédit Agricole Group OFAC Remediation 5 Legal Risk Asset-Liability Management Plan Steering Monitoring and Capital Liquidity Committee Committee (LRMC) Committee (ALM Committee) (OFAC Committee) Regional Banks Risk Group Market Group Risk Monitoring Monitoring Liquidity Committee security Committee Committee(2) Committee (1) Committee organised by the Crédit Agricole S.A. Executive Committee. (2) Committee that reports to the Crédit Agricole Group Risk Committee. In addition, each Group operating entity defines its own risk appetite nn he has access to appropriate human, technical and financial statement and sets up a Risk Management and Permanent Controls resources. He must be provided with the information required by their function. Within each business line and legal entity: role and have systematic and permanent access to any information, nn a Permanent Controls and Risk Management (PCRM) Officer is document, body (Committees, etc.), tools or even IT systems across appointed; their entire area of responsibility. He is associated with entity projects nn he supervises all the last-line control units within their areas of far enough in advance to be able to play their role effectively. responsibility, covering oversight and permanent control of risks This principle of decentralising the Risk management function falling within the remit of the Group function in question; to operating entities aims to ensure that the business lines’ risk management and permanent controls systems operate efficiently. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 219 5 Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management Group risk management is also reliant on a certain number of tools nn highly valued careers and experience sought after by other business which enable DRG and the Group’s executive bodies to fully comprehend sectors as a result of time spent within the Risk Management function; the risks being run: nn a range of training on risk comprising modules tailored to the needs nn a robust IT and global risk consolidation system, within the trajectory of employees within and outside the Risk Management function; defined by the Basel Committee on banking controls for global This includes awareness training for all Group employees with, in systemic institutions (BCBS 239); particular, an e-learning component, to better understand the risks nn generalised use of stress testing methodologies in Group credit, inherent in the bank’s business lines; financial or operational risk procedures; nn communication efforts to foster the spreading of the risk culture, nn formalised and up-to-date control standards and procedures, which underway since 2015. They are designed to increase the knowledge define lending systems, based on an analysis of profitability and risks, and involvement of all employees, in order to turn risk into a positive monitoring of geographical, individual and sectoral concentrations, as day-to-day. well as limits on interest rate, foreign exchange and liquidity risks; nn a Group recovery plan is updated on an annual basis, in accordance Consolidated risk monitoring with the provisions of EU Directive 2014/59 of 15 May 2014, which Every quarter, the Board of Directors’ Risk Management Committee and establishes a framework for the recovery and resolution of credit the Group Risk Management Committee examine the risk dashboard institutions. produced by the Group Risk Division. This document gives a detailed review of the Group’s risk situation on a consolidated basis and across Risk culture all business lines. The risk culture is spread right the way across the Group via diverse The Risk Register, in combination with the risk dashboard, provides and effective channels: an overview of changes in the Group’s risks and a long-term view of nn career and talent Committees within the Risk Management function, trends observed in the portfolio. The register is presented to the Group which plan the succession to key posts, facilitate the mobility of both Risk Division and the Board of Directors’ Risk Management Committee. men and women with the relevant expertise and enrich trajectories The Group’s consolidated alert procedures are coordinated by the Risk by diversifying skills portfolios; Monitoring Committee by reviewing all the risk alerts centralised by the Group Risk Management department. 3.2. STRESS TESTING Stress tests, crisis simulations and resistance tests, form an integral nn Budget stress testing or ICAAP stress testing: (Internal part of Crédit Agricole Group’s risk management system. Stress tests Capital Adequacy and Assessment Process): Crédit Agricole Group play a role in proactive risk management, the assessment of capital undertakes an annual exercise as part of the budgetary process, with adequacy and meet regulatory requirements. In this regard, by the results of this stress testing being incorporated into the ICAAP. It measuring the economic, accounting or regulatory impact of severe plays a part in capital requirements planning and makes it possible but plausible economic scenarios, stress testing provides a measure to estimate the Group’s profitability over a three-year period, under of the resilience of a portfolio, business, entity or of the Group used as various economic scenarios. The goal of this stress testing in the inputs for the ICAAP and the Risk Appetite. Stress testing covers credit, budgetary process and in ICAAP is to measure the effects and the market and operational risks as well as liquidity risk and risks related sensitivity of their results to economic scenarios (central – baseline to interest rates and exchange rates. Stress testing to manage Crédit and stressed – adverse) on the businesses, entities and the Group as Agricole Group risks involves a range of different exercises. a whole and also the sensitivity of their results. It is necessarily based on an economic scenario (change in a series of economic variables) Different types of stress tests from which the impact on the various risks and geographic regions are determined. This scenario is supplemented to reflect operational nn Using stress testing for proactive risk management: specific risks and the risk of improper conduct. exercises that are recurring or carried out upon request are performed The goal of this exercise is to estimate a solvency ratio by measuring centrally to supplement and enhance the various analyses performed the impact on the income statement (cost of risk, interest margin, to properly monitor risks. This work is presented to Executive commission, etc.), risk-weighted assets and own funds and to Management at Group Risk Management Committee Meetings. In compare it against the Group’s tolerance and capacity thresholds. this respect, stress testing focused on market risk or liquidity risk is periodically undertaken. nn Regulatory stress testing: this stress testing encompasses all requests from the ECB, the EBA or other supervisor. In the case of credit risk, stress tests were performed in 2018 to measure the risk stemming from economic changes in certain major nn In 2018, the Group was particularly successful in managing the global Group risks. These exercises underpin the decisions taken by the stress organized by the EBA. In this regard, the Crédit Agricole Group Group Risk Management Committee on aggregate exposure limits. was among the leading European systemic banks in terms of the CET1 solvency ratio level in the stress scenario at the end of 2020. 220 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management Governance The scenarios used in the ICAAP processes, risk Appetite or for regulatory purposes are prepared by the Economic Department (ECD) In line with the guidelines of the EBA (European Banking Authority), the and are presented to the Board of Directors. These economic scenarios stress test programme for the Group and major entities clearly details show central and stressed fluctuations in macroeconomic and financial the governance and responsibilities of each party involved in the stress variables (GDP, unemployment, inflation, interest rates and exchange testing encompassing credit, market, operational and liquidity risks and rates, etc.) for all countries to which the Group is exposed. structural risks related to interest rates and exchange rates. 3.3. INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES Crédit Agricole Group’s internal control organization reflects an I. References in terms of internal control architecture in line with legal and regulatory requirements, as well as the recommendations of the Basel Committee. References to internal control are based on the provisions of the French Monetary and Financial Code(1), the Decree of 3 November 2014 on The internal control system and procedures are defined within the Crédit internal control of companies in the banking, payment services and Agricole Group as all systems designed to control activities and risks of investment services sector subject to control by the Autorité de contrôle all kinds and to ensure regularity (in the sense of compliance with laws, prudentiel et de résolution (ACPR), the AMF General Regulation and the regulations and internal standards), safety and efficiency of operations, recommendations on internal control, risk management and solvency in accordance with the references presented in section 1 below. issued by the Basel Committee. The internal control system and procedures are characterised by the These national and international standards are supplemented by Crédit objectives assigned to them: Agricole’s own internal standards: nn application of Executive Management instructions and guidelines; nn a corpus of communications of a permanent, regulatory nature nn financial performance, through the efficient and appropriate use of (external regulations and internal Group rules) and of mandatory the Group’s assets and resources, as well as protection against the application, relating in particular to accounting (Crédit Agricole’s risk of loss; accounting plan), financial management, risks and permanent nn comprehensive, accurate and regular knowledge of the data needed controls, applicable to the entire Crédit Agricole Group; for decision making and risk management; nn Code of Ethics of the Crédit Agricole Group; nn compliance with legal and regulatory requirements and internal nn recommendations of the full Committee on Internal Oversight of the standards; Regional Banks; nn prevention and detection of fraud and errors; nn the aggregate of “procedural notes”, applicable to Crédit Agricole nn accuracy, completeness of accounting records and the timely S.A. relating to organization, operation or risks. In this context, Crédit preparation of reliable accounting and financial information. Agricole S.A. adopted a set of procedural notes in 2004 to monitor These procedures have, nonetheless, inherent limitations of any internal compliance with laws and regulations. This procedural system has control system, due in particular to technical or human failures. since been adapted to regulatory changes and deployed in the Group’s entities, particularly in the areas of financial security (prevention of In accordance with the principles in force within the Group, the internal control system applies over a broad scope aimed at supervising and money laundering, fight against terrorist financing, freezing of assets, compliance with embargoes, etc.) or detection of malfunctions in the 5 controlling activities, as well as measuring and monitoring risks on application of laws, regulations, professional and ethical standards, a consolidated basis. This principle, applied by each entity of Crédit for example. These procedural notes are updated regularly, as Agricole S.A. and its subsidiaries to its own subsidiaries, makes it necessary, in particular in the light of changes in regulations and the possible to apply the internal control system according to a pyramidal scope of supervision on a consolidated basis. logic and to all entities. The system implemented by Crédit Agricole S.A., which is in line with the standards and principles set out below, is thus deployed in a manner adapted to the different business lines and risks II. Principles for the organisation of the internal at each of the Crédit Agricole Group’s levels in order to best meet the control system regulatory obligations specific to banking activities. In order to ensure that internal control systems are effective and The resources, tools and reports implemented in this normative consistent between the Group’s various organizational levels, the environment provide regular information, in particular to the Board of Crédit Agricole Group has adopted a set of common rules and Directors, the Risk Committee, the Executive Board and management, recommendations based on the implementation of and compliance with on the functioning of internal control systems and their adequacy fundamental principles. (permanent and periodic control system, reports on risk measurement Thus, each entity of the Crédit Agricole Group (Regional Banks, Group, and monitoring, corrective action plans, etc.). subsidiaries of credit institutions or investment firms, insurance companies, others, etc.) must apply these principles at its own level. Fundamental principles The organisational principles and components of the internal control systems of Crédit Agricole S.A., which are common to all Crédit Agricole Group entities, include obligations in terms of: nn informing the supervisory body (risk strategies, limits set on risk taking, internal control activity and results, significant incidents); (1) Article L. 511-41. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 221 5 Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management nn direct involvement of the management body in the organisation and the Risk Committee, which is a division of the Board of Directors, operation of the internal control system; and is responsible for coordinating the three control functions: Auditnn exhaustive coverage of activities and risks, liability of all actors; Inspection, Risks, and Compliance. nn a clear definition of tasks, effective separation of engagement and Three functions operating throughout the Group control functions, formalized and up-to-date delegations; The Head of the Group Risk Department, the Group General Inspector nn formalised and updated standards and procedures. and the Group Head of Compliance report directly to the Chief Executive These principles are complemented by: Officer of Crédit Agricole S.A. and have access to the Risk Committee nn risk measurement, monitoring and control systems: credit, market, and the Board of Directors of Crédit Agricole S.A. liquidity, financial, operational (operational processing, quality of In addition, under the Decree of 3 November 2014 on the internal control financial and accounting information, IT processes), non-compliance of companies in the banking, payment services and investment services and legal risks; sector that are subject to the supervision of the Prudential Control and nn a control system, as part of a dynamic and corrective process, Resolution Authority, the Group Risk Director has been appointed as including permanent controls carried out by the operational units or head of risk management for Crédit Agricole S.A. as well as for the by dedicated employees, and periodic controls (carried out by the Crédit Agricole Group. General Inspection or Audit Units); The audit functions are responsible for supporting the business lines nn the adoption of the Group’s compensation policies (following the and operational units to ensure the regularity, safety and efficiency of deliberations of the Board of Directors of 9 December 2009 and operations. In this capacity they carry out: 23 February 2011) and internal control procedures – in accordance nn the management and control of credit, market, liquidity, financial with applicable national, European or international regulations, in and operational risks by the Group Risk Department, which is also particular those relating to Capital Requirements Directive 4 (CRD4), responsible for the ultimate control of accounting and financial the AIFM, UCITS V and Solvency 2, the provisions relating to the information and for monitoring deployment by the Group IT Security Volcker Rule, the Banking Separation Act and MiFID, as well as the Officer of information systems security and business continuity plans; professional banking recommendations relating to, on the one hand, nn the prevention and control of non-compliance risks by the Group the adequacy between the remuneration policy and the risk control Compliance Department, which ensures in particular the prevention of objectives, the adequacy between the remuneration policy and the money laundering, the fight against terrorist financing, the prevention risk control objectives, and on the other hand the remuneration of of fraud, compliance with embargoes and asset freezing obligations; the members of the executive bodies and that of the risk takers (see nn independent and periodic control of the proper functioning of all Part I of this report). entities of the Crédit Agricole Group by the Group Control and Audit System monitoring department. Since the amendments to Regulation 97-02 on internal control relating In addition to the involvement of the various control functions, the other to the organisation of control functions, elements included in the decree central functions of Crédit Agricole S.A. and its directions divisions of 3 November 2014 repealing the regulation became effective, an and business lines contribute to the implementation of internal control obligation has been imposed on each entity or business line manager, systems on a consolidated basis, whether within specialized committees each manager, each employee and each Group body to be able to report or through actions to standardize procedures and centralize data. and justify, at any time, the proper control of its activities and the risks Organized as a business line, the Legal Affairs Department has two involved, in accordance with the standards for the exercise of banking main objectives: to control legal risk, which can give rise to disputes and and financial professions, in order to ensure the long-term security of liabilities, whether civil, disciplinary or criminal, and to provide the legal each activity and each development project and to adapt the control support needed by entities to enable them to carry out their activities, measures to be implemented to the intensity of the risks incurred. while controlling legal risks and minimizing associated costs. This requirement is based on organisational principles and an With regard to Crédit Agricole S.A. and its subsidiaries architecture of responsibilities, operating and decision-making procedures, controls and reporting to be implemented in a formal and The functions, departments and business lines are themselves supported effective manner at each level of the Group: central functions, business by decentralized mechanisms within each of the legal entities, which are lines, subsidiaries, operational units and support functions. first-tier subsidiaries and are part of the consolidated supervisory scope of Crédit Agricole S.A., and include: Group Internal Audit Committee nn quarterly Internal Control Committees, which are decision-making The internal Audit Committee of the Group and of Crédit Agricole S.A., and binding in nature, consisting of the Chief Executive Officer of the the umbrella body for steering the systems, met regularly under the entity and representatives of the control functions of the entity and of chairmanship of the Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole S.A. Crédit Agricole S.A., responsible in particular for steering the internal The objective of this Committee is to strengthen the transversal actions control system implemented in the entity, examining the main risks to be implemented within the Group. Its purpose is to examine internal to which the entity is exposed, critically evaluating the internal control control issues common to the entire Group (Crédit Agricole S.A., systems and the audit action, monitoring missions and taking any subsidiaries of Crédit Agricole S.A., Regional Banks, common resource necessary corrective measures; structures) and to ensure the consistency and effectiveness of internal nn specialised Committees that are specific to each entity; control on a consolidated basis. The internal Audit Committee, a nn a network of correspondents and authorities dedicated to each decision-making body with binding decisions, is composed of Crédit business line. Agricole S.A. employee executives. As such, it is distinguished from 222 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management With regard to the Regional Banks of Crédit Agricole the corrective measures proposed. In this respect, the Chief Executive For the Regional Banks, the application of all the Group’s rules is made Officer receives detailed summary notes presenting the conclusions of possible by the dissemination of national recommendations on internal the Group General Inspection’s missions. control by the plenary Internal Audit Committee of the Regional Banks and by the activity of the central control functions of Crédit Agricole III. Specific internal audit systems and risk control S.A. The Plenary Committee is responsible for strengthening the and monitoring systems of Crédit Agricole S.A. management of the Regional Banks’ internal control systems and is Crédit Agricole S.A. implements processes and mechanisms for composed of Chief Executive Officers, senior managers and heads measuring, monitoring and controlling its risks (counterparty, market, of the Regional Banks’ audit functions, as well as representatives of operational, financial and other risks) adapted to its activities and Crédit Agricole S.A. Its activities are extended through regular regional organisation, which are an integral part of the internal control system meetings and working and information meetings between the heads of and are periodically reported to the management body, the supervisory the audit functions of Crédit Agricole S.A. and their counterparts in the body and the Risk Committee, in particular via reports on internal control Regional Banks. and risk measurement and monitoring. The role of Crédit Agricole S.A. as a central body requires it to be very Detailed information on risk management is presented in the chapter active and vigilant in terms of internal auditing. In particular, specific “Risk Management” and in the notes to the consolidated financial monitoring of the risks and controls of the Regional Banks is carried statements dedicated to these (Note 3). out by Crédit Agricole S.A.’s by the Risks, Universal Customer-Focused Banking and Retail functions of the Group Risk Department and by the Group Compliance Department. Risk function and permanent controls The Risks function, created in 2006 pursuant to amendments to Regulation Role of the Board of Directors 97-02 (repealed and replaced by the Order of 3 November 2014 on the The Board of Directors of Crédit Agricole S.A. is aware of the Company’s internal control of companies in the banking, payment services and general organisation and approves its internal audit system. It approves investment services sector subject to the supervision of the Autorité de the Group’s general organisation and internal control system and contrôle prudentiel et de résolution. defines the Group’s risk appetite in an annual declaration. It is informed The Risks function is responsible for both the overall management of the organisation, activity and results of internal audits. Other than and the permanent control of the Group’s risks: credit, financial and the information it regularly receives, it has access to the Annual Report operational risks, in particular those related to the quality of financial and the half-yearly presentation on internal audits, such in accordance and accounting information, physical security and information systems, with banking regulations and standards defined by Crédit Agricole S.A. business continuity and the supervision of outsourced essential services. The Chairman of the Board of Directors of Crédit Agricole S.A. receives detailed summary notes presenting the conclusions of the Group Risk management is based on a Group system whereby the strategies of General Inspection’s missions. the business lines, including in the event of the launch of new activities or new products, are the subject of a risk notice, and risk limits are The Board is informed, through the Risk Committee, of the main risks formalized in the risk strategies for each sensitive entity and activity. incurred by the Company and the significant incidents revealed by the These limits are reviewed at least once a year or in the event of a change internal audit and risk management systems. in an activity or risks and are validated by the Group Risk Committee. The Chairman of the Risk Committee of Crédit Agricole S.A. reports to the Board on the work of the Committee, and in particular on the annual They are accompanied by cross-Group limits, particularly on major counterparties. The mapping of potential risks, the measurement and 5 report on internal audits and on risk measurement and monitoring. By monitoring of proven risks are regularly adjusted with regard to the the date of the General Meeting, the Annual Report will have been activity. presented to the Risk Committee, forwarded in due course to the Audit plans are adapted to changes in the activity and the risks, to which French Autorité de contrôle prudentiel et de résolution (ACPR), and to they are proportionate. the Statutory Auditors. It will also have been presented to the Board of Directors. The function is placed under the responsibility of the Group Risk Director, who is independent of any operational function and reports to the Group Role of the Executive Director in internal auditing Chief Executive Officer. It brings together the cross-functional functions The Chief Executive Officer defines the general organization of the of Crédit Agricole S.A. (Group Risk Department) and the decentralised Company and ensures its efficient implementation by qualified and permanent risk and control functions, as close as possible to the competent persons. He is directly and personally involved in the business lines, at the level of each Group entity, in France or abroad. organization and operation of the internal control system. In particular, The Risk function employed nearly 2,900 people at the end of 2018 (in it sets out the roles and responsibilities for internal control and allocates full-time equivalents) within the scope of Crédit Agricole. appropriate resources to it. The function operates through structured governance bodies, including He ensures that the risk strategies and limits are compatible with the the Internal Audit Committees, the Group Risk Committee, under which financial situation (equity levels, results) and the strategies adopted by the Executive approves the Group’s strategies and is informed of the the Board of Directors, as part of the Group’s risk appetite declaration. level of its risks, the Regional Banks’ Risk Monitoring Committee, the Group Safety Committee, the Standards and Methodologies Committee, He ensures that risk identification and measurement systems, adapted the Basel Recommendations Steering Committee, the Business to the Company’s activities and organisation, are adopted. He also Monitoring Committees, which include the Group Risk Department and ensures that the main information from these systems is regularly subsidiaries at predefined intervals, and various committees in charge reported to it. of rating systems and information systems. The Group Risk Monitoring He assures himself that the internal control system is constantly Committee, chaired by the Group Chief Executive Officer, meets twice a monitored to ensure its adequacy and effectiveness. He is informed of month and is responsible for monitoring the emergence of risks in order any malfunctions that the internal control system would identify and of to identify appropriate guidelines. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 223 5 Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management Central risk and permanent control functions of Crédit Agricole S.A. Risk and permanent decentralised audit functions, at the level Within Crédit Agricole S.A., the Group Risk Department is responsible of each of the Group’s business lines for the overall management of the Group’s risks and permanent control Within Crédit Agricole S.A. systems. The function is operates using a hierarchical organisation, with a Global Group risk management Permanent Risk Management and Permanent Controls manager The consolidated measurement and management of all Group risks (“RCPR”) appointed at each subsidiary or business line. The business is carried out centrally by the Group Risk Department, with units line RCPR reports hierarchically to the Group Risk Director, and specialised by risk type that define and implement consolidation and functionally to the management body of the relevant business line. This risk management measures (standards, methodologies, information positioning ensures the independence of the local Risk Management systems). and Permanent Controls departments. The Group Risk Department also has a “business risk management” Each subsidiary or business line, under the responsibility of its RCPR, function in charge of the global and individualised relationship with obtains the necessary resources to ensure the management of its each of the subsidiaries of Crédit Agricole S.A. The supervision of the risks and the compliance of its permanent control system, in order to Regional Banks’ risks is carried out by a specific department of the implement a full-fledged function (exhaustive and consolidated vision Group Risk Department. of risks, likely to guarantee the sustainability of the entity over its entire scope of supervision on a consolidated basis). Group risks are monitored by the business risk management units, in particular through the Group Risk Committee and the Regional Banks’ The relationship between each subsidiary or business line and Group Risk Monitoring Committee. Risk Department is organized around the following main elements: nn implementation by each subsidiary or business line of the Group’s It is also carried out through an alert procedure applied to all entities and which allows the most significant risks to be presented to a General cross-functional standards and procedures, developed by the Group Management Committee on a bi-monthly basis (Group Risk Monitoring Risk Department; Committee). nn determination for each subsidiary or business line of a risk strategy, validated by the Group Risk Committee on the advice of the Group Crédit Agricole S.A. measures its risks in an exhaustive and precise Risk Department, specifying in particular the entity’s overall manner, namely by integrating all categories of commitments (onand commitment limits; off-balance sheet) and positions, consolidating commitments on nn principle of delegation of powers from the Group RCPR to the business companies belonging to the same group, aggregating all portfolios and distinguishing risk levels. RCPRs that are hierarchically linked to it in the performance of their duties, subject to transparency and alerting the latter to the Group Risk monitoring by Crédit Agricole S.A., its subsidiaries and the Regional Risk Department. Banks on an individual or collective basis requires a system to monitor the overruns and their regularisation, the operation of the accounts, the Regarding the scope of the Regional Banks correct classification of receivables in accordance with the effective Banking regulations relating to risks apply to each of the Regional Banks regulations (in particular impaired receivables), the adequacy of the level individually. Each is responsible for its own permanent risk and control of provisioning for risks under the supervision of the Risk Committees, system and has a permanent risk and control manager, who reports to and the periodic review of the main risks and portfolios, in particular its Chief Executive Officer, in charge of risk management and permanent for sensitive business. controls. He may also be responsible for the duties of the Compliance In a context of contrasting and uncertain risk, Crédit Agricole S.A. Officer. If this is not the case, the Compliance Officer reports directly to pursues a policy of actively reviewing the risk policies and strategies the Chief Executive Officer. applied by its subsidiaries. Moreover, the Group’s main cross-functional Moreover, as the central body, Crédit Agricole S.A., via the Group Risk portfolios (housing, energy, professionals and farmers, consumer credit, Department, consolidates the risks carried by the Regional Banks private equity, etc.) have been analysed by the Group Risk Committee and manages the Risk function in the Regional Banks, in particular by (GRC). The scope of risks covered in the risk strategies reviewed in disseminating the necessary standards to them, in particular for the the GRC also includes model risks, operational risks and conglomerate implementation of a permanent control system at Group level. risks. In addition, the significant credit risks taken by the Regional Banks Alert and escalation procedures are in place in the event of a prolonged are presented for partial guarantee to Foncaris, a credit institution and anomaly, depending on their materiality. wholly-owned subsidiary of Crédit Agricole S.A. The obligation imposed Permanent control of operational risks on the Regional Banks to request a counter-guarantee from Foncaris on their main operations (above a threshold defined between the Regional The Group Risk Department coordinates the Permanent Control system Banks and Foncaris) thus provides the central body with an effective tool (definition of key control indicators by type of risk, deployment of a single enabling it to assess the associated risk before accepting it. software platform integrating the assessment of operational risks and the results of permanent controls, organisation of reporting of control results to the various consolidation levels concerned within the Group). 224 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management Internal control system for business continuity At business line/subsidiary level, the Finance department acts as a and information system security plans relay among subsidiaries, circulating the Group’s principles with respect The internal control system implemented makes it possible to provide to standards and information system organisation, in line with each the Group’s security governance bodies with periodic reporting on the business line’s special attributes. In some cases, it also constitutes situation of the main entities with regard to risk monitoring relating to an intermediate level for preparation of the business line’s accounting business continuity plans and information system security. and business management information. Each Risk Management and Permanent Controls department in a business line or subsidiary within Business continuity plans the Group is also responsible for producing the risk data used to prepare With regard to IT backup plans, the IT productions of most of the financial information and for implementing controls to ensure that this subsidiaries of Crédit Agricole S.A. and of the 39 Regional Banks information is accurately reconciled with accounting data. hosted on the Greenfield secure bi-site structurally benefit from backup Each business line and/or entity is equipped with the means to ensure the solutions from one site to another. quality of the accounting, management and risk data transmitted to the These solutions are now being tested on a recurring basis for Crédit Group in line with consolidation requirements, in particular, with regard Agricole S.A. and its subsidiaries. The Regional Banks essentially follow to the following aspects: compliance with the standards applicable to the same process in terms of testing. the Group, consistency with the parent company financial statements approved by its supervisory body, reconciliation of accounting and The subsidiaries of Crédit Agricole S.A. whose IT is not managed by management reporting figures. Greenfield have IT backup solutions that are regularly tested with reasonable assurance of quick restart in the event of a disaster. Within the Group Finance department, the reported accounting and financial information is prepared by three main functions: Accounting, With regard to user back-up plans, the Group has the Eversafe solution, Management Control and Financial Communication. which provides high security in the event of the unavailability of buildings, campuses or even neighbourhoods in the Paris region. This Accounting solution is operational and proven, with two sites dedicated to the The main purpose of the Accounting function is to draw up the parent Group. The Group is thus equipped with workspaces available in the company financial statements of Crédit Agricole S.A., the consolidated event of a major disaster in the Paris region. financial statements of Crédit Agricole S.A., its subsidiaries and Crédit In addition, and in accordance with Group policy, most entities are able Agricole Group, including segment information for Crédit Agricole S.A. to cope with a massive viral attack on workstations by focusing on the based on the definition of the business lines for financial reporting use of user backup sites. purposes and in compliance with IFRS 8. To fulfil this mission, the Accounting function, in accordance with applicable regulations, defines Information Systems Security and circulates the accounting standards and principles that apply to the The Crédit Agricole Group continued to reinforce its resilience to the Group. It oversees accounting bases, lays down the rules governing scale of IT risks, particularly cyber threats, in terms of organization the architecture of the accounting information and regulatory reporting and projects. system, and manages the accounting processes for consolidation of the Group security governance has been implemented with a Group Security financial statements and regulatory reporting. Committee (GSC) which is the decision-making and executive body Management Control that defines the Group’s security strategy by domain, integrating the orientations of Group security policies into it, determines Group security For the preparation of financial information, the Group Management 5 projects, supervises the execution of the strategy on the basis of Control function, within the Financial Management department, defines indicators for managing Group projects and applying policies, and finally the rules for allocating economic capital (definition, allocation policy), assesses the Group’s level of control in the four areas falling within its consolidates, prepares and quantifies the budget and the Medium Term competence: business continuity plan, data protection, personal and Plan for Crédit Agricole S.A., and ensures budget monitoring. To meet property security and information system security. this objective, Group Management Control defines the management The Information Systems Risk Management (PRSI) and Chief control procedures and methods and the structure and management Information Security Officer (CISO) functions are now deployed in most regulations for the Group management control system. of the Group’s entities: the PRSI, which is part of the RCPR (Permanent Financial Communication Control and Risk Manager), consolidates the information enabling it to Crédit Agricole S.A.’s Financial Communication function ensures take a second look. message consistency across all investor categories. It is responsible for information published in press releases and presentations to Internal control system for accounting shareholders, financial analysts, institutional investors, rating agencies, and financial information as well as information contained in documents subject to approval by In keeping with the applicable rules within the Group, the organisational the French financial market authority (AMF). In this respect, working principles and responsibilities of the Group Finance department under the responsibility of the Chief Executive Officer and Crédit functions are set out in a procedure. Agricole S.A. Group’s Deputy Chief Executive Officer in charge of the The Finance function is organised as a business line within Crédit Finance department, the Financial Communication function provides the Agricole S.A. The Group’s business line and/or subsidiary heads materials used as the basis for presentations of Crédit Agricole S.A. report hierarchically to the head of the business line or subsidiary and results, financial structure and changes in business lines, as needed to functionally to the Group Deputy Chief Financial Officer. enable third parties to formulate an opinion, particularly on the Group’s financial strength, profitability and outlook. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 225 5 Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management Procedures for the preparation and processing nn to issue assessments of accounting risks for entities presenting a of financial information risk management strategy to the GRC, based on the analysis of the Each Group entity has responsibility, vis-à-vis the Group and the entities’ permanent accounting control processes. supervisory authorities to which it reports, for its own financial Work conducted by the Permanent Accounting Control team dedicated statements, which are approved by its supervisory body. Depending on to the Financial department of Crédit Agricole S.A. showed a generally the entity’s size, these financial statements are subject to prior review satisfactory level of maturity in the processes. Audits on specific issues by the entity’s Audit Committee, if it has one. within Crédit Agricole S.A.’s accounting scope led to the recommendation As for the Crédit Agricole Regional Banks, once their financial statements of actions plans to better manage the risks linked to the control process, are drawn up, they are approved by the Accounting department of Crédit which are now being monitored. Agricole S.A.; this is one of its responsibilities as central body. Crédit A number of methodologies were updated in 2018, including the Agricole Group’s consolidated financial statements are submitted to accounting risk alert procedure, which is now applicable to the entire the Audit Committee and approved by the Board of Directors of Crédit Crédit Agricole Group. Agricole S.A. Most published financial information is based on accounting data and Relations with the Statutory Auditors on management and risk data. The Registration document, its updates, the securities notes and prospectuses prepared for new debt or share issues, which contain Accounting data comprehensive financial information, are subject to approval or Figures for each individual entity are drawn up in accordance with the registration by the AMF. accounting standards applicable where the entity operates. For the In accordance with applicable professional standards, the Statutory purposes of preparing the Group’s consolidated financial statements, Auditors perform those procedures they deem appropriate on published local financial statements are restated to be conforming with IFRS financial and accounting information: policies and principles, as adopted by Crédit Agricole S.A. nn audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements; nn partial audit of interim consolidated financial statements; Management data nn overall review of quarterly financial information and materials used Management data is produced by the Group Finance department or the as a basis for presenting financial information to financial analysts. Group Risk Management department. They are being reported upwards As part of the duties assigned to them by law, the Statutory Auditors in anticipation of definitive accounting data in accordance with the same submit to Crédit Agricole S.A.’s Audit Committee their overall work definition and granularity standards and are used to supply the Group’s programme, the various spot checks they have carried out, the internal management reporting. conclusions of their work on the financial and accounting information Furthermore, external sources of information (such as the European they have reviewed in carrying out their assignment, as well as the Central Bank and Bank of France) may be used for management data, significant weaknesses of the internal controls, with regards to the particularly for calculating market shares. procedures used for the preparation and processing of accounting and In accordance with AMF and ESMA (European Securities and Markets financial information. Authority) recommendations, the use of management data for preparing published financial information meets the following guidelines: Non-compliance risk prevention and controls nn classification of the types of financial information published: historical See part 3.10 “Non-compliance risks” below. information, pro forma data, projections or trends; nn a clear description of the sources from which the financial information Periodic control was drawn. When published data are not extracted directly from accounting information, the sources and definition of calculation The Group Internal Audit, which reports directly to the Chief Executive methods are mentioned; Officer of Crédit Agricole S.A., is the highest level of control within the Group. Its sole responsibility is to ensure Crédit Agricole Group’s periodic nn comparability of figures and indicators over time, which implies control through the missions it carries out, the management of Crédit ongoing use of the same sources, calculation methods and Agricole S.A. Group’s Audit-Inspection function, which is hierarchically methodologies. attached to it, and the management of the internal audit units of the Description of the Permanent Accounting Control system Regional Banks. The Group’s Permanent Accounting Controls function’s objective is to Based on an updated risk mapping approach resulting in an audit cycle provide adequate coverage of major accounting risks that can alter the generally lasting between two and five years, it conducts on-site and quality of accounting and financial information. This function is provided documentary audits in the Regional Banks, units of Crédit Agricole S.A. by the Accounting Control Department, which reports to the Group and its subsidiaries, including when they have their own internal audit Risk Management department. The Group’s Permanent Accounting and inspection units, as part of a coordinated approach to audit plans. Controls function is based on a network of accounting controllers in These periodic audits include a critical review of the internal control the subsidiaries and Regional Banks where it operates its support and system put in place by the audited entities. These procedures are oversight missions. designed to provide reasonable assurance on the effectiveness of this The unit has the following roles in this area: system in terms of operational safety, risk control and compliance with nn to define the standards and organisational and operational principles external and internal rules. of permanent accounting controls within Crédit Agricole Group; Within the audited entities, they consist in particular in ensuring nn to oversee and coordinate the permanent accounting control systems compliance with external and internal regulations, assessing the safety implemented within the Group’s subsidiaries and Regional Banks; and effectiveness of operating procedures, ensuring the adequacy of systems for measuring and monitoring risks of all kinds and verifying the reliability of accounting information. 226 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management Thanks to its specialised audit teams, the Group Internal Audit conducts Internal Audit, the Head of Risk and Permanent Control and the Head several IT missions each year on the information systems of the Group’s of Compliance of each entity participate – that audit plans are properly entities as well as current issues, largely related to IT security, or in the carried out, that risks are properly controlled and, more generally, that field of models in the context of calculating the entities’ or the Group’s each entity’s internal control systems are adequate. capital requirements. Finally, as required by regulations, the Group The missions carried out by the Internal Audit of Crédit Agricole S.A., Internal Audit carries out audits of outsourced essential services of the audit-inspection units or any external audit (regulatory authorities, interest to the Group or to the financial community. external firms where applicable) are subject to a formal monitoring The Group Internal Audit also provides a centralised monitoring of the system as part of regulatory controlled monitoring missions, which are Audit-Inspection function for all subsidiaries and leads the periodic control included in the audit plan on a minimum half-yearly basis. For each of of the Regional Banks, thereby enhancing the effectiveness of controls the recommendations made at the end of these missions, the system by harmonising audit practices at their best level, to ensure the security makes it possible to ensure the progress of the planned corrective actions, and regularity of operations in the various Group entities and to develop implemented according to a precise timetable, according to their priority common areas of expertise. At end-2018, the business line had nearly level, and for the Group Inspector General to exercise, if necessary, the 1,200 full-time equivalent employees within Crédit Agricole S.A. (including duty to alert the supervisory body and the Risk Committee pursuant to the Group Control and Audit department) and the Regional Banks. Article 26 b) of the Order of 3 November 2014 on the internal control of Joint audit missions between the Group Internal Audit and the audit companies in the banking, payment services and investment services departments of subsidiaries are regularly carried out, which contributes sector subject to the supervision of the Autorité de contrôle prudentiel et to exchanges on best audit practices. Particular importance is given to de résolution. thematic and transversal investigations. In accordance with Article 23 of the Order, the Group Head of Internal In addition, the Group Internal Audit Department ensures, within the Audit reports to the Board of Directors of Crédit Agricole S.A. regarding framework of the Internal Audit Committees of the relevant Group the performance of his duties. subsidiaries – in which the Executive Management, the Head of 3.4. CREDIT RISK A credit risk is realised when a counterparty is unable to honour its approaches. These mechanisms also make it possible to satisfy the obligations and when the carrying amount of these obligations in the requirement to produce quarterly regulatory statements on this matter. bank’s books is positive. The counterparty may be a bank, an industrial The volume of loans in forbearance under the ITS 2013-03 definition are or commercial enterprise, a government and its various controlled given in Note 3.1 of the consolidated financial statements. Principles of entities, an investment fund, or an individual person. loan classification for accounting purposes are specified in Note 1.2 to the Group’s financial statements. Definition of default The definition of default used in management, which is the same as the I. Objectives and policy one used for regulatory calculations, complies with current prudential requirements in the various Group entities. A debtor is, therefore, considered to be in default when at least one of Credit risk taking by Crédit Agricole S.A. and its subsidiaries is subject to the risk appetite of the Group and entities and risk strategies confirmed 5 by the Board of Directors and approved by the Group Risk Management the following conditions has been met: Committee, a sub-committee of the Crédit Agricole S.A. Executive nn a payment is generally more than 90 days past due, unless specific Committee chaired by the Chief Executive Officer. Risk strategies are circumstances point to the fact that the delay is due to reasons adjusted to each business line and its development plan. They set out beyond the debtor’s control; overall limits, intervention criteria (types of eligible counterparties, nature nn the entity believes that the debtor is unlikely to settle its credit and maturity of eligible products, collateral required) and arrangements obligations unless it avails itself of certain measures such as for delegating decision-making authority. These risk strategies are enforcement of collateral security right. adjusted as required for each business line, entity, business sector or The exposure may be a loan, debt security, deed of property, country. Business lines are responsible for complying with these risk performance exchange contract, performance bond or unutilised strategies, and compliance is controlled by the Risk Management and confirmed commitment. The risk also includes the settlement risk Permanent Controls Officers. inherent in any transaction entailing an exchange of cash or physical Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, the Group’s corporate goods outside a secure settlement system. and investment banking arm, also carries out active portfolio management, in order to reduce the main concentration risks borne by Restructured loans Crédit Agricole S.A. Group. The Group uses market instruments, such as Restructuring as defined by the EBA (forbearance) consists of all changes credit derivatives or securitisation mechanisms, to reduce and diversify made to one or more credit agreements, as well as to refinancings, counterparty risk and enable it to optimise its use of capital. Similarly, agreed to by virtue of the client’s financial difficulties. potential risk concentration is mitigated by syndication of loans with external banks with outside banks and use of risk hedging instruments Once the restructuring as defined by the EBA has been carried out, the (credit insurance, derivatives). exposure continues to be classified as “restructured” for at least two years, if the exposure was performing when restructured, and three Crédit Agricole S.A. and its subsidiaries seek to diversify their risks in years if the exposure was in default when restructured. These periods order to limit their exposure to credit and counterparty risks, particularly are extended when certain events covered by the Group standards in the event of a crisis affecting a particular industry or country. To occur (further incidents for example). this end, Crédit Agricole S.A. and its subsidiaries regularly monitor their total exposures by counterparty, by trading portfolio, by business sector In this respect, Group entities have put in place solutions to identify and by country, using different internal calculation methods depending and manage these exposures, tailored to their specificities and to on the type of exposure (see in particular section II.2.2 “Credit risk their business lines, depending on the circumstances: based on measurement”). expert judgement, algorithmic solutions or a combination of these two The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 227 5 Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management To reduce the risk associated with the deterioration of the quality of 2. Risk measurement methods and systems its exposure to credit and counterparty risks, the Group may apply a hedging strategy consisting notably of the purchase of credit derivatives 2.1 Internal rating systems and credit risk consolidation systems (see Credit risks under paragraph II.4.3 “Use of credit derivatives”, The internal rating systems cover all of the methods, procedures and Market risks under section II.2. “Use of credit derivatives” and Asset controls used for assessment of credit risk, rating of borrowers and and liability management Part V “Hedging policy”). estimation of losses given default by the borrower. Governance of When the risk is proven, an individual or portfolio-based depreciation the internal rating system relies on the Standards and Methodologies policy is implemented. Committee (CNM), chaired by the Group’s head of Risk Management and Permanent Controls, whose task it is to validate and disseminate In particular, with respect to counterparty risk on market transactions, standards and methodologies for risk measurement and control within the Group’s policy on credit reserves constitution is twofold. On the Crédit Agricole Group. In particular, the Standards and Methodologies sound clients, a credit valuation adjustment (“CVA risk assessment”) Committee reviews: is recorded and consists in a generic provisioning, as for credit risk. nn rules for identifying and measuring risks, in particular, counterparty Conversely, on defaulted counterparties, an individual provision is sized in accordance with the derivative instrument situation, taking into rating methods, credit scoring and Basel risk parameter estimates account the CVA amount already provisioned prior to the default. (probability of default, credit conversion factor, loss given default) and related organisational procedures; In case of default, the depreciation is assessed in accordance with the nn segmentation between retail customers and large customers, with same principles as those governing the credit risk provisioning policy: related procedures such as risk consolidation information system expected loss amount depending on the derivative instrument rank data entry; in the waterfall. But it takes into account the CVA process, with two nn the performance of rating and risk assessment methods by reviewing possible outcomes: either derivatives are left in place (CVA or individual provision), or they are terminated (individual write-off). back-testing results at least once a year; nn the use of ratings (validation of common syntaxes, glossaries and II. Credit risk management benchmarks). For retail customers, including loans to individuals (in particular, home 1. Risk-taking general principles loans and consumer finance) and small businesses, each entity is responsible for defining, implementing and substantiating its rating All credit transactions require in-depth analysis of the customer’s system, in accordance with the Group standards established by Crédit ability to repay the debt and the most efficient way of structuring the Agricole S.A. transaction, particularly in terms of security and maturity. This analysis must comply with the risk strategy of the business line or entity LCL and the consumer credit subsidiaries (Crédit Agricole Consumer concerned and with all limits in force, both individual and aggregate. Finance) have their own rating systems. Crédit Agricole Regional Banks The final lending decision is based on an internal rating and is taken by have shared risk assessment models which are managed at Crédit the commitment units or by the Credit Committees, on the basis of an Agricole S.A. level. Procedures for back-testing the parameters used independent opinion given by a representative of the Risk Management in calculating the regulatory capital requirements have been defined and Permanent Controls function as part of the authorisation system and are operational in all entities. The internal models used by the in place. The Group Risk Management Committee and its Chairman Group are based on statistical models established on explanatory constitute the Group’s ultimate decision-making authority. behavioural variables (e.g. average current account balance) and identifying variables (e.g. business sector). The approach taken can be Each lending decision requires a risk-return analysis. In the case of the either customer-centred (individuals, farmers, small businesses and Corporate and Investment Bank business line this means an ex ante very small enterprises), or product-centred. The estimated probability calculation of the profitability of the transaction. of default in one year, to which the rating relates, is updated on a yearly In addition, the principle of an individual risk limit applies to all types of basis. counterparty, whether corporates, banks, financial institutions, public sector or semi-public sector entities. For the large customer category, a single fifteen-grade rating scale has been established on the basis of a segmentation of risk so as to provide a uniform view of default risk “over a full business cycle”. It has 13 ratings (A+ to E-) categorising counterparties not in default and two ratings (F and Z) categorising counterparties in default. Comparison between the Group ratings and the rating agencies Crédit Agricole Group A+ A B+ B C+ C CD+ D DE+ E EIndicative Moody’s Caa/ rating equivalent Aaa Aa1/Aa2 Aa3/A1 A2/A3 Baa1 Baa2 Baa3 Ba1 Ba2 Ba3 B1/B2 B3 Ca/C Indicative Standard & Poor’s CCC/ rating equivalent AAA AA+/AA AA-/A+ A/ABBB+ BBB BBBBB+ BB BBB+/B BCC/C Probability of default in year 1 0.001% 0.01% 0.02% 0.06% 0.16% 0.30% 0.60% 0.75% 1.25% 1.90% 5.0% 12.00% 20.00% 228 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management Within Crédit Agricole Group, the large customer category comprises 2.2 Credit risk measurement primarily sovereigns and central banks, corporates, local authorities, The measurement of credit risk exposures includes both drawn facilities specialised financings as well as banks, insurance companies, asset and confirmed unutilised facilities. management companies and other financial companies. An internal To measure counterparty risk on capital markets transactions, Crédit rating method tailored to each specific risk profile, based on financial Agricole S.A. and its subsidiaries use different types of approaches to and qualitative criteria, is applied to each type of large customer. For estimate the current and potential risk of derivative instruments (such large customers, Crédit Agricole Group entities have common internal as swaps and structured products). rating methodologies. Counterparties are rated, at the latest, when they apply for support and the rating is updated with each renewal or Crédit Agricole CIB uses an internal methodology to estimate the risk upon any event that could affect risk quality. The rating assignment in relation to such instruments, using a net portfolio approach for each must be approved by a unit independent of the Front Office. The rating customer: is reviewed at least annually. To ensure that each counterparty has a nn current risk corresponds to the sum owing by the counterparty in the unique Crédit Agricole Group rating, a single Group entity is responsible event of instantaneous default; for rating said counterparty on behalf of all the entities providing it with nn the potential future risk corresponds to the estimated maximum support. Crédit Agricole CIB’s exposure for a given confidence interval. Whether relating to large customers or retail customers, the rating The methodology used is based on “Monte-Carlo”-type simulations, oversight system implemented by Crédit Agricole S.A., its subsidiaries enabling the risk of change over derivatives’ remaining maturity to be and the Regional Banks across the entire rating process aims to ensure: assessed on the basis of statistical modelling of the change in underlying nn rules for identifying and measuring risks, in particular, methods used; market parameters. nn uniformity in the handling of default events on a consolidated basis; This model considers the different risk reduction factors, such as the nn proper utilisation of the internal rating methodologies; use of offsetting and collateralisation in agreements negotiated with counterparties prior to transactions taking place. It includes also nn reliability of data substantiating the internal rating. exchanges of collaterals on initial margin for derivative instruments The Standards and Methodology Committee, amongst others, which are not cleared under regulatory thresholds. ensures that these principles are respected, in particular, when rating Situations of specific risk of unfavourable correlations (risk that an methodologies are approved and during annual back-testing. exposure to a derivative is positively correlated with the counterparty’s Furthermore, Crédit Agricole S.A. and its subsidiaries continue to focus probability of default as a result of a legal tie between this counterparty on improving the risk-tracking system for: and the underlying of the derivative) are monitored regularly to identify nn risk management of single clients and groups which is designed and integrate such risks in the exposure measurement as recommended to ensure accurate identification of counterparties on which there by regulations. Situations of general risk of unfavourable correlations is a risk within the entities and to improve cross-functional risk (risk that market conditions have a correlated effect on a counterparty’s information management on single clients and groups, which is credit quality and derivative exposures with this counterparty) were crucial to ensuring rating uniqueness and consistent allocation of monitored by means of ad hoc exercises in 2017. exposures to Basel portfolios; The internal model is used to manage internal limits on transactions nn the closing process, which aims to guarantee the quality of the with each counterparty and to measure ICAAP economic capital by process of production of the solvency ratio. The French Prudential Supervisory and Resolution Authority (ACPR) determining the average risk exposure (Expected Positive Exposure) across the portfolio. 5 has authorised Crédit Agricole Group to use internal rating systems to As allowed by this regulatory framework, the French Prudential calculate regulatory capital requirements for credit risk of its retail and Supervision and Resolution Authority (ACPR) authorised Crédit Agricole large customer portfolios on the greater part of its scope. CIB as of 31 March 2014 to use the internal model method to calculate Having internal rating systems deployed throughout the Group enables its capital requirements in respect of counterparty risk. The model it to implement counterparty risk management based on risk indicators uses Effective Expected Positive Exposure (EEPE) and is applied to all compliant with current regulatory rules. For large customers, the single derivatives. The same method is used to calculate credit exposure at rating system (identical tools and methods, shared data) which has been default for capital requirement purposes to address the risk of credit implemented for several years now, has helped to improve counterparty value adjustment monitoring, in particular, for counterparties common to several Group For the calculation of capital requirements for counterparty risk for entities. The system has also made it possible to have a common repo transactions and derivative transactions at its subsidiaries, Crédit reference framework on which to base standards and procedures, Agricole CIB uses the standard approach. governance tools, alert procedures and risk provisioning policies. Credit risk on these market transactions is managed in accordance with Finally, in the Corporate and investment banking businesses, expected rules set by the Group. The policy on setting counterparty risk limits is as loss, economic capital and risk-adjusted return measurements are described above in section II.1 “Credit risk management – Risk-taking used in the processes for making loan approval decisions, defining risk general principles”. The techniques used to reduce counterparty risk on strategies and setting risk limits. market transactions by Crédit Agricole CIB are described in “Credit risk mitigation mechanisms”. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 229 5 Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management Crédit Agricole Group includes a credit valuation adjustment (CVA) 3.3 Process for monitoring counterparties in default in its calculation of the fair value of derivative assets. This valuation and on credit watch adjustment is described in Note 1.2 to the consolidated notes on Counterparties in default and on credit watch are monitored closely by the accounting policies and principles and Note 10.2 on information about business lines, in collaboration with Risk Management and Permanent financial instruments measured at fair value. Controls Officers. They are also the object of formal monitoring by the The positive gross fair value of the contracts, as well as the gains entities’ Sensitive Exposure Committees and of quarterly monitoring by from the offsetting and the guarantees held, and the net exposure on the Group Risk Management Committee and the Risk Committee on a derivative instruments after the impact of offsetting and guarantees are consolidated basis. discussed in consolidated Note 6.9 on Offsetting – Financial Assets. 3.4 Consolidated credit risk monitoring process At other Group entities, the base for counterparty risk on market The Group’s credit risk profile is monitored and presented at least every transactions is either calculated by the Crédit Agricole CIB tool under quarter at the Group Risk Management Committee and the Board of an internal provision of services agreement or based on the regulatory Directors’ Meetings using the “Group risk dashboard”. approach. In addition, detailed periodic reviews of banking risks, country risks and the main nonbanking risks are conducted during Group Risk 3. Supervision system of commitments Management Committee Meetings. Rules for dividing and limiting risk exposures, along with specific processes relating to commitments and grant criteria, are used to 3.5 Country risk monitoring and management system prevent any excessive concentration of the portfolio and to limit the Country risk is the risk that economic, financial, political, judicial or impact of any deterioration. social conditions in a country will affect the Bank’s financial interests. This risk does not differ in nature from “elementary” risk (credit, market 3.1 Process for monitoring concentrations by counterparty or group of related counterparties and operational risks), but is an aggregate of risks resulting from vulnerability to a specific political, social, macroeconomic and financial The consolidated commitments of all Crédit Agricole Group entities are environment. Country risk covers the assessment of the overall risk monitored by counterparty and by group of related counterparties. A environment in a country as opposed to Sovereign Risk, which refers to group of counterparties is a set of French or foreign legal entities that a state’s counterparty risk. are connected, regardless of their status and economic activity, enabling the total exposure to the risk of default of this group to be measured on The system for assessing and monitoring country risk within Crédit the basis of the exposure of one or more of these entities. Commitments Agricole Group is based on its own rating methodology. Internal country to a counterparty or group of related counterparties include all loans ratings are based on criteria relating to the financial soundness of the granted by the Group as well as corporate finance transactions, bond government, the banking system and the economy, criteria relating to portfolios, financing commitments and counterparty risks relating to ability and willingness to pay, governance and political stability. capital market transactions. Exposure limits for counterparties and Annually reviewed limits and risk strategies are applied to each country groups of related counterparties are recorded in the internal information whose business volume justifies it, with a few exceptions. systems of each subsidiary or business line. When several subsidiaries This approach is supplemented by scenario analyses aimed at testing have a counterparty in common, a Group-level aggregate limit is set the impact of adverse macroeconomic and financial assumptions. These on the basis of commitment authorisation limits that depend on the tests provide the Group with an integrated view of the risks to which it internal rating. may be exposed in situations of extreme tension. Each operating entity reports the amount of its commitments by risk The Group manages and controls its country risks according to the category on a monthly or quarterly basis to the Group Risk Management following principles: and Permanent Controls department. Exposures to major non-bank nn acceptable country risk exposure limits are determined through counterparties, i.e. those on which the aggregate commitments of reviews of country strategies, depending on the vulnerability of the Crédit Agricole Group exceed €300 million after offsetting, are reported portfolio to country risk. This degree of vulnerability is determined by separately to the Group Risk Management Committee. the type and structure of transactions, the quality of counterparties At year-end 2018, the commercial lending commitments of Crédit Agricole and the term of commitments. These exposure limits may be S.A. and its subsidiaries, to their ten largest non-sovereign, non-bank reviewed more frequently if developments in a particular country customers, amounted to 5.62% of the total non-bank commercial lending make it necessary. These strategies and limits are validated portfolio (compared with 7.02% at 31 December 2017). The diversification according to the level of risk by Crédit Agricole CIB’s Strategy and of the portfolio on an individual basis is still satisfactory. Portfolio Committee (SPC) and by Crédit Agricole S.A.’s Group Risk Management Committee (GRC); 3.2 Portfolio review and sector monitoring process nn the Corporate and Investment Bank maintains a system for regular Periodic portfolio reviews conducted by entity or business line strengthen assessment of country risk and for updating the country risk rating the monitoring process, thus serving to identify counterparties whose quarterly for each country in which the Group operates. This rating credit quality is deteriorating, update counterparty ratings, monitor risk is produced using an internal country rating model based on various strategies and check on changes in concentration ratios, for instance, criteria (structural solidity, governance, political stability, ability and per business sector. willingness to pay). Specific events may cause ratings to be adjusted Moreover, the Corporate and Investment Bank has a portfolio modelling before the next quarterly review; tool that it uses to test how well portfolios hold up under stress scenarios. nn Crédit Agricole CIB’s country and Portfolio Risk Department validates transactions whose size, maturity and degree of country risk could affect the quality of the portfolio. 230 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management Country risk exposure is monitored and controlled in both quantitative Details of guarantee commitments received are provided in Notes 3.1 (amount and term of exposure) and qualitative (portfolio vulnerability) and 8 of the annex to the consolidated financial statements. terms through regular specific reporting on all exposures to countries. Regarding financial assets obtained by enforcement of guarantees or Western European countries with an internal rating (lower than B) credit enhancement measures, the Group’s policy is to sell them as qualifying them for close country risk monitoring undergo a separate soon as possible. ad hoc monitoring procedure. Exposure to sovereign and non-sovereign risk in these countries is detailed in Note 6.7 to the consolidated financial 4.2 Use of netting agreements statements. If a “master” agreement has been signed with a counterparty and said Moreover, exposures to other countries rated below B are detailed in counterparty defaults or enters bankruptcy proceedings, Crédit Agricole chapter III paragraph 2.4 “Country risk” below. S.A. and its subsidiaries apply close out netting, enabling them to terminate current contracts early and to calculate a net balance on the 3.6 Credit risk stress testing. debts and debt obligations in respect of this counterparty. They also use Credit risk stress testing is primarily based on satellite models that collateralisation techniques to enable securities or cash to be transferred link changes in credit risk parameters to macroeconomic and financial in the form of collateral or transfer of full ownership during the lifetime variables. These models are independently reviewed and approved by of the hedged transactions, which can be offset, in the event of default the Standards and Methodology Committee in the same way as the Basel by one of the parties, in order to calculate the net balance of reciprocal models. In addition, the quantitative stress testing system is back-tested debt and debt obligations resulting from the master agreement signed each year. Moreover, since 1 January 2018 these models contribute to with the counterparty. the calculation of ECLs according to IFRS 9 (see paragraph IV 1. below). 4.3 Use of credit derivatives In line with EBA methodology, the credit risk stress tests employ Basel In managing its corporate financing portfolio Crédit Agricole CIB uses parameters (PD, LGD, EAD) and aim to estimate changes in the cost credit derivatives together with a range of risk-transfer instruments of risk including provisions for assets not in default and the impact on including namely securitisation. (see Information under Pillar 3 of risk-weighted assets. Basel 3). For the purposes of credit risk monitoring and management, the At 31 December 2018, the notional amount of protection bought in the Group Risk department carries out a series of thematic stress tests form of credit derivatives was €3.7 billion (€5 billion at 31 December in cooperation with the relevant business lines and entities in order to 2017), the notional amount of short positions was zero (the same at confirm the decisions related to the main risk strategies. 31 December 2017). A global credit risk stress test is carried out at least once a year as Crédit Agricole CIB processes its derivatives through ten leading, part of the budgetary process. The works, coordinated by DRG, involve competent and regulated bank counterparties, which are all “investment all Crédit Agricole Group entities and all Basel portfolios, whether they grade”. Furthermore, 54% of these derivatives are processed through are treated for regulatory purposes using the IRB or Standard method. clearing houses (38% as at 31 December 2017), which are acting as The period examined is set at three years. The stress process is part of a guarantor for the successful completion of these credit risk hedging corporate governance and aims to improve dialogue between risk and transactions. finance on the sensitivity of the cost of risk and capital requirements to a downturn in the economic climate. In addition to being used for Bilateral transactions (i.e. transactions processed outside the clearing budgetary purposes and to manage capital requirements, the results of global credit risk stress tests are used for ICAAP purposes. They are house) are recorded against first-class banking counterparties, which are all “investment grade” (9 counterparties as at 31 December 2018), 5 reviewed by the Executive Committee and are also reported to the Crédit competent and regulated, located either in France, Great Britain or Agricole S.A. Board of Directors. the United States, which are acting as guarantors of these credit risk hedging transactions. The bank exercises control over any possible concentration of protection with these non-clearing house guarantors 4. Credit risk mitigation mechanisms through the application of notional limits per bank counterparty, set and 4.1 Collateral and guarantees received reviewed annually by the Risk Department of CACIB. Guarantees or collateral are intended to provide partial or full protection These credit derivative transactions carried out as part of credit risk against credit risk. mitigation operations are subject to adjustment calculation under The principles governing the eligibility, utilisation and management of Prudent Valuation, to cover market risk concentrations. collateral and guarantees received as security are defined by Crédit The outstanding amounts of credit derivatives are shown in the Agricole Group’s Standards and Methodology Committee (CNM), annex to the consolidated notes, 3.2 “Derivative instruments: total (in accordance with the CRR/CRD4 system for the calculation of the commitments”. solvency ratio). This common framework, defined in Group standards, ensures a III. Exposures consistent approach across the Group’s various entities. It notably documents the conditions for prudential recognition, and the valuation 1. Maximum exposure and revaluation methods of all the credit risk mitigation techniques The maximum exposure to credit risk of Crédit Agricole S.A. and its that are used: collateral (notably for the financing of assets: property, subsidiaries corresponds to the net carrying amount of financial assets aircraft, ships, etc.), personal guarantees, public export credit insurers, (loans and receivables, debt instruments and derivative instruments) private credit insurance policies, financial guarantee insurance, credit before the effect of non-recognised netting agreements and collateral. derivatives, and cash collateral. It is shown in Note 3.1 to the financial statements. The entities are in charge of implementing this framework at At 31 December 2018, the maximum exposure to credit and the operational level (management, monitoring of valuations, counterparty risk of Crédit Agricole S.A. and its subsidiaries amounted implementation). to €1,327 billion (€1,278 billion at 31 December 2017), an increase of 3.9% compared to the year 2017. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 231 5 Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management 2. Concentration Breakdown by business sector of commercial lending of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group An analysis of credit risk on commercial lending commitments excluding Crédit Agricole Group internal transactions and collateral given by Business sector 2018 2017 Crédit Agricole S.A. as part of repurchase agreements (loans and Air/Space 2.3% 3.5% receivables to credit institutions, loans and receivables to customers, Agriculture and food processing 2.3% 2.4% financing commitments given, and guarantee commitments given for Insurance 1.5% 1.3% €827.23 billion) is presented below. This scope excludes in particular derivative instruments, which are mainly monitored in VaR (see market Automotive 3.0% 3.0% risks) and financial assets held by insurance companies (€269 billion Other non-banking financial see Insurance sector risks). activities 10.2% 7.4% Other industries 1.6% 1.6% 2.1 Portfolio diversification by geographic area Other transport 1.4% 1.6% On the commercial lending portfolio (including bank counterparties), the Banks 2.9% 5.6% breakdown by geographic area covers a total portfolio of €810.63 billion at Wood/Paper/Packaging 0.3% 0.2% 31 December 2018, compared with €737.53 billion at 31 December 2017. The breakdown reflects the country in which the commercial lending risk BTP 2.1% 2.3% is based. Retail/Consumer goods industries 2.0% 2.2% Other 3.4% 3.0% Breakdown by geographic area of commercial lending of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group Energy 7.4% 7.3% o/w Oil and Gas 4.8% 5.1% Geographic area of exposure 2018 2017 o/w Electricity 2.6% 2.2% Africa and Middle East 4% 4% Real estate 3.6% 3.7% Central and South America 1% 1% Heavy industry 2.3% 2.4% North America 8% 8% IT/Technology 1.2% 1.1% Asia-Pacific excluding Japan 5% 5% Shipping 1.8% 2.0% Eastern Europe 2% 2% Media/Publishing 0.4% 0.4% Western Europe (excluding Italy) 14% 14% Healthcare/Pharmaceuticals 1.1% 1.3% France (retail banking) 16% 17% Non-trading services/Public France (excluding retail banking) 33% 33% sector/Local authorities 19.4% 16.6% Italy 13% 13% Telecom 1.6% 1.6% Japan 4% 3% Tourism/Hotels/Restaurants 0.9% 0.9% TOTAL 100% 100% Utilities 0.3% 0.3% Retail banking customers 27.0% 28.3% The breakdown of commercial lending by geographic area is broadly TOTAL 100% 100% stable. At year end 2018, lending in France accounted for 49% of the total, as opposed to 50% at year end 2017. Italy, the Group’s second The commercial lending portfolio by business sector is well diversified largest market, had its commercial lending stable at 13%, as it was and remained overall unchanged in 2018. Only two sectors accounted for end of 2017. more than 10% of business, as in 2017: the “Retail banking customers” Note 3.1 to the financial statements presents the breakdown of loans business, which was the largest at 27.0% (28.3% in 2017) and the and receivables and commitments given to customers and credit “Non-trading services/Public sector/Local authorities” business, the institutions by geographic area on the basis of accounting data. second largest, for which the share rose to 19.4% from 16.6% of the total in 2017, due in particular to an increase in the amount of central 2.2 Portfolio diversification by business sector bank exposure. On the commercial lending portfolio (including bank counterparties The “Oil and gas” sector is the main component of the exposure to outside the Group) the scope broken down by business sector stood “Energy”. This sector comprises a wide diversity of underlyings, players at €779.8 billion at 31 December 2018, versus €706.8 billion at and types of financing, including a number of sub-segments such as 31 December 2017. These breakdowns reflect the business sector in RBL (Reserve-Based Lending), Trade and project financing that are which the commercial lending risk to customers is based. usually secured by assets. As in 2017, most of the exposure in the oil sector relates to players that are structurally less sensitive to the drop in oil prices (public sector companies, large international companies, transportation/storage/ refinery companies). Following a major crisis in the sector, the clients are now recording stable economic performance and the portfolio is showing good post-crisis resilience. Guided by a risk-based strategy and due to price volatility, the “Oil and Gas” sector is subject to a very selective approach to projects and any significant new transactions are subject to an in-depth analysis of credit and CSR risk where necessary. 232 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management The current position of the “Shipping” sector is the result of the 2.4 Exposure to country risk expertise and background of Crédit Agricole CIB in mortgage financing At 31 December 2018, commercial lending (including to bank for ships, which it provides to its international ship-owning clients. After counterparties) to Crédit Agricole S.A. Group customers in countries nine difficult years, maritime transport is showing signs of recovery with ratings below B according to the Group’s internal ratings, excluding that are still moderate and varied depending on the sector. Against this countries in Western Europe (Italy, Spain, Portugal, Greece, Cyprus and background, the strategy of progressively reducing exposure, effective Iceland), totalled €60.9 billion versus €54.9 billion at 31 December 2017. since 2011, continued. However, this portfolio is relatively protected by Most of these commitments come from Crédit Agricole CIB, UBAF (47%its diversification (financing of oil, gas, offshore, bulk carriers, container owned by Crédit Agricole CIB) and International retail banking. They ships, cruise ships, etc.), as well as by the quality of ship financing include guarantees received which are deducted (export credit insurance, structures, secured by mortgages. cash deposits, securities pledged, etc.). The “heavy industry” sector mainly comprises large global steel, metal The concentration of total exposures in these countries was generally and chemical groups. Within the sector, commitments in the Coal stable in 2018: the top twenty countries accounted for 92.0% of the lending segment have decreased significantly, in line with the CSR policy of portfolio at year-end 2018, compared with 92.2% at year-end 2017. Crédit Agricole Group. Three geographical areas are dominant: Middle East/North Africa 2.3 Breakdown of loans and receivables outstanding (35%), Asia (24%) and Central and Eastern Europe (28%). by type of economic agent Concentration by customer type of loans and receivables and commitments given to credit institutions and customers are presented in Note 3.1 to the consolidated financial statements. The gross amount of loans and receivables outstanding, including accrued interest, was €479.3 billion at 31 December 2018, compared to €465.0 billion at 31 December 2017, an increase of 3.1% in 2018. It is split mainly between large corporates and retail customers (respectively, 43.6% and 34.0%). Changes in commercial lending for countries with a credit rating lower than B (in millions of euros) Northern Africa/ Sub-Saharan Central and Date Middle East Africa Americas Asia Eastern Europe Total 2018 21,369 1,504 6,517 14,587 16,949 60,926 2017 19,073 1,457 5,342 14,321 14,685 54,878 The Middle East and North Africa Cumulative commitments in countries in the Middle East and North Africa Sub-Saharan Africa Group commitments in Sub-Saharan Africa totalled €1.50 billion at 5 totalled €21.4 billion at 31 December 2018, 12% up on year-end 2017. 31 December 2018, i.e. 2% of the total for countries with a rating Morocco, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, Egypt and Qatar accounted below B, compared with 3% at year-end 2017. Exposure to South Africa for 82% of commitments in the Middle East and Northern Africa area. accounted for 23% of commitments in this region. Central and Eastern Europe 3. Credit quality Cumulative commitments in Central and Eastern Europe rose 15% from the previous year, mainly due to increased exposure to Russia. Group 3.1 Analysis of loans and receivables by category commitments remain concentrated in four countries: Poland, Russia, The breakdown of loans and receivables to credit institutions and Ukraine and Serbia, which together represented 91% of the total in customers is presented as follows: this region. Loans and receivables (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Asia Neither past due nor impaired 458,497 443,858 Commitments in Asia increased 2% to €14.6 billion from Past due but not impaired 7,389 5,485 31 December 2017. This change was mainly due to an increase to Impaired 13,427 15,697 exposures to China and Indonesia. China remains the largest regional exposure (at €8.4 billion) ahead of India (€4.3 billion). TOTAL 479,313 465,040 Latin America The portfolio of loans and receivables at 31 December 2018 was 95.7% At end-December 2018, exposure to this region represented 11% made up of amounts that were neither past due nor impaired (95.4% at of all exposure to countries rated lower than “B”. The increase in 31 December 2017). commitments recorded was 22% compared to the end of 2017, mainly Under IFRS 7, a financial asset is past due when a counterparty has due to a significant increase in commitments to Brazil. Exposure to failed to make a payment when contractually due. The Group considers Brazil and Mexico made up 89% of the Latin America total. there to be no identified credit risk on loans and receivables that are less than 90 days past due, which account for 99.4% of receivables past due but not impaired (92.9% at end-2017). Details of financial assets that were past due or impaired are presented in Note 3.1 to the consolidated financial statements. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 233 5 Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management 3.2 Analysis of outstanding amounts by internal rating was revised significantly downwards to 0.9%, the environment did not The internal rating policy used by Crédit Agricole Group aims to cover result in a deterioration of the quality of the portfolio or an unfavourable the entire Group customer portfolio, i.e. retail customers, corporate trend in risk indicators (see below). customers, banks and financial institutions, government agencies and With regard to sectoral risks, the most significant factor is the worsening local authorities. trade war between the USA, China and Europe. Nonetheless, during On the performing commercial lending portfolio excluding retail 2018 the Group’s main sectors benefited from the continued favourable customers (€612.2 billion at 31 December 2018, compared with economic environment, which was particularly noticeable in the portfolio €547.3 billion at 31 December 2017), internally-rated borrowers of Corporate and Investment Banking. accounted for 82.3% of the total, compared with 81.1% at year-end 2017 (€504.2 billion at 31 December 2018, compared with €444.1 billion at 4.2. Figures and facts 31 December 2017). The breakdown of this portfolio is presented Crédit Agricole S.A. Group’s cost of risk was €1.08 billion in 2018, according to the Standard & Poor’s equivalents of the Group’s internal compared to €1.42 billion in 2017, a decrease of 24%. The cost of ratings: risk of LCL increased by 7.5% to €0.22 billion. The cost of risk of the International retail banking business line fell 18%, with a notable Change in the performing non-retail commercial lending portfolio of Crédit improvement in the quality of the CA Italia portfolio, which saw its cost of Agricole S.A. Group by indicative S&P equivalent of 2018 internal rating risk fall 12%. Within the Specialised Financial Services division, the cost 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 of risk mainly concerns the consumer finance business (Crédit Agricole AAA 31.7% 28.0% Consumer Finance group), where the cost of credit risk increased by 5.7%, while remaining unchanged for its Italian subsidiary Agos Ducato. AA 14.9% 15.6% Corporate and Investment Banking benefited from a sharp decline in A 13.7% 14.8% the cost of risk, with a net reversal of +€61 million (compared with BBB 27.2% 28.0% net allocations of -€203 million in 2017, excluding -€115 million of BB 10.5% 11.0% unallocated provisions for legal risk), as a result of low specific risk on B 1.1% 1.1% the portfolio and net reversals on Buckets 1 and 2. Being monitored 1.0% 1.5% Details of the movements that affected the cost of risk are presented in TOTAL 100.0% 100.0% Note 4.9 to the consolidated financial statements. This is broken down by business line in Note 5.1 to the consolidated financial statements. This breakdown reflects a high-quality of loan book, further improved during 2018, with a risk profile showing a 5-point increase in A and 5. Counterparty risk on derivative instruments above ratings. At 31 December 2018, 87% of lending was to borrowers The counterparty risk on derivative instruments is established according with investment-grade ratings (ratings equal to or greater than BBB, to market value and potential credit risk calculated and weighted in 86% at 31 December 2017), and only 1.0% pertained to borrowers on accordance with regulatory standards. The measure relating to this credit watch. credit risk is presented in paragraph 2.2 “Credit risk measurement” of section II “Credit risk management”. 3.3 Impairment and risk coverage 3.3.1 Impairment and risk hedging policy IV. Application of IFRS 9 The policy for hedging loan loss risks is based on two kinds of value 1. Measurement of expected losses adjustments for credit losses: The principles used to calculate Expected Credit Losses (ECL) are nn impairment allowances on an individual basis intended to cover described in the accounting principles and methods (§ Credit Risk), probable losses on impaired receivables; which specify in particular the input data, assumptions and estimation nn impairment losses for credit loss, in accordance with IFRS 9 is techniques used. described in detail on part IV. In order to assess expected credit losses over the next 12 months and over the life of an instrument and to determine whether the credit 3.3.2 Impaired financial assets risk of financial instruments has increased significantly since initial At 31 December 2018, total individually impaired commitments amounted recognition, the Group therefore relies mainly on the data used as part of to €13.4 billion, compared to €15.7 billion at 31 December 2017. the framework used for regulatory calculations (internal rating system, These consist of commitments for which the Group sees potential evaluation of guarantees and losses in the event of default). non-recovery. Individually impaired loans represent 2.8% of the Group’s Forward -looking economic data are taken into account when estimating gross book value (3.4% at 31 December 2017). the expected loss with two distinct levels: central forward-looking to Restructured loans(1) totalled €9.22 billion at 31 December 2018 ensure a homogeneous macroeconomic vision for all Group entities and (vs €11.4 billion at 31 December 2017). local forward-looking to adjust the parameters of the central scenario to take into account local specificities. 4. Cost of risk To build its central forward-looking level, the Group relies on the The main factors that had an impact on the level of impairment observed four forward-looking macroeconomic scenarios prepared by Crédit during the year: Agricole S.A.’s Economic Studies Department (ECD), which are weighted according to their probability of occurrence. The base scenario, which is 4.1. Main economic and factors and industry-specific factors based on the budgetary assumptions, is supplemented by three other of 2018 scenarios (adverse, moderate and favourable). Quantitative models to Although potential risks remain very present and may even have assess the impact of macroeconomic data on ECL trends are also used increased in the last months of the year, global economic growth was in internal and regulatory stress tests. still relatively strong in 2018, with a forecast of 1.6% for France and 1.9% for the Eurozone. In France, domestic demand remains fairly strong, and The economic variables updated quarterly cover factors affecting the interest rates remain very low. In Italy, despite a growth forecast that Group’s main portfolios (e.g. changes in GDP in France and Eurozone (1) The concept of restructured loans is detailed in Note1.3 “Accounting policies and principles” of the consolidated financial statements. 234 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management countries, unemployment rates in France and Italy, household Structure of outstanding amounts investment, oil prices, etc.). The decrease in the share of Bucket 2 compared to Bucket 1 (see Note 1 The economic outlook and scenarios used to calculate ECLs are reviewed of the consolidated financial statements) is observed in all entities. This quarterly by the IFRS 9 Coordination Committee, which includes the trend is partly explained by the favourable production dynamics in 2018, main entities of the Group as well as the Group Departments of Crédit which increased the weight of Bucket 1 outstanding amounts (88.2% Agricole S.A. that are involved in the IFRS 9 procedure. of total exposures compared to 86.3% at the beginning of the year), and by the good risk level of all components of the credit portfolio. The base scenario used in the Group’s and its entities’ central forwardCorrespondingly, for almost all business lines, Bucket 2 exposures looking forecasting models can be summarised as follows: The strong decreased both in absolute terms (-€1.3 billion) and in relative weight and synchronised recovery ends in 2018. In 2019, performance between (-1.0 pt corresponding to 8.4% of total exposures vs 9.4% previously). major economic areas are mixed, with very strong growth in the United States, satisfactory (above potential) in the nonetheless already waning Bucket 3 exposures were also down in absolute value (-€2.1 billion) Eurozone. U.S. growth will slow more sharply in 2020 as the effect of the and relative weight (-0.9 pts corresponding to 3.4% of total exposures tax stimulus fades and the past increase in key rates gradually slows the vs 4.3% at beginning of 2018) as a result of favourable risk dynamics, economy. After just under 3% in 2018, it would fall below 2% in 2020. as well as of the sale of impaired receivables on the International Retail The US monetary tightening ends in 2020. In the Eurozone, growth Banking scope (€1.3 billion). is gradually slowing down to around 1.5% in 2020. As inflationary ECL trends pressures remain very limited, the European Central Bank maintains an overall accommodative monetary policy. Despite a context of multiple Value adjustments for Bucket 1 losses evolved in line with the inventory uncertainties, particularly political and geopolitical, we expect the cycle with a stable coverage rate across all entities. to slow down smoothly. Bucket 2 ECLs were down in line with the change in outstanding amounts in this segment, but the coverage rate was down slightly 2. ECL trends overall, mainly due to the effect of updating the parameters of the Changes in the structure of outstanding amounts and ECL during central forward-looking approach. the period are detailed in Part 3.1 of the financial statements as at International debt sales including a significant proportion of exposures 31 December 2018. with a high level of seniority in default contributed to the reduction in The comments below pertain to the scope of financial assets at the Bucket 3 hedging rate during the year. amortised cost (loans and receivables from customers), which represent 87% of the value adjustments for losses. 3.5. MARKET RISK Market risk is the risk of a negative impact on the income statement I. Objectives and policy or balance sheet of adverse fluctuations in the value of financial instruments following changes in market parameters, particularly: Crédit Agricole S.A. Group has a specific market risk management nn interest rates: interest rate risk is the risk of a change in the fair value of a financial instrument or the future cash flows from a financial system with its own organisation independent of operational hierarchies, risk identification and measurement methods, monitoring 5 and consolidation procedures. In terms of scope, this system hedges instrument due to a change in interest rates; all market risk. nn exchange rates: foreign exchange risk is the risk of a change in the fair value of a financial instrument due to a change in exchange rates; In a market still marked by persistently low rates, economic uncertainties and global geopolitical tensions (post-Brexit discussions, nn prices: price risk is the risk of a change or volatility in the price of Italian government policies Sino-American trade tensions and central equities, commodities, baskets of equities or stock market indices. bank monetary policy guidelines), the Crédit Agricole Group continued The instruments most exposed to this risk are, in particular, variableto apply a prudent market risk management policy, in line with its risk income securities, equity derivatives and commodity derivatives; appetite. nn credit spreads: credit risk is the risk of a change in the fair value of a financial instrument resulting from movement in the credit spreads on indices or issuers. For more complex credit products there is also the risk of a change in fair value arising from a change in correlation between issuer defaults. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 235 5 Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management II. Risk management The IT architecture put in place within Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank for market risk management is based on sharing 1. Local and central organisation the platforms used in the Front Office, on which risk indicators are Crédit Agricole S.A. Group has two distinct and complementary levels calculated. The independence of the process is based on the selection of market risk management: of market data and the validation of valuation models by the Risk nn at the central level, the Group Risk Management and Permanent department. Controls department ensures coordination on all subjects related Group procedures define the level of information, format and frequency to the management and control of cross-functional market risks. It of the reports that entities must transmit to Crédit Agricole S.A. (Group standardises data and data processing to ensure consistency of both Risk Management and Permanent Controls department). consolidated risk measurement and controls. It keeps the executive bodies (Executive Management of Crédit Agricole S.A.) and decision2. Decision-making and Risk Monitoring Committees making bodies (Board of Directors and Risk Management Committee) Three governance bodies are involved in the management of market risk up-to-date on the market risk position; at Crédit Agricole S.A. Group level: nn at the local level, for each Crédit Agricole S.A. Group entity, a Risk nn the Group Risk Management Committee, chaired by the Chief Management and Permanent Controls Officer manages the monitoring Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole S.A., approves the aggregate and control of market risks arising from the entity’s businesses. limits on each entity’s market risks when it presents its risk strategy Within the Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank subsidiary, and makes the main decisions in the matter of risk containment. the Risk Management and Permanent Controls department includes It examines the market situation and risks incurred on a quarterly the Market and Counterparty Risks (MCR) Department which is basis, in particular through the utilisation of limits and any significant responsible for identifying, measuring and monitoring market risks. breaches of limits and incidents; This department provides assistance in monitoring the market risks nn the Risk Monitoring Committee, chaired by the Chief Executive Officer of international retail banks in addition to the local risk teams, as well as for the trading portfolios of the Financial Steering Department of Crédit Agricole S.A., reviews the main indicators of market risk of Crédit Agricole S.A., whose transactions are managed in the IT twice a month; system of Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank. nn the Standards and Methodology Committee, chaired by the Within MCR, these various activities break down as follows: Head of Group Risk Management and Permanent Controls, is in particular responsible for approving and disseminating standards a) Risk management, to monitor and control market risk for all product and methodologies concerning the supervision and permanent lines worldwide: limit proposals, which are approved by the Market control of market risks. Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Risk Committee and monitored for their compliance, analysis of Bank is in charge of validating the prudential standards and models limit breaches as well as significant variations in results which are implemented within the scope of market activities. brought to the attention of the Market Risk Committee; In addition, each entity has its own Risk Committee. The most important b) monitoring of activity: in charge of producing daily management of these is Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank’s Market income and risk indicators for all activities held to market risk limits Risk Committee (CRM), which meets twice monthly and is chaired by and of monitoring and validating the market parameters used to the Management Committee member in charge of risks. It is made up produce profit and loss account and risk indicators. This ensures of Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank’s head of capital an autonomous production process based on a market database market activities and the risk managers. This Committee reviews Crédit updated daily, which is independent of the Front Office. Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank’s positions and the profit and Lastly, the process is used in conjunction with the Finance loss account of its capital market activities and verifies compliance with Department during monthly procedures to align net management the limits assigned to each activity. It is empowered to make decisions income and net accounting income; on requests for temporary increases in limits. c) Cross-functional teams, responsible for coordinating the methods and processes between product lines and units. These teams III. Market risk measurement and supervision are responsible for reporting regulatory indicators produced methodology independently by the MCR Department. This includes the following: –– the team responsible for validating pricers, 1. Indicators –– the team in charge of the internal model (VaR, stressed VaR, stress The market risk measurement and supervision system is based on a scenarios, IRC, etc.), combination of several indicators, most of which are subject to global or –– the Market Data Management team, which controls market data specific limits. It relies principally on Value at Risk (VaR), stressed VaR, independently, stress scenarios and complementary indicators (risk factor sensitivity, –– the International Consolidation team, primarily tasked with combined qualitative and quantitative indicators) and a process that producing the department’s consolidated information; values all positions in each entity giving rise to market risks. The permanent control process includes procedures to validate and backd) the COO (Chief Operating Officer) and his/her team, responsible for test models. coordinating Group-wide issues: projects, new activities, budgets, reports and committees. 236 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management 1.1 VaR (Value at Risk) The VaR calculation methodology undergoes constant improvement The central element of the market risk measurement system is the Value and adjustment to take into account, among other things, the changing at Risk (VaR). VaR can be defined as the maximum theoretical loss on a sensitivity of positions to risk factors and the relevance of the methods portfolio in the event of adverse movements in market parameters over to new market conditions. For example, efforts are made to incorporate a given timeframe and for a given confidence interval. Crédit Agricole new risk factors and to achieve finer granularity on existing risk factors. S.A. Group uses a confidence interval of 99% and a timeframe of one day using one year of historical data. In this way, market risks incurred Limitations of the historical VaR calculation by the Group in its trading activities can be monitored on a daily basis by The main methodological limitations of the VaR model are the following: quantifying the estimated maximum level of loss in 99 out of 100 cases, nn the use of daily shocks assumes that all positions can be liquidated or after inclusion of a number of risk factors (interest rate, exchange rate, covered in one day, which is not always the case for certain products asset prices, etc.). or in certain crisis situations; The offsetting figure is defined as the difference between total VaR and nn the use of a 99% confidence interval excludes losses that could occur the sum of VaRs by risk factor. It represents the effects of diversification outside of that interval: VaR is consequently an indicator of risk under among positions held simultaneously on different risk factors. A normal market conditions and does not take into account movements procedure known as back-testing (comparing each day’s result against of exceptional magnitude; VaR estimated the day before) is used to confirm the relevance of the nn VaR does not provide any information on amounts of exceptional methodology. losses (beyond the 99% confidence interval). The internal VaR model of Crédit Agricole Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, which is the main contributor to the VaR of Crédit Back-testing Agricole S.A. Group, has been approved by the regulatory authorities. A back-testing process is applied to check the relevance of the VaR The process of measuring a historical VaR for risk positions on a given model for each of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group’s entities that has capital date is based on the following principles: market activities. This process verifies a posteriori whether the number nn compilation of an historical database of risk factors on positions of exceptions (days when actual losses exceeded estimated VaR) was held by the Crédit Agricole S.A. group (interest rates, share prices, within the 99% confidence interval (a daily loss should statistically exchange rates, commodity prices, volatilities, credit spreads, exceed the calculated VaR only two or three times a year). correlation, etc.); At 31 December 2018, within the regulatory scope of Crédit Agricole nn determination of 261 scenarios corresponding to one-day changes in Corporate and Investment Bank (see graph below) was subject to four risk factors, observed over a rolling one-year period; rolling 12-month VaR exceptions, recorded on 4 June 2018, 29 June nn adjustment of parameters corresponding on the date according to 2018, 31 July 2018 and 10 December 2018. The multiplier, used to the 261 scenarios; calculate capital requirements, has been at its minimum of 4 since end-2015. nn remeasurement of the day’s positions based on the 261 scenarios. The 99% VaR figure based on the 261 scenarios is equal to the average of the second and third worst results observed. Back-testing of the regulatory VaR of Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank for the year 2018 (in millions of euros) In millions of euros 5 20 16 12 8 4 0 -4 -8 -12 -16 -20 Jan. 18 Feb. 18 Mar. 18 Apr. 18 May 18 June 18 July 18 Sept. 18 Oct. 18 Nov. 18 Dec. 18 Aug. 18 Theoretical P&L 1% VaR 99% VaR Clean P&L The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 237 5 Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management 1.2 Stress scenarios nn hypothetical scenarios anticipating plausible shocks, which are Stress scenarios complement the VaR measure, which does not developed in conjunction with economists. The hypothetical capture the impact of extreme market conditions. Stress scenarios scenarios used are economic recovery with rising equity and are calculated following Group principles to simulate extreme market commodity markets, flattening yield curves, appreciation of the USD conditions and are the result of different complementary approaches: and narrowing credit spreads; liquidity crunch, with flattening yield nn historical scenarios, which consist in replicating the impact on the curves, widening spreads, falling equity markets; and international current portfolio of major crises observed in the past. The past crises tensions (scenario representing economic conditions in a context of used in historical stress scenarios are the 1987 stock market crash, international tensions between China and the United States: rising the 1994 bond market crisis, the 1998 credit market crisis, coupled volatility and falling prices on the equity markets, falling futures with falling equity markets, sharply rising interest rates and declining prices and rising volatility on the commodities market, flattening emerging-country currencies; the 2008 crisis following the failure yield curves, fall of the USD against other currencies, widening credit of Lehman Brothers (two stress scenarios measuring the impact of spreads). market movements after the failure); The stress scenarios are calculated weekly. At year-end 2018, the risk levels of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group assessed through historical and hypothetical stress scenarios were presented below. As an illustration, the scenario “International tensions” which was negative at end-2017 (loss of €6.4 million) has a positive impact at end-2018 (gains of €41 billion). Estimated impacts associated with stress scenarios In millions of euros 80 +65.3 60 +45.7 +45.5 +41.0 +44.3 40 +36.1 +28.7 +25.4 +25.9 +19.8 +19.8 20 +13.9 +4.6 0 -6.4 -5.2 -20 -27.3 -40 International November Economic 1987 1998 October 1994 Liquidity tensions 2008 recovery 2008 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 In addition, other types of stress tests are performed: Stressed VaR is calculated using a 99% confidence interval of one day nn at the level of the entities, adverse stress tests enabling evaluation and over a period of tension corresponding to the worst period observed of the impact of major and unfavourable market movements on the for the most significant risk factors. different business lines; At the end of 2018, for Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank nn at the level of Crédit Agricole Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment it corresponds to the period December 2007 – December 2008. In Bank, extreme adverse stress tests are used to measure the impact addition to the VaR capital requirement, there is now a stressed VaR of even more severe market shocks. capital requirement. 1.3 Complementary indicators Incremental Risk Charge Other complementary indicators are also produced by the entities and The IRC (Incremental Risk Charge) is an additional equity requirement can, as part of the risk containment system, be subject to limits. These related to the risk of default and migration on so-called linear credit include indicators of sensitivity to various risk factors, loss alerts, positions (i.e. not including credit correlation positions), required by the stop-loss indicators, nominal amounts, outstandings, remaining terms, CRD4 directive. etc. These indicators provide fine-grained measurements of exposure to different market risk factors, serve to identify atypical transactions Its purpose is to quantify any unexpected losses caused by credit events and fill out the summary picture of risks supplied by VaR and global on the issuers, i.e. default and migration of rating (the case of either a stress scenarios. fall or a rise in credit rating). The IRC is calculated with a confidence interval of 99.9% over a risk 1.4 Indicators related to the CRD 4 Directive period of one year, by Monte Carlo simulations of migration scenarios based on three sets of data: Stressed VaR 1) a one-year transition matrix provided by S&P and adapted to the The so-called “stressed” VaR is intended to correct the pro-cyclical internal rating system of Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment nature of historical VaR. This is indeed is calculated over the one-year Bank. This matrix gives the transition probabilities for an issuer period preceding the measurement date, and where the associated based on its initial credit rating to higher or lower credit ratings, as market parameters reflect calm market conditions with low volatility, well as its probability of default; it can display a low level. 2) the correlation of issuers with systemic factors; 3) average spread curves by rating from which the shocks resulting from migrations are deducted. 238 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management These simulated credit default and migration scenarios then make it This adjustment is always negative and is deducted from the fair value possible to value positions using the Crédit Agricole Crédit Agricole of the financial assets on the balance sheet. Corporate and Investment Bank models. CRD4 brought in a new capital charge to cover volatility in the CVA. The IRC is then defined as the 99.9% quantile of the breakdown of the Under the directive, banks authorised to calculate their capital valuations thus obtained. requirements using their internal models for both counterparty risk and specific rate risk must calculate their CVA risk capital charge using the Comprehensive Risk Measure advanced measurement method (“CVA VaR”). The size of these capital The Comprehensive Risk Measure (CRM) measures the risk of default, requirements is calculated using the same methodology and tools as for the risk of a rating change and market risks on the credit correlation market VaR in respect of specific interest rate risk. portfolio. The ACPR has validated the CVA VaR model used by Crédit Agricole Since end-2016, the Crédit Agricole Group has not had any activities Corporate and Investment Bank and the additional capital required to subject to capital requirements with respect to the Comprehensive Risk cover CVA risk (VaR and stressed VaR) has been measured since 2014. Measure. 2. Use of credit derivatives Credit Value Adjustment (CVA) CDS (Credit Default Swap) are used for hedging purposes in the The value adjustment linked to the counterparts quality (CVA) aims following cases: to integrate in derivatives’ valuation credit risk associated with the nn management of credit exposure from the loan book or derivatives counterparty (risk of non-payment of sums due in the event of default). portfolio (CVA); It is calculated on an aggregate basis by counterparty according to the nn hedging of bond portfolio exposure; future exposure profile of the transactions after deducting any collateral. nn hedging of the exposure of hybrid derivatives portfolios (e.g. to hedge the issuance of credit-linked notes sold to investor customers). IV. Exposures VaR (Value at Risk) Crédit Agricole S.A. Group VaR is calculated by incorporating the impacts of diversification between the different entities of the Group. The scope considered for capital market activities of Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank is the regulatory VaR (measured through an internal model approved by the ACPR). The change in VaR on the capital markets activities of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group between 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2018, broken down by major risk factor, is shown in the table below: Breakdown of VaR (99%, one day) 31/12/2018 Minimum Maximum Average 31/12/2017 5 (in millions of euros) Fixed income 4 3 6 5 3 Credit 3 2 5 4 5 Foreign exchange 3 1 5 2 2 Equities 2 1 3 2 2 Commodities Offsetting -6 -5 -5 VAR OF CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. GROUP 5 4 9 6 6 For reference: Sum of the VaRs of all entities 6 5 11 7 7 At 31 December 2018, Group VaR was €5 million, a slight decrease fall “Fixed income” VaR slightly increased to €4 million at 31 December 2018 since 31 December 2017 (€6 million). After peaking on 12 March 2018 (compared to €3 million at the end of 2017) in a low interest rate (€9.2 million) driven by the credit risk factor, VaR continued the downward environment. trend of recent years despite the increase in volatility in foreign exchange The “Credit” VaR decreased to €3 million (from €5 million at the end and equity markets, offset by prudent risk management, particularly at of 2017). the end of the year, with the reduction of some equity and emerging “Forex” VaR was up to €3 million at 31 December 2018 (from €2 million currency derivative exposures. in 2017). The “Equity” VaR remained stable over the period. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 239 5 Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management The following graph shows VaR over the course of 2018: Crédit Agricole S.A. Group VaR between 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2018 In millions of euros 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 31 31 28 31 30 31 30 31 31 30 31 30 31 /12 /01 /02 /03 /04 /05 /06 /07 /08 /09 /10 /11 /12 /20 /20 /20 /20 /20 /20 /20 /20 /20 /20 /20 /20 /20 17 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 Stressed VaR The stressed VaR is calculated on the scope of Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank. The table below shows the change in regulatory stressed VaR on the capital market activities of Crédit Agricole CIB, between 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2018: (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 Minimum Maximum Average 31/12/2017 Crédit Agricole CIB stressed VaR 19 11 25 16 14 Change in stressed VaR (99%, one day) The graph below shows the change in regulatory stressed VaR of Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank over the course of 2018: In millions of euros 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 31 31 28 31 30 31 30 31 31 30 31 30 31 /12 /01 /02 /03 /04 /05 /06 /07 /08 /09 /10 /11 /12 /20 /20 /20 /20 /20 /20 /20 /20 /20 /20 /20 /20 /20 17 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 At end-December 2018, stressed regulatory VaR of Crédit Agricole average. Stressed VaR increased in the second half of 2018, mainly due Corporate and Investment Bank was €19 million, an increase of to the increased contribution of temporary securities sales activities, €5 million on 31 December 2017. On average over the year, the stressed the development of which, in terms of size and type of transactions, VaR (€16 million) remains at the same level compared to the 2017 continued in 2018. 240 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management Capital requirements related to Incremental Risk Charge (IRC) IRC is calculated on the so-called linear credit positions (i.e. excluding correlation positions) scope of Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank. The table below shows the change in regulatory stressed VaR on the capital market activities of Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, between 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2018: (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 Minimum Maximum Average 31/12/2017 IRC 200 173 331 230 172 V. Equity risk Note 6.4 to the financial statements shows in particular the outstanding amounts and the unrealized gains and losses on shares recorded at Equity risk arises in the trading of equity securities, as well as on shares fair value through non-recyclable equity. Information on market risk held in the investment portfolio and on treasury shares. (including equity risk) on the portfolios held by the insurance companies is presented below in the section on “insurance sector risks”. 1. Equity risk from trading activities Equity risk, arising from trading activities, arises from positions in 3. Treasury shares equities and equity indices through cash or derivative products. The In accordance with the provisions of Articles L. 225-209 et seq. of main risk factors are prices of shares/stock indices, volatilities of those the French Commercial Code and European Commission Regulation prices and smile parameters of those volatilities(1). 2273/2003 of 22 December 2003, the Combined General Meeting of Measurement and containment of equity risk is addressed in the Shareholders of the Group may grant authority to the Board of Directors description of the processes indicated in section III above. of Crédit Agricole S.A. to trade in its own shares. Crédit Agricole This risk is monitored by means of VaR, of which the 2018 values are S.A. uses such an authorisation mainly to cover its commitments to shown in the table in section IV below. Equity VaR was €2 million at employees under stock options or to stimulate the market in a share 31 December 2018, stable compared to 31 December 2017. liquidity agreement. Details of 2018 transactions carried out under the share buyback 2. Equity risk from other activities programme are provided in chapter 1 of this Registration document, in A number of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group entities hold portfolios that are the section “Purchase by the Company of its own shares”. invested partly in equities and structured products whose market value At 31 December 2018, the outstanding amounts of treasury depends on prices of underlying equities and equity indices. shares amounted to 0.15% of the share capital, versus 0.10% at Note 10.2 to the financial statements shows the distribution of 31 December 2017 (Note 6.19 to the consolidated financial equity instruments issued at fair value by valuation model. At statements). 31 December 2018, outstanding amounts exposed to equity risk Details of the 2018 share buyback programme are provided in chapter 1 (excluding unit-linked policies) amounted to €31.8 billion, including of this Registration document, under “Information on the share capital”. portfolios of insurance companies for €25.6 billion. 5 3.6. ASSET AND LIABILITY MANAGEMENT I. Asset and liability management – Structural This system for centralising the management of liquidity at Crédit financial risks Agricole S.A. serves to control and optimise cash management, especially since it is accompanied by partial interest rate matching. Crédit Agricole S.A.’s Financial Management department defines Consequently, the Group has a high level of financial cohesion, with the principles of financial management and ensures their consistent limited diffusion of financial risks, particularly liquidity risk. However, application within Crédit Agricole S.A. Group. It has responsibility for the Group’s various entities are responsible for managing the risk that organising financial flows, defining and implementing refinancing rules, remains at their level, within the limits assigned to them. performing asset and liability management and managing solvency ratios. Limits are defined by order of the Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole S.A. in the framework of the Group Risk Management Optimising financial flows within Crédit Agricole S.A. Group is an ongoing Committee, approved by the Board of Directors of Crédit Agricole S.A., objective. Pooling of surplus resources and making it systematically and apply throughout Crédit Agricole S.A. Group: possible to hedge the associated risks contribute to this objective. nn subsidiaries that carry asset and liability risks comply with limits set Thus, the principles of the Group’s ALM approach ensure that any by the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group Risk Management Committee; surpluses and shortfalls in terms of customer resources, in particular nn methods of measuring, analysing and managing the Group’s assets resources collected by the Regional Banks, are centralised in the books and liabilities are defined by Crédit Agricole S.A.; regarding the Retail of Crédit Agricole S.A. This resource pooling helps in refinancing other banks’ balance sheets in particular, a consistent system of run-off Group entities as needed (including Crédit Agricole Leasing & Factoring conventions and models has been adopted for the Regional Banks, and Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance). LCL and the foreign subsidiaries; (1) Smile is the parameter that takes into account the variability of volatility based on the exercise price of option-based products. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 241 5 Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management nn Crédit Agricole S.A. consolidates the subsidiaries’ measurements of nn it examines compliance with limits applicable to Crédit Agricole S.A. their asset and liability risks; results of these measures are monitored Group and to entities authorised to bear global interest rate risk; by Crédit Agricole S.A.’s Treasury and ALM Committee; nn it validates the guidelines for the global interest rate risk of Crédit nn Crédit Agricole S.A.’s Financial Management department and Group Agricole S.A. proposed by the ALM department. Risk Division take part in meetings of the ALM Committees of the Limits approved by Crédit Agricole S.A.’s Board of Directors govern the main subsidiaries. Group’s exposure to global interest rate risk. II. Global interest rate risk 3. Measurement and management system 1. Objectives 3.1 Measurement The objective of global interest rate risk management is to stabilise the The rate risk measurement is mainly based on the calculation of rate future profits of Group entities against the impact of any adverse interest gaps or impasses. rate movements. This methodology consists of creating future projections of outstandings Changes in interest rates impact net interest income by creating at known rates and inflation-indexed outstandings according to their mismatches in timing or in the type of indexation between assets and contractual features (maturity date, amortisation profile) or by modelling sources of funds. Interest rate risk management uses balance sheet or out flows of outstandings where: off-balance sheet transactions to limit the resulting volatility in income. nn the maturity profile is not known (products with no contractual The scope for monitoring the global interest rate risk is made up of maturity, such as demand deposits, passbook accounts or capital); entities whose business generates an interest rate risk: nn implicit options sold to customers are incorporated (early loan nn Regional Banks; repayments, home purchase savings, etc.). nn LCL group; These models are usually defined based on a statistical analysis of past nn Crédit Agricole S.A.; customer behaviour coupled with a qualitative analysis (economic and regulatory context, commercial strategy, etc.). nn International retail banks, in particular the CA Italia; nn Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank; Consistency between the models used by the Group’s various entities is ensured by the fact that the models must adhere to the modelling nn Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance group; principles approved by the Standards and Methodology Committee. nn Crédit Agricole Leasing & Factoring group; They are approved by the entity’s ALM Committee and their relevance nn CACEIS; is monitored on an annual basis. nn Amundi. The gaps are consolidated quarterly at Group level. When their The interest rate risk borne by the Insurance business is monitored management requires it, some entities, particularly the major ones, using indicators specific to this business line. An assessment of the measure their gaps more frequently. impact of an instantaneous rate shock on the level of own funds under The rules that apply in France to the setting of the Livret A index a Solvency 2 is performed on the Crédit Agricole Assurances scope. This portion of the interest to average inflation over a rolling six-month indicator incorporates an alert threshold. period. The remuneration of the Group’s other retail banking passbooks is also correlated with the same half-yearly average inflation rate. As a 2. Governance result, the Group hedges the risk associated with these balance sheet items using instruments (carried on or off the balance sheet) for which 2.1 Interest rate risk management – Entities the underlying is an inflation rate. Each entity manages its exposures under the supervision of its ALM Option risks are included in the gaps using a delta-equivalent measure. Committee, in accordance with the Group’s limits and standards. The A portion of these risks may be hedged using option-based products. limits of Crédit Agricole S.A.’s subsidiaries are reviewed annually and validated by the Group Risk Management Committee. This measurement system is applied to all significant currencies (mainly USD, GBP and CHF). The Financial Management department and the Risk Management and Permanent Controls department are represented on the main 3.2 Limitation system subsidiaries’ ALM Committees. They ensure harmonisation of methods The limits set at Group and entity levels put bounds on the extent of the and practices across the Group and monitor compliance with the limits maximum discounted loss over the next 30 years and the maximum assigned to each of the subsidiaries’ entities. annual loss over the next 15 years in the event of a rate shock. Each Regional Bank’s situation as regards global interest rate risk is The rules for setting limits are intended to protect the Group’s net asset reviewed quarterly by the Regional Banks’ Risk Management Committee. value in accordance with Pillar 2 of the Basel 3 regulations regarding 2.2 Interest rate risk management – Group global interest rate risk and to limit the volatility, over time, of interest income by avoiding sizeable concentrations of risk on certain maturities. The Group’s exposure to global interest rate risk is monitored by Crédit As well as being validated by the Group Risk Management Committee, Agricole S.A.’s ALM Committee. these limits must be approved by each entity’s decision-making body. This Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Each entity (including Crédit Agricole S.A.) hedges the interest rate risks Agricole S.A. and includes several members of the Executive Committee generated by this method of financial organisation at its own level, by along with representatives of the Risk Management and Permanent means of financial instruments (onand off-balance sheet, fixed or Controls department: optional). nn it examines the individual positions of Crédit Agricole S.A. and its main subsidiaries, along with consolidated positions for each quarterly closing; 242 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management 3.3 Assessment of internal capital requirements nn the behavioural risk (such as early fixed-rate loan repayments); Internal capital requirements with respect to the interest rate risk are nn interest rate risk exposure limits. measured, taking into account: This measurement is performed using a set of internal scenarios nn the directional interest rate risk (calculated based on gaps); incorporating interest rate curve distortions that are calibrated using a nn the option rate risk (mainly gamma effect on, caps); method consistent with that used to assess the other risks measured under Pillar 2. 4. Exposure The Group’s interest rate gaps are broken down by type of risk (nominal rate/real rate) in the various currencies. They measure the surplus or deficit on sources of fixed-rate funds. By convention, a positive (negative) figure represents a downside (upside) risk on interest rates in the year considered. The figure indicates the economic sensitivity to a change in interest rates. The results of these measures for Crédit Agricole S.A. Group at 31 December 2018 are as follows: Gaps in euros (at 31 December 2018) (in billions of euros) 2019 2020-2024 2025-2029 >2029 Gaps in euros 2.0 (0.9) (0.3) (1.7) Over the course of 2019, a one hundred basis points increase of interest The cumulative impact over the next 30 years of a +200-basis point rates in Eurozone would imply a potential loss for Crédit Agricole S.A. rate increase corresponds to a negative impact of -€453 million on this Group of €19.8 million on the banking portfolio at 31 December 2018, portfolio, or 0.83% of the regulatory capital of the Crédit Agricole S.A. amounting to a 0.10% decline of revenues for 2018 (compared to a Group (Tier 1 + Tier 2) after deduction of equity investments. decrease of €9 million, or 0.05% of the revenue under the Decree of 31 December 2017). Other currency gaps (at 31 December 2018) (in billions of euros) 2018 2019-2023 2024-2028 >2028 Other currency gaps (1) 4.7 4.0 1.6 0.0 (1) Sum of all gaps in all currencies in absolute values countervalued in billions of euros. On other currencies, a decrease of -100 basis points of the interest nn over a more medium/long term horizon, an adjustment to the level rates in the Eurozone in each currency, would imply for Crédit Agricole of hedging of structural currency positions in order to immunize the S.A. group a loss of -€47 million in 2019 on the banking portfolio at Group’s CET1 ratio against exchange rate fluctuations. This should 31 December 2018, amounting to 0.25% of 2018 revenues. As an include the implementation of new coverage in the event of overexample, the gap in USD amounted to €2.25 billion and a decrease of immunization or the termination of existing coverage in the event of 5 -100 basis points of the interest rates would have a negative impact of under-immunization. An entity may, however, choose not to hedge a -€22.5 million. position denominated in a currency that is over-immunized if the cost After the euro, the main currencies to which Crédit Agricole S.A. Group of the hedge is considered too high in relation to the profit earned or is exposed are PLN, MAD, JPY, USD and CHF. the amount of the position in question is not material. Five times a year, the Group’s structural foreign exchange positions are III. Foreign exchange risk presented to the Crédit Agricole S.A. ALM Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer. General decisions on how to manage Foreign exchange risk is treated differently depending on whether positions are taken during these meetings. the change in currency position is structural (re-evaluated by OCI) or operational (re-evaluated by P&L). 2. Operational foreign exchange risk 1. Structural foreign exchange risk Operational foreign exchange risk arises from income and expenses of all kinds that are denominated in currencies other than the euro (provisions, The Group’s structural foreign exchange risk arises from long-term net income generated by foreign subsidiaries and branches, dividends in investments by the Group in assets denominated in foreign currencies foreign currencies, etc.), and from balance sheet imbalances. (equity of the foreign operating entities, whether resulting from acquisitions, transfers of funds from the head office, or capitalisation Crédit Agricole S.A. manages the positions affected by foreign currency of local earnings), with the Group’s reference currency being the euro. revenues and expenses that appear on its books, as does each entity within the Group that bears significant risk. The Foreign Subsidiaries’ At 31 December 2018, the Group’s main structural foreign currency Treasury departments manage their operational foreign exchange risk positions, on a gross basis before hedging, are in US dollars and currencies in their local currency. pegged to the dollar (in particular the Saudi Rial), in pounds sterling, Swiss francs, Polish zlotys, Moroccan dirhams and Japanese yen. The Group’s general policy is to limit its operational currency positions and not to hedge revenues that have not yet materialised, unless The main principles of structural currency position management are: there is a strong probability that losses will materialise and unless the nn over the next year, the coverage of the portion of structural positions impairment risk is high. that are expected to become operational positions (results in the process of being formed that are expected to be distributed, shares In accordance with the foreign exchange risk monitoring and that are expected to be sold in the near future). management procedures, operational currency exposure positions are updated monthly or daily for foreign exchange trading operations. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 243 5 Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management IV. Liquidity and financing risk It is the responsibility of the Standards and Methodology Committee, after taking advice from Group Risk Management and Permanent Like all credit institutions, the Group is exposed to liquidity risk, i.e. Controls, to validate the definition of and any changes to these indicators the risk of not having sufficient funds to honour its commitments. This proposed by Crédit Agricole S.A.’s Group Finance department. risk could materialise if, for instance, there were a general crisis of The Crédit Agricole S.A. Board of Directors approves the general policy confidence among investors in the money and bond markets or massive for Group liquidity risk management and sets limits for key indicators in withdrawals of customer deposits. light of the Group’s liquidity risk tolerance. The Group Risk Management Committee, which proposes these limits to the Board, determines how 1. Objectives and policy they are translated to each of the Group’s constituent entities. The Group’s primary objective in managing liquidity is to ensure that it Accordingly, each subsidiary of Crédit Agricole S.A. and each Regional has sufficient resources to meet its requirements in the event of any Bank is notified of the limits for the indicators controlled at Group level. type of severe, prolonged liquidity crisis. In addition to this translation of the Group system, the asset-liabilities To manage this, the Group uses an internal liquidity risk management committees (or their equivalent) of these entities define a specific set of and control system whose objectives are: limits for the risks relating to their own business. They are also free to nn to maintain liquidity reserves; decide locally to apply a stricter control than that required by the Group. nn to match these reserves with future liabilities coming due; nn to organise its refinancing to achieve an appropriate short and long3. Liquidity management term refinancing timeframe and diversify sources of refinancing); Crédit Agricole S.A. controls the management of liquidity risk. The Finance nn to ensure a balanced development between customer loans and department is responsible, in respect of short-term refinancing, for: deposits. nn setting spreads on short-term funds raised under the various The system includes indicators, limits and alert thresholds. These are programmes (mainly NCDs); calculated and monitored for all Group entities and consolidated to allow nn centralising assets eligible for refinancing by the Central banks of monitoring of liquidity risk across the whole Crédit Agricole Group scope. Group entities and specifying the terms and conditions of use in the It also incorporates compliance with regulatory liquidity constraints. framework of tenders; The short-term liquidity ratio (LCR – Liquidity Coverage Ratio), along nn monitoring and forecasting cash positions. with the Additional Liquidity Monitoring Metrics (ALMM), calculated on And in respect of long-term refinancing, for: a company or sub-consolidated basis for the Group entities in question nn assessing needs for long-term funds; and on a consolidated basis for the Group, are disclosed in a monthly nn planning refinancing programmes to meet these needs; report to the ECB. nn executing and monitoring these programmes over the course of the year; 2. Methodology and governance of the internal liquidity nn reallocating the funds raised to Group entities; risk management and control system nn setting prices for liquidity in intragroup flows. Crédit Agricole Group’s liquidity risk management and control system is built around indicators defined in a standard and divided into four Long-term refinancing programmes comprise various instruments (see separate groups: below). The body in charge of these tasks at an operational level is the nn short-term indicators derived largely from simulations of crisis Group’s Treasury and Liquidity Committee, which reviews all matters scenarios. The purpose of these is to schedule maturities and relating to liquidity issues ranging from intraday to medium/long-term. volumes of short-term refinancings as a function of liquidity reserves, It proposes policy directions for the Group’s Asset-Liability Management cash flow from commercial activity and repayment of long-term and Capital Liquidity Committee. borrowings; The Asset-Liability Management and Capital Liquidity Committee, nn long-term indicators used to assess and schedule long-term debt chaired by the Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole S.A. (who is maturities: limits on maturity concentrations, allowing the Group to also informed of the Group’s liquidity positions) is responsible for all anticipate its refinancing needs and avoid any risk of difficulties with key decisions concerning the management of funding programmes, refinancing on the markets; the launch of new programmes, the validation of funding budgets and management of the balance between loans and deposits. nn diversification indicators, which allow the Group to monitor and manage concentrations of sources of market refinancing (by If funding markets tighten, a Committee is set up by the Executive refinancing channel, type of debt, currency, geographic area, Management, the Group Risk Management and Permanent Controls investor); department and the Group Finance department in order to keep a close nn cost indicators used to measure the short-term and long-term trends watch on the Group’s liquidity situation. in the Group’s issue spreads and their impact on the cost of liquidity. 244 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management 4. Quantitative information 4.1. Cash balance sheet at 31 December 2018 ASSETS LIABILITIES 1,238 1,238 1,148 96 123 1,148 71 17 9 9 92 13 116 Cash and Central Bank deposits 202 121 77 198 (including mandatory reserves) 65 Surplus: Interbank assets €115bn ST market resources Reverse repos (net) and other ST LT market resources(1) Securities portfolio Customer deposits 815 870 793 Customer trading assets 743 Equity and similar Customer assets Intangible assets and PP&E 54 53 120 115 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 (1) LT market resources include T-LTRO drawings. In order to provide simple, pertinent and auditable information on the Long-term market funds increased by €4 billion over the financial year. Group’s liquidity position, the cash balance sheet long-term sources Moreover, the increase in senior non-preferred debt (+€5 billion) is surplus is calculated quarterly. aimed at meeting future resolution requirements. This cash balance sheet is derived from Crédit Agricole Group’s IFRS Changes in long term market resources of the Crédit Agricole Group financial statements. It is based on the definition of a comparison table between the Group’s IFRS financial statements and the sections of the cash balance sheet as they appear below, the definition of which corresponds to that commonly accepted in the market. Senior secured 78 79 It relates to the banking scope, with insurance activities being managed in accordance with their own specific regulatory constraints. Further to the breakdown of the IFRS financial statements in sections €198 bn €202 bn of the cash balance sheet, netting calculations are carried out. They Senior preferred relate to certain assets and liabilities that have a symmetrical impact in terms of liquidity risk. The amount of €87 billion in repos/reverse repos 88 91 5 was thus eliminated insofar as these outstandings reflect the activity of the securities desk in carrying out securities lending operations that 8 Senior non-preferred 13 offset each other. 21 Tier 2(1) 18 2 Tier 1(1) 2 In a final stage, other restatements reassign outstandings that accounting 5 AT1 5 standards allocate to one section, when they are economically related to another. Senior issues placed through the banking networks, which 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 accounting standards would class as “LT market funds”, are thus (1) Notional amount. reclassified as “Customer deposits”. The €115 billion surplus known as the “stable resources position” Note that for Central bank refinancing operations, funds raised under enables the Group to cover the LCR deficit generated by the durable the T-LTRO (Targeted Longer-Term Refinancing Operation) are classed assets and stable liabilities (customer assets, fixed assets, LT resources as long-term market funds. In fact, the T-LTRO II operations do not allow and capital). for early redemption by the ECB and given their four-year contractual It exceeded the Medium Term Plan target of over €100 billion. The ratio maturity are equivalent to long-term secured refinancing, identical in of stable resources over long-term applications of funds was 111.5% at liquidity risk terms to a secured issue. 31 December 2018. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 245 5 Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management 4.2. Change in Crédit Agricole Group’s liquidity reserves Liquidity reserves after haircuts totalled €272 billion at 31 December 2018. In addition, HQLA (High-Quality Liquid Asset) securities amounting to €109 billion, after haircuts, cover more than three times the net short-term debt not replaced with Central banks. 272 1 238 Assets eligible to Central Banks 229 51 after ECB haircut (immediate access) Reverse repos 17 11 Share of self-subscribed securitisations eligible with Central Banks & other ST 17 Other non-HQLA securities(1) Securities portfolio 116 109 HQLA (High Quality Liquid Assets) 114 securities portfolio(1) 30 ST debt net of Central Bank deposits Cash and Central Bank deposits 68 84 Deposits with Central Banks Deposits with Central 84 (excl. cash & mandatory reserves) 84 Banks (excl. cash and o/w cash 4 mandatory reserves) o/w mandatory reserves 8 12 Cash balance Liquidity Short-term sheet assets reserve debt (1) Available liquid market securities, marked to market and after haircut. Available liquidity reserves at end-2018 comprised: (in billions of euros) nn €51 billion in loans and receivables eligible for Central bank 12-month average Crédit Agricole Crédit Agricole S.A. refinancing operations after the ECB haircut; at 31/12/2018 Group Group nn €11 billion in treasury shares held by the bank and eligible for Central Liquidity buffer 208.8 174.1 bank refinancing operations, after haircut; Total net cash outflows 156.6 130.6 nn €84 billion in Central bank deposits (excluding cash and mandatory Liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) 133.36% 133.34% reserves); nn a portfolio of securities amounting to €126 billion after discount. Unlike the LCR, which is a ratio of flows, the NSFR (Net Stable Funding At 31 December 2018, this securities portfolio consisted of HQLA Ratio) is a ratio that compares the stock of assets with an effective securities that were market-linkable and also eligible for Central bank or potential maturity of longer than one year to liabilities with similar refinancing for €109 billion, and other market-linkable securities for effective or potential maturity. The definition of the NSFR assigns €17 billion after haircut. each balance sheet item a weighting based on its potential to mature Liquidity reserves in 2018 averaged €259 billion. in longer than one year. A number of these weightings are still under The allocation of limits arising from Crédit Agricole Group’s liquidity risk discussion and European regulations have not yet fully defined this ratio. management and control system to each Crédit Agricole S.A. subsidiary A regulatory framework initially due to be issued in 2018 will be delayed and Regional Bank ensures that local liquidity risks are matched by as part of the European legislative initiative launched at the request of adequate coverage from reserves. the European Commission on 23 November 2016. To the best of our understanding, Crédit Agricole Group would currently 4.3. Regulatory ratios meet NSFR requirements under existing regulations. Since March 2014, Eurozone credit institutions have been obliged to report to their supervisory authorities their Liquidity Coverage Ratio 5. Refinancing strategy and conditions in 2018 (LCR), as defined by the EBA (European Banking Authority). The aim The year 2018 began with a positive momentum in the equity and of the LCR is to boost the short-term resilience of banks’ liquidity debt markets. The very encouraging results of listed companies and risk profile by ensuring that they have sufficient unencumbered High reassuring economic data brought equity indices, particularly in the Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA) that can be converted into cash easily United States, to historical levels, but the rise in Fed rates at the end and immediately, on private markets, assuming a liquidity crisis lasting of January put a stop to the rise in the indices and sentiment quickly 30 calendar days. Since 1 October 2015, this ratio has been limited to turned around. a minimum threshold for credit institutions. This was 60% at end-2015, 70% on 1 January 2016, and was increased to 80% on 1 January 2017. In the wake of multiple factors negatively impacting the market, the This minimum threshold is set at 100% from 1 January 2018. weak growth of the Eurozone, the strengthening of European populist movements, the difficulty of creating a government in Italy, the trade Crédit Agricole Group, like most European banking groups, already war between the United States and China, and even Europe and Canada, manages its LCR with a target of more than 100%. and expectations of an increase in Fed rates. While the credit spreads of French banks were, at the end of 2017 and the beginning of 2018, at their lowest historical levels since 2008, spreads rose sharply in March, with high volatility from that date onwards, while overall volatility was low in 2017. 246 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management In the second half of the year, the solidity of European integration was The Group has also pursued its strategy of strengthening and developing tested with discussions between the new Italian government and the access to medium to long-term resources resulting in a diversification European Commission on the size of the budget deficit. The prospect of effect, particularly through its specialist subsidiaries, with €20 billion disagreement over the Italian budget has weighed on market sentiment, of senior debt raised in 2018, in addition to the resources raised on the as has the lack of agreement on an exit plan from the European Union market by Crédit Agricole S.A.: negotiated by the British government. nn Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank issued €8.4 billion, At the end of 2018, the yield gap between French government debt and mainly in structured private placements with its international clients; the Bund widened due to social tensions in France. nn Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance raised €7.9 billion, thereby Refinancing conditions for European banks rose sharply in November strengthening its presence on the European ABS markets, in and December. accordance with its self-funding objectives; nn LCL raised €1.2 billion; Central bank policies were key to the evolution of market conditions in 2018. The Fed has indeed made four rate increases (0.25%) over 2018, nn Crédit Agricole Assurances issued €1 billion of subordinated debt in as expected. In 2018, the ECB reduced its purchases of securities, in the market to replace intra-group debt; particular covered bonds, while indicating that its interest rates would nn EFL raised €0.6 billion; remain unchanged until at least the summer of 2019. The gradual nn Crédit Agricole Italia notably placed €0.5 billion in 20-year covered decline in purchases has contributed significantly to the widening of bonds in the market based on Italian home loans; covered bond credit spreads. nn CAL&F raised €0.3 billion. Regulatory developments in 2018 did not affect banks’ refinancing In addition, in 2018, the Group placed bonds in its networks (Regional conditions in 2018. The banking sector as a whole withstood the stress Banks, LCL, Crédit Agricole Italia) and borrowed from supranational tests carried out in 2018 relatively well. In addition, the Council of the institutions for a total amount of €4.4 billion: European Union and Parliament have reached provisional agreement nn Issuance of Crédit Agricole S.A. senior preferred bonds placed on the main points of the banking package, in particular the MREL in the Regional Bank networks and borrowing from supranational requirements under BRRD 2. organisations (CDC, EIB, EBRD, etc.) amounted to €1.4 billion, with The Group continues its prudent MLT funding policy, with highly an average maturity of 14.8 years; moreover, Crédit Agricole S.A. diversified market access, in terms of investor base and products. placed €0.4 billion of senior non-preferred debt in the Regional Bank In 2018, the main Group issuers raised €34.1 billion of senior debt in networks; the market. nn LCL raised €2.2 billion; To meet capital planning needs and future resolution requirements, nn Crédit Agricole Italia has placed in its network, and borrowed from in 2018 Crédit Agricole S.A. issued senior non-preferred debt for supranational organizations, €0.4 billion; €5.2 billion equivalent and Tier 2 subordinated debt for €1.6 billion, equivalent to an average maturity on the markets of 6.8 years: V. Hedging policy nn €2.5 billion equivalent in USD, including 1 billion in Q2 and 1.5 billion Within Crédit Agricole S.A. Group, derivative instruments are used for in SNP; three main purposes: nn €2.4 billion in SNP; nn €1.8 billion equivalent in JPY, of which 0.6 billion in Q2 and 1.3 billion nn to meet demand from Group customers; nn to manage the Group’s financial risks; 5 in SNP. nn to take positions for the Group’s own account as part of specific In 2018, to help meet its refinancing requirements, Crédit Agricole S.A. trading activities). raised the equivalent of €7.3 billion in securitised and senior preferred debt on the markets, with an average maturity of 8.9 years: Derivatives not held for hedging purposes (as defined by IAS 39(1)) are classified as derivative instruments held for trading purposes and are nn €1.3 billion of unsecured senior debt (EMTN, Green bond, CHF, monitored for market risk as well as counterparty risk, where applicable. Samurai) with an average maturity of 5.3 years; Certain derivative instruments may be held for the economic hedging nn €5.1 billion of covered bonds issued by Crédit Agricole Home Loan of financial risks, without however meeting the IAS 39 criteria. They SFH and Crédit Agricole Public Sector SCF, with an average maturity are therefore also classified as derivative instruments held for trading of 10.6 years; purposes. nn €1 billion in RMBS based on the Regional Banks’ home loans. In all cases, the intent of the hedge is documented at the outset Notable was the launch in November of Groupe Crédit Agricole’s and verified quarterly by appropriate tests (forward-looking and inaugural Green Bond issue for €1 billion over five years, carried backward-looking). out under the Group’s new framework for green issues. This issue Each Group entity manages its financial risks within limits set by the represents a new source of diversification of the Crédit Agricole Group. Group Risk Management Committee chaired by the Chief Executive In total, Crédit Agricole S.A. has raised the equivalent of €14.1 billion Officer of Crédit Agricole S.A. on the markets, marginally in excess of its refinancing programme set The charts in Note 3.4 to the consolidated financial statements give the at €12 billion (senior and subordinated debt). In terms of currency, its market values and notional amounts of hedging derivative instruments. issues are sufficiently diversified: the euro represents 65% of market issues, the US dollar 18%, the yen 14%, and the Swiss franc 3%. (1) In line with the Group decision, Crédit Agricole S.A. Group does not apply the “hedge accounting” option under IFRS 9. All hedging relationships continue to be documented in accordance with the rules in IAS 39, until, at the latest, the date of application of the regulations on fair value macro hedges when adopted by the European Union. However, hedge accounting under IAS 39 uses the classification and measurement principles of IFRS 9 to decide which financial instruments qualify. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 247 5 Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management 1. Fair value hedges and cash flow hedges balance sheet items that are affected by interest rate resets on the Global interest rate risk management aims to reconcile two approaches: instruments, either because they are indexed to interest rate indices that fluctuate or because they will be refinanced at market rates nn protection of the Group’s net asset value, which requires matching at some point in the future. If this neutralisation is effected using balance sheet and off-balance sheet items that are sensitive to derivative instruments (mainly interest rate swaps), the derivative interest rate variations (i.e. fixed rate items, for the sake of simplicity) instruments are classified as cash flow hedge (CFH) instruments. against instruments that are also fixed-rate, so as to neutralise the This neutralisation can also be carried out for balance sheet items or variations in fair value that occur when interest rates change. If the instruments that are identified individually (micro CFHs) or portfolios matching is done by means of derivative instruments (mainly fixedof line items or instruments (macro CFHs). rate swaps, inflation swaps and market caps), the derivatives are classified as fair value hedges if the instruments (micro FVH) or The table below shows the cash flows, broken down by projected groups of instruments (macro FVH) identified as the hedged items maturity date, for the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group, of the cash flow (fixed-rate assets and inflation: customer loans, fixed-rate liabilities hedging derivatives: and inflation: demand deposits and savings deposits) are eligible At 31/12/2018 under IAS 39 (otherwise, as mentioned above, these derivatives are Remaining time recognised in the trading book, even though economically they hedge to maturity 1 to against risk). (in millions of euros) < 1 year 5 years ≥ 5 years Total To check hedging suitability, hedging instruments and hedged items Cash flows of hedging are grouped by maturity using contract characteristics or, for certain derivatives 341 1,087 (49) 1,379 balance sheet line items (particularly deposits), using assumptions based on the financial characteristics of the products and historical behaviour. The comparison between the two maturity schedules 2. Net investment hedges in foreign currencies (hedges and hedged items) means that hedging can be documented A third category of hedging is protection of the Group’s net asset value in a forward-looking manner for each maturity; against fluctuations in exchange rates and resulting changes in the value nn protection of the interest margin, which requires neutralising of assets or liabilities held in currencies other than the Group’s reference variations in future cash flows associated with instruments or related currency, which is the euro. The instruments used to manage this risk are classified in the net investment (hedge category). 3.7. INSURANCE SECTOR RISKS The information in this section supplements Note 4 to the consolidated nn it is based on the principle of subsidiarity. Each Crédit Agricole financial statements in the Registration document of Crédit Agricole Assurances Group entity is responsible for defining and implementing Assurances and is covered by the Statutory Auditors’ Report on the its solo risk management policy, in accordance with Crédit Agricole consolidated financial statements. S.A. principles and rules, the principles and rules for the management In view of the predominance of its savings and retirement activities, of Crédit Agricole Assurances Group, and local regulations for Crédit Agricole Assurances Group is more particularly exposed to international subsidiaries. market risks (equity risk, spread risk) and asset/liability risks (liquidity Risk governance falls on: and interest rate risk). Crédit Agricole Assurances Group also faces nn the governing bodies, in particular Executive Management (the CEO insurance risks. Lastly, it is exposed to operational risk linked to and second Executive Directors) and the Board of Directors, who non-compliance risk and to legal risk particularly in process execution. hold ultimate responsibility for Crédit Agricole Assurances Group’s compliance with all applicable regulations and legislation; I. Governance and organisation nn the Crédit Agricole Assurances Executive Committee, which is the of risk management in Crédit Agricole primary strategic body of the Group’s Executive Management and Assurances Group the Group committees (in particular the Finance Committee, the Risks and Internal Control Committee and the ALTM Committee); The risk governance system of the Crédit Agricole Assurances Group is nn the four key functions (Risks, Compliance, Actuarial function, Internal based on the following principles: Audit), whose representatives have been appointed by the Director nn it is within the remit of the following functions of Crédit Agricole S.A. General. Their appointment shall be validated by the Administrative Group: the Group Risks and Permanent Control Division, which is Board and notified to the competent national supervisory authority. responsible for steering (supervision and prevention) and secondThe coordination of the four key functions is ensured by the Risk degree control, the “Internal Audit” function. In accordance with and Internal Control Committee of Crédit Agricole Assurances group. regulatory insurance requirements, the system also includes the The heads of the key functions have direct access to the Board of Group’s actuarial function; Directors, to whom they present the results of their work at least nn it is overseen by the Risk Management department of the Crédit once a year; Agricole Assurances Group, which heads the “Risk” function, nn an internal control system, defined as the framework designed to supervises procedures and ensures that subsidiary risk management manage and control all types of operations and risks and to ensure systems are compliant with Group standards and principles. To have that all transactions are carried out in a manner that is proper (in a Group vision of all risks, the holding company draws on expertise compliance with regulations), secure and effective. Crédit Agricole within the Crédit Agricole Assurances Group, mostly housed within Assurances asks its Board of Directors to validate its risk policies; Crédit Agricole Assurances Solutions (CAAS) since 1 April 2017 (transfer of employees of Crédit Agricole Assurances holding company, Predica, CACI and Caagis to one employer, CAAS); 248 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management nn the internal process for evaluating Crédit Agricole Assurances Group’s At entity level solvency and risks (Organisational Readiness Self-Assessment – In accordance with the Group framework, companies define their own ORSA) synchronised with the other MTP/Budget strategic processes, processes and systems to measure, supervise and manage risks: Capital planning and the updating of the Risk strategy and of function process and risk mapping resulting in a risk strategy that defines, policies. Prospective assessments, completed within the Mediumaccording to their risk appetite, the Crédit Agricole Assurances Group Term Plan, make it possible to analyse the consequences of adverse global limits in accordance with a process coordinated by the holding situations on the Group’s management indicators and to take the company, accompanied if necessary by limits to manage their specific necessary action, where appropriate. risks. The entities also draw up formal policies and procedures providing a 1. Organisation of risk management strict framework for risk management (including the rules for accepting The risk management system of Crédit Agricole Assurances Group is risk when insurance policies are taken out, provisioning and hedging of managed by the Director in charge of the Risk Management of Crédit technical risks by reinsurance, claims management, etc.). Agricole Assurances Group, the representative of the Risk Management For its international subsidiaries, Crédit Agricole Assurances has drawn department of Crédit Agricole Assurances Group, who reports up a set of standards to be implemented by each entity, which set out operationally to the Crédit Agricole Assurances Chief Executive Officer the scope and rules for decentralised decision-making and specify the and hierarchically to the Group Chief Risk Officer of Crédit Agricole S.A. rules to follow during the decision-making process. He relies on the RCPRs of the entities who report to him within the hierarchy. The Insurance Risk function operates like a matrix integrating Operational risk management is supervised in each entity by committees entity level organisations with Group approaches by type of risk. that meet periodically (investment, ALM, technical, reinsurance and others) in order to monitor developments in the risk position, based The hierarchical reporting line guarantees independence, with a “second on reporting by business lines, present analyses to support the risk pair of eyes” role (to issue a recommendation) to back the operating management process, and, if necessary, draw up proposals for functions, which manage risks day-to-day, make decisions and exercise action. Significant incidents and limit breaches lead to alerts being first-level controls to ensure their processes are performed properly. triggered and notified either to the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group Risk Management department. (Crédit Agricole Assurances Group limits), to 2. Risk management system the Crédit Agricole Assurances Executive Management, or to the entity’s At Credit Agricole Assurances Group level management. Corrective measures are implemented accordingly. In order to achieve its strategic orientations while managing and The risk management system is examined during meetings of the Risk mitigating its risks appropriately, Crédit Agricole Assurances Group Management and Internal Control Committees of each subsidiary, in light established a risk appetite framework. This consists of key indicators of the permanent control reports, the analysis of their risk dashboard for each risk category that constitute the core of its Risk Management and the conclusions of periodic controls. strategy. The Risk management strategy implemented by Crédit Agricole II. Market risk Assurances Group is based on the overall risk management framework In view of the predominance of savings activities in the French and and the limits and alert thresholds for the range of different risks it is international (Italy mainly) life insurance subsidiaries, and therefore exposed to through the implementation of its strategy. It is reviewed and validated at least annually, along with the statement to the very large volume of financial assets held to cover policyholder liabilities, Crédit Agricole Assurances Group is particularly concerned 5 of risk appetite, by the Crédit Agricole Assurances Board of Directors, by market risks. following a review by the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group Risk Management Market risk is the risk of loss that can result from fluctuations in the Committee (a sub-committee of Crédit Agricole S.A. Executive price of financial instruments in a portfolio. Committee, chaired by its Chief Executive Officer) of the indicators and major limits. Crédit Agricole Assurances’ Executive Management Crédit Agricole Assurances Group is exposed to several types of market or even Crédit Agricole S.A. Group’s Risk Management department, risk: depending on the scope of their authority, are notified of any breaches nn interest rate risk; of alert thresholds or limits and resulting corrective measures. nn equity risk; The quarterly Group risk dashboard, supplemented by a monthly report nn foreign exchange risk; for financial risks, is updated based on standardised risk management nn counterparty risk, both from the point of view of default (bond indicators, and is used to monitor Crédit Agricole Assurances Group’s portfolio issuers, OTC transaction counterparties) and movements exposure profile and to identify potential deviations. in the issuer spread. This risk is fully described in a specific section. The Board of Directors is informed when any tolerance threshold for any In particular, these risks have an impact on the valuation of portfolio assets indicator in the risk appetite matrix is breached and it receives regular and their long-term yield, and must be managed closely with matching updates on compliance with the risk appetite framework. liabilities and, particularly for Life Insurance, with guarantees granted to The Crédit Agricole Assurances holding company has established the policyholders (minimum guaranteed rate, floor guarantee, etc.). bodies needed to manage risk coherently at Group level: bi-monthly Risk Liquidity risk is monitored specifically. Monitoring Committee, monthly Financial Risk Committee, reviews of Thus, Crédit Agricole Assurances Group’s financial policy provides portfolios by asset type, a monthly presentation of current risk issues for an active/passive framework aimed at reconciling objectives of to the Executive Committee. seeking yield for policyholders, conserving ALM balances and delivering Moreover, Crédit Agricole Assurances has set up a Group-wide shareholder value. This framework is based on “risk/yield” analyses Committee on Insurance Models, steered by the Group Risk function. and “stress scenarios”, to identify the characteristics of the amounts to The role of the Methodology Committee is to approve the methodologies invest, the limitations and objectives over short/medium and long-term underpinning the models and indicators used to address major risks for horizons, with market analysis, supported by economic scenarios, to Crédit Agricole Assurances Group or presenting cross-sector challenges identify opportunities and limitations in terms of the environment and for Crédit Agricole Assurances Group. the market. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 249 5 Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management The Investment department of Crédit Agricole Assurances is involved Crédit Agricole Assurances is exposed to a risk arising from an increase in developing and monitoring implementation of the investment policies in interest rates associated with policyholder behaviour: a gap between of Crédit Agricole Assurances Group and of the subsidiaries (taking the rate of return that can be delivered by the insurer (related to bond into account individual ALM limitations and financial objectives), which yields) and the rate expected by policyholders in a high-rate environment, are submitted to their respective Board of Directors for approval. It or the rate achieved by other savings vehicles, could result in a wave of is responsible for oversight of the investment management services early redemptions by policyholders. If the insurer were forced to dispose provided by Amundi (management mandates granted by the companies). of assets, notably bonds, with unrealised losses (which would generate Moreover, it makes investments directly (without a mandate) on behalf losses for the insurer), the yield on the portfolio would be reduced, with of Crédit Agricole Assurances Group companies (in real estate in the risk of triggering new waves of policy redemptions. particular), as part of the policy of diversification. Crédit Agricole Assurances thus implements measures to manage the risk of a rise in rates: 1. Interest rate risk nn adjustment of duration according to projected outflows of liabilities; Type of exposure and risk management nn retention of liquidities or liquid investments with a low risk of loss; Interest rate risk refers to the risk of a change in the value of the bond nn dynamic management of the investment portfolio and setting aside portfolio due to upward or downward movements in interest rates. reserves to provide the capacity to increase the return (capitalisation The Crédit Agricole Assurances Group bond portfolio, excluding unitreserve, and profit-sharing reserves); linked policies, amounted to €269 billion at 31 December 2018, up from nn upward interest rate hedging through derivatives; €249 billion at the end of 2017. nn building customer loyalty to limit early redemptions. Interest rate risk for the life insurance companies is linked to interactions The Crédit Agricole Assurances Group’s dashboard, presented to the between assets (financial management) and liabilities (policyholder Executive Committee and the Audit and Accounts Committee, includes behaviour). Management of this risk requires a global approach combining indicators to monitor the nature of this risk: average guaranteed financial strategy, the constitution of reserves and sales and income minimum rate, bond portfolio coverage ratio, allocation to reserves, etc. policies. Crédit Agricole Assurances’ framework for managing interest rate risk sets out the limits on risks and the related (ALM Committee, Analysis of sensitivity to interest rate risk presentation of stress scenarios to the Board of Directors, etc.). Technical liabilities A low interest rate environment puts pressure on the profitability of the life insurance activities of Crédit Agricole Assurances: it creates The Crédit Agricole Assurances Group’s technical liabilities are largely a situation in which returns from securities in the portfolio are lower insensitive to rate risks for the following reasons: than the rates paid out on life insurance contracts. Risks related to the nn savings provisions (over 90% of technical reserves, excluding unitminimum guaranteed returns in France are handled at regulatory level linked policies): these technical reserves are based on the pricing by means of prudential provisions. rate which is constant over time for a particular policy. As a result, Crédit Agricole Assurances has a range of levers to tackle the risk of a change in interest rates will have no impact on the value of these falling rates: commitments; nn no longer issuing policies that feature guaranteed return (since 2000 nn property and casualty reserves: these technical reserves are not for the main French life insurance company), so that the overall discounted to present value and changes in interest rates therefore average return has steadily fallen; have no impact on the value of these commitments; nn moderation of the profit-sharing paid; nn mathematical reserves for benefits (personal injury, disability): the nn hedging using bond assets and swaps/swaptions to manage discount rate used in calculating these reserves is based on the reinvestment risk; interest rate in force at the calculation date. Therefore, the size of these commitments varies with interest rates. However, given nn adapting of ALM and investment policies to the very low rate the limited amount of these technical commitments, they pose no environment; material risk for Crédit Agricole Assurances Group. nn prudent diversification of investment assets; nn adapting the sales policy in favour of deposits to unit-linked contracts. Financial investments The sensitivity to rate risk of Crédit Agricole Assurances Group’s bond portfolio is used to assess the impact of a rate movement. It is calculated by assuming a 100-basis point rise or fall in interest rates (net of policyholders’ deferred profit-sharing and tax): 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Impact on Impact on Impact on Impact on (in millions of euros) net income equity net income equity 100 bps rise in risk-free rates (203) (2,089) (110) (1,986) 100 bps decline in risk-free rates 203 2,091 122 1,970 250 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management The impacts presented above take the following elements into account: 2. Equity and other diversification assets risk nn the profit-sharing rate for the entity holding the financial investments; Type of exposure and risk management nn the tax rate in force. Exposure to the equity markets and other so-called diversification Where securities are recognised as assets at fair value through equity, assets (private equity and listed or unlisted infrastructures, real estate the sensitivity is recognised in equity. If they are recognised as assets and alternative management) is intended to capture yield in these at fair value through profit or loss, the sensitivity is reversed to a profit markets (notably with a low correlation between real estate and other or a loss. asset classes). Market risk on equities and other diversification assets To reiterate, Crédit Agricole S.A. Group uses the overlay approach for is defined as a risk of volatility in terms of valuation and therefore, an financial assets held for the purpose of an activity involving insurance accounting provisioning risk that could have an impact on policyholder contracts, which are designated in accordance with the option provided benefits (provision for permanent impairment, provision for liquidity by the amendments to IFRS 4 (this approach is explained in Note 1 of risk). To limit this effect, particularly for the life insurance portfolios, the annex to the consolidated financial statements). The sensitivity of allocations are analysed to determine a ceiling for the share of these designated assets is recorded in shareholders’ equity. diversification assets and a maximum volatility level. Equities and other diversification assets are held directly or via Financing debts dedicated Crédit Agricole Assurances Group UCITS to provide regional Borrowings arranged by Crédit Agricole Assurances mainly pay fixed diversification, in accordance with the relevant risk policies. Exposure to rates; interest is therefore not very sensitive to changes in interest rates. these assets is managed by a series of limits (by asset class and overall for the diversification) and concentration rules. Compliance with these limits is monitored on a monthly basis. The main asset classes in the global portfolio are presented in Note 6.4 to the consolidated financial statements. The fair value of financial assets and liabilities recognised at acquisition cost in the balance sheet is disclosed in Note 6.5.1 to the consolidated financial statements. Both items can be found in the Crédit Agricole Assurances Registration document. Analysis of sensitivity to equity risk A quantified measurement of equity risk can be expressed by the sensitivity calculated by assuming a 10% rise or fall in equity markets (impacts are shown net of policyholders’ deferred profit-sharing and tax): 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Impact on Impact on Impact on Impact on (in millions of euros) net income equity net income equity 10% rise in equity markets 74 148 37 163 10% decline in equity markets (74) (147) (40) (163) 5 The impacts presented above take the following elements into account: Moreover, Crédit Agricole Assurances uses the overlay approach for nn the profit-sharing rate for the entity holding the financial investments; financial assets held for the purpose of an activity involving insurance nn the tax rate in force. contracts, which are designated in accordance with the option provided by the amendments to IFRS 4 (this approach is presented in Note 1 These sensitivity measurements include the impact of changes in the to the consolidated financial statements). The sensitivity of designated benchmark equity index on assets measured at fair value, reserves assets is recorded in shareholders’ equity. for guaranteed minimum return and reserves for the right to withdraw from unit-linked policies as well as any additional impairment provisions required by a decline in equity markets. 3. Foreign exchange risk Foreign exchange risk is defined as the risk of loss due to movements in Changes in the fair value of equity instruments at fair value through foreign exchange rates against the euro. For Crédit Agricole Assurances, profit or loss impact net income; changes in the fair value of equity this risk is marginal, as shown by the sensitivity to foreign exchange instruments classified as non-recyclable under the fair value option risk, calculated by assuming a 10% rise or fall in each currency relative impact unrealized reserves. to the euro (impacts are shown net of policyholders’ deferred profitsharing and tax): 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Impact on Impact on Impact on Impact on (in millions of euros) net income equity net income equity Exchange rate sensitivity on financial instruments: +10% for each currency relative to the euro (0.1) 0.1 (15) 18 Exchange rate sensitivity on financial instruments: -10% for each currency relative to the euro 0.1 (0.1) 13 (14) The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 251 5 Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management Crédit Agricole Assurances’ exposure to foreign exchange risk falls into The liquidity monitoring indicator, introduced in 2018, measures the two categories: ratio between stressed liquid assets (appreciation of a discount) and a nn limited structural exposure: in yen for the CA Life Japan subsidiary, liquidity requirement generated by a 40% buyback rate over a one-year with a hedging ratio of 88% (low net exposure of JPY 1,153 million at period. end-2018, equivalent to €9 million) and in PLN for the CA Insurance Poland subsidiary, with a hedge ratio of 92% (net exposure of PLN Profile of financial investment portfolio maturities 3.3 million at the end of 2018, equivalent to €0.8 million); Note 6.6 to the consolidated financial statements of Crédit Agricole nn operational foreign exchange exposure arising from a mismatch Assurances contains the bond portfolio maturity schedule (excluding between the asset’s currency and that of its liabilities: Crédit Agricole unit-linked contracts). Assurances Group’s global portfolio, representing commitments Breakdown financial liabilities by contractual maturity in euros, is primarily invested in euro-denominated financial Note 6.23 to the consolidated financial statements of Crédit Agricole instruments. However, to achieve the aim of optimising risk/return, Assurances provides information on the estimated schedule for Crédit the Group seeks to profit from projected gaps in growth between Agricole Assurances insurance liabilities (excluding unit-linked contracts major regions, using dedicated funds. The general strategy is not for which the risk is borne by policyholders). to hedge exposure to the currencies of emerging economies, regardless of the asset class, and, in contrast, to hedge exposure Financing to the currencies of mature countries through forward sales, with As a holding company, Crédit Agricole Assurances is responsible the option of limited tactical exposure to a currency. Crédit Agricole for subsidiary refinancing enabling them to meet their solvency Assurances Group’s overall foreign exchange exposure is bound by requirements and operational cash needs. It is refinanced through a maximum market value limit relative to the total portfolio, and a its shareholder Crédit Agricole S.A., and, since 2014, through issuing sub-limit for emerging currencies. subordinated debt directly in the market. Actual exposure is measured monthly and compared to the exposure The structure of these financing debts and their breakdown by maturity limits. At the end of 2018, it was not material (0.3% of the global is shown in Note 6.21 to the consolidated financial statements of Crédit portfolio), and was mainly on emerging currencies. Agricole Assurances. 4. Liquidity risk III. Counterparty risk Type of exposure and risk management Credit risk is the risk of loss due to default by an issuer. For debt For Crédit Agricole Assurances, liquidity risk essentially corresponds to securities, this risk translates as a decrease in their value. its ability to meet its current liabilities. This section deals only with counterparty risk on financial instruments. From this perspective, the companies combine several approaches. Exposure to counterparty risk on reinsurers’ receivables is covered in On the one hand, liquidity is an investment selection criterion (majority the section on “insurance risk”. of securities listed on regulated markets, limits on assets in markets Amundi’s risk management teams perform the analysis of counterparty that lack depth, such as private equity, unrated bonds, and alternative risk for issuers and for OTC market transactions (derivatives) under the management, etc.). mandates granted to them by the insurance companies. On the other hand, systems for managing liquidity are consistent across Counterparty risk is contained overall for Crédit Agricole Assurances Crédit Agricole Assurances Group, and are defined by the companies as Group and at portfolio level for each entity in CAA Group, on the basis part of their active/passive ALM policy: of limits in terms of ratings, issuer and sector concentration. nn for life insurance companies, these systems have the goal to ensure a match between the maturities of assets and those of liabilities under Hence, aggregate limits are defined to manage the breakdown of issues normal and stressed conditions (wave of buybacks/deaths, see below between rating classes. The rating used is the “Solvency 2” rating the liquidity monitoring indicator). The objective is to ensure liquidity corresponding to the second best of the three S&P, Moody’s and Fitch in the long-term (monitoring and limiting of annual cash run-off gaps), ratings. The share of “high-yield” issues held directly (including after a medium term (so-called “reactivity” ratio), and, in case of uncertainty rating downgrade that does not affect repayment capacity), or indirectly regarding net inflows, short-term (one-week and one-month liquidity, via specialist funds, is subject to strict limits. BB is the minimum rating with daily monitoring of redemptions). In exceptional circumstances authorised. In the context of the shift in focus since mid-2012 of fixed where markets are unavailable, Crédit Agricole Assurances applies income securities towards corporate bonds, subject to a maximum temporary liquidity management approaches (repos with collateral in exposure limit for the sector, the investment universe was expanded cash or ECB-eligible assets); to issuers not rated by an external rating agency, but with a minimum Crédit Agricole S.A. internal rating equivalent to investment grade nn for non-life insurance companies, liquidities or assets with low (BBB-), using a rigorous selection process and in a limited proportion reactivity are retained, and the share is calculated to respond to a (approx. 1% of the portfolio in January 2018). shock to liabilities. The breakdown of the bond portfolio by financial rating makes it possible The “reactivity” ratio measures the ability to mobilise current assets of to assess its credit quality. less than two years or variable-rate assets by limiting the impacts in terms of capital loss; it is measured and compared against a threshold set by each life insurance company. 252 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management The bond portfolio (excluding backing unit-linked policies) by credit rating breaks down as follows: 46% 39% 22% 23% 18% 18% 18% 11% 3% 1% 1% 1% AAA AA A BBB BB or < BB NR 2017 2018 Concentration in a single issuer (equities and interest rate instruments) Life insurance technical reserves, recognised in the main by French may not exceed a given percentage of the total portfolio, which is companies, are chiefly constituted from savings denominated in euro determined according to issuer type and quality. Furthermore, limiting or unit-linked contracts. For the majority of unit-linked contracts, the the relative weighting of the top ten issuers ensures diversification risk of fluctuation in the value of the underlying is borne directly by the within rating levels A and BBB. Exposure is reviewed quarterly with the policyholder. Some contracts may include a floor guarantee in the event Amundi Risk teams and the Risk Management department of Crédit of the death of the insured. The insurer is thus exposed to a financial risk Agricole S.A. Group. determined by the value of the unit-linked account and the probability Concentration in sovereign debt and similar is subject to individual limits of death of the insured. A specific technical provision is recognised for according to debt-to-GDP ratio and the country’s credit rating. this floor guarantee. Exposure to Eurozone peripheral debt (Greece, Italy, Portugal, Spain) In savings, redemption rates are monitored for each life insurance has been reduced. As regards sovereigns, it is concentrated in company and compared with the structural redemption rates established Italian sovereign debt held by the Italian subsidiary of Crédit Agricole on the basis of historic and market data. Assurances. For the death and disability activity, creditor insurance and yields, the underwriting policy, which specifies the risks covered and the Cash collateral contracts are used to manage counterparty risk for over-the-counter derivatives used by companies to hedge exposure to underwriting conditions (target customers, exclusions), and pricing standards (notably the statistical tables established either from national 5 rate risk and presented on their balance sheets. or international statistics or from experience tables) help to control risk IV. Insurance risk in this area. “Catastrophe” risk, related to a mortality shock (e.g. a pandemic) is Crédit Agricole Assurances Group is exposed to insurance risk through likely to impact the results for individual or group death & disability the insurance business. Such risk primarily relates to the underwriting, insurance. The French life insurance subsidiary benefits from BCAC valuation of provisions and reinsurance processes. cover (Bureau Commun des Assurances Collectives), both on group Each entity implements an approach in collaboration with all the death benefits and individual death and disability benefits, as well as, operating departments concerned, as well as Risk, Compliance, in part, supplementary cover of disability risk. Actuarial functions and Legal Affairs, to manage risks when new insurance products are created or substantial changes are made to the Non-life insurance underwriting risk features of an existing product. Products are approved by an ad hoc For property and casualty insurance and non-life benefits included in Committee (New Business and New Product Committee). creditor insurance policies, the underwriting risk can be defined as the risk that the premiums collected are insufficient compared to the 1. Insurance underwriting risk claims to be settled. Crédit Agricole Assurances is specifically exposed Insurance underwriting risk takes different forms depending on the to frequency risk and exceptional risk, whether originating from a whether the insurance is life or non-life: catastrophe risk (particularly climatic) or the occurrence of individual incidents for significant amounts. Life insurance underwriting risk For distribution partners, underwriting policy defines the framework for Through its Savings, Retirement and Death & Disability activities and accepting risk (to ensure appropriate selection of risks and the spread life insurance guarantees in respect of its creditor insurance, Crédit within the policy portfolio to optimise technical margins). Formal rules Agricole Assurances is exposed to biometric risks (longevity, mortality, and procedures for pricing are also drawn up. incapacity, long-term care and disability risks), loading risk (insufficient The ratio of claims paid to premiums earned is compared to targets. loading to cover operating expenses and fees paid to distributors), but This claims ratio is the key indicator for monitoring risk and is used to most of all to behavioural risk for redemptions (for example, due to a identify priorities for improving the technical result, where necessary. deterioration in trust in Crédit Agricole Group or a legal development, such as the Bourquin amendment to the Sapin II law). The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 253 5 Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management Concentration risk in non-life insurance relates to an aggregation of The Statutory Auditors perform an actuarial review of provisions as part liabilities in respect of a single claim, arising from: of the annual audit. nn underwriting concentration in which insurance policies are written by The breakdown of technical reserves relating to life and non-life one or more Group entities on the same risk; insurance contracts is presented in Note 6.23 to the consolidated nn claim concentration, where policies are written by one or more Crédit financial statements. Agricole Assurances Group entities on risks that are different, but liable to be triggered by a single covered event or the same primary 3. Reinsurance risk cause. Reinsurance risks are of three types: This type of risk is hedged, first, by a policy of diversifying the risks nn inappropriate reinsurance (insufficient cover or, on the other hand, written in a single region and, second, by reinsurance to limit the payment of too high a premium, which erodes technical margins and financial impact of major event (storms, natural disasters, etc.), under competitiveness); a reinsurance policy (see reinsurance risk below) that incorporates this nn risk of a reinsurer defaulting and not being able to pay its share of dimension. the claims; nn no or virtually no reinsurance on a given activity or guarantee given 2. Provisioning risk (reinsurance offer, amounts that can be covered and the cost of cover, Provisioning risk is the risk of a gap between the provisions set aside depending on market conditions that are liable to vary significantly). and those required to meet liabilities. It may be related to risk valuation Each company draws up its own reinsurance plan aimed at protecting (volatility introduced by discount rates, regulatory developments, or new equity in case of systemic or exceptional events and at limiting volatility risks for which statistical depth is inadequate, etc.) or a change in risk in the Company’s results, based on the principles of Crédit Agricole factors (population ageing, for example, leading to increased long-term Assurances Group’s strategy for common and uniform risks limitation, care risks or health issues, stricter laws governing professional civil namely: liability, personal injury compensation, and others). nn selecting reinsurers that meet minimum financial soundness criteria, The objective of the provisioning policy established in each of the with reinsurers’ ratings monitored at Crédit Agricole Assurances companies is to guarantee a prudent assessment of loadings for past Group level; and projected claims to ensure a high probability that the accounting nn ensuring adequate dispersion of premiums across reinsurers; provisions set aside will be sufficient to cover the ultimate load. nn monitoring the adequacy of reinsurance cover relative to the The methods used to constitute provisions (on a case-by-case basis) for commitments to policyholders and of results on each reinsurance property and casualty insurance, according to the products and benefits agreement. affected, are documented and the management rules applied by claims managers are set out in the manuals. The reinsurance plans are reviewed annually by the Board of Directors in each subsidiary. The choice of statistical methodology to calculate accounting provisions (including provisions for late payment) is justified at each reporting date. Net outstandings ceded to reinsurers (ceded reserves and current accounts with reinsurers net of cash deposits received) totalled The local permanent control plan encompasses control of provisioning €0.7 billion at 31 December 2018. policy. Their breakdown by reinsurer rating is as follows: 64% 55% 16% 12% 11% 13% 8% 8% 4% 5% 0% 0% 1% 1% 1% 0% 0% 0% 0% 1% AAA AA+ AA AAA+ A ABBB+ BBB NR 2017 2018 254 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management 4. Emerging risks VI. Non-compliance risks The Risk Management department is responsible for the ongoing Non-compliance risks refer to a potential lack of adherence to rules monitoring of insurance risk, in cooperation with other business line governing financial activities. These rules may be laws, regulations departments and Legal Affairs. (Solvency 2, securities regulations, data protection, customer protection, The Risk Monitoring Committee, which meets twice monthly and is or requirements to combat money laundering and the financing of attended by all Risk Management and Permanent Controls Officers, is terrorism, fighting of corruption, etc.), professional or ethical standards, also tasked with anticipating developments in the regulatory and legal and instructions from the executive body. These risks are identified in environment and identifying emerging risks. the operational risk mapping of each Crédit Agricole Assurances Group This monitoring comes from many sources (economic research, internal entity. and external analysis, in particular by consulting firms and research In each entity, the Compliance Officer is responsible for adapting Group published by the French Regulatory and Resolution Supervisory procedures issued by Crédit Agricole S.A.’s Compliance department Authority (ACPR) and the European regulator, EIOPA, etc.). (Corpus Fides) and for developing procedures specific to that business. The Compliance Officer is also responsible for training and for the V. Operational risks dedicated control system aimed at controlling these risks, preventing the risk of fraud and limiting potential impacts (financial losses, legal, Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from shortcomings or administrative or disciplinary sanctions), while protecting the reputation failure in internal procedures, human error, information systems or of Crédit Agricole Assurances Group. In this respect, the launch of new external events. It includes non-compliance risk, legal risk and the risks business activities and the creation of new products, are subject to generated by key outsourced services (PSEE). enhanced security by referral to the New Activities and New Products Crédit Agricole Assurances entities apply Crédit Agricole S.A. Group Committees, established in each entity to review in particular the directives on operational and compliance risk management. contractual and marketing documents for products, as well as the The operational risk management system in each entity, including the training materials and sales aids intended for distributors. holding company, is thus comprised of the following components: The management and supervision of their compliance system is nn a mapping of risk events, periodically updated to incorporate carried out by the Crédit Agricole Assurances Group Compliance organisational changes, new activities and even changes in the cost Officer. Coordination for the Insurance business is carried out through of risk. It is based on a breakdown of activities into processes and exchanges with the subsidiaries. the seven risk categories of the Basel 2 classification. The financial In all areas of compliance, from the prevention of money laundering and non-financial (regulatory, image) impacts of these identified risk and financing of terrorism to protecting customers, the Group has events, whether actual or potential, are assessed as well as their strengthened coordination with distributors (Regional Banks, LCL, probability of occurrence, based on business expertise. Internal other international networks) to ensure implementation of the controls control is assessed on the basis of the results of controls at the to guarantee correct application of procedures by all parties. different levels defined in the local control plans and standardised controls defined by the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group Risk Management Crédit Agricole Assurances Group realigned its organisation and its department and the findings of periodic controls to highlight the most risk management policy to ensure compliance with the Solvency 2 critical net risks and prioritise actions plans to reduce them; regulation, as detailed in the Corporate governance section of the Crédit nn a process of collecting data on risk-related incidents and operating Agricole Assurances Registration document. 5 losses, backed by an early-warning system, is used to monitor identified risks and use them to introduce remedial measures and VII. Legal risks ensure consistency with mapping. The amount of collected losses is Responsibility for legal management, regulatory monitoring and compared each quarter to an annually defined alert threshold. consulting with the various business line departments lies with the Crédit Agricole Assurances and its subsidiaries have prepared their companies’ Business divisions. Business Continuity Plans (BCP) focusing on essential activities in order There is currently no governmental, legal or arbitration proceeding (or to cover a failure of information systems, operational sites and staff. The any proceeding known by the Company, in abeyance or that threatens business continuity plans meet Crédit Agricole S.A. Group standards, it) that could have or has had, in the previous 12 months, any material with the adoption of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group’s solution for the user effect on the financial position or profitability of the Company and/or of fallback site, the IT back-up plan based on the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group Crédit Agricole Assurances Group. shared IT operating and production site. It is regularly tested. IT system To Crédit Agricole Assurances’ knowledge, there is no significant security is an inherent component of the Group’s security policies. A litigation to note. three-year programme of security projects (including accreditation, intrusion tests, and IT system failure scenarios) is being implemented. A Crédit Agricole Assurances Group-wide general subcontracting policy, describing amongst others the monitoring and control system associated with outsourcing, has been rolled out by Group entities. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 255 5 Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management 3.8. OPERATIONAL RISKS Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from shortcomings or failure Tools in internal procedures, staff, information systems or external events. The RCP (Risk and Permanent Controls) platform contains the four It includes legal risk, non-compliance risk, internal and external essential elements of the system (collection of loss data, operational fraud risk, the model risk and risks generated by the provision of key risk mapping, permanent controls and action plans) sharing the same outsourced services (PSEE). framework and thus making it possible to establish a connection between the risk mapping systems and risk management system I. Organisation and supervision system (permanent controls, action plans, etc.). The operational risk system, adjusted to each Group entity, comprises Regarding the IT system component used for the calculation and the following components common to the entire Group. allocation of regulatory capital, the upgrade plan was continued along with a rationalisation of the databases, enhanced information granularity Organisation and governance of the Operational Risk and the automation of the controls on data taken from COREP’s Management function regulatory statements to bring IT into line with best management principles defined by the Basel Committee. nn supervision of the system by Executive Management (via the Operational Risk Committee or the operational risk unit of the Group These components are subjected to consolidated verifications at the Risk Management Committee and the Internal Control Committee); central level. nn tasks of the Risk Management Officers (Crédit Agricole S.A. and In addition, the risks associated with key outsourced services are its subsidiaries) and the Operational Risk Managers at local level in incorporated into each component of the Operational Risk system and terms of management of the operational risk management system; are the subject of a specific report, as are the consolidated controls that nn responsibility of the entities in managing their own risks; are centrally communicated. set of standards and procedures; nn II. Methodology nn circulation of Crédit Agricole’s Group risk tolerance policy implemented in 2015 and incorporating operational risk. The main entities of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group use the advanced measures approach (AMA): Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Identification and qualitative assessment Bank, Amundi, LCL, Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance and Agos. The of risks through risk mapping use of the AMA for these entities was approved by the French Regulatory and Resolution Supervisory Authority (ACPR) in 2007. These entities Risk mapping is done annually by the entities and is used by each currently represent 72% of capital requirements for operational risks. entity with a validation of the results and associated action plans by the Operational Risk Committee (operational risk unit of the Internal For the entities that use the standardised approach (TSA), the regulatory Control Committee) and a presentation to the Risk Committee of the weighting coefficients used in calculating the capital requirement are Board of Directors. those recommended by the Basel Committee (percentage of revenues according to business line). This mapping is supplemented by the establishment of risk indicators to monitor the most sensitive processes. AMA regulatory capital requirements calculation Collection of operational loss data and an early-warning The AMA method for calculating capital requirements for operational system to report significant incidents, which are risk has the following objectives: consolidated in a database used to measure and monitor nn increase control over the cost of operational risk, and prevent the cost of risk exceptional risks across the Group’s various entities; nn determine the level of capital needed for the measured risks; The reliability and quality of the data collected are submitted to systematic audits both at the local and central levels. nn promote improvements in risk management through the monitoring of action plans. The calculation and regulatory reporting of capital for The systems implemented within the Group aim for compliance with operational risk at the consolidated and entity levels all qualitative criteria (integration of risk measurement into day-to-day The quarterly production of an operational risk dashboard at management, independence of the Risk function, periodic disclosure entity level, accompanied by a Crédit Agricole Group summary, of operational risk exposures, etc.) and Basel 3 quantitative criteria taking into account the main sources of risks affecting the (99.9% confidence interval over a one-year period; incorporation of business lines and associated action plans for major incidents. internal data, external data, scenario analyses and factors reflecting the operating environment; incorporation of risk factors that influence the statistical distribution, etc.). The AMA model for calculating capital requirements is based on a unique actuarial model called the Loss Distribution Approach. 256 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management Internal factors (change in the entity’s risk profile) are considered The model was designed and developed according to the following according to: principles: nn changes within the entity (organisational, new business activities, etc.); nn it must form an integral part of the risk policy; nn changes in risk mapping; nn it must be pragmatic, i.e. the methodology must be applicable to real nn an analysis of the history of internal losses and the quality of the operating conditions; risk management system, in particular via the permanent controls nn it must have educational value, in order to be endorsed by Executive system. Management and the business lines; For external factors, the Group uses: nn it must be robust, i.e. it must be able to provide estimates that are nn the ORX Insight external consortium database to monitor incidents realistic and stable from one financial year to the next. recorded in other institutions; An annual committee for back-testing the Advanced Measurement nn the SAS OpRisk and ORX News external public databases for: Approach (AMA) model analyses the model’s sensitivity to changes in –– raising awareness among the entities of the main risks that have the risk profile of the entities. Every year, this committee identifies areas impacted other institutions, where improvements are possible, and draws up corresponding action plans. –– assisting experts in the valuation of the main Group vulnerabilities (key scenarios). The operational risk system and methodology have been subject to external audits by the ECB in 2015, 2016 and 2017. These missions made it possible to note the Group’s progress, but also to complete the prudential approach relating to emerging risks (cyber risk, compliance/ conduct risk). III. Exposure Breakdown of operational losses by Basel risk category (2016 to 2018) Execution, delivery and process management 2% Internal fraud 28% 28% External fraud Dysfunction Business and systems 3% 3% Employment and 5 Damage to physical assets 1% security practices Customers, products, commercial practices 35% Generally, the exposure profile in terms of the operational risks identified nn exposure to external fraud category, mainly in connection with credit over the last three years reflects the principal activities at Crédit Agricole boundary operational risk (document fraud, fraudulent invoices, S.A. Group: etc.), and with payment instruments fraud (bank cards, fraudulent nn exposure to the Customer category, notably marked by the recent transfers). decision of the Italian Competition Authority regarding FCA Bank SpA; Remedial and preventive action plans at local or Group level were nn still significant exposure to the Execution risk category, due to introduced to reduce the exposure of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group to processing errors (absent or incomplete legal documentation, operational risk. Periodic monitoring of action plans for incidents with guarantee management, litigation with suppliers, input errors, etc.), an impact higher than €5 million has been implemented since 2014 but also due to tax sanctions; within the Group Operational Risk Committee and since 2016 in the Group Risk Management Committee. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 257 5 Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management Breakdown of risk-weighted assets by Basel risk category (2016 to 2018) Dysfunction Business and systems 8% Execution, delivery and process management 7% 25% Internal fraud Damage to physical assets 1% 1% External fraud electronic payments 4% External fraud excluding electronic payments 1% Employment and security practices in the workplace Customers, products, commercial practices 53% IV. Insurance and coverage of operational risks Insurance policies for operating losses, fraud and securities risks, Group professional liability, and civil liability for Executives and Non-Executive Crédit Agricole Group has obtained insurance coverage for its Corporate Officers were renewed in 2018. operational risks to protect its assets and profits. For high-intensity risks, Crédit Agricole S.A. has taken out insurance policies to cover itself “Basel 2 eligible” policies contribute to reducing the amount of capital and its subsidiaries with major insurance companies. These policies that must be held against operational risks (within the 20% authorised harmonise the transfer of personal and property risks and the setting limit). up of specific professional civil liability and fraud insurance programmes High-frequency and low-intensity risks that cannot be insured on for each business line. Lower intensity risks are managed directly by the satisfactory financial terms are retained in the form of deductibles or are relevant entities. pooled within Crédit Agricole S.A. Group, ultimately through its captive In France, third-party civil liability risks are covered by operating civil insurance subsidiary (Crédit Agricole Risk Insurance) and represent liability policies. It should be noted that property & casualty insurance for around 7% of all Group insurance programmes. operating assets (property and IT equipment) also includes third-party liability coverage for all buildings exposed to this risk. 3.9. DEVELOPMENTS IN LEGAL RISK The main legal and tax proceedings outstanding at Crédit Agricole Litigation and exceptional events S.A. and its fully consolidated subsidiaries are described in the 2017 management report. The cases presented below are (i) those that have Strauss/Wolf/Faudem evolved since 22 March 2018, the date on which Registration document US citizens and members of their families who were victims of terrorist No. D.18-0164 was filed with the AMF and (ii) the pending cases which attacks attributed to Hamas and committed in Israel between 2001 and have not evolved since that date. 2004 have brought proceedings against Crédit Lyonnais and another Any legal risks outstanding at 31 December 2018 that could have a bank before a New York court. negative impact on the Group’s net assets have been covered by They claim that these banks gave support to terrorists as they each adequate provisions, which correspond to Executive Management’s kept an account opened (in 1990 in the case of Crédit Lyonnais) by best estimates, based on the information available to it, see Note 6.17 a charity providing aid to Palestinians. The plaintiffs allege that the of consolidated financial statements. account was used to transfer funds to Palestinian entities accused To date, to the best of Crédit Agricole S.A.’s knowledge, there is no other of financing Hamas. The plaintiffs, who have not put a figure on the governmental, judiciary or arbitration proceeding (or any proceeding damages they have suffered, are claiming compensation for “injury, known by the Company, in abeyance or that threatens it) that could anguish and emotional pain”. have or has had, in the previous 12 months, any substantial effect on the As the matter and the proceedings currently stand, the plaintiffs have financial situation or the profitability of the Company and/or the Group. not provided proof that the charity was actually linked to terrorists, nor that Crédit Lyonnais was aware that its client could have been involved (if it were to be proven) in financing terrorism. The Court nonetheless demanded that this be demonstrated by the plaintiffs if they are to win their case. Crédit Lyonnais vigorously denies the plaintiffs’ allegations. 258 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management Under a ruling made on 28 February 2013, the judge issued a Summary 20 September 2010 but reduced from €82,940,000 to €76,560,000 Judgement referring Crédit Lyonnais and the plaintiffs to a jury trial on the sanction on Crédit Agricole. LCL’s sanction remains unchanged, at the merits. an amount of €20,930,000. In February 2018, Crédit Lyonnais filed a new motion for a summary As well as the other banks parties to this procedure, LCL and Crédit judgement based on a recent case-law so that the plaintiffs’ claims can Agricole filed an appeal with the Supreme Court. be dismissed without such a jury trial. On January 2019 the plaintiffs tried to modify their briefs in order to add Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) new plaintiffs before their action be time-barred. The judge refused this In October 2015, Crédit Agricole S.A. and its subsidiary Crédit request and two new actions (Fisher and Miller) have been filed before Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank (Crédit Agricole CIB) the same court as the one in charge of the procedures Strauss/Wolf. reached agreements with the US and New York authorities that had They are similar to the pending actions, their legal analysis are identical been conducting investigations regarding US dollar transactions with and their result will depend on the outcome of the motion for a summary countries subject to US economic sanctions. The events covered by this judgement filed by Crédit Lyonnais in February 2018. agreement took place between 2003 and 2008. From a procedural standpoint they will remain outstanding until then. Crédit Agricole CIB and Crédit Agricole S.A., which cooperated with the US and New York authorities in connection with their investigations, CIE case (Cheque Image Exchange) have agreed to pay a total penalty amount of $787.3 million In March 2008, LCL and Crédit Agricole S.A. and ten other banks were (i.e. €692.7 million). The payment of this penalty has been allocated to served notice of grievances on behalf of the Conseil de la concurrence the pre-existing reserve that had already been taken and, therefore, has i.e. the French Competition Council (now the Autorité de la concurrence). not affected the accounts for the second half of 2015. They are accused of colluding to implement and apply interchange fees The agreements with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve for cashing cheques, since the passage of the Cheque Image Exchange System (Fed) and the New York State Department of Financial Services system, i.e. between 2002 and 2007. In the opinion of the Autorité de la (NYDFS) are with CASA and Crédit Agricole CIB. The agreement with concurrence, these fees constitute anti-competitive price agreements the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) of the US Department of the in the meaning of Article 81 paragraph 1 of the treaty establishing the Treasury is with Crédit Agricole CIB. Crédit Agricole CIB also entered European Community and Article L. 420-1 of the French Commercial into separate deferred prosecution agreements (DPAs) with the United Code, and allegedly caused damage to the economy. States Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia (USAO) and the District Attorney of the County of New York (DANY), the terms of which In their defense, the banks categorically refuted the anticompetitiveness are three years. On 19 October 2018 the two deferred prosecution of the fees and contested the legality of the proceedings. agreements with USAO and DANY ended at the end of the three year In a decision published on 20 September 2010, the Autorité de la period, Crédit Agricole CIB having complied with all its obligations under concurrence stated that the Cheque Image Exchange fee (CEIC) was the DPAs. anti-competitive by its very aim and that it artificially increased the costs Crédit Agricole continues to strengthen its internal procedures and its borne by remitting banks, which resulted in an unfavourable impact on compliance programs regarding laws on international sanctions and the prices of banking services. Concerning one of the fees for related will continue to cooperate fully with the US and New York authorities services, the fee for cancellation of wrongly cleared transactions (AOCT), the Autorité de la concurrence called on the banks to revise their amount within six months of the notification of the decision. with its home regulators, the European Central Bank and the French Regulatory and Resolution Supervisory Authority (ACPR), and with the 5 other regulators across its worldwide network. The accused banks were sanctioned for an overall amount of Pursuant to the agreements with NYDFS and the US Federal Reserve, €384.92 million. Crédit Agricole’s compliance program is subject to regular reviews LCL and Crédit Agricole were respectively sentenced to pay €20.7 million to evaluate its effectiveness, including a review by an independent and €82.1 million for the CEIC and €0.2 million and €0.8 million for consultant appointed by NYDFS for a term of one year and annual the AOCT. reviews by an independent consultant approved by the Federal Reserve. All of the banks appealed the decision to the Paris Court of Appeal. By a decree of 23 February 2012, the Court overruled the decision, Euribor/Libor and other indexes stating that the Autorité de la concurrence had not proven the existence Crédit Agricole S.A. and its subsidiary Crédit Agricole CIB, in their of competition restrictions establishing the agreement as having an capacity as contributors to a number of interbank rates, have received anti-competitive purpose. requests for information from a number of authorities as part of The Autorité de la concurrence filed an appeal with the Supreme Court investigations into: (i) the calculation of the Libor (London Interbank on 23 March 2012. Offered Rates) in a number of currencies, the Euribor (Euro Interbank On 14 April 2015, the French Supreme Court (Cour de cassation) Offered Rate) and certain other market indices; and (ii) transactions overruled the Paris Court of Appeal’s decision dated 23 February 2012 connected with these rates and indices. These demands covered and remanded the case to the Paris Court of Appeal with a change in several periods from 2005 to 2012. the composition of the Court on the sole ground that the Paris Court As part of its cooperation with the authorities, Crédit Agricole S.A. and of Appeal declared the UFC-Que Choisir and ADUMPE’s interventions its subsidiary Crédit Agricole CIB carried out investigations in order in the proceedings devoid of purpose without having considered their to gather the information requested by the various authorities and in arguments. particular the American authorities – the DOJ (Department of Justice) The Supreme Court did not rule on the merits of the case and Crédit and CFTC (Commodity Future Trading Commission) – with which they Agricole has brought the case before the Paris Court of Appeal. are in discussions. It is currently not possible to know the outcome of these discussions, nor the date when they will be concluded. The Paris Court of Appeal issued a decree on 21 December 2017. It confirmed the decision of the Autorité de la concurrence dated The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 259 5 Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management Furthermore, Crédit Agricole CIB is currently under investigation opened indexes that affected the transactions in US dollars. Crédit Agricole by the Attorney General of the State of Florida on both the Libor and CIB, alongside the other defendants, will oppose the terms of this new the Euribor. complaint and has also filed a new motion to dismiss to contest the Following its investigation and an unsuccessful settlement procedure, jurisdiction maintained against it. on 21 May 2014, the European Commission sent a notification of These class actions are civil actions in which the plaintiffs claim that grievances to Crédit Agricole S.A. and to Crédit Agricole CIB pertaining they are victims of the methods used to set the Euribor, Libor, Sibor and to agreements or concerted practices for the purpose and/or effect of SOR rates, and seek repayment of the sums they allege were unlawfully preventing, restricting or distorting competition in derivatives related received, as well as damages and reimbursement of costs and fees to the Euribor. paid. In a decision dated 7 December 2016, the European Commission jointly fined Crédit Agricole S.A. and Crédit Agricole CIB €114,654,000 for Banque Saudi Fransi participating in a cartel in euro interest rate derivatives. Crédit Agricole Crédit Agricole Corporate Investment Bank (Crédit Agricole CIB) has S.A. and Crédit Agricole CIB are challenging this decision and have received a Request for Arbitration submitted by Banque Saudi Fransi asked the European Court of Justice to overturn it. (BSF) before the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC). The dispute Additionally, the Swiss competition authority, COMCO, is conducting relates to the performance of a Technical Services Agreement between an investigation into the market for interest rate derivatives, including BSF and Crédit Agricole CIB that is no longer in force. On 7 August 2018, the Euribor, with regard to Crédit Agricole S.A. and several Swiss BSF quantified its claim at SAR 1,011,670,654.00, the equivalent of and international banks. Moreover, in June 2016 the South Korean about €232 million and reserved the right to submit additional claims. competition authority (KFTC) decided to close the investigation launched Crédit Agricole CIB totally denies BSF’s allegations and claim. in September 2015 into Crédit Agricole CIB and the Libor index on various currencies, Euribor and Tibor indices. The investigation into Bonds SSA certain foreign exchange derivatives (ABS-NDF) has been closed by Several regulators have demanded information to Crédit Agricole S.A. the KFTC according to a decision notified to Crédit Agricole CIB on and to Crédit Agricole CIB for inquiries relating to activities of different 20 December 2018. banks involved in the secondary trading of Bonds SSA (Supranational, Concerning the two class actions in the United States of America in Sub-Sovereign and Agencies) denominated in American dollars. which Crédit Agricole S.A. and Crédit Agricole CIB have been named Through the cooperation with these regulators, Crédit Agricole CIB since 2012 and 2013 along with other financial institutions, both as proceeded to internal inquiries to gather the required information defendants in one (“Sullivan” for the Euribor) and only Crédit Agricole available. On 20 December 2018, the European Commission issued S.A. as defendant for the other (“Lieberman” for Libor), the “Lieberman” a Statement of Objections to a number of banks including Crédit class action is at the preliminary stage that consists in the examination Agricole S.A. and Crédit Agricole CIB within its inquiry on a possible of its admissibility; proceedings are still suspended before the US District infringement of rules of European Competition law in the secondary Court of New York State. Concerning the “Sullivan” class action, Crédit trading of Bonds SSA denominated in American dollars. Crédit Agricole Agricole S.A. and Crédit Agricole CIB introduced a motion to dismiss the S.A. and Crédit Agricole CIB became aware of these objections and will applicants’ claim. The US District Court of New York State upheld the issue a response. motion to dismiss regarding Crédit Agricole S.A. and Crédit Agricole CIB Crédit Agricole CIB is included with other banks in a putative consolidated in first instance. This decision is subject to appeal. class action before the United States District Court for the Southern Since 1 July 2016, Crédit Agricole S.A. and Crédit Agricole CIB, together District of New York. That action was dismissed on 29 August 2018 on with other banks, are also party to a new class action suit in the United the basis that the plaintiffs failed to allege an injury sufficient to give States (“Frontpoint”) relating to the Sibor (Singapore Interbank Offered them standing. However the plaintiffs have been given an opportunity to Rate) and SOR (Singapore Swap Offer Rate) indices. After having granted attempt to remedy that defect. The plaintiffs filed an amended complaint a first motion to dismiss filed by Crédit Agricole SA and Crédit Agricole on 7 November 2018. Crédit Agricole CIB as well as the other defendants CIB, the New York Federal District Court, ruling on a new request by have filed motions to dismiss the amended complaint. the plaintiffs, excluded Crédit Agricole SA from the Frontpoint case on On 7 February 2019, another class action was filed against CACIB and the grounds that it had not contributed to the relevant indexes. The the other defendants named in the class action already pending before Court considered, however, taking into account recent developments the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. in case law, that its jurisdiction could apply to Crédit Agricole CIB, as On 11 July 2018, Crédit Agricole S.A. and Crédit Agricole CIB were well as to all the banks that are members of the Sibor index panel. The notified with other banks of a class action filed in Canada, before the allegations contained in the complaint regarding the Sibor/USD index Ontario Superior Court of Justice. Another class action, not notified to and the SOR index were also rejected by the court, therefore the index date, would have been filed before the Federal Court of Canada. It is not Sibor/Singapore dollar alone is still taken into account. On 26 December, possible at this stage to predict the outcome of these investigations, the plaintiffs filed a new complaint aimed at reintroducing into the scope proceedings or class actions or the date on which they will end. of the Frontpoint case the alleged manipulations of the Sibor and SOR 260 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management O’Sullivan and Tavera Intercontinental Exchange, Inc. (“ICE”) On November 9, 2017, a group of individuals, (or their families or On 15 January 2019, a class action was filed before a federal court estates), who claimed to have been injured or killed in attacks in Iraq in New York (US District Court Southern District of New York) against filed a complaint (“O’Sullivan I”) against several banks including Crédit the Intercontinental Exchange, Inc. (“ICE”) and a number of banks Agricole S.A., and its subsidiary Crédit Agricole Corporate Investment including Crédit Agricole S.A., Crédit Agricole CIB and Crédit Agricole Bank (Crédit Agricole CIB), in US Federal District Court in New York. Securities-USA. This action has been filed by plaintiffs who allege that On December 29, 2018, the same group of individuals, together with they have invested in financial instruments indexed to the USD ICE 57 new plaintiffs, filed a separate action (“O’Sullivan II”) against the Libor. They accuse the banks of having collusively set the index USD same defendants. ICE Libor at artificially low levels since February 2014 and made thus illegal profits. On December 21, 2018, a different group of individuals filed a complaint (“Tavera”) against the same defendants. On 31 January 2019 a similar action has been filed before the US District Court Southern District of New York, against a number of banks All three complaints allege that Crédit Agricole S.A., Crédit Agricole CIB, including Crédit Agricole S.A., Crédit Agricole CIB and Crédit Agricole and other defendants conspired with Iran and its agents to violate US Securities-USA. On 1 February 2019, these two class actions were sanctions and engage in transactions with Iranian entities in violation of consolidated for pre-trial purposes. the US Anti-Terrorism Act and the Justice Against Sponsors of Terrorism Act. Specifically, the complaints allege that Crédit Agricole S.A., Crédit Agricole CIB, and other defendants processed US dollar transactions on Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance Nederland B.V. behalf of Iran and Iranian entities in violation of sanctions administered The conditions for the review of the interest rates of revolving loans by the US Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, marketed by Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance Nederland BV, a fully which allegedly enabled Iran to fund terrorist organizations that, as is owned subsidiary of Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance SA, and its alleged, attacked plaintiffs. The plaintiffs are seeking an unspecified subsidiaries are the subject of borrowers’ claims relating to the criteria amount of compensatory damages. for revising these rates and possible overpayments of interests. On 2 March 2018, Crédit Agricole CIB and other defendants filed a On 21 January 2019, in two individual cases concerning two subsidiaries motion to dismiss the O’ Sullivan I Complaint. of Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance Nederland BV, the Appeals Committee of KIFID (the Financial Services Complaints Authority) in the Italian Competition Authority Netherlands decided that in case the consumers had no or insufficient information on the specific factors that determine the interest rate, the On 5 October 2018, CA Consumer Finance SA (“CACF”) and its subsidiary individual interest rate needed to follow the movement of market interest FCA Bank S.p.A. owned at 50% received – together with several other rates on consumer loans. banks and certain car manufacturers – a statement of objections from the Autorità Garante della Concorrenza e del Mercato (Italian Competition Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance Nederland BV and its subsidiaries Authority). It was alleged in this statement of objections that several are analysing the impact of this decision on the concerned portfolios. banks offering financing solutions for vehicles commercialized by certain car manufacturers have restricted competition as a result of CACEIS Germany certain exchanges of information, in particular within two professional CACEIS Germany learned from the Bavarian tax authorities that they associations. In a decision notified on 9 January 2019 the Autorità Garante della intend to claim repayment of the dividend tax refunded to a number of its customers in 2010. 5 Concorrenza e del Mercato considered that FCA Bank S.p.A. had The Bavarian tax authorities would claim repayment of tax in the amount participated in this alleged infringement and this infringement was also of €312 million, without prejudice to any potential interests. CACEIS attributable to CACF. FCA Bank S.p.A. has been fined €178.9 million. Germany would strongly challenge this claim, should such claim be FCA Bank S.p.A. and CACF appealed against this decision. addressed to it. Binding agreements Crédit Agricole S.A. does not depend on any industrial, commercial or financial patent, license or contract. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 261 5 Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management 3.10. NON-COMPLIANCE RISKS Compliance is defined as a set of rules and initiatives aimed at ensuring deployment of all commitments made by the Crédit Agricole Group compliance with all legislative and regulatory provisions under the FOCA remediation plan (see below). As part of the entry into specific to banking and financial activities, professional and ethical force of the European Regulation on the Protection of Personal Data standards and practices, the fundamental principles set out in the (GDPR), the Group Data Protection Officer (DPO) reports directly to Group’s Ethics Charter and the instructions, codes of conduct and the Group Compliance Director and is in charge of managing the DPO procedures internal to Group entities in relation to the areas covered department of Crédit Agricole. by Compliance. These include in particular the fight against money The GCD also leads and supervises the sector. Within the Compliance laundering and terrorist financing, compliance with international function, each Compliance Officer updates a non-compliance risk map, sanctions (embargoes, asset freezes, etc.), prevention of internal and and these are consolidated by the Group Compliance department. The external fraud, the fight against corruption and the exercise of the control of non-compliance risks is more broadly based on a system that right to alert, respect for the integrity of financial markets, customer integrates permanent indicators and controls regularly deployed within protection, tax compliance rules and the protection of personal data. the entities. GDC therefore provides Group-level supervision (including In addition to meeting regulatory requirements and the expectations of reporting of customer complaints or analyses of compliance failures). all its stakeholders (customers, members, shareholders, employees), Finally, the system is organised around a governance system that is the Group has set itself the objective of making Compliance a fully integrated into the Group’s internal control framework. The Group differentiating asset in the service of customer satisfaction, Compliance Management Committee, chaired by Executive development and sustainable performance. Compliance rules and Management, holds five or six plenary meetings per year. It makes the initiatives therefore aim to ensure transparency and loyalty to clients, to decisions required to prevent non-compliance risks and to implement contribute to the integrity of financial markets, to prevent reputational and monitor corrective measures following the reporting of irregularities risk and the risk of criminal, administrative and disciplinary sanctions in to the Committee. Non-compliance risks and the decisions taken to the areas under its jurisdiction. control them are regularly presented to the Risk Committee of the Board The Group has defined and implemented an updated, adequate of Directors of Crédit Agricole S.A. and proportionate non-compliance risk management system The system for controlling non-compliance risks is based primarily on that involves all stakeholders (employees, management, control the dissemination of a solid ethical and compliance culture among functions including Compliance). This system is based in particular on all Group employees and managers. organisations, procedures, information systems or tools used to identify, It is based on awareness-raising and training activities with assess, monitor, control these risks and determine the necessary action regard to the challenges and risks of non-compliance that strongly plans. This system reports to the governance bodies of the entities and mobilize the Compliance department, and more broadly all the Group’s the Group. A dedicated monitoring system ensures that these risks are stakeholders: employees, managers and Directors. These training controlled and that their impact in terms of financial losses, or legal, modules and materials – general or intended for employees who are at a administrative or disciplinary sanctions, is minimised. The common higher risk of exposure – cover all areas of day-to-day compliance, fraud objective is to preserve the Group’s reputation. prevention and detection, personal data protection, the fight against This system is structured and deployed by the Group’s Compliance money laundering and the prevention of terrorist financing, as well as function. This is placed under the authority of the Group Head of international sanctions, etc. Compliance, who reports directly to the Group Chief Executive Upstream, the ethical culture and compliance requires the deployment Officer. To develop integration of the sector and guarantee the of the Ethics Charter, which the Crédit Agricole Group adopted in independence of these roles, the Compliance Officers of Credit May 2017. This policy, which is common to all Group entities, promotes Agricole S.A. subsidiaries report hierarchically to the Group Head of the Group’s values of proximity, responsibility and solidarity. Compliance, unless prevented by local law. A functional coordination link was also implemented with the Regional Banks, either at Compliance As an extension of this Charter, Crédit Agricole S.A. has adopted Control Officer (CCO) level, when he or she reports directly to the entity’s a Code of Conduct, which will be applied operationally. It applies Executive Management, or at Risk Management level when Compliance to everybody – Directors, Officers and employees of the Group’s falls its the scope. At the end of 2018, these positions were held by corporate entity, regardless of their situation and function. The code of 1,500 full-time equivalent employees within Crédit Agricole S.A., its conduct published in 2018 was designed to guide everyone’s actions, subsidiaries and the Regional Banks, representing an increase of over decisions and behaviour on a daily basis by incorporating behavioural 55% of allocated employees in three years. rules to deal with ethical issues that everyone may encounter during their professional and extra-professional assignments. As part of the The Group Compliance department of Crédit Agricole S.A. (GCD) is approach to controlling the risks of non-compliance, it also includes a responsible for developing Group policies with respect to observance specific “anti-corruption” component in application of the obligations of laws and regulations and ensures their proper circulation observance. arising from Sapin II, relating to the prevention of corruption and To this end, it has teams specialized by area of expertise: financial influence peddling. Codes of conduct are being implemented in all Group market compliance, customer protection, financial security, fraud entities – Regional Banks and subsidiaries – using the same approach. and corruption. A project team is also dedicated to managing the 262 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 3. Risk management Crédit Agricole Group also pursued its commitment in the fight against the US Federal Reserve (Fed) by April 2021. Indeed, the civil aspect corruption. Following the certification of its system by SGS (specialist in of the agreements is continuing and work is underway throughout the inspection, control, analysis and certification – BS 10500 certification) Group, with major projects underway, particularly in terms of enriching in 2016, the Crédit Agricole Group is the first French bank to have customer data, strengthening the third-party screening system and obtained ISO 37001 certification of its system, in July 2017, monitoring Trade Finance’s activities. demonstrating the attention paid by the Group to this issue. This Moreover, customer knowledge and anti-money laundering initiative is extended to 2018 with the completion of the operational and terrorist financing prevention systems are the subject of implementation of the Sapin II law with regard to preventing corruption ongoing action plans, taking into account changes in risks, regulatory and protecting whistle-blowers. requirements and supervisory authorities. Finally, it should be noted that in 2018, the Group adopted a definition of 2018 was also marked by the entry into force of the European the risk of misconduct and began work to complete governance and Regulation on the protection of personal data (GDPR) Crédit Agricole set up a dashboard and a Group appetence indicator. Group’s system as deployed in 2018 – in compliance with these new Controlling risks related to financial security requirements, and requirements – will be consolidated and industrialised in 2019, as part in particular international sanctions, is a high priority for the Group. of the Group’s data governance and projects. These developments are part of a major project to strengthen the Finally, customer protection remains a stated priority for the Group, in international sanctions management system, the FOCA remediation full support of its Customer project. With regard to regulatory compliance plan, as a result of the agreements signed with the American authorities issues, 2018 was marked by the monitoring of the correct operational on 19 October 2015 following breaches of the “FOCA Sanctions” regime deployment of MIFID2, PRIIPS and the Insurance Intermediation for USD transactions in the period 2003-2008. This remediation plan Directive, which came into force at the end of 2018. The monitoring was approved by the Fed on 24 April 2017 and is subject to close of the deployment of systems relating to dormant assets (Eckert Law), monitoring and regular reporting to the Group’s governance and the loan insurance (Lagarde and Hamon laws), banking inclusion (right to US authorities. an account and customers in a situation of financial fragility) and the The lifting of criminal proceedings against CACIB, as part of processing of customer complaints, thus resulted in dedicated projects. the agreements signed with the US authorities in October 2015 on More broadly, the Group pays particular attention to the quality of the compliance with US international sanctions, marks an important information and advice provided and to the proper compliance with the step in the implementation of the FOCA remediation plan. Indeed, on rules governing the adequacy of the products offered to customers, 19 October 2018, the Federal Court of the District of Columbia issued a but also to all its commitments with regard to banking inclusion final order terminating the US economic sanctions proceedings, which and the protection of vulnerable customers. In addition to its role in USAO had initiated against CACIB in October 2015. USAO and DANY standardising and monitoring the system, the Compliance Department is acknowledged the improvements made to the compliance program then part of a “native compliance” approach aimed at integrating regulatory adopted by CACIB. CACIB, like the entire Crédit Agricole, remains fully requirements into the Group’s business processes and tools in a fluid committed to ensuring the success of the Group’s FOCA program with manner. 5 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 263 5 Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures 4. PILLAR 3 DISCLOSURES Regulation (EU) No. 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the The internal process ICAAP is developed in accordance with the Council of 26 June 2013 (Capital Requirements Regulation or “CRR”) interpretation of the main regulatory texts specified below (Basel requires relevant financial institutions (notably credit institutions and agreements, guidelines of the European Banking Authority, prudential investment firms) to disclose quantitative and qualitative information expectations of the European Central Bank). More specifically, it on their risk management activities. Crédit Agricole S.A. Group’s risk includes: management system and exposure levels are presented in this section nn governance of the management of capital, adapted to the specificities and in the section entitled “Risk management”. of the Group’s subsidiaries, which allows centralised and coordinated Basel 3 focuses on three pillars: monitoring at the Group level; nn Pillar 1 sets the minimum capital adequacy requirements and level nn a measurement of regulatory capital requirements (Pillar 1); of ratios in accordance with the current regulatory framework; nn a measurement of economic capital requirements based on the risk nn Pillar 2 completes the regulatory approach with the quantification identification process and quantification of capital requirements of a capital requirement covering the major risks to which the Bank using an internal approach (Pillar 2); is exposed, on the basis of methodologies specific to it (see part 2: nn the management of regulatory capital, which is based on short-term “Economic capital management”); and medium-term prospective measures, consistent with budgetary nn Pillar 3 introduces new standards for financial disclosure to the projections, on the basis of a central economic scenario; market; the latter should be more detailed in terms of regulatory nn the management of ICAAP stress tests that aim to simulate the capital components and risk assessments, both for the regulations destruction of capital after a three-year adverse economic scenario applied and the business during the period. (see chapter 5 – Risk Factors: “Different types of stress tests” The Crédit Agricole S.A. Group has chosen to disclose its Pillar 3 section); Prudential information in a separate section from its Risk Factors in order nn management of economic capital (see part 4.2: “Economic capital to isolate the items that meet the regulatory publication requirements. management”); The main objective of the Group’s solvency management is to assess nn a qualitative ICAAP mechanism that formalises in particular the major its own funds and verify at all times that the Group has sufficient own areas for risk management improvement. funds to cover the risks to which it is or could be exposed in view of its The ICAAP is also an integrated process that interacts with the Group’s activities, thereby securing the Group’s access to financial markets on other strategic processes (ILAAP: Internal Liquidity Adequacy and the desired terms. Assessment Process, risk appetite, budget process, recovery plan, risk To achieve this objective, the Group relies on an internal ICAAP process identification, etc.). (Internal Capital Adequacy and Assessment Process). In addition to solvency, Crédit Agricole S.A. also manages leverage and resolution ratios (MREL & TLAC) on behalf of Crédit Agricole Group. Lastly, the major solvency ratios are an integral part of the risk appetite management system applied within the Group (described in chapter 5 – Risk Factors). 4.1. MANAGEMENT OF REGULATORY CAPITAL Qualitative and quantitative information on capital management under Under CRR/CRD 4, three levels of solvency ratio are calculated: IAS 1 are presented in sections 1.1, 1.5.1.4 and 1.5.6 in this chapter. When nn the Common Equity Tier 1 ratio (CET1); they are covered by the Statutory Auditors’ opinion, this information is nn the Tier 1 (T1) ratio; identified by a dedicated footnote, as follows: “Information covered by nn the total capital ratio. the Statutory Auditors’ opinion”. These ratios are calculated on a phased-in basis designed to smooth 4.1.1 Applicable regulatory framework(1) the transition from the Basel 2 to the Basel 3 calculation rules. All the transitional provisions that facilitate compliance by credit institutions Tightening up the regulatory framework, Basel 3 agreements enhanced with the CRR/CRD 4 ended on 1 January 2018, with the exception the quality and level of regulatory capital required and added new risk of those concerning hybrid debt instruments (Tier 1 and Tier 2), categories to the regulatory framework. The legislation concerning which will end on 1 January 2022 (see section 4.1.6.3. “Transitional the regulatory requirements applicable to credit institutions and implementation”). investment firms was published in the Official Journal of the European Two other families of ratios are added to this system: Union on 26 June 2013 (directive 2013/36/EU, known as “CRD 4”, nn the leverage ratio; transposed notably by Order No. 2014-158 of 20 February 2014 and the Capital Requirements Regulation, “CRR”) and entered into force on nn the resolution ratios. 1 January 2014, in accordance with the transitional provisions specified Each of these ratios links an amount of regulatory capital to a risk in the legislation. exposure. The definitions and calculations are covered in the following sections. The minimum requirements applicable to Crédit Agricole S.A. Group and Crédit Agricole Group are met. (1) Information covered by the Statutory Auditors’ opinion. 264 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures 4.1.2 Supervision 4.1.3 Regulatory supervision scope Credit institutions and certain investment activities referred to in Difference between the accounting and regulatory scopes Annex 1 of Directive 2004/39/EC are subject to solvency ratios and of consolidation large exposure ratios on an individual basis, and where applicable, Entities consolidated for accounting purposes, but excluded from the sub-consolidated basis. regulatory scope of consolidation of credit institutions on a consolidated The French Regulatory and Resolution Supervisory Authority (ACPR) basis predominantly comprise insurance companies and a couple of has agreed that some of the Group’s subsidiaries may benefit from ad hoc entities that are equity-accounted for regulatory purposes. In an exemption on an individual, or where applicable, sub-consolidated addition, entities consolidated on an accounting basis using proportional basis, under the conditions stipulated by Article 7 of the CRR. Within consolidation at 31 December 2013 and now equity-accounted this framework, Crédit Agricole S.A. was exempted by the ACPR from in accordance with IFRS 11, are still consolidated proportionally application on an individual basis. for regulatory purposes. Information on these entities and their The transition to single supervision on 4 November 2014 by the European consolidation method for accounting purposes is provided in Note 11 Central Bank did not call into question the individual exemptions to the consolidated financial statements, “Scope of consolidation at previously granted by the ACPR. 31 December 2018”. Differences in the treatment of equity investments between the accounting and prudential scopes Type of equity investment Accounting treatment Fully loaded Basel 3 regulatory treatment Subsidiaries with financial operations Fully consolidated Full consolidation generating capital requirements for the subsidiary’s operations. Jointly held subsidiaries with financial Equity-accounted Proportional consolidation. operations Subsidiaries with insurance operations Fully consolidated Regulatory treatment of these equity investments using equity accounting method, since the Group is identified as being a “financial conglomerate”: • CET1 instruments weighted at 370% (for non-listed entities), with EL equity at 2.4%, subject to approval by the banking supervisor; otherwise, deduction of the subsidiary’s CET1 financial instruments from the Group’s total CET1 instruments; • AT1 and Tier 2 instruments deducted from the total of equivalent financial instruments of the Group. In turn, as in previous years, Crédit Agricole S.A. Group and Crédit Agricole Group are subject to additional capital requirements and capital adequacy ratios applying to financial conglomerates. Equity investments of over 10% with • Equity-accounted • Deduction of CET1 instruments from CET1, beyond an exemption threshold of operations that are financial in nature • Equity investments 17.65% of CET1. This exemption threshold, applied after calculation of a 10% threshold, is common to the non-deducted portion of deferred tax assets that in credit institutions rely on future profitability arising from temporary differences. 5 • AT1 and Tier 2 instruments deducted from the total of equivalent financial instruments of the Group. Equity investments of ≤ 10% with Equity investments Deduction of CET1, AT1 and Tier 2 instruments, beyond an exemption threshold financial or insurance operations and securities held of 10% of CET1. for collection and sale ABCP (Asset-backed commercial paper) Full consolidation Risk weighting of the equity-accounted value and commitments on these business securitisation vehicles structures (liquidity facilities and letters of credit). The list of entities concerned by a difference between the accounting and prudential scopes is detailed in part 3. “Appendix to the regulatory capital”. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 265 5 Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures Differences between accounting and regulatory scopes of consolidation and correspondence between financial statements and regulatory risk categories (LI1) a b c d e f g Carrying Carrying values of items values as Not subject reported Carrying subject to capital in values subject to to the Subject requirements published under scope Subject to countersecurito the or subject to 31/12/2018 financial of regulatory credit risk party risk tisation market risk deduction (in billions of euros) statements consolidation framework framework framework framework from capital Assets Cash, central banks 67 67 67 Available-for-sale financial assets 226 226 207 115 Other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 140 7 7 Hedging derivative instruments 14 13 13 Accounted debt's instruments at fair value through recyclable own funds 250 44 36 4 3 0 Accounted own funds' instruments at fair value through non recyclable own funds 3 3 3 (0) Loans and receivables due from credit institutions 413 409 405 4 Loans and receivables due from customers 369 381 377 3 Held-to-maturity financial assets 58 48 44 4 Revaluation adjustment on interest rate hedged portfolios 6 6 6 Deferred tax assets 4 5 5 Accruals, prepayments and sundry assets 38 35 29 6 2 0 Non-current assets held for sale 0 Investments in equity-accounted entities 6 14 12 2 Investment property 6 0 0 Property, plant and equipment 4 5 5 Intangible assets 2 2 2 Goodwill 15 15 15 TOTAL ASSETS 1,624 1,281 992 242 3 118 25 Liabilities Central banks 1 2 2 Available-for-sale financial liabilities 194 195 82 113 Financial liabilities at fair value through options 34 33 33 Hedging derivative instruments 12 12 12 Due to credit institutions 132 115 7 109 Due to customers 597 615 1 614 Debt securities 184 173 173 Revaluation adjustment on interest rate hedged portfolios 7 6 6 Current and deferred tax liabilities 2 3 3 (0) Accruals, deferred income and sundry liabilities 42 37 7 30 Liabilities associated with non-current assets held for sale 0 (0) (0) Insurance company technical reserves 324 (0) (0) Provisions 6 6 6 Subordinated debt 23 21 21 Total liabilities 1,559 1,218 10 89 1,119 Equity 66 64 64 Equity, Group share 59 59 59 Share capital and reserves 27 27 27 Consolidated reserves 26 26 26 Other comprehensive income 1 1 1 Other comprehensive income on non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 0 Net income/(loss) for the year 4 4 4 Non-controlling interests 7 5 5 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1,624 1,281 10 89 1,182 The carrying amounts for the regulatory scope of consolidation (column b) are not equal to the sum of their breakdown by the risk (coloumns c to g) as an exposure may be subject to several types of risk. 266 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures 4.1.4. Overall system nn Tier 1 capital, which consists of Common Equity Tier 1 and Additional Tier 1 capital (AT1); Capital planning nn total capital, consisting of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. The management of regulatory capital is performed using a process called capital planning. Solvency ratio denominator Capital planning is designed to provide projections for capital and rare (see Part 4: “Composition and changes in risk-weighted assets”) resource consumption (risk-weighted assets and balance sheet) over Basel 3 defines several types of risk: credit risks, market risks and the current Medium Term Plan covering both scopes of consolidation operational risks, which give rise to risk-weighted asset calculation. (Crédit Agricole S.A., a listed company and Crédit Agricole Group, a These are discussed in part 4, below. systemically important bank), with a view to determining the trajectories Furthermore, risk-weighted assets include the equity-accounted for solvency ratios (CET1, Tier 1 and global ratio), leverage and resolution value of insurance investments for the validated conglomerate scope, ratios (MREL and TLAC). pursuant to Article 49 of the CRR. The weighting is 370% given the It covers the budgetary components of the financial trajectory, unlisted status of Crédit Agricole Assurances (CAA). including organisational transaction projects, regulatory accounting and Non-deducted investments in insurance companies (INS1) prudential changes, as well as model effects against risk bases. It also reflects the issuance policy (subordinated debts and eligible TLAC debts) 31/12/2018 and distribution with regard to the capital structure objectives defined (in millions of euros) Value in line with the Group’s strategy. Holdings of own funds instruments of a financial sector It enables the leeway available to the Group for development to be entity where the institution has a significant investment not deducted from own funds (before risk weighting) 8,286 determined. Thus it ensures compliance with the various regulatory requirements, and is used to calculate the maximum distributable TOTAL RISK WEIGHTED EXPOSURE AMOUNT (RWA) 30,660 amount, as defined by the CRR for Additional Tier 1 debt. It is also used to set various risk thresholds used for risk appetite. Furthermore, the risk arising from the regulatory prudential requirements Capital planning is submitted to various governance bodies and is on this investment was transferred to the Regional Banks as a result communicated to the competent authorities, either in the context of of specific guarantees (Switch), since 2 January 2014. The guarantee regular discussions or for special transactions (such as authorisation covers €9.2 billion of which €6.3 billion covering holdings not deducted requests). at 31 December 2018 or €23.3 billion risks weighted assets. The subsidiaries subject to regulatory requirement compliance and the Pursuant to Regulation (EU) No. 575/2013 of 26 June 2013, two Regional Banks also perform this forecast exercise at a sub-consolidated approaches are used to measure exposure to credit risk: level. nn the standardised approach, which is based on external credit ratings and fixed weightings for each Basel exposure class; Governance nn the Internal Ratings Based approach (IRB), which is based on the The Capital Management Committee meets quarterly (and more often if bank’s own internal rating system. required); chaired by the Deputy General Manager in charge of finances, There are two different approaches: it includes the Chief Risk Officer, Financial Steering Director, Financial Communication Director and the Financing and Treasury Director. nn the “Foundation Internal Ratings-Based” approach, under which institutions may use exclusively their own default probability 5 This Committee has the following main missions: estimates; nn review the short and medium-term solvency, leverage and resolution nn the “Advanced Internal Ratings-Based” approach, under which projections for the Crédit Agricole and Crédit Agricole S.A. Groups as institutions may use all their internal estimates of risk components: well as the ratios monitored by rating agencies; exposures given default, maturity, probability of default, loss given nn approve the structuring assumptions with an effect on solvency in default. line with the Medium Term Plan; nn set the rules for capital management and distribution within the 4.1.5.1. Minimum regulatory requirements Group; The requirements with regard to Pillar 1 are governed by the CRR nn decide on liability management transactions (subordinated debt Regulation. The legislator also fixes, on a discretionary basis, the management); minimum requirements, within the framework of Pillar 2. nn discuss economic capital-related matters; The following tables and items take into account adjustments made nn keep up to date with the latest supervision and regulatory news; as part of Pillar 2 in accordance with the request of the European nn examine the relevant problems relating to the subsidiaries and to the Central Bank; these currently only relate to the prudential deduction Regional Banks; of irrevocable payment commitments relating to the Single Resolution nn prepare the decisions to be submitted if necessary to the Assets and Fund (SRF) and the Deposit and Resolution Guarantee Fund (FGDR). Liabilities Committee and the Board of Directors. In this respect, with regard to regulatory reporting undertaken for Pillar 1, an additional deduction of €278 million was applied to CET1; 4.1.5. Solvency ratios as a corollary, risk weighted assets were adjusted downwards by €215 million at 31 December 2018. Solvency ratio numerator (see section 1.6 “Definition of capital”) Basel 3 defines three levels of capital: nn Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1); The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 267 5 Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures Minimum requirements for Pillar 1 countercyclical buffer rate is calculated by one of the national nn Capital ratios before buffers: the minimum phased-in CET1 requirements authorities, the application date is no more than 12 months from have been set at 4.5% of risk-weighted assets since 2015. Likewise, the publication date, except in exceptional circumstances; the minimum phased-in Tier 1 requirement was raised to 6% in 2015 –– the buffers for systemic risk (0 to 3% in general, up to 5% after and for the following years. Lastly, the minimum phased-in total capital agreement from the European Commission, and more exceptionally requirement is 8%, in 2015 and for the following years. above that figure) and for Global Systemically Important Banks nn Capital buffers are added to these ratios, to be applied progressively: (G-SIB, between 0% and 3.5%) or other (O-SII, between 0% and –– the capital conservation buffer (2.5% of risk-weighted assets in 2%). These buffers are not cumulative, and in general, subject 2019); to exception, it is the highest that applies. Only Crédit Agricole –– the countercyclical buffer (in principle, rate within a range of 0% to Group is a systemic institution and has a buffer of 1% as from 2.5%), with the buffer at the Group level consisting of an average 1 January 2019, phased-in at 0.50% in 2017 and 0.75% in 2018. weighted by the relevant exposures at default (EAD(1)) of the buffers Crédit Agricole S.A. Group is not subject to such requirements. defined for each country in which the Group operates; when the These buffers entered into force in 2016 and must be covered by Common Equity Tier 1 capital. The capital conservation buffer and the systemic risk buffers come into force on an annual incremental basis until 2019 (50% of the buffer required in 2017, 75% in 2018). 1 January... 2018 2019 2020 Common Equity Tier 1 4.50% 4.50% 4.50% Tier 1 (CET1 + AT1) 6.00% 6.00% 6.00% Tier 1 + Tier 2 8.00% 8.00% 8.00% Capital conservation buffer 1.88% 2.50% 2.50% Countercyclical buffer (0% to 2.5%) 0.02% 0.05% 0.17% Systemic risk buffer (0% to 5%) 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% At the end of December 2018, countercyclical buffers for Hong Kong, 0.25% from the effective date on 1 July 2019. With respect to the Iceland, Lithuania, Norway, the Czech Republic, the United Kingdom, Group’s exposures in these countries, as of 31 December 2018, the Slovakia and Sweden were activated by the appointed national Group’s countercyclical buffer rate was 0.043%. It will total 0.17% at authorities. In 2019, countercyclical buffers will also come into force the end-2019, reflecting mainly the coming into force of the French in France, Bulgaria, Denmark and Ireland. As for French exposures, countercyclical buffer as of 1 July 2019. the High Council for Financial Stability (HCFS) will bring the rate to Details of the countercyclical buffer calculation (CCYB1): General credit Trading book Securitisation exposure exposure exposure Capital requirements Sum of long Value of and trading Countershort book cyclical Projected position exposure capital countercyclical of for General Trading SecuriBreak­down buffer rate capital buffer 31/12/2018 Standard IRB trading internal Standard IRB credit book tisation (%) rate (%) (in millions of by country euros) approach approach book models approach approach exposure exposure exposure Total (%) 31/12/2018 31/12/2019(2) Bulgaria 6 28 1 1 0.01% 0.00% 0.50% Czech Republic 34 67 4 4 0.02% 1.00% 1.50% Danemark 146 602 20 20 0.11% 0.00% 1.00% France 39,260 196,655 203 2,502 221 12,874 8,541 216 140 8,897 46.58% 0.00% 0.25% Hong Kong 362 3,601 86 86 0.45% 1.88% 2.50% Iceland 2 0.00% 1.25% 1.75% Ireland 86 3,012 72 75 1 75 0.40% 0.00% 1.00% Lithuania 1 0.00% 0.50% 1.00% Norway 15 888 20 20 0.10% 2.00% 2.50% Slovakia 12 13 1 1 0.01% 1.25% 1.50% Sweden 91 1,901 27 80 80 0.42% 2.00% 2.50% Unitedkingdom 1,637 13,262 1,644 442 12 454 2.38% 1.00% 1.00% Other countries(1) 68,998 172,840 164 1,787 30,284 9,091 13 359 9,463 49.54% 0.00% 0.00% TOTAL 110,651 392,870 368 2,502 2,008 44,901 18,360 230 511 19,101 100.00% 0.043% 0.170% (1) For which no countercyclical buffer has been defined by the competent authority. (2) The Group’s countercyclical capital buffer rate expected at 31 December 2019 is calculated by using the buffer rates known to date and applicable no later than in 12 months and the breakdown of capital requirements by country as of 31 December 2018 based on the decisions known to date. (1) EAD (exposure at default) is the exposure amount in the event of default. It encompasses balance sheet assets plus a proportion of off-balance sheet commitments. 268 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures Minimum requirements with regard to Pillar 2 in restrictions on distributions (additional Tier 1 capital instrument Crédit Agricole Group and Crédit Agricole S.A. Group have been notified coupons, dividends, variable compensation); accordingly, this by the European Central Bank (ECB) of the new minimum capital requirement is public; requirements following the results of the Supervisory Review and nn a Pillar 2 recommendation or “Pillar 2 Guidance” (P2G); at this stage, Evaluation Process (SREP). this requirement is not public. Since 2017, the ECB has changed the methodology used, dividing the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group will therefore have to comply as of prudential requirement into two parts: 31 December 2018 with a consolidated minimum CET1 ratio of 7.92% nn a Pillar 2 Requirement (P2R). This requirement concerns each level phased-in and 8.54% fully loaded. These levels include the requirements of own funds and must be made up entirely of Common Equity under Pillar 1, Pillar 2 P2R, the capital conservation buffer that is subject Tier 1; failure to comply with this requirement automatically results to phasing and the countercyclical buffer (based on the decisions known to date). Phased-in Fully loaded 12.04% 11.42% 1.88% 2.50% 0.04% 0.04% 8.54% 7.92% 1.50% 1.50% 1.88% 2.50% Capital conservation buffer 0.04% 0.04% 1.50% 1.50% Countercyclical buffer 8.00% 8.00% P2 requirement Pilier 1 4.50% 4.50% CET1 Total capital CET1 Total capital At the end of December 2018, the phased-in CET1 ratio was 11.5%; the fully loaded ratio is identical. Crédit Agricole S.A., as the central body of Crédit Agricole Group, fully benefits from the internal legal solidarity mechanism as well as internal flexibility on capital circulation within the very strongly capitalised Crédit Agricole Group. The notification received by the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group in February 2019 confirmed these requirements for the coming year. Restriction thresholds 5 Maximum distributable amount trigger point(1) 8.67% The transposition of Basel regulations into European law (CRD IV) 7.92% 0.17% established a restrictive distribution system applicable to dividends, 0.04% AT1 instruments and variable compensation. The Maximum Distributable 2.50% Amount (MDA, the maximum sum a bank is allowed to allocate to 1.88% distributions) principle aims to place limitations on distributions in the event the latter were to result in non-compliance with combined buffer 1.50% 1.50% requirements. The trigger threshold for the MDA is expressed as the CET1 capital requirement, plus any potential amounts of AT1 and Tier 2 capital below the minimum regulatory requirement under Pillar 1. 4.50% 4.50% For Crédit Agricole S.A., as of 31 December 2018, the trigger threshold for the MDA was 7.9% of RWA, i.e. CET1 capital in the amount of €24 billion. It should increase to 8.7% as of 1 July 2019 (date on which the French countercyclical buffer enters into force). With a CET1 ratio of 31/12/2018 31/12/2019 11.5% as of 31 December 2018, Crédit Agricole S.A. has a safety margin 360 bps over the trigger threshold for the MDA, i.e. CET1 capital in the amount of €11 billion. Countercyclical capital buffer Capital conservation buffer P2R requirement Minimum CET1 ratio (Pillar 1) (1) Based on regulatory CET1 capital and risk weighted assets as of 31/12/18. The overall capital buffer requirement factors in the countercyclical buffer, based on the decisions known at the date. The Pillar 2 recommendation (P2G) is not taken into account due to the fact that non-compliance (likely or actual) with this recommendation has no automatic impact on distributions. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 269 5 Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures 4.1.5.2. Summary table of the solvency ratios All the tables and remarks below include the net income for the period. 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 (in millions of euros) Phased-in Fully loaded Phased-in Fully loaded Common equity tier 1 (CET1) 35,352 35,352 34,769 34,766 Tier 1 capital 42,116 40,353 41,791 39,821 Total capital 54,684 52,725 54,245 51,688 Total risk weighted assets 306,893 306,893 296,388 296,388 CET 1 RATIO 11.5% 11.5% 11.7% 11.7% TIER 1 RATIO 13.7% 13.1% 14.1% 13.4% TOTAL CAPITAL RATIO 17.8% 17.2% 18.3% 17.4% 4.1.5.3. Change in CET1 ratio +1.43% -0,80% 11.7% -0.46% -0,21% -0.17% 11.5% December Regulation Stated result Distributions OCI reserves Other December 2017 2018 The CET1 ratio fell by 21 bps over the year, marked by a new regulatory nn non-controlling interests, which are partially derecognised, or even burden concerning both accounting and prudential requirements. excluded, depending on whether or not the subsidiary is an eligible The Regulations item sets out the first application of IFRS 9 (-24 bps), credit institution; this partial derecognition corresponds to the excess deductions of irrevocable payment commitments with respect to the of the amount of capital required to cover the subsidiary’s capital Single Resolution Fund and the Deposit and Resolution Guarantee requirements; it applies to each tier of capital; Fund (-7 bps), TRIM effects (-3 bps) and the review of the modelling of nn deductions, which mainly include the following items: non-financial operational risks (-12 bps). –– CET1 instruments held under the liquidity contract and buyback The Other item specifically includes the development of business lines programmes, (-36 bps), the switch to the IRB approach for the Italian savings banks –– intangible assets, including start-up costs and goodwill, entities (+2 bps), the capital increase reserved for employees (+4 bps), –– prudent valuation (laid down in the regulatory framework: the prudential recognition of Agos non-controlling interests (+8 bps). adjustment of the amount of assets and liabilities measured at fair value according to a prudential methodology by deducting any 4.1.6. Definition of capital potential value adjustment), 4.1.6.1. Tier 1 Capital (Tier 1) –– deduction from the CET1 of deferred tax assets (DTAs) that rely on future profitability arising from tax loss carryforwards, This includes Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) and Additional Tier 1 capital –– deduction from the CET1 of negative amounts resulting from any (AT1): shortfall of provisions relative to expected losses (“EL”), Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) –– deduction from the CET1 of CET1 instruments held in equity This includes: investments less than or equal to 10% above an exemption nn share capital; threshold of 10% of CET1 capital; items not deducted are included in risk-weighted assets (variable weighting depending on the nn reserves, including share premiums, retained earnings, net income nature of instruments and the Basel methodology), after dividend payments and accumulated other comprehensive income, including in particular unrealised capital gains and losses –– deduction from the CET1 of deferred tax assets (DTAs) that on available-for-sale and collection financial assets and conversion rely on future profitability arising from temporary differences differences; above an exemption threshold of 17.65% of CET1 capital; this exemption threshold, applied after application of an initial exemption 270 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures threshold of 10% of CET1, is common to the non-deducted portion Additional Tier 1 capital eligible on a transitional phased-in basis of CET1 instruments held in significant financial stakes (over 10%); During the transitional phase, the amount of Tier 1 included in the ratios items not deducted are included in risk-weighted assets (250% represents: weighting), nn additional Tier 1 capital eligible under Basel 3 (AT1); and –– deduction from the CET1 of CET1 instruments held in equity nn a fraction of the ineligible Tier 1, equal to the lower of: investments over 10% (significant investments) above an –– the regulatory amount of ineligible Tier 1 instruments on the exemption threshold of 17.65% of CET1 capital; this exemption closing date (after amortisation, any calls, redemptions, etc.), threshold, applied after application of an initial exemption threshold of 10% of CET1, is common to the non-deducted portion of the –– 40% (threshold for 2018) of the Tier 1 stock at 31 December 2012, deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability arising from which stood at €9,329 million, or a maximum recognisable amount temporary differences; items not deducted are included in riskof €3,732 million. weighted assets (250% weighting), The amount of Tier 1 capital exceeding this regulatory threshold –– adjustments requested by the supervisor with regard to Pillar 2 is included in phased-in Tier 2, up to the regulatory threshold (irrevocable payment commitments relating to the Single Reso­ applicable to Tier 2. lution Fund and to the Deposit and Resolution Guarantee Fund). For clarity, the tables for deeply subordinated securities are presented Since 1 January 2018, the Group has implemented IFRS 9 “Financial in Pillar 3, available on the website: https://www.credit-agricole.com/ instruments”. The application of this standard being retrospective, en/finance/finance/financial-publications. the effects from the new principles in terms of classification and measurement of financial instruments and credit risk impairment have 4.1.6.2. Tier 2 Capital (Tier 2) been fully reflected in the Group’s capital. This includes: Additional Tier 1 capital (AT1) nn subordinated debt instruments, which must have a minimum maturity of five years; they must not carry any early repayment incentives; Additional Tier 1 capital eligible on a fully loaded basis under Basel 3 these instruments are subject to a haircut during the five-year period This includes: prior to their maturity date; nn additional Tier 1 capital (AT1) eligible under Basel 3, which consists nn grandfathering as presented for the phased-in AT1 debt above; of perpetual debt instruments without any redemption incentive or nn directly held Tier 2 instruments (including market making); obligation (in particular step-up features). nn surplus provisions relative to eligible expected losses determined in AT1 instruments are subject to a bail-in mechanism triggered when accordance with the internal ratings-based approach are limited to the CET1 ratio is below a threshold that must be set at no lower 0.6% of risk-weighted assets under IRB; in addition, general credit than 5.125%. Instruments may be converted into equity or suffer a risk adjustments gross of tax effects may be included for up to 1.25% reduction in their nominal value. Payments must be totally flexible: no of risk-weighted assets under the standardised approach, before automatic remuneration mechanisms and/or suspension of coupon IFRS 9 application; payments at the issuer’s discretion. nn deductions of investments in financial-sector entities related to this The Basel 3 eligible AT1 issues have two bail-in mechanisms that are tier, predominantly in the insurance sector (since most subordinated triggered if at least one of these conditions is met: –– Crédit Agricole S.A. Group’s CET1 ratio drops below 5.125%, banking receivables are not eligible); nn Tier 2 capital components or other deductions (including Tier 2-eligible 5 –– Crédit Agricole Group’s CET1 ratio drops below 7%. non-controlling interests). At 31 December 2018, the ratios of Crédit Agricole S.A. and of Crédit The amount of Tier 2 included in the ratios represents: Agricole Group were 11.5% and 15.0% respectively. Thus, they nn on a fully loaded basis: CRD 4 eligible Tier 2; represent capital buffers of €19.6 billion (for Crédit Agricole S.A.’s nn on a phased-in basis: CRD 4 eligible Tier 2, plus the lower of: threshold) and €43.1 billion (for Crédit Agricole Group’s threshold) relative to the bail-in thresholds. –– regulatory ineligible Tier 2 securities at the closing date and, as applicable, the remainder of Tier 1 securities exceeding the 40% At 31 December 2018, there were no applicable restrictions on the threshold (threshold for 2018) of ineligible Tier 1 securities, payment of coupons. –– 40% (threshold for 2018) of the CRD 4 ineligible Tier 2 stock At that same date, the distributable items of Crédit Agricole S.A. at 31 December 2012; the CRD 4 ineligible Tier 2 stock at totalled €38.7 billion, including €26.3 billion in distributable reserves 31 December 2012 stood at €4,118 million, or a maximum and €12.4 billion in share premiums; recognisable amount of €1,647 million. nn directly held AT1 instruments (including market making): For clarity, the tables of undated subordinated debt, participating –– deductions of investments in financial-sector entities related to securities and dated subordinated notes at 31 December 2018 are this tier, presented in Pillar 3, available on the website: https://www.credit–– AT1 capital components or other deductions (including AT1-eligible agricole.com/en/finance/finance/financial-publications. non-controlling interests). As mentioned for CET1 capital, the Group has implemented IFRS 9 on financial instruments since 1 January 2018. The application of this standard being retrospective, the effects from the new principles in terms of classification and measurement of financial instruments and credit risk impairment have been fully reflected in the Group’s capital. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 271 5 Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures 4.1.6.3. Transitional implementation 4. progressive deduction of deferred tax assets (DTAs) that rely on To facilitate compliance by credit institutions with the CRR/CRD 4, less future profitability arising from temporary differences: the amount stringent transitional provisions have been provided for, notably with that exceeds the double exemption threshold that is partly common the progressive introduction of new prudential treatment of capital to significant equity investments over 10% is deducted by tranche components. rising by 20% per annum with effect from 1 January 2014; the items covered by the exemption thresholds are weighted 250%; the All these transitional provisions ended on 1 January 2018, with the residual amount by which the exemption threshold (80% in 2014, exception of those concerning hybrid debt instruments, which will end 60% in 2015, 40% in 2016, 20% in 2017 and 0% the following on 1 January 2022. years) is exceeded continues to be handled using the CRD 3 method In summary, the following components are fully included in CET1, i.e. with (treatment as risk-weighted assets with a 0% weighting); no transitional provisions: unrealised gains and losses; non-controlling 5. progressive deduction of CET1 instruments held in financial entities interests; deductions from the CET1 of deferred tax assets (DTAs) that constituting significant equity investments over 10%: the residual rely on future profitability arising from tax loss carryforwards; and amount by which the double exemption threshold common to the deduction of the amount by which the double exemption threshold is deferred tax assets referred to in the previous point is exceeded, exceeded, this threshold being common to both the deferred tax assets is deducted according to the same conditions as described in that rely on future income linked to temporary differences and to the the above point; the items covered by the exemption threshold CET1 instruments held in financial entities constituting significant equity are weighted 250% as above; that residual amount by which the investments over 10%. exemption threshold is exceeded (80% in 2014, 60% in 2015, 40% Consequently, as of 31 December 2018, fully loaded CET1 capital was in 2016, 20% in 2017 and 0% the following years) continues to be equal to phased-in CET1 capital. handled using the CRD 3 method (50% deduction from Tier 1 and As the data at 31 December 2017 is provided in the following tables, a 50% from Tier 2); reminder of the transitional provisions in place at that time is given in 6. the hybrid debt instruments that were eligible as capital under the seven points below. Only point 6 concerning hybrid debt instruments Basel 2 and which are no longer eligible as capital owing to the was still applicable as of 31 December 2018: entry into force of the new regulation can, under certain conditions, 1. transitional treatment of prudential filters on unrealised gains and be eligible for the grandfathering clause. Any instruments issued losses on available-for-sale and collection assets: prior to 2014, after 31 December 2011 that do not comply with the CRR are unrealised gains were excluded from CET1; they were integrated on excluded from 1 January 2014; the instruments for which the issue a gradual basis (40% in 2015; 60% in 2016; 80% in 2017 and 100% date is prior to this date may, subject to certain conditions, benefit the following years); conversely, unrealised capital losses have been from grandfathering clauses. In accordance with this clause, these included from 2014; in addition, unrealised capital gains and losses instruments are gradually excluded over a period of eight years, on sovereign debt securities remain excluded from capital until such with a reduction of 10% per annum. In 2014, 80% of the total time as IFRS 9 is applied by the EU; stock declared on 31 December 2012 was recognised, then 70% 2. progressive deduction of the partial derecognition or exclusion of in 2015, and so on. The unrecognised part can be included in the non-controlling interests by tranche rising by 20% per annum since lower capital category (from AT1 to Tier 2, for example) if it meets 1 January 2014; the corresponding criteria; 3. progressive deduction of deferred tax assets (DTAs) that rely on 7. net unrealised capital gains on equity instruments included before future profitability arising from tax loss carryforwards by tranche, tax in Tier 2 capital at a rate of 45%. rising by 20% per annum since 1 January 2014; the residual amount (80% in 2014, 60% in 2015, 40% in 2016, 20% in 2017 and 0% the following years) continues to be handled using the CRD 3 method (treatment as risk-weighted assets with a 0% weighting); 272 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures 4.1.6.4. Simplified regulatory capital at 31 December 2018 The following table shows the regulatory capital at 31 December 2018 (simplified version). To facilitate its reading, the full table of the composition of capital is presented under Pillar 3, available on our website at https://www.credit-agricole.com/en/finance/finance/financial-publications. 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 (in millions of euros) Phased-in Fully loaded Phased-in Fully loaded Capital and reserves Group share(1) 51,382 51,382 50,596 50,885 (+) Minority interests(1) 3,667 3,667 3,472 3,270 (-) Prudent valuation (1,156) (1,156) (737) (737) (-) Deductions of goodwill and other intangible assets (17,917) (17,917) (17,761) (17,761) (-) Deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability not arising from temporary differences after deduction of the associated tax liabilities (203) (203) (240) (299) (-) Shortfall in adjustments for credit risk relative to expected losses under the internal ratings-based approach (129) (129) (578) (578) (-) Amount exceeding the exemption threshold for CET1 instruments of financial stakes in which the institution owns a significant holding and of the deductible deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability arising from temporary differences(2) Other CET1 components (292) (292) 17 (14) COMMON EQUITY TIER 1 (CET1) 35,352 35,352 34,769 34,766 Equity instruments eligible as AT1 capital 5,260 5,260 5,098 5,098 Ineligible AT1 equity instruments qualifying under grandfathering clause 1,763 2,416 Tier 1 or Tier 2 instruments of entities operating mainly in the insurance sector in which the institution has a significant investment deducted from Tier 1 capital (1) (1) (420) (1) Transitional adjustments, other deductions and minority interests (258) (258) (72) (42) ADDITIONAL TIER 1 CAPITAL 6,764 5,001 7,022 5,055 TIER 1 CAPITAL 42,116 40,353 41,791 39,821 Equity instruments and subordinated borrowings eligible as Tier 2 capital 14,722 14,722 15,506 15,506 Ineligible equity instruments and subordinated borrowings 196 382 Surplus provisions relative to expected losses eligible under the internal ratings‑based approach and general credit risk adjustments under the standardised approach(3) 374 374 443 443 Tier 2 instruments of entities operating mainly in the insurance sector in which the institution has a significant investment deducted from Tier 2 capital (2,647) (2,647) (3,771) (3,951) 5 Transitional adjustments, other deductions and minority interests (77) (77) (106) (131) TIER 2 CAPITAL 12,568 12,372 12,454 11,867 TOTAL CAPITAL 54,684 52,725 54,245 51,688 TOTAL RISK WEIGHTED ASSETS 306,893 306,893 296,388 296,388 CET1 RATIO 11.5% 11.5% 11.7% 11.7% TIER 1 RATIO 13.7% 13.1% 14.1% 13.4% TOTAL CAPITAL RATIO 17.8% 17.2% 18.3% 17.4% (1) This line is detailed in the table below “Reconciliation of accounting and regulatory capital”. (2) Financial-sector CET1 instruments in which the institution holds a significant stake account for €3,255 million, and the deferred taxes that rely on future profitability arising from temporary differences amount to €1,119 million on a fully loaded basis as of 31 december 2018. (3) The transfer to Tier 2 of the surplus provisions relative to eligible expected losses determined in accordance with the internal ratings-based approach is limited to 0.6% of risk-weighted assets under IRB. In addition, it was possible to include the general credit risk adjustments gross of tax effect for up to 1.25% of risk weighted assets under the standardised approach, before IFRS 9 application. The fully loaded Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital stood at the expected loss on IRB (internal ratings based approach) exposures €35.4 billion at 31 December 2018, up €0.6 billion compared with in the amount of +€0.4 billion, non-controlling interests in the amount year-end 2017. of -€0.1 billion and the Group’s reserves in the amount of -€0.1 billion. The non-recurring events that affected CET1 in 2018 mainly concern the The retained prudential result amounted to €2.3 billions and, in the other application of IFRS 9 as of 1 January 2018 in the amount of -€0.7 billion: direction, the expense for coupons on Basel 3-eligible AT1 issues was it primarily affected unrealised reserves in the amount of -€0.8 billion, €0.4 billion. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 273 5 Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures Details of residual changes are shown under detailed ratios categories: Phased-in Tier 1 capital amounted to €42.1 billion and was up nn capital and reserves on a fully loaded basis rose by €0.5 billion €0.3 billion compared with 31 December 2017, with additional Tier 1 compared with 2017 year-end, to €51.4 billion, mainly due to capital down €0.3 billion. This change comprises the fully loaded retained prudential net income amounting to €2.3 billions and to the changes detailed above and the phased-in changes. Fully loaded and positive €0.1 billion impact from conversion differences, net of foreign phased-in amounts are identical, except for non-eligible debt: currency impacts from AT1 issues on the reserves. Conversely, the nn securities benefiting from a grandfathering clause were down decline in unrealised gains and losses was €1.5 billion (including €0.7 billion, due to a redemption of the same amount; the total amount -€0.8 billion in respect of IFRS 9) and the AT1 coupons had a negative of these securities therefore remained below the total amount of effect on CET1 in the amount of €0.4 billion. Furthermore, a capital “grandfathered” securities thus remained below the level authorised increase reserved for employees was carried out for €136 million and by the grandfathering provision, which makes it possible to include, a €95 million bonus share allocation was carried out for shareholders in addition to the CRR/CRD 4-eligible instruments, an amount of debt that previously enjoyed a loyalty dividend (neutral effect on capital); equivalent to a maximum of 40% of the base at 31 December 2012; nn fully loaded non-controlling interests amounted to €3.7 billion, up Fully loaded Tier 2 capital amounted to €12.4 billion, up €0.5 billion €0.4 billion, partly due to the inclusion of Agos non-controlling from 31 December 2017. This change was attributable to: interests; nn hybrid securities included in Tier 2 capital eligible under Basel 3 nn the deduction for prudent valuation amounted to €1.2 billion, up amounted to €14.7 billion, down €0.8 billion from 31 December 2017; €0.4 billion; the amount of the €1.7 billion issue carried out during the period was nn deductions in respect of goodwill and other intangible assets offset by calls in the amount of €1.8 billion and the effect of regulatory amounted to €17.9 billion, up less than €0.2 billion; discounts; nn deferred tax assets (DTA) which are dependent on future profitability nn surplus provisions relative to expected losses under the internal related to tax loss carryforwards amounted to €0.2 billion, down ratings-based approach and adjustments for the gross general credit €0.1 million compared with 31 December 2017; risk of tax effects under the standardised approach were down by nn the shortfall in provisions compared with the expected loss from IRB €0.1 billion; exposures amounted to -€0.1 billion, compared with -€0.6 billion as nn subordinated loans and receivables from credit institutions and of 31 December 2017, after taking account of the +€0.4 billion impact insurance companies, all representative of Tier 2 instruments, were from IFRS 9, and now entirely corresponds to the expected loss from deducted in full from Tier 2 in the amount of €2.6 billion on a fully equity risk; loaded basis, compared with €4.0 billion at 31 December 2017, as nn CET1 instruments held in equity investments over 10% were up by a result of redemptions performed by Crédit Agricole Assurances; €0.3 billion to €3.3 billion, particularly due to the change in fair value nn transitional adjustments and other deductions include a deduction of the investment in Banque Saudi Fransi; they are the subject of an from the redemption ceiling for Tier 2 positive instruments of more exemption threshold and passed under this threshold; deferred tax than €0.2 billion, and in the other direction, the Tier 2 positive impact assets (DTA) that rely on future profitability arising from temporary of non-controlling interests of instruments issued by subsidiaries of differences amounted to €1.1 billion, up €0.4 billion on 31 December loss than €0.2 billion. 2017; these two elements are subject to the calculation of an Phased-in Tier 2 capital was €12.6 billion, up €0.1 billion from exemption threshold and are treated as risk-weighted assets and 31 December 2017. This change comprises the fully loaded changes weighted at 250%; overall, the corresponding deduction in capital is above and the phased-in changes. Fully loaded and phased-in amounts zero at 31 December 2018 (as was the case at 31 December 2017); are identical, except for non-eligible debt: nn the deductions applicable to CET1 capital amounted to €0.3 billion, nn €0.2 billion non-eligible instruments was down €0.2 billion from up by €0.3 billion from end-2017, as a result of Crédit Agricole S.A.’s 31 December 2017. irrevocable commitments with respect to the Single Resolution Fund In all, fully loaded total capital at 31 December 2018 stood at and the Deposit and Resolution Guarantee Fund. €52.7 billion, or €1.0 billion greater than at 31 December 2017. The phased-in Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital stood at At €54.7 billion, phased-in total capital was €0.4 billion greater than €35.4 billion, i.e. an identical amount to the fully loaded capital. at 31 December 2017. This regulatory capital does not take into account Fully loaded Tier 1 capital came in at €40.4 billion, up by €0.5 billion the non-preferred senior debt issues, which are discussed in the item from 31 December 2017. In addition to the increase in Tier 1 capital, this “Resolution Ratios” below. change is attributable to: nn the hybrid securities included in Tier 1 capital eligible under Basel 3, which amounted to €5.3 billion, up €0.2 billion due to a favourable foreign currency impact; nn the deductions mainly include the redemption ceiling for AT1 instruments of €0.1 billion, and the Tier 1 impact of non-controlling interests of instruments issued by subsidiaries of -€0.2 billion. 274 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures 4.1.6.5. Change in regulatory capital Phased-in flows (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 vs. 31/12/2017 Common Equity Tier 1 capital at 31/12/2017 34,769 IFRS 9 first time application (677) Capital increase 229 Accounting attributable net income/loss for the year before dividend 3,957 Expected dividend (1,975) Unrealised gains and losses on the portfolio held for collection and sale purposes (447) Foreign currency impact 145 Minority interests 334 Goodwill and other intagible assets (156) Shortfall in adjustments for credit risk relative to expected losses under the internal ratings-based approach deducted from the CET1 29 Amount exceeding the exemption thresholds Other CET1 components (856) COMMON EQUITY TIER 1 CAPITAL AT 31/12/2018 35,352 Additional Tier 1 capital at 31/12/2017 7,022 Issues Redemptions and foreign currency impact on the debt stock(1) (491) Regulatory adjustments 233 Additional Tier 1 capital at 31/12/2018 6,764 TIER 1 CAPITAL AT 31/12/2018 42,116 Tier 2 capital at 31/12/2017 12,454 IFRS 9 first time application 31 Issues 1,726 Redemptions and foreign currency impact on the debt stock(1)(2) (2,696) Regulatory adjustments 1,053 Tier 2 capital at 31/12/2018 12,568 TOTAL CAPITAL AT 31/12/2018 54,684 (1) Including the potential applicable cap to these instruments. (2) Tier 2 instruments are subject to a haircut during the 5 years prior to their maturity date. 5 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 275 5 Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures 4.1.6.6. Reconciliation of accounting and regulatory capital 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 (in millions of euros) Phased-in Fully loaded Phased-in Fully loaded EQUITY, GROUP SHARE (CARRYING AMOUNT) (1) 58,811 58,811 58,056 58,056 Expected dividend (1,975) (1,975) (1,802) (1,802) Filtered unrealised gains/(losses) on change in own credit risk on structured products 113 113 370 370 Filtered unrealised gains/(losses) on change in own credit risk on derivatives (35) (35) (11) (14) Filtered unrealised gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges (314) (314) (426) (426) Transitional regime applicable to unrealised gains/(losses) (294) AT1 instruments included in equity (carrying amount) (5,011) (5,011) (5,000) (5,000) Other regulatory adjustments (207) (207) (297) (299) Capital and reserves Group share(2) 51,382 51,382 50,596 50,885 Minority interests (carrying amount)(1) 6,705 6,705 6,650 6,650 (-) items not recognised under regulatory framework(3) (3,038) (3,038) (3,178) (3,380) Minority interests(2) 3,667 3,667 3,472 3,270 (-) Prudent valuation (1,156) (1,156) (737) (737) Deductions of goodwill and other intangible assets (17,917) (17,917) (17,761) (17,761) Deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability not arising from temporary differences (203) (203) (240) (299) Shortfall in adjustments for credit risk relative to expected losses under the internal ratings-based approach deducted from the CET1 (129) (129) (578) (578) Amount exceeding the exemption threshold for CET1 instruments of financial stakes in which the institution owns a significant holding and of the deductible deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability arising from temporary differences Other CET1 components (292) (292) 17 (14) TOTAL CET1 35,352 35,352 34,769 34,766 AT1 equity instruments 7,023 5,260 7,514 5,098 Tier 1 or Tier 2 instruments of financial-sector entities in which the institution holds a significant investment deducted fromTier 1 capital (1) (1) (420) (1) Transitional adjustments, other deductions and minority interests (258) (258) (42) (42) Other components of Tier 1 capital (30) Total Additional Tier 1 6,764 5,001 7,022 5,055 TOTAL TIER 1 42,116 40,353 41,791 39,821 Tier 2 equity instruments 14,918 14,722 15,888 15,506 Surplus provisions relative to expected losses eligible under the internal ratings‑based approach 374 374 General credit risk adjustments under the standardised approach 443 443 Tier 2 instruments of entities operating mainly in the insurance sector in which the institution has a significant investment deducted from Tier 2 capital (2,647) (2,647) (3,771) (3,951) Transitional adjustments, other deductions and minority interests (77) (77) (106) (131) TOTAL TIER 2 12,568 12,372 12,454 11,867 TOTAL CAPITAL 54,684 52,725 54,245 51,688 (1) Information covered by the Statuary Auditors’ Opinion. (2) This item can be found in the hereabove table of simplified prudential equity capital. (3) Of which hybrid securities issued by Crédit Agricole Assurances. 276 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures 4.1.7. Other ratios 4.1.7.2. Leverage ratio 4.1.7.1. Financial conglomerate ratio Article 429 of the CRR specifying the methods for calculating the leverage ratio was amended and replaced by Delegated Regulation (EU) As at 31 December 2018, Crédit Agricole S.A.’s financial conglomerate 2015/62 of 10 October 2014. The Delegated Regulation was published ratio, which now includes the Solvency 2 requirement relating to the in the Official Journal of the European Union on 18 January 2015. equity interest in Crédit Agricole Assurances, is 179% on a phased-in basis, a level well above the minimum 100% requirement. Publication of the ratio at least once a year is mandatory since 1 January 2015; institutions can choose to publish a fully loaded ratio, The conglomerate ratio is defined as the ratio of the phased-in total a phased-in ratio or both ratios. capital of the financial conglomerate to the cumulative total of the bank’s capital requirements and insurance company’s capital requirements: If the institution decides to change its publication choice, at the time of first publication it must reconcile the data for all of the ratios previously nn it includes all banking and insurance requirements, restating the published with the data for the new ratios selected for publication. share of intragroup transactions related to equity investments from both the numerator and the denominator; An observation period has been introduced for the leverage ratio running from 1 January 2014 to 1 January 2017 to monitor the components and nn the insurance subsidiary’s capital raised outside of the scope of the behaviour of the ratio relative to the requirements based on risks. consolidation is included in the conglomerate’s capital. At this stage, the implementation of Pillar 1 (minimum regulatory Total capital requirement), initially planned for 1 January 2018, has been delayed, Financial of the conglomerate and will take place as part of the CRR2 transposition. = > 100% conglomerate ratio Banking Insurance + A requirement for a two-level leverage ratio is provided for in CRR 2: requirements requirements it will be 3% for non G-SIBs and 3% plus half of the entity’s systemic buffer for G-SIBs. The “conglomerate” view is the most relevant for a bancassurance group. The conglomerate combines banks and insurance companies, The leverage ratio is defined as the Tier 1 capital divided by the exposure which corresponds to the natural scope of the Group. Moreover, the measure, i.e. balance sheet and off-balance-sheet assets after certain conglomerate ratio reflects the actual risks borne by each of the two restatements of derivatives, transactions between Group affiliates, activities. Therefore, the conglomerate ratio view is economic, whereas securities financing transactions, items deducted from the numerator, the bank solvency ratio treats insurance as an equity investment. and off-balance-sheet items. At 31 December 2018, Crédit Agricole S.A.’s leverage ratio stood at 4.0%(1) on a phased-in Tier 1 basis: the ratio is down compared to 4.4% at end 2017 (including the non-weighting of intragroup operations). This decrease is mainly due to the organic growth, while the Total capital is stable following the entry in force of IFRS 9. The intra-quarter phased-in leverage ratio for Crédit Agricole S.A., which refers to the average end-of-month exposures for the first two months of the fourth quarter, amounted to 3.7%. 5 (1) The leverage ratio amounts to 4.2% subject to the issue by the ECB of an authorisation to exempt exposures linked to the centralisation of deposits with the Caisse des dépôts et consignations to take account of Judgement T-758/16 of the General Court of the European Union of 13 July 2018. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 277 5 Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures Leverage ratio – Common disclosure (LRCom) (in millions of euros) CRR leverage ratio exposures On-balance sheet exposures (excluding derivatives and SFTs) 1 On-balance sheet items (excluding derivatives, SFTs and fiduciary assets, but including collateral) 1,042,111 2 (Asset amounts deducted in determining Tier 1 capital) (20,371) 3 TOTAL ON-BALANCE SHEET EXPOSURES (EXCLUDING DERIVATIVES, SFTS AND FIDUCIARY ASSETS) (SUM OF LINES 1 AND 2) 1,021,740 Derivative exposures 4 Replacement cost associated with all derivatives transactions (ie net of eligible cash variation margin) 15,126 5 Add-on amounts for PFE associated with all derivatives transactions (mark-to-market method) 28,580 EU-5a Exposure determined under Original Exposure Method 6 Gross-up for derivatives collateral provided where deducted from the balance sheet assets pursuant to the applicable accounting 6,133 framework 7 (Deductions of receivables assets for cash variation margin provided in derivatives transactions) (18,284) 8 (Exempted CCP leg of client-cleared trade exposures) (984) 9 Adjusted effective notional amount of written credit derivatives 12,699 10 (Adjusted effective notional offsets and add-on deductions for written credit derivatives) (8,920) 11 TOTAL DERIVATIVE EXPOSURES (SUM OF LINES 4 TO 10) 34,350 SFT exposures 12 Gross SFT assets (with no recognition of netting), after adjusting for sales accounting transactions 203,382 13 (Netted amounts of cash payables and cash receivables of gross SFT assets) (52,215) 14 Counterparty credit risk exposure for SFT assets 7,706 EU-14a Derogation for SFTs: Counterparty credit risk exposure in accordance with Article 429b (4) and 222 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 15 Agent transaction exposures EU-15a (Exempted CCP leg of client-cleared SFT exposure) 16 TOTAL SECURITIES FINANCING TRANSACTION EXPOSURES (SUM OF LINES 12 TO 15A) 158,872 Other off-balance sheet exposures 17 Off-balance sheet exposures at gross notional amount 273,603 18 (Adjustments for conversion to credit equivalent amounts) (126,560) 19 OTHER OFF-BALANCE SHEET EXPOSURES (SUM OF LINES 17 TO 18) 147,043 Exempted exposures in accordance with Article 429(7) and (14) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 (on and off balance sheet) EU-19a (Intragroup exposures (solo basis) exempted in accordance with Article 429(7) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 (316,921) (on and off balance sheet)) EU-19b (Exposures exempted in accordance with Article 429 (14) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 (on and off balance sheet)) Capital and total exposures 20 TIER 1 CAPITAL 42,116 21 TOTAL LEVERAGE RATIO TOTAL EXPOSURE MEASURE (SUM OF LINES 3, 11, 16, 19, EU-19A AND EU-19B) 1,045,086 Leverage ratio 22 LEVERAGE RATIO 4.03% Choice on transitional arrangements and amount of derecognised fiduciary items EU-23 Choice on transitional arrangements for the definition of the capital measure Transitional EU-24 Amount of derecognised fiduciary items in accordance with Article 429(11) of Regulation (EU) NO 575/2013 278 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures Summary reconciliation of accounting assets and leverage ratio exposures (LRSum) (in millions of euros) Applicable amount 1 Total assets as per published financial statements 1,624,394 2 Adjustment for entities which are consolidated for accounting purposes but are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation (342,921) 3 (Adjustment for fiduciary assets recognised on the balance sheet pursuant to the applicable accounting framework but excluded from the leverage ratio total exposure measure in accordance with Article 429(13) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013) 4 Adjustments for derivative financial instruments (74,849) 5 Adjustments for securities financing transactions (SFTs) 28,710 6 Adjustment for off-balance sheet items (ie conversion to credit equivalent amounts of off-balance sheet exposures) 147,043 EU-6a (Adjustment for intragroup exposures excluded from the leverage ratio total exposure measure in accordance with Article 429 (7) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013) (316,921) EU-6b (Adjustment for exposures excluded from the leverage ratio total exposure measure in accordance with Article 429 (14) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013) 7 Other adjustments (20,371) 8 LEVERAGE RATIO TOTAL EXPOSURE MEASURE 1,045,086 Breakdown of balance sheet exposures (excluding derivatives, SFTS and exempted exposures) (LRSpl) (in millions of euros) CRR leverage ratio exposures EU-1 Total on-balance sheet exposures (excluding derivatives, SFTs, and exempted exposures), of which: 730,506 EU-2 Trading book exposures 7,910 EU-3 Banking book exposures, of which: 722,596 EU-4 Covered bonds 3,850 EU-5 Exposures treated as sovereigns 206,005 EU-6 Exposures to regional governments, MDB, international organisations and PSE not treated as sovereigns 3,160 EU-7 Institutions 46,521 EU-8 Secured by mortgages of immovable properties 6,898 EU-9 Retail exposures 180,390 EU-10 Corporate 190,451 EU-11 Exposures in default 10,896 EU-12 Other exposures (eg equity, securitisations, and other non-credit obligation assets) 74,425 The qualitative elements (LRQua) required by Implementing Regulation More generally, the BRRD establishes a framework for the resolution 5 (EU) 2016/200 of 15 February 2016 are as follows: of banks throughout the European Union and with the aim of equipping resolution authorities with shared instruments and powers to Description of the procedures used to manage the risk pre-emptively tackle banking crises, preserve financial stability and of excessive leverage reduce taxpayers’ exposure to losses. The leverage ratio is not sensitive to risk factors and, on this basis, The MREL ratio corresponds to the minimum requirement of own funds it is considered to be a measurement that supplements the solvency and eligible liabilities that must be available to absorb losses in the (solvency ratio/resolution ratio) and liquidity risk management system event of resolution. This minimum requirement is calculated as being the already limiting the size of the balance sheet. Within the framework amount of own funds and eligible liabilities expressed as a percentage of monitoring excessive leverage, controls at Group level set limits on of the institution’s total liabilities and capital, after certain regulatory the size of the balance sheet for some businesses that use few riskadjustments. In this calculation, total liabilities takes into account the full weighted assets. recognition of netting rights applicable to derivatives. Regulatory capital, Description of factors which had an impact on the leverage ratio subordinated notes with a residual maturity of more than one year during the period to which the leverage ratio reported by the (including prudentially ineligible instruments and the amortised portion institution relates of Tier 2), non-preferred senior debts with a residual maturity of more The leverage ratio was down for the year, attributable to activity growth, than one year and certain preferred senior debts with residual maturities while capital remained stable over the period, mainly due to IFRS 9 of more than one year qualify for inclusion in the MREL ratio numerator. application. MREL eligible preferred senior debt is subject to the appreciation of the Single Resolution Board (SRB). 4.1.7.3. Resolution ratios The MREL ratio calibrates an eligible liabilities requirement but does MREL ratio not specify which debt would be called upon to absorb losses in the event of resolution. The MREL (Minimum Requirement for Own Funds and Eligible Liabilities) ratio, is defined in the European “Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive” (BRRD), published on 12 June 2014 and effective since 1 January 2015 (except for provisions on bail-in and MREL, which are applicable since 1 January 2016). The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 279 5 Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures In the first half of 2018, the Crédit Agricole Group was notified by the the resolution authorities will be able to implement an ordered resolution Single Resolution Board (SRB) regarding its first MREL requirement strategy that minimises impacts on financial stability, ensures the at the tax consolidation level, which was already applicable and has continuity of the G-SIBs’ critical economic functions and limits the use been met by the Group since then. This requirement could potentially of taxpayers’ money. change when the ratio for the year is set by the SRB and in connection According to the provisions of the TLAC Term Sheet used by the with the changes in the European regulatory framework. The MREL European Commission in its legislative proposal for an amendment Policy 2018 published by the SRB in January 2019 does not apply as at to the CRR Regulation of 23 November 2016 and currently at the 31 December 2018; it describes the general framework that will apply end of a three-party discussion between the European Commission to the requirements that the SRB will subsequently set in 2019. (“CRR 2”), the Parliament and the Committee, the minimum TLAC ratio As at 31 December 2018, the Crédit Agricole Group had an estimated corresponds to twice the amount of minimum regulatory requirements, MREL ratio of approximately 12.4% of its prudential balance sheet after i.e.: a maximum of between 6% of the leverage ratio denominator, or netting of derivatives and 8.4% excluding potentially eligible preferred 16% of weighted risks and regulatory buffers applicable as of 2019, and senior debt. The Crédit Agricole Group aims to keep this ratio above then a maximum of between 6.75% of the leverage ratio denominator, or 8% excluding potentially eligible preferred senior debt. This level would 18% of weighted risks and regulatory buffers as from 1 January 2022. enable recourse to the Single Resolution Fund (subject to the decision This ratio will apply to global systemically important financial institutions, of the resolution authority) before applying the bail-in to preferred senior and therefore to Crédit Agricole Group. debt, creating an additional layer of protection for investors in preferred The elements that could absorb losses are made up of equity, senior debt. subordinated notes and eligible debts to which the Resolution Authority Expressed as a percentage of RWA, the MREL ratio estimated by the can apply the bail-in. Crédit Agricole Group would reach around 32% and 21.4% excluding Once this regulation is enacted into European law, the Crédit Agricole potentially eligible senior debt. Group will be expected to adhere to a TLAC ratio greater than 19.7% TLAC ratio of RWA (including a capital conservation buffer of 2.5%, an estimated The ratio, whose modalities were indicated in a Term Sheet published countercyclical buffer of 0.2% based on the decisions known to date and on 9 November 2015, was established by the Financial Stability Board a G-SIB buffer of 1%) from 1 July 2019 and then 21.5% excluding the (FSB) at the request of the G20. The FSB defined the calculation of a countercyclical buffer with effect from 1 January 2022. Crédit Agricole ratio aimed at estimating the adequacy of the bail-in and recapitalisation Group aims to comply with these TLAC requirements excluding eligible capacities of global systemically important banks (G-SIB). This new Total preferred senior debt, subject to changes in methods of calculating Loss Absorbing Capacity (TLAC) ratio, for which the entry into force was risk-weighted assets. defined by the FSB on 1 January 2019, will provide resolution authorities As at 31 December 2018, the TLAC to risk-weighted assets ratio with the means to assess whether G-SIBs have sufficient loss absorbing is estimated at 21.4% for Crédit Agricole Group, excluding eligible and recapitalisation capacity before and during resolution. As a result, preferred senior debt. 4.2. ECONOMIC CAPITAL MANAGEMENT 4.2.1. Overall system The Group has implemented an economic capital requirement measuring system covering Crédit Agricole Group, Crédit Agricole S.A. Group and In order to assess and permanently maintain adequate capital to cover the Group’s main French and foreign entities. the risks to which it is (or may be) exposed, the Group supplements the measurement of regulatory capital requirements (Pillar 1) with 4.2.2. Available internal capital measurement of economic capital requirement based on the risk identification process and on a valuation using an internal approach The Group has also defined the available internal capital (an internal (Pillar 2). view of capital), which is compared to the economic capital requirement. The assessment of economic capital requirement is one of the ICAAP Internal capital is defined as part of a conglomerate approach – (Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process) components, which considering the importance of the Group’s insurance businesses, and also covers: is based on consideration of the TLAC constraints and of the going nn the stress test programme – in order to introduce a forward-looking concern principle. view for the impact less favourable scenarios would have on the risk level and the Group’s solvency; and 4.2.3. Economic capital requirement nn capital requirement management within the Group through capital The economic capital requirement quantifies capital requirements planning, capital allocation, and profitability management. for each of the major risks identified in the annual risk identification Each sub-group is responsible for ICAAP implementation and updating. process. Economic capital management is developed in accordance with the The major risk identification process initially aims to list as exhaustively interpretation of the main regulatory texts: as possible all the risks that are likely to impact the Group’s balance nn the Basel agreement; sheet, income statement, solvency ratios, or the reputation of an entity or the Group and to apply a Group-wide, standard approach to placing nn CRD 4 through its transposition into French regulations by the Decree them in categories and sub-categories. Secondly, it aims to assess the of 3 November 2014; importance of these risks in a systematic and exhaustive manner so that nn the guidelines of the European Banking Authority; and major risks can be identified. nn the prudential expectations of the ICAAP and ILAAP and the harmonised collection of information on the subject. 280 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures The risk identification process brings together several sources: an At 31 December 2018, all the major risks identified during the risk internal analysis on the basis of information gathered from the Risk identification process were taken into account for assessing economic department and the other Control functions; additional information capital requirement. The Group notably measures: interest rate risk on from external data. It is formalised by each entity and for the Group, the banking portfolio, issuer risk, business and strategic risk, credit risk, coordinated by the risk sector and approved by the Board of Directors. and liquidity price risk. For each of the major risks identified, economic capital requirement is The Group ensures that the full economic capital requirement is quantified as follows: covered by internal capital. At Crédit Agricole Group level, the internal nn the risk measurements already taken through Pillar 1 are reviewed capital covered nearly 150% of the economic capital requirement at and, where necessary, completed by the economic capital 31 December 2018. adjustments; Crédit Agricole S.A. Group entities subject to the requirement to measure nn the risks absent from Pillar 1 are subject to a specific calculation the economic capital requirement within their scope are responsible for of economic capital requirement, based on the internal approaches; doing so in accordance with standards and methodologies defined by nn generally, the economic capital requirement measurements are the Group. In particular, they must ensure that the economic capital performed for a one-year period and with a quantile (probability of requirement measurement system is appropriately organised and default occurring) for which the level is set on the basis of the Group’s governed. The economic capital requirement determined by the entities appetite in terms of external rating; is reported in detail to Crédit Agricole S.A. nn finally, the economic capital requirement measurement takes into In addition to the quantitative aspect, the Group’s approach relies on account, on a prudent basis, the impacts of diversification resulting a qualitative component that supplements the calculation of economic from the broad spread of business activities within the same Group, capital requirement with indicators of the business lines’ exposure to including between banking and insurance. risk and their permanent controls. The qualitative component meets The coherence of all methodologies for measuring economic capital three objectives: requirement is ensured by a specific governance within the Group. nn evaluation of the risk management system and the control of entities The measurement of the economic capital requirement is supplemented within the scope of deployment along different axes, this assessment by a projection over the current year, consistent with capital planning is a component of the risk identification system; forecasts at that date, so that the effects of the main prudential reforms nn if required, identification and formalising of points for improvement that can be anticipated are incorporated. of the risk management and permanent control system, in the form of an action plan formalised by the entity; nn identification of any elements that are not adequately captured in quantitative ICAAP measures. 5 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 281 5 Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures 4.3. APPENDIX TO THE REGULATORY CAPITAL Description of differences between the scopes of consolidation (LI3: entity by entity)(1) Method of regulatory consolidation Description of the entity Method of Full Proportional Equity Name of the entity accounting consolidation consolidation method Description of the entity Crédit Agricole Immobilier Equity method ✓ Specialised, scientific and technology activities Crédit Agricole Immobilier Equity method ✓ Construction activities Promotion Crédit Agricole Immobilier Equity method ✓ Real-estate activities Services SO.GI.CO Equity method ✓ Real-estate activities SCI D2 CAM Equity method ✓ Real-estate activities Uni-medias Full consolidation ✓ Information and communication Crédit Agricole Assurances Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities Insurance (CAA) Crédit Agricole Life Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities Insurance Insurance Company Japan Ltd. CA ASSICURAZIONI Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities Insurance Crédit Agricole Créditor Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities auxililiary activities Insurance (CACI) of financial and insurance services Spirica Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities Insurance Crédit Agricole Assurances Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities activities of financial Solutions services, excluding insurance and pension funds PREDICA Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities Insurance Médicale de France Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities Insurance PACIFICA Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities Insurance Via Vita Full consolidation ✓ Other activities of services IRIS HOLDING FRANCE Full consolidation ✓ Real-estate activities Crédit Agricole Life Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities Insurance Insurance Europe GNB SEGUROS Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities Insurance (Anciennement BES SEGUROS) Crédit Agricole Life Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities Insurance Crédit Agricole Vita S.p.A. Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities Insurance ASSUR&ME Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities auxililiary activities of financial and insurance services UBAF Equity method ✓ Financial and insurance activities activities of financial services, excluding insurance and pension funds CAIRS Assurance S.A. Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities Insurance Atlantic Asset Securitization Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities activities of financial LLC services, excluding insurance and pension funds LMA SA Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities activities of financial services, excluding insurance and pension funds Héphaïstos EUR FCC Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities activities of financial services, excluding insurance and pension funds Héphaïstos GBP FCT Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities activities of financial services, excluding insurance and pension funds Héphaïstos USD FCT Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities activities of financial services, excluding insurance and pension funds Héphaïstos Multidevises FCT Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities activities of financial services, excluding insurance and pension funds Eucalyptus FCT Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities activities of financial services, excluding insurance and pension funds Pacific USD FCT Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities activities of financial services, excluding insurance and pension funds (1) The scope of consolidation is described in full in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. 282 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures Method of regulatory consolidation Description of the entity Method of Full Proportional Equity Name of the entity accounting consolidation consolidation method Description of the entity Shark FCC Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities activities of financial services, excluding insurance and pension funds Vulcain EUR FCT Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities activities of financial services, excluding insurance and pension funds Vulcain Multi-Devises FCT Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities activities of financial services, excluding insurance and pension funds Vulcain USD FCT Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities activities of financial services, excluding insurance and pension funds Pacific EUR FCC Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities activities of financial services, excluding insurance and pension funds Pacific IT FCT Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities activities of financial services, excluding insurance and pension funds Triple P FCC Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities activities of financial services, excluding insurance and pension funds ESNI (compartiment Cédit Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities auxililiary activities Agricole CIB) of financial and insurance services Elipso Finance S.r.l Equity method ✓ Financial and insurance activities activities of financial services, excluding insurance and pension funds La Fayette Asset Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities activities of financial Securitization LLC services, excluding insurance and pension funds TSUBAKI ON (FCT) Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities activities of financial services, excluding insurance and pension funds TSUBAKI OFF (FCT) Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities activities of financial services, excluding insurance and pension funds La Route Avance Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities activities of financial services, excluding insurance and pension funds ARES Reinsurance Ltd. Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities auxililiary activities of financial and insurance services MENAFINANCE Equity method ✓ Financial and insurance activities activities of financial FCA Bank S.P.A Equity method ✓ services, excluding insurance and pension funds Financial and insurance activities activities of financial 5 services, excluding insurance and pension funds FINAREF RISQUES DIVERS Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities Insurance FINAREF VIE Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities Insurance CACI Reinsurance Ltd. Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities auxililiary activities of financial and insurance services SPACE HOLDING (IRELAND) Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities activities of financial LIMITED services, excluding insurance and pension funds SPACE LUX Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities activities of financial services, excluding insurance and pension funds CACI LIFE LIMITED Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities activities of financial services, excluding insurance and pension funds CACI NON LIFE LIMITED Full consolidation ✓ Financial and insurance activities activities of financial services, excluding insurance and pension funds The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 283 5 Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures 4.4. COMPOSITION AND CHANGES IN RISK-WEIGHTED ASSETS 4.4.1. Summary of risk-weighted assets 4.4.1.1. Risk-weighted assets by type of risks (OV1) The risk-weighted assets in respect of credit risk, market risk and operational risk were €306.9 billion at 31 December 2018, compared with €296.4 billion at 31 December 2017. Minimum capital RWA requirements (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 1 Credit risk (excluding CCR) 233,109 228,466 18,649 2 Of which the standardised approach 94,698 94,788 7,576 3 Of which the foundation IRB (FIRB) approach 24,127 22,050 1,930 4 Of which the advanced IRB (AIRB) approach 93,447 87,765 7,476 5 Of which equity IRB under the simple risk-weighted approach or the IMA 20,837 23,862 1,667 6 CCR 17,913 16,074 1,433 7 Of which mark to market 5,709 4,905 457 8 Of which original exposure 9 Of which the standardised approach 10 Of which internal model method (IMM) 8,310 7,996 665 11 Of which risk exposure amount for contributions to the default fund of a CCP 291 316 23 12 Of which CVA 3,603 2,857 288 13 Settlement risk 7 1 1 14 Securitisation exposures in the banking book (after the cap) 6,499 6,258 520 15 Of which IRB approach 857 1,551 69 16 Of which IRB supervisory formula approach (SFA) 1,241 634 99 17 Of which internal assessment approach (IAA) 2,856 2,684 228 18 Of which standardised approach 1,545 1,388 124 19 Market risk 10,589 10,523 847 20 Of which the standardised approach 4,167 4,793 333 21 Of which IMA 6,421 5,730 514 22 Large exposures 23 Operational risk 31,400 27,965 2,512 24 Of which basic indicator approach 25 Of which standardised approach 8,954 7,847 716 26 Of which advanced measurement approach 22,446 20,119 1,796 27 Amounts below the thresholds for deduction (subject to 250% risk weight) 7,377 7,101 590 28 Floor adjustment Basel 1 29 TOTAL 306,893 296,388 24,551 284 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures 4.4.1.2. Operating segment information Credit risk Credit StanWeighting Contributions valuation Total risk31/12/2018 tardised approach IRB to a CCP Total adjustment Operational Market weighted (in millions of euros) approach IRB Approach(1) default fund credit risk risk risk risk assets French retail banking 7,785 2,167 36,741 46,693 16 2,881 3 49,593 International retail banking 30,706 815 4,018 11 35,550 14 3,809 324 39,697 Asset gathering 5,637 11,177 910 17,724 437 5,662 57 23,880 Specialised financial services 32,712 1,104 17,014 50,830 19 2,778 4 53,631 Large customers 19,527 4,466 67,433 280 91,706 3,116 15,721 7,895 118,438 Corporate center 3,077 8,485 7,236 18,798 1 549 2,306 21,654 TOTAL RISK-WEIGHTED ASSETS 99,444 28,214 133,352 291 261,301 3,603 31,400 10,589 306,893 (1) Advanced IRB or Foundation IRB approach depending on business lines. Credit risk Credit StanWeighting Contributions valuation Total risk31/12/2017 tardised approach IRB to a CCP Total adjustment Operational Market weighted (in millions of euros) approach IRB Approach(1) default fund credit risk risk risk risk assets French retail banking 7,587 1,989 32,171 41,747 15 2,347 6 44,115 International retail banking 30,816 700 3,348 11 34,875 20 3,522 329 38,746 Asset gathering 6,140 15,092 854 22,086 501 4,321 81 26,989 Specialised financial services 34,218 937 16,754 51,909 44 2,414 2 54,369 Large customers 17,074 3,934 63,704 305 85,017 2,277 14,909 6,003 108,206 Corporate center 3,683 8,312 7,414 19,409 452 4,102 23,963 TOTAL RISK-WEIGHTED ASSETS 99,518 30,964 124,245 316 255,043 2,857 27,965 10,523 296,388 (1) Advanced IRB or Foundation IRB approach depending on business lines. 4.4.1.3. Trends in risk-weighted assets The table below shows the change in Crédit Agricole S.A. Group’s risk-weighted assets in 2018: 5 EquityForeign Organic accounted Method and Total exchange and value regulatory variation (in millions of euros) 31/12/2017 change optimisation Insurance Scope changes 2018 31/12/2018 Credit risk 255,043 1,504 9,755 (5,297) (248) 544 6,258 261,301 of which Equity risk 30,963 1,408 (5,297) 1,140 (2,749) 28,214 CVA 2,857 746 746 3,603 Market risk 10,523 66 66 10,589 Operational risk 27,965 345 2 3,088 3,435 31,400 TOTAL 296,388 1,504 10,912 (5,297) (246) 3,632 10,505 306,893 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 285 5 Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures Risk-weighted assets totalled €307 billion at 31 December 2018, an application of any credit risk mitigation techniques (guarantees and increase of €10.5 billion (+3.5%) attributable to: collateral) and the credit conversion factor (CCF); nn growth in business lines, particularly in the Large customers division nn credit conversion factor (CCF): ratio between the unused portion (+€6.5 billion) and Retail banking in France (+€3.7 billion); of a commitment that will be drawn and at risk at the time of default nn methodological and regulatory effects, including the review of the and the unused portion of the commitment calculated on the basis modelling of non-financial operational risks (+€3.1 billion), the first of the authorised limit or, where applicable, the unauthorised limit effects of the review of models by the single supervisor (+€0.9 billion) if higher; and the first application of IFRS 9 (+€0.3 billion, including +€1.1 billion nn expected losses (EL): the amount of the average loss the bank in Insurance related to the reclassification and valuation of securities expects to have to recognise in its loan book within one year; portfolios and -€0.8 billion in other businesses due to the deduction nn risk-weighted assets (RWA): risk-weighted assets are calculated of collective provisions from exposures using the standard method). by applying a weighting ratio to each exposure. The ratio is a function These increases were partially offset by the positive impact of the of the characteristics of the exposure and the calculation method switch to the IRB method by the Italian savings banks that were used (IRB or standardised); acquired in December 2017 (-€0.6 billion). nn valuation adjustments: impairment losses on a specific asset These changes were partially offset by: due to credit risk, recognised either through a partial writedown or a nn the -€5.3 billion decrease in equity-accounted value of the equity deduction from the carrying amount of the asset; stake in insurance companies (excluding the impact of the first-time nn external credit ratings: credit ratings provided by an external adoption of IFRS 9) in a context of rising interest rates that generated credit rating agency recognised by Regulation (EC) No. 1060/2009. a reduction in unrealized reserves held by insurers; Section I provides an overview of changes in credit and nn an overall negative scope effect, mainly due to the exit of Forso counterparty risk followed by a more detailed look at credit risk (-€0.6 billion) and the acquisition of Banca Leonardo (+€0.5 billion). (in section II) by regulatory approach: standardised approach and using the IRB approach. Counterparty risk is covered in 4.4.2. Credit and counterparty risk section III followed by section IV on credit and counterparty Definitions: risk mitigation techniques. nn probability of default (PD): the probability that a counterparty will default within a period of one year; 4.4.2.1. General overview of credit and counterparty risk nn exposure at default (EAD): the exposure amount in the event of 4.4.2.1.1. Exposures by type of risk default. The concept of exposure encompasses balance sheet assets The table below shows Crédit Agricole S.A. Group’s exposure to plus a proportion of off-balance sheet commitments; global risk (credit, counterparty, dilution and settlement and delivery) nn loss given default (LGD): ratio between the loss experienced on by exposure class for the standardised and internal ratings-based an exposure on a counterparty at default and the size of the exposure approaches at 31 December 2018 and at 31 December 2017. at default; The 17 exposure classes under the standardised approach are grouped nn gross exposure: amount of the exposure (balance sheet + together to ensure the presentation aligns with the IRB exposures. off-balance sheet), after the impacts of offsetting and before the 286 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures Overall risk exposure (credit, counterparty, dilution, settlement and delivery) at 31 December 2018 Standardised IRB Total Gross Gross Gross exposure exposure exposure Capital 31/12/2018 Gross after Gross after Gross after require(in billions of euros) exposure(1) CRM(2) EAD RWA exposure(1) CRM(2) EAD RWA exposure(1) CRM(2) EAD RWA ment Central governments or central banks 53.2 53.3 53.0 5.8 167.3 177.2 174.7 1.5 220.5 230.5 227.7 7.4 0.6 Institutions 43.6 64.2 61.2 8.8 379.8 382.5 377.8 8.9 423.4 446.8 439.0 17.7 1.4 Corporates 120.8 97.1 69.5 54.8 292.0 270.7 215.4 76.6 412.8 367.8 284.9 131.5 10.5 Retail customers 36.0 32.6 29.0 18.7 174.7 174.7 171.3 41.4 210.7 207.3 200.3 60.1 4.8 Loans to individuals 23.9 22.6 19.7 13.3 148.5 148.5 145.4 32.1 172.5 171.1 165.1 45.4 3.6 o/w secured by real estate assets 4.6 4.4 4.4 1.7 89.8 89.8 89.8 10.5 94.4 94.2 94.2 12.2 1.0 o/w revolving 5.2 4.9 2.3 1.7 11.0 11.0 7.9 3.3 16.2 15.9 10.1 5.0 0.4 o/w other 14.2 13.2 13.0 9.9 47.8 47.8 47.8 18.3 61.9 61.0 60.8 28.1 2.3 Loans to small and medium businesses 12.0 10.0 9.3 5.4 26.1 26.1 25.9 9.3 38.2 36.1 35.2 14.7 1.2 o/w secured by real estate assets 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.2 5.6 5.6 5.6 1.1 6.1 6.1 6.0 1.3 0.1 o/w other 11.6 9.6 8.9 5.2 20.5 20.5 20.2 8.3 32.1 30.1 29.2 13.4 1.1 Shares 0.9 0.9 1.1 15.4 6.2 20.8 16.3 7.1 21.9 1.8 Securitisations 2.5 2.3 1.5 43.3 43.3 5.0 45.8 45.6 6.5 0.5 Assets other than credit obligation 11.3 11.2 8.7 11.3 11.2 8.7 0.7 TOTAL 268.2 227.1 99.4 1,072.5 988.7 154.2 1,340.7 1,215.8 253.6 20.3 (1) Initial gross exposure. (2) Gross exposure after credit risk mitigation (CRM). Overall risk exposure (credit, counterparty, dilution, settlement and delivery) at 31 December 2017 Standardised IRB Total Gross exposure Gross exposure Gross exposure Capital 5 31/12/2017 Gross after Gross after Gross after require(in billions of euros) exposure(1) CRM(2) EAD RWA exposure(1) CRM(2) EAD RWA exposure(1) CRM(2) EAD RWA ment Central governments or central banks 48.0 48.1 48.0 4.9 141.0 148.3 146.3 1.9 188.9 196.3 194.2 6.8 0.5 Institutions 42.9 58.0 55.8 9.0 363.6 368.3 363.7 8.7 406.4 426.2 419.5 17.7 1.4 Corporates 112.1 91.7 65.9 53.6 268.9 252.2 193.3 70.7 381.0 343.8 259.2 124.3 9.9 Retail customers 38.2 36.2 31.8 20.3 161.7 161.7 158.5 38.1 199.9 197.9 190.2 58.4 4.7 Loans to individuals 27.7 26.4 22.6 15.1 139.1 139.1 136.0 30.8 166.8 165.5 158.6 45.9 3.7 o/w secured by real estate assets 6.2 5.9 5.9 2.4 81.9 81.9 81.9 9.3 88.1 87.8 87.7 11.8 1.0 o/w revolving 6.1 6.0 2.4 1.9 10.5 10.5 7.5 3.1 16.7 16.5 9.9 5.0 0.4 o/w other 15.4 14.6 14.3 10.8 46.7 46.7 46.6 18.3 62.1 61.3 60.9 29.1 2.3 Loans to small and medium businesses 10.4 9.8 9.2 5.3 22.6 22.6 22.5 7.3 33.1 32.4 31.7 12.5 1.0 o/w secured by real estate assets 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.2 3.9 3.9 3.9 0.8 4.2 4.2 4.2 0.9 0.1 o/w other 10.1 9.4 8.9 5.1 18.7 18.7 18.6 6.5 28.8 28.2 27.5 11.6 0.9 Shares 1.2 1.1 1.3 16.2 6.8 23.9 17.4 7.9 25.2 2.0 Securitisations 2.5 2.3 1.4 38.5 38.5 4.9 41.0 40.8 6.3 0.5 Assets other than credit obligation 11.2 11.2 8.9 11.2 11.2 8.9 0.7 TOTAL 256.0 215.9 99.5 989.8 907.1 148.1 1,245.8 1,123.1 247.6 19.7 (1) Initial gross exposure. (2) Gross exposure after credit risk mitigation (CRM). The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 287 5 Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures Measured in terms of gross exposure, the Group’s total outstanding Excluding these internal transactions, gross exposure for the total amounts were up +7.6% reflecting the favourable business climate in loan portfolio was €1026.3 billion at 31 December 2018, up +8.7% the main business lines, in particular in the “Central governments and compared to the end of 2017. central banks” portfolio (up +16.7%). RWA density (defined as the ratio of risk-weighted assets/EAD) was The main portfolio remains the Institutions category with total gross 30% on average for retail customers and 46% for Corporates at exposure of €423.4 billion. This included €314.8 billion in exposures 31 December 2018. linked to Crédit Agricole Group at 31 December 2018 (€301.4 billion at 31 December 2017). Total net amount and average of exposures (CRB-B) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Net value of Average net Net value of Average net exposures at exposures exposures at exposures the end of the over the the end of the over the (in millions of euros) period period(1) period period(2) 1 Central governments or central banks 167,291 157,190 140,898 141,323 2 Institutions 379,363 374,379 363,203 357,276 3 Corporates 288,916 279,336 265,291 262,870 4 Of which: Specialised lending 58,205 56,498 56,024 57,929 5 Of which: SMEs 5,298 4,635 4,081 4,264 6 Retail 170,908 164,254 158,254 154,626 7 Secured by real estate property 94,940 90,371 85,429 84,768 8 SMEs 5,540 4,808 3,784 3,469 9 Non-SMEs 89,401 85,563 81,644 81,299 10 Qualifying revolving 10,625 10,451 10,219 9,952 11 Other retail 65,342 63,432 62,606 59,906 12 SMEs 19,505 17,902 17,810 17,623 13 Non-SMEs 45,837 45,529 44,796 42,283 14 Equity 15,395 15,794 15,951 15,463 15 Total IRB approach 1,021,874 990,952 943,596 931,557 16 Central governments or central banks 52,022 44,954 47,361 39,676 17 Regional governments or local authorities 604 538 377 380 18 Public sector entities 931 798 460 579 19 Multilateral development banks 37 41 4 58 20 International organisations 621 500 206 321 21 Institutions 42,391 46,407 42,117 47,047 22 Corporates 89,620 86,681 81,801 79,835 23 Of which: SMEs 13,754 11,378 9,432 9,176 24 Retail 29,383 29,706 31,820 29,982 25 Of which: SMEs 11,265 10,598 9,872 9,121 26 Secured by mortgages on immovable property 6,635 7,090 5,586 5,621 27 Of which: SMEs 1,198 1,041 887 676 28 Exposures in default 2,672 2,816 3,396 3,283 29 Items associated with particularly high risk 141 154 152 83 30 Covered bonds 19 66 31 Claims on institutions and corporates with a short-term credit assessment 32 Collective investments undertakings 24,869 25,496 24,713 21,784 33 Equity exposures 916 1,053 1,075 1,187 34 Other exposures 11,218 11,494 11,145 10,864 35 Total standardised approach 262,060 257,729 250,234 240,766 36 TOTAL 1,283,934 1,248,682 1,193,829 1,172,324 (1) The 2018 average is calculated on the basis of data recorded at the end of each quarter 2018. (2) The 2017 average is calculated on the basis of data recorded at the end of each quarter 2017. NB: Of which €314,375 million in Crédit Agricole internal transactions at 31 December 2018. Of which €301,350 million in Crédit Agricole internal transactions at 31 December 2017. Net exposures totalled €1,283.9 billion at 31 December 2018, 80% of which are subject to an internal ratings-based regulatory treatment. 288 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures 4.4.2.1.2. Exposures by geographic area The breakdown by geographic area includes all Crédit Agricole S.A. Group exposures except for securitisation transactions and “Assets other than credit obligations”. At 31 December 2018 Western Europe excluding Italy 16.31% Asia-Pacific excluding Japan 3.66% North America 5.28% Central and South America 0.98% 60.75% France (incl. overseas departments and territories) Africa and Middle East 1.93% Japan 3.19% Italy 7.90% At 31 December 2017 Western Europe excluding Italy 15.88% Asia-Pacific excluding Japan 3.75% North America 4.64% Central and South America 1.02% 62.72% France (incl. overseas departments Africa and Middle East 1.76% and territories) Japan 2.06% Italy 8.17% 5 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 289 5 Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures Geographic breakdown of exposures (CRB-C) Europe 31/12/2018 United (in millions of euros) France Italy Luxembourg Kingdom Germany Switzerland Netherlands Others 1 Central governments or central banks 93,079 270 3,210 3,344 4,866 1,257 73 13,837 2 Institutions 338,742 560 1,011 4,800 1,455 5,832 3,673 6,103 3 Corporates 90,499 11,018 11,756 18,553 12,689 6,674 7,011 27,134 4 Retail 120,414 34,052 2,074 283 3,352 1,019 18 5,281 5 Equity 14,875 244 25 13 1 37 58 6 Total IRB approach 31/12/2018 657,609 46,144 18,076 26,994 22,363 14,820 10,775 52,418 Total IRB approach 31/12/2017 630,158 41,158 14,794 23,626 24,459 12,147 11,156 47,028 7 Central governments or central banks 19,325 13,030 13,822 12 1,123 440 13 2,207 8 Regional governments or local authorities 416 142 1 2 9 Public sector entities 411 190 291 34 10 Multilateral development banks 31 11 International organisations 1 621 12 Institutions 15,749 3,267 580 11,126 2,631 216 814 1,638 13 Corporates 49,987 20,105 2,610 945 2,139 298 333 6,800 14 Retail 7,872 8,370 5 920 1,982 183 2,062 6,505 15 Secured by mortgages on immovable property 711 3,295 7 2 6 1,232 16 Exposures in default 1,062 1,215 2 10 26 4 32 195 17 Items associated with particularly high risk 141 18 Covered bonds 19 Claims on institutions and corporates with a short-term credit assessment 20 Collective investments undertakings 18,846 3,072 1,112 130 10 21 Equity exposures 598 50 6 29 1 8 22 Other exposures 7,018 2,532 131 32 35 386 16 355 23 Total standardised approach 31/12/2018 122,136 55,302 18,888 13,081 8,360 1,533 3,269 18,991 Total standardised approach 31/12/2017 118,583 56,367 9,162 13,554 9,230 1,606 3,402 19,415 24 TOTAL 31/12/2018 779,745 101,446 36,964 40,075 30,723 16,353 14,044 71,409 TOTAL 31/12/2017 748,742 97,525 23,956 37,180 33,689 13,753 14,558 66,442 NB: of which €314,375 million in Crédit Agricole internal transactions at 31 December 2018. of which €301,350 million in Crédit Agricole internal transactions at 31 December 2017. At 31 December 2018, total exposure for the scope defined above was €1,283.9 billion (of which €314.4 billion in Crédit Agricole S.A. Group internal transactions), compared with €1,193.8 billion at 31 December 2017. For all supervisory approaches (i.e. based on internal and standard ratings), concerning Retail customers, the Group’s exposure is concentrated on two countries: France and Italy represent 85% of exposures. The other portfolios are more geographically diversified. For example, close to 30% of exposures in the Corporate portfolio are located outside Europe, primarily in North America and Asia. 290 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures Asia and Oceania North America Central and South Africa and Middle Japan Others USA Others America East Total 29,715 5,793 7,275 1,485 70 3,070 167,345 1,376 7,179 2,406 565 562 5,097 379,363 7,429 27,465 48,088 3,602 10,359 6,638 288,916 138 3,238 20 37 215 709 170,855 5 5 133 15,395 38,663 43,681 57,921 5,690 11,205 15,512 1,021,874 22,537 42,242 46,148 5,199 10,454 12,455 943,566 48 74 108 2 1,818 52,022 44 604 1 3 931 6 37 621 642 1,646 2,375 228 312 1,164 42,391 114 1,201 645 425 551 3,467 89,622 8 69 20 22 519 843 29,383 37 40 1,301 6,635 9 2 111 2,669 141 1,437 230 1 20 1 11 222 24,869 916 5 4 43 284 19 362 11,218 2,253 3,315 3,494 720 1,406 9,311 262,059 2,035 2,487 3,691 427 1,695 8,610 250,263 40,915 46,998 61,415 6,410 12,614 24,823 1,283,934 24,572 44,729 49,839 5,626 12,146 21,065 1,193,829 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 291 5 Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures 4.4.2.1.3. Exposures by business sector The breakdown by business sector covers Crédit Agricole S.A. Group’s broken down by Basel sub-portfolio (home loans, revolving credit, other exposures to Central governments and central banks, Institutions, small business loans, farmers and other retail). Corporates and Retail customers. The Retail customer portfolio is also Exposures by business sector In % 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 Ae ron au tic sa nd Utilit Othe Re Ae ros pa Ag ric ultur ea O the rT Sh ipp inceg ies tai r nd foo dP ran roc Ins es s po sin rt g lBan Au ur tom an ce kin Othe rN on -b Wo an od kingF Ot ina He he nc av yI r In n d du u oti str strve ies y g ,p ap er an ial dp Ac ac tiv itie s Bu ilding ka Ba gin g Re an tai go on dP l, C ub lic Wo nr ks od su ks sI m nd er us an trie ds Healt IT Re alEn E erg sta y hc are an dP an ha dt ec hn olo te gy Pu blicS ec No Me tor n-m d Pu dia anrm ac eu tica ls To an er d L ch ur cal A nt Se ism o a u r , h tho vice bli sh ing ote riti s, l a es nd ca ter ing Te lec om 2018 2017 The breakdown of the loan book by business sector still shows a good level of risk diversification. Breakdown of exposures Corporates portfolio In % 20 15 10 5 0 Ae ron autic sa nd Ae ros pa ce Utilities Ag ricultur ea Othe rT Sh ran ipp ing Ot nd foo dP roc es sp sin ort g her AuIns ur an ce He av tom yI nd oti ve Ot Fin her Ot he r In du u str str ies y Wo od ,pap an No er cia n-b anl Ac nk a tiv in itie gs Bu ilding dp ac ka gin g Re an tai l, dP ub lic B Wo an ks go Con od su sI mnd er us an trie d rks Re alEn s erg y Healt hc are an IT dP an dt ec hnEs o ta log te PublicS Me diaa ha rm nd ac eu tic y als ec No tor n-m To an er d L ch o an ur cal A t Se Pu b lish ing ism ,h uth rvi ote oritie es, la nd ca c s Te ter lec ing om 2018 2017 The Corporates portfolio also shows a satisfactory level of diversification: within this scope, no sector accounted for more than 16% of total exposures at end-2018. 292 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures Retail customers at 31 December 2018 2.9% Loans to small and medium businesses Other loans to small and medium businesses 15.2% secured by real estate assets Revolving retail loans 7.7% 44.8% Retail loans secured by real estate assets Other retail loans 29.4% Breakdown of the Retail customer portfolio Breakdown of exposures – Retail customer portfolio The chart above shows a breakdown of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group’s Retail customer portfolio exposures by Basel sub-portfolio (outstanding amounts of €210.7 billion at 31 December 2018 compared to €199.9 billion at 31 December 2017, an increase of +5.4% on an annual basis). Retail customers at 31 December 2017 2.1% Loans to small and medium businesses secured by real estate assets Other loans to small and medium businesses 14.4% Revolving retail loans 8.4% 44.1% Retail loans secured by real estate assets 5 Other retail loans 31.1% Within the “Retail customers” portfolio, the relative share of “retail loans secured by real estate assets” has been rising over recent years (44.8% in 2018, compared with 44.1% in 2017). Conversely, the share of “revolving retail loans” fell further in 2018 to 7.7% of outstanding retail customer loans from 8.4% in 2017. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 293 5 Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures Concentration of exposures by industry or counterparty type (CRB-D) Accommodation Education Agriculture, Production Transport and food Information and forestry and Mining and and Cons­ Wholesale Retail and service and Instruction31/12/2018 (in millions of euros) fishing quarrying Manufacturing distribution truction trade trade storage activities communication Training 1 Central governments or central banks 7 114 2 Institutions 40 461 52 9 2 312 39 59 22 1 3 Corporates 863 20,059 74,194 22,525 10,159 22,530 9,221 32,078 4,475 16,912 234 4 Retail 5 Equity 209 15 143 1 12 74 47 8 40 6 Total IRB approach 1,112 20,074 74,798 22,578 10,187 22,606 9,532 32,277 4,542 16,974 235 7 Central governments or central banks 22 8 Regional governments or local authorities 7 9 Public sector entities 1 4 1 17 27 116 1 28 10 Multilateral development banks 31 11 International organisations 12 Institutions 109 1 2 13 Corporates 1,529 311 12,704 2,611 2,442 5,343 6,325 1,658 767 1,109 77 14 Retail 15 Secured by mortgages on immovable property 222 6 209 10 23 73 52 35 105 12 7 16 Exposures in default 40 18 278 11 364 102 129 34 34 5 17 Items associated with particularly high risk 18 Covered bonds 19 Claims on institutions and corporates with a short-term credit assessment 20 Collective investments undertakings 21 Equity exposures 26 1 3 48 1 31 22 Other exposures 2 1 8 3 12 5 17 60 2 23 Total standardised approach 1,828 337 13,316 2,685 2,858 5,582 6,526 1,955 908 1,126 112 24 TOTAL 2,940 20,411 88,114 25,263 13,045 28,188 16,058 34,233 5,450 18,100 347 294 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures Public Human Other Profesadminishealth personal sional, Administration and services services Company scientific trative and defence, and outside Arts, Real Finance Management and support compulsory social public entertainestate and financial technical service social work administraPrivate ment and Other 31/12/2018 (in millions of euros) activities Insurance participations activities activities security activities tion persons recreation services Total 1 Central governments or central banks 82 128,613 37,794 657 24 167,291 2 Institutions 498 365,546 6 55 2,425 41 45 2 8 9,740 379,363 3 Corporates 17,847 35,108 7,415 4,242 3,052 314 4,720 185 60 1,119 1,604 288,916 4 Retail 170,908 170,908 5 Equity 113 4,346 395 114 33 1 14 2 21 33 9,774 15,395 6 Total IRB approach 18,541 533,613 7,816 4,356 3,139 40,534 5,432 256 170,990 1,160 21,120 1,021,874 7 Central governments or central banks 34,513 12,663 4,824 52,022 8 Regional governments or local authorities 557 5 36 604 9 Public sector entities 15 311 11 7 243 107 19 16 8 931 10 Multilateral development banks 6 37 11 International organisations 621 621 12 Institutions 32,558 5 9,713 42,391 13 Corporates 14,122 10,289 1,036 869 904 66 667 249 16 312 26,215 89,620 14 Retail 7 27,538 1,837 29,383 15 Secured by mortgages on immovable 5 property 855 9 16 20 12 32 19 4,846 4 69 6,635 16 Exposures in default 356 13 21 37 13 6 5 5 608 16 577 2,672 17 Items associated with particularly high risk 133 8 141 18 Covered bonds 19 Claims on institutions and corporates with a short-term credit assessment 20 Collective investments undertakings 477 13,633 10,759 24,869 21 Equity exposures 112 316 6 2 370 916 22 Other exposures 33 2 13 2 22 1 1 88 10,947 11,218 23 Total standardised approach 16,104 92,276 1,092 940 1,333 13,535 816 292 33,097 348 64,992 262,060 24 TOTAL 34,645 625,889 8,908 5,296 4,473 54,069 6,248 548 204,087 1,509 86,112 1,283,934 NB: Of which €314,375 million in Crédit Agricole internal transactions at 31 December 2018. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 295 5 Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures 4.4.2.1.4. Exposures by residual maturity Maturity of the exposures (CRB-E) Value of net exposures 31/12/2018 > 1 year No stated (in millions of euros) On demand ≤ 1 year ≤ 5 years > 5 years maturity Total 1 Central governments or central banks 107,430 21,664 21,474 16,678 45 167,291 2 Institutions 4,281 174,025 94,487 96,841 9,729 379,363 3 Corporates 4,021 95,400 143,586 42,644 3,265 288,916 4 Retail 1,239 168,680 989 170,908 5 Equity 375 15,020 15,395 6 Total IRB approach 116,971 291,089 259,547 325,217 29,050 1,021,874 7 Central governments or central banks 33,565 4,519 5,983 3,217 4,739 52,022 8 Regional governments or local authorities 7 40 88 433 36 604 9 Public sector entities 89 176 352 308 7 931 10 Multilateral development banks 6 31 37 11 International organisations 621 621 12 Institutions 2,617 15,513 10,532 4,010 9,719 42,391 13 Corporates 5,375 23,824 21,099 13,483 25,840 89,620 14 Retail 464 518 3 26,561 1,837 29,383 15 Secured by mortgages on immovable property 14 74 303 6,174 69 6,635 16 Exposures in default 281 374 567 884 566 2,672 17 Items associated with particularly high risk 133 8 141 18 Covered bonds 19 Claims on institutions and corporates with a short-term credit assessment 20 Collective investments undertakings 3,590 6,092 4,442 10,746 24,869 21 Equity exposures 60 128 13 714 916 22 Other exposures 89 78 93 10,958 11,218 23 Total standardised approach 42,412 49,402 45,257 59,751 65,238 262,060 24 TOTAL 159,383 340,492 304,804 384,968 94,288 1,283,934 NB: Of which €314,375 million in Crédit Agricole internal transactions at 31 December 2018. 296 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures 4.4.2.1.5. Default exposures and value adjustments Credit quality of exposures by type of exposure and instrument (CR1-A) Gross carrying values of 31/12/2018 Defaulted Non-defaulted Provisions/ (in millions of euros) exposures exposures Impairment Net values 1 Central governments or central banks 78 167,246 33 167,291 2 Institutions 380 379,389 405 379,363 3 Corporates 3,686 288,363 3,132 288,916 4 Of which: Specialised lending 1,230 57,737 761 58,205 5 Of which: SMEs 194 5,261 156 5,298 6 Retail 4,713 169,965 3,770 170,908 7 Secured by real estate property 1,115 94,309 484 94,940 8 SMEs 236 5,411 107 5,540 9 Non-SMEs 879 88,898 377 89,401 10 Qualifying revolving 320 10,689 384 10,625 11 Other retail 3,277 64,967 2,902 65,342 12 SMEs 1,283 19,199 977 19,505 13 Non-SMEs 1,994 45,768 1,924 45,837 14 Equity 15,395 15,395 15 Total IRB approach 31/12/2018 8,856 1,020,358 7,340 1,021,874 Total IRB approach 31/12/2017 10,885 940,424 7,713 943,596 16 Central governments or central banks 52,023 1 52,022 17 Regional governments or local authorities 604 604 18 Public sector entities 931 931 19 Multilateral development banks 37 37 20 International organisations 621 621 21 Institutions 42,415 24 42,391 22 Corporates 90,143 523 89,620 23 Of which: SMEs 13,877 123 13,754 24 Retail 29,647 265 29,383 25 26 Of which: SMEs Secured by mortgages on immovable property 11,299 6,652 34 17 11,265 6,635 5 27 Of which: SMEs 1,200 2 1,198 28 Exposures in default 5,429 2,757 2,672 29 Items associated with particularly high risk 142 1 141 30 Covered bonds Claims on institutions and corporates with a short-term credit 31 assessment 32 Collective investments undertakings 24,900 31 24,869 33 Equity exposures 922 6 916 34 Other exposures 11,287 69 11,218 35 Total standardised approach 31/12/2018 5,429 260,325 3,695 262,060 Total standardised approach 31/12/2017 6,399 247,116 3,281 250,234 36 TOTAL 31/12/2018 14,285 1,280,683 11,035 1,283,934 TOTAL 31/12/2017 17,284 1,187,540 10,994 1,193,829 NB: Of which €314,375 million in Crédit Agricole internal transactions at 31 December 2018. Of which €301,350 million in Crédit Agricole internal transactions at 31 December 2017. Exposures at default stood at €14.3 billion at 31 December 2018, down 17% compared with 31 December 2017. They represent 1.1% of gross total exposures versus 1.4% at end-2017. The increase in the stock of provisions / impairment is mainly due to the increase in healthy loans which, according to IFRS 9, are provisioned from the onset. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 297 5 Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures Quality of credit exposures by industry or type of counterparty (CR1-B) Gross carrying values of 31/12/2018 Defaulted Non-defaulted Provisions and (in millions of euros) exposures exposures depreciation Net values 1 Agriculture, forestry and fishing 179 2,888 126 2,940 2 Mining and quarrying 217 20,385 190 20,411 3 Manufacturing 1,235 87,594 715 88,114 4 Production and distribution 136 25,195 67 25,263 5 Construction and water supply 1,006 12,537 498 13,045 6 Wholesale trade 487 28,008 308 28,188 7 Retail trade 287 15,899 128 16,058 8 Transport and storage 1,160 33,504 432 34,233 9 Accommodation and food service activities 212 5,376 138 5,450 10 Information and communication 121 18,021 41 18,100 11 Education 4 346 3 347 12 Real estate activities 866 34,142 363 34,645 13 Finance and insurance companies 910 625,707 729 625,889 14 Financial holding companies 227 8,870 189 8,908 15 Professional, scientific and technical activities 91 5,253 48 5,296 16 Administrative and support service activities 50 4,458 36 4,473 17 Public administration and defence, compulsory social security 91 53,999 21 54,069 18 Human health services and social work activities 16 6,237 5 6,248 19 Other personal services 16 542 9 548 20 Private persons 6,173 201,397 3,484 204,087 21 Arts, entertainment and recreation 37 1,491 20 1,509 22 Other services 763 88,833 3,485 86,112 23 TOTAL 31/12/2018 14,285 1,280,683 11,035 1,283,934 24 TOTAL 31/12/2017 17,284 1,187,540 10,994 1,193,829 NB: Of which €314,375 million in Crédit Agricole internal transactions at 31 December 2018. Of which €301,350 million in Crédit Agricole internal transactions at 31 December 2017. Quality of credit exposures by geographic area (CR1-C) Gross carrying values of 31/12/2018 Defaulted Non-defaulted Provisions and (in millions of euros) exposures exposures depreciation Net values 1 Europe 11,702 1,088,352 9,297 1,090,759 2 France 4,932 778,818 4,006 779,745 3 Italy 5,159 100,072 3,786 101,446 4 United Kingdom 155 40,142 222 40,075 5 Germany 110 30,739 126 30,723 6 Luxembourg 95 36,876 7 36,964 7 Switzerland 19 16,431 96 16,353 8 Netherland 188 14,000 145 14,044 9 Others (Europe) 1,044 71,274 909 71,409 10 Asia and Oceania 408 87,618 113 87,912 11 Japan 33 40,888 6 40,915 12 Others (Asia and Oceania) 375 46,730 107 46,997 13 North America 97 68,026 298 67,825 14 USA 58 61,654 297 61,415 15 Others (North America) 39 6,372 1 6,410 16 Central & South America 654 12,356 397 12,613 17 Africa and Middle East 1,424 24,331 930 24,825 18 TOTAL 31/12/2018 14,285 1,280,683 11,035 1,283,934 TOTAL 31/12/2017 17,284 1,187,540 10,995 1,193,829 NB: Of which €314,375 million in Crédit Agricole internal transactions at 31 December 2018. Of which €301,350 million in Crédit Agricole internal transactions at 31 December 2017. 298 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures Age of exposures on watchlist (CR1-D) Gross carrying values 31/12/2018 > 30 days > 60 days > 90 days > 180 days (in millions of euros) ≤ 30 days ≤ 60 days ≤ 90 days ≤ 180 days ≤ 1 year > 1 year 1 Loans 5,358 1,953 870 1,151 678 2,924 2 Debt securities 3 Total exposures 5,358 1,953 870 1,151 678 2,924 Gross carrying values 31/12/2017 > 30 days > 60 days > 90 days > 180 days (in millions of euros) ≤ 30 days ≤ 60 days ≤ 90 days ≤ 180 days ≤ 1 year > 1 year 1 Loans 4,017 811 418 165 115 109 2 Debt securities 3 Total exposures 4,017 811 418 165 115 109 Exposures on watchlist for up to 60 days account for 57% at 31 December 2018 and 86% on 31 December 2017 of total exposures on watchlist. Non-performing and restructured exposures (CR1-E) Accumulated impairment and Collaterals provisions and negative fair and financial Gross carrying amount of performing and non-performing value adjustments due to credit guarantees exposures risk received On performing On non-performing Of which non-performing exposures exposures Of which performing but past due Of > 30 days Of which Of which: Of On nonOf which: 31/12/2018 and performing which: Of which: forwhich: Of which: performing forborne ≤ 90 days forborne 5 (in millions of euros) defaulted impaired borne forborne forborne exposures exposures 10 Debt securities 95,324 11 99 79 79 (37) (17) 20 Loans and advances 866,146 2,223 3,340 14,745 13,644 13,644 5,878 (2,221) (255) (7,957) (2,571) 3,659 3,129 30 Off-balance sheet exposures 478,191 131 3,923 860 54 545 4 328 6 38 61 Accumulated impairment and Collaterals provisions and negative fair and financial Gross carrying amount of performing and non-performing value adjustments due to credit guarantees exposures risk received On performing On non-performing Of which non-performing exposures exposures Of which performing but past due Of > 30 days Of which Of which: Of On nonOf which: and performing which: Of which: forwhich: Of which: performing forborne 31/12/2017 (in millions of euros) ≤ 90 days forborne defaulted impaired borne forborne forborne exposures exposures 10 Debt securities 98,199 316 294 218 294 (2) (222) 20 Loans and advances 797,526 2,291 4,526 17,013 15,654 15,654 6,923 (1,955) (341) (8,390) (2,952) 4,593 5,175 30 Off-balance sheet exposures 448,869 466 1,357 1,293 95 93 27 396 3 78 93 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 299 5 Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures The information on non-performing and renegotiated exposures includes the gross carrying amount, impairment, provisions and related valuation adjustments, as well as the value of collateral and guarantees received. The definitions of defaulted, impaired, renegotiated or restructured exposures are given in the financial statements in Part 1.2 “Accounting principles and methods”. Credit quality of restructured exposures (5A) Impairment, provisions and value All forborne adjustments exposures Performing forborne Non-performing forborne Collateral exposures exposures and financial Of guarantees Of which: Of which which: Of which: Of which: received on performing nonOf which: devalue value forborne past-due performing impaired faulted adjustments adjustments exposures 31/12/2018 (in millions of euros) a b c d e f g h i j 1 Debt securities (including at amortised cost and fair value) 11 2 Central banks 3 General governments 4 Credit institutions 5 Other financial corporations 6 Non-financial corporations 11 7 Loans and advances (including at amortised cost and fair value) 9,218 5,878 5,268 5,246 (255) (2,571) 3,129 8 Central banks 9 General governments 28 6 6 6 (1) (4) 2 10 Credit institutions 51 51 51 51 (25) 11 Other financial corporations 156 152 152 152 (1) (86) 3 12 Non-financial corporations 6,316 3,869 3,639 3,636 (173) (1,651) 2,377 12.1 Of which: Small and Medium-sized Enterprises 2,066 1,466 1,337 1,337 (38) (629) 640 12.2 Of which: Loans collateralised by commercial immovable property 932 603 576 576 (25) (199) 254 13 Households 2,668 1,799 1,420 1,401 (80) (805) 747 13.1 Of which: Loans collateralised by residential immovable property 486 257 208 220 (9) (74) 252 13.2 Of which: Credit for consumption 1,304 1,004 822 798 (41) (526) 2 14 Debt instruments other than HFT 9,229 5,878 5,268 5,246 (255) (2,571) 3,129 15 Loan commitments given 185 54 28 37 (4) (6) 61 16 TOTAL EXPOSURES WITH FORBEARANCE MEASURES 9,414 5,932 5,296 5,283 (259) (2,577) 3,190 300 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures Change in balance of specific credit risk adjustments (CR2-A) 31/12/2018 Accumulated specific credit risk (in millions of euros) adjustment 1 Opening balance 11,564 2 Increases due to origination and acquisition 1,086 3 Decreases due to derecognition (1,691) 4 Changes due to change in credit risk (net) 1,548 5 Changes due to modifications without derecognition (net) 246 6 Changes due to update in the institution’s methodology for estimation (net) 7 Decrease in allowance account due to write-offs (2,475) 8 Other adjustments (54) 9 Closing balance(1) 10,223 10 Recoveries of previously written-off amounts recorded directly to the statement of profit or loss (239) 11 Amounts written-off directly to the statement of profit or loss 198 (1) Differences in total provisions between CR2-A, CR1-A and CR1-C tables are mainly due to divergences in scope. Impairment of fixed assets and equity investments and provisions for guarantee commitments given are only included in the CR1-A and CR1-C. 31/12/2017 Accumulated specific Accumulated general credit risk (in millions of euros) credit risk adjustment adjustment 1 Opening balance 9,117 2,505 2 Increases due to amounts set aside for estimated loan losses during the period 2,810 327 3 Decreases due to amounts reversed for estimated loan losses during the period (1,346) (736) 4 Decreases due to amounts taken against accumulated credit risk adjustments (1,886) 5 Transfers between credit risk adjustments (18) 4 6 Impact of exchange rate differences (253) (115) 7 Business combinations, including acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries 240 69 8 Other adjustments (91) (56) 9 Closing balance(1) 8,572 1,997 10 Recoveries on credit risk adjustments recorded directly to the statement of profit or loss (288) 11 Specific credit risk adjustments directly recorded to the statement of profit or loss 2,140 (1) Differences in total provisions between CR2-A, CR1-A and CR1-C tables are mainly due to divergences in scope. Impairment of fixed assets and equity investments and 5 provisions for guarantee commitments given are only included in the CR1-A and CR1-C. Changes in the balance of loans and debt securities in default and impaired (impaired) (CR2-B) 31/12/2018 Gross carrying value defaulted (in millions of euros) exposures 1 Opening balance 15,700 2 Loans and debt securities that have defaulted or impaired since the last reporting period 2,163 3 Returned to non-defaulted status (439) 4 Amounts written off (1,763) 5 Other changes (1,938) 6 Closing balance 13,723 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 301 5 Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures 4.4.2.2. Credit risk 4.4.2.2.1. Exposures under the standardised approach Since late 2007, the ACPR has authorised Crédit Agricole S.A. Group The exposure categories under the standardised approach are to use its internal rating systems to calculate regulatory capital classified by counterparty type and financial product type, in one of requirements for credit risk on Retail and Large customer exposures the 17 categories set out in Article 112 of Regulation (EU) 575/2013 throughout almost all of its consolidation scope. The main recent of 26 June 2013. The weightings applied to these same assets are developments regarding the Group’s rollout plan are the switch to calculated in accordance with Articles 114 to 134 of said regulation. the Advanced IRB approach for all “Retail banking” portfolios in the For the “Central governments and central banks” and “Institutions” Cariparma and FriulAdria entities in Italy in 2013, and the validation of exposure categories, Crédit Agricole S.A. Group has chosen to use the IRB “Corporate” portfolios of the Crédit Agricole Regional Banks and Moody’s ratings to evaluate the risk under the standardised approach. of LCL effective 1 October 2014. Accordingly, when the counterparty’s credit valuation from the rating The main Group entities or portfolios still using the standardised method agency is known, it is used to determine the applicable weighting. for measuring credit and/or operational risk at 31 December 2018 were With respect to the counterparties in the “Institutions” or “Corporates” as follows: exposure categories for which the credit valuation is not known, the nn the Cariparma Group portfolios still not validated (non-retail banking weighting used is determined having regard to the credit valuation of portfolios and Carispezia scope) as well as all other entities in the the jurisdiction of the central government in which this counterparty is International retail banking division; established, in accordance with the provisions of Articles 121 and 122 nn the Crédit Agricole Leasing & Factoring Group; of the aforementioned regulation. nn some portfolios and foreign subsidiaries of Crédit Agricole Consumer With respect to exposures on debt instruments in the banking portfolio, Finance Group; the rule is to apply the issuer’s weighting ratio. This rate is determined nn the real estate professionals portfolio. using the rules described in the foregoing paragraph. Pursuant to the Group’s commitment to phase in the advanced method, agreed with the supervisor (rollout plan), work on the main entities or portfolios still under the standardised method continues. An update of the rollout plan is sent annually to the competent authority. Standardised approach – Exposure to credit risk and credit risk mitigation (CRM) effects at 31 December 2018 (CR4) Exposures before CCF Exposures post-CCF and CRM and CRM RWA and RWA density 31/12/2018 On-balance On-balance Asset classes sheet Off-balance sheet Off-balance (in millions of euros) amount sheet amount amount sheet amount RWA RWA density 1 Central governments or central banks 49,407 340 49,560 85 5,791 11.66% 2 Regional governments or local authorities 546 58 545 24 109 19.16% 3 Public sector entities 872 43 870 23 209 23.40% 4 Multilateral developments banks 31 6 31 3 3 8.82% 5 International organisations 621 621 6 Institutions 22,361 4,298 42,656 2,490 6,895 15.27% 7 Corporate 66,210 21,339 46,545 7,123 46,180 86.05% 8 Retail 25,187 4,192 23,181 591 16,254 68.37% 9 Secured by mortgages on immovable property 6,599 36 6,465 14 2,680 41.36% 10 Exposure in default 911 5 911 5 1,082 118.12% 11 Higher-risk categories 2,481 186 2,403 61 2,909 118.06% 12 Covered bonds 141 141 212 150.35% Institutions and corporates with a short-term 13 credit assessment 14 Collective investment undertakings 15 Equity 4,194 20,675 4,194 6,126 3,704 35.89% 16 Other items 11,218 11,218 4 8,670 77.26% 17 TOTAL 190,779 51,177 189,342 16,550 94,698 45.99% 302 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures Standardised approach – Exposure to credit risk and credit risk mitigation (CRM) effects at 31 December 2017 (CR4) Exposures before CCF Exposures post-CCF and CRM and CRM RWA and RWA density 31/12/2017 On-balance On-balance Asset classes sheet Off-balance sheet Off-balance (in millions of euros) amount sheet amount amount sheet amount RWA RWA density 1 Central governments or central banks 45,456 110 45,503 35 4,867 10.69% 2 Regional governments or local authorities 315 62 315 41 67 18.82% 3 Public sector entities 445 6 446 13 59 12.85% 4 Multilateral developments banks 4 1 2 1 33.33% 5 International organisations 206 206 6 Institutions 21,267 3,298 37,602 2,106 7,516 18.93% 7 Corporate 60,823 18,376 43,777 6,558 44,482 88.37% 8 Retail 25,290 4,976 24,587 595 17,315 68.76% 9 Secured by mortgages on immovable property 7,081 55 6,975 25 2,756 39.37% 10 Exposure in default 1,001 74 1,001 74 1,320 122.79% 11 Higher-risk categories 3,130 265 3,067 107 3,848 121.24% 12 Covered bonds 149 2 149 2 227 150.33% Institutions and corporates with a short-term 13 credit assessment 19 19 9 47.37% 14 Collective investment undertakings 15 Equity 3,787 20,926 3,787 5,970 3,422 35.07% 16 Other items 11,145 11,154 40 8,900 79.51% 17 TOTAL 180,114 48,154 178,588 15,567 94,789 48.82% 5 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 303 5 Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures Exposures by asset class and by risk weighting coefficient at 31 December 2018 (CR5) Risk weight 31/12/2018 Asset classes o/w (in millions of euros) 0% 2% 4% 10% 20% 35% 50% 70% 75% 100% 150% 250% 370% 1250% Others Deducted Total unrated 1 Central governments or central banks 45,258 127 387 2,714 40 1,119 49,645 49,645 2 Regional governments or local authorities 24 546 569 569 3 Public sector entities 406 287 97 104 893 798 4 Multilateral developments banks 31 3 34 34 5 International organisations 621 621 621 6 Institutions 24,925 1,410 10,781 6,689 1,290 50 45,147 34,719 7 Corporate 3,986 9,077 39,348 1,258 53,668 31,784 8 Retail 23,772 23,772 23,772 9 Secured by mortgages on immovable property 4,277 1,707 477 17 6,479 6,479 10 Equity exposure 806 110 916 916 11 Exposure in default 1,574 890 2,464 2,464 12 Items associated with particularly high risk 141 141 141 13 Covered bonds 14 Claims on institutions and corporate with a short-term credit assessment 15 Claims in the form of CIU 4,820 2 30 1,085 1,860 2,463 60 10,320 9,749 16 Other items 1,694 1,072 8,455 11,222 11,222 17 TOTAL 77,779 1,410 2 30 17,883 4,277 19,816 24,249 56,775 2,440 110 1,119 205,892 172,914 304 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures Exposures by asset class and by risk weighting coefficient at 31 December 2017 (CR5) Risk weight 31/12/2017 Asset classes o/w (in millions of euros) 0% 2% 4% 10% 20% 35% 50% 70% 75% 100% 150% 250% 370% 1250% Others Deducted Total unrated 1 Central governments or central banks 41,542 45 402 2,810 739 45,538 45,478 2 Regional governments or local authorities 21 334 355 355 3 Public sector entities 324 91 7 37 459 453 4 Multilateral developments banks 1 2 3 3 5 International organisations 206 206 206 6 Institutions 18,784 2,137 9,691 7,283 1,646 166 39,708 29,409 7 Corporate 3,995 6,476 38,699 1,164 50,334 34,695 8 Retail (0) 25,183 25,183 25,183 9 Secured by mortgages on immovable property 5,478 1,073 429 19 6,999 6,999 10 Equity exposure 911 163 1,075 1,075 11 Exposure in default 1,826 1,347 3,174 3,174 12 Items associated with particularly high risk 152 152 152 13 Covered bonds 19 19 14 Claims on institutions and corporate with a short-term credit assessment 15 Claims in the form of CIU 4,777 4 2,066 121 2,471 318 9,757 9,757 5 16 Other items 1,580 893 8,721 11,194 11,194 17 TOTAL 67,235 2,137 4 17,116 5,478 15,382 25,612 57,142 3,148 163 739 194,155 168,132 Exposures to the asset classes “Central governments and central It also includes some exposures to regional and local authorities, banks” and “Banks (institutions)” treated under the standard approach public sector agencies and multilateral development banks that are mainly benefit from the application of a 0% weighting coefficient at not classified under central governments; end-2018 and at end-2017. This reflects the importance of activities nn the “Corporates” class is divided into large corporates and small and carried out with high quality counterparties. medium-sized companies, which are subject to different regulatory treatments; 4.4.2.2.2. Credit risk – internal ratings-based approach nn the “Retail customer” class is broken down into loans secured by Outstanding loans are classified by counterparty type and financial property granted to individuals and to small and medium businesses, product type, based on the seven exposure classes shown in the revolving credits, other loans granted to individuals and to small and table below and set out in Article 147 of Regulation (EU) 575/2013 of medium businesses; 26 June 2013 on capital requirements applicable to credit institutions and investment companies: nn the “Equity” class comprises exposures that convey a residual, subordinated claim on the assets or income of the issuer or have a nn in addition to exposures to “Central governments and central banks”, similar economic substance; the Central government and central banks class includes exposures to certain regional and local authorities and public sector agencies that nn the “Securitisation” class includes exposures to securitisation are treated as central government agencies, as well as multilateral transactions or structures, including those resulting from interest development banks and international organisations; rate or exchange rate derivatives, independently of the institution’s role (whether it is the originator, sponsor or investor); nn the “Institutions” class comprises exposure to credit institutions and investment companies, including those recognised in other countries. nn the “Assets other than credit obligations” class does not currently show any assets using the Internal Rating-Based (IRB) approach. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 305 5 Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures In accordance with the regulatory rules in effect, risk-weighted For Retail customers, the default can be recorded at the level of the assets in the “Central governments and central banks”, “Institutions”, transaction. When applied to the debtor, it factors in the principle of “Corporate” and “Retail customers” classes are calculated by applying contagion. Contagion rules are defined and precisely documented by a prescribed formula, the main parameters of which are the EAD, PD, the entity (joint account, outstandings of individuals or professionals, LGD and the maturity associated with each exposure: notion of risk group, etc.). nn for exposures to Large customers (Central governments and central The pertinence and reliability of the rating data used are guaranteed by a banks, Institutions and Corporates), the formula is given in Article 153 process consisting in the initial validation and subsequent maintenance of EU Regulation 575/2013 of 26 June 2013; of internal models based on a structured and documented organisation nn for exposures to Retail customers, the formula is given in Article 154 implemented throughout the Group and involving entities, the Risk of EU Regulation 575/2013 of 26 June 2013. Management department and the Audit Group function. Risk-weighted assets in the “Equities” category are calculated by The use of internal models for calculating solvency ratios has applying standardised weightings to the carrying amount of the strengthened Crédit Agricole S.A. Group’s risk management. In exposures. These weightings, set out in Article 155 of EU Regulation particular, the development of “internal rating” approaches has led to 575/2013 of 26 June 2013, depend on the nature of the equities the systematic collection of reliable data in respect of historical default involved: 190% for private equity exposures in sufficiently diversified and loss for the majority of Group entities. The collection of historical portfolios, 290% for exchange traded equity exposures and 370% for data of this nature now makes it possible to quantify credit risk by giving all other “Equity” exposures excluding equity investments of over 10% each rating an average Probability of Default (PD) and, for “advanced in financial firms used in the calculation of the exemption threshold internal rating” approaches, the Loss Given Default (LGD). (250% weighting). In addition, the parameters of the “internal rating” models are used The calculation of risk-weighted assets in respect of “Securitisation” in the definition, implementation and monitoring of entities’ risk and exposures is set out in the dedicated section below. credit policies. On the scope of Large customers, the Group’s unique Risk-weighted assets of “Assets other than credit obligations” rating system (identical methods and tools, shared data), in place for exposures are calculated in accordance with Article 156 of Regulation many years, has contributed to strengthening and standardising the (EU) 575/2013 of 26 June 2013. The parameters of the formulas cited use of ratings and the associated risk parameters within the entities. above are estimated using historical default and loss data collected The uniqueness of ratings in the scope of the Large customer category internally by Crédit Agricole S.A. Group. Note that the definition of thereby provides a shared framework on which to base standards and default used for the calculation of these parameters has a significant procedures, management tools, provisioning and risk-hedging policies, influence on the value thereof. as well as alerts and close monitoring procedures. Due to their role in the monitoring and managing of risk within the various entities, ratings Exposure at Default (EAD) is the amount of exposure to a counterparty are subject to quality controls and regular monitoring at all stages of at the time of said counterparty’s default. For balance sheet items, the rating process. EAD corresponds to exposure net of provisions for items covered by the standardised approach to credit risk, and to gross amounts for Internal models for measuring risks accordingly promote the items covered by internal ratings. In the case of limits and financing development of sound risk-management practices among Group commitments not used by the counterparty, a fraction of the total entities and improve the efficiency of the process of capital allocation by commitment is taken into account by applying a credit conversion factor allowing a more accurate measurement of its consumption by business (CCF). The CCF is estimated using an internal method validated by the line and by entity. supervisory authority for Retail banking portfolios. The Internal CCF is The set of internal models used in Crédit Agricole Group was presented estimated on the basis of the CCF observed in cases of default by class for approval to the Standards and Methodology Committee before of exposure. For other portfolios, a standard CCF of 20%, 50% or 100% auditing by the Group Control and Audit department. This internal is applied, depending on the nature of the commitment and its term. validation process pre-dates the application for formal approval to the For Large customers, default is defined on a customer-by customer ECB. The process of constructing and validating an internal rating model basis. As a result, it factors in the principle of contagion: an exposure to requires work over a period generally spanning three to five years, a defaulting customer causes the classification under default of all of the involving several on-site pre-validation and validation assignments. said customer’s loans within the entity responsible for the uniformity of After validation, systems governing internal ratings and the calculation the rating and all of its loans within Crédit Agricole S.A. Group. of risk parameters are subject to permanent and periodic control within each Group entity. 306 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures Modeled parameter Portfolio/Entity Number of models PD Sovereigns 5 Local authorities 8 Financial Institutions (Banks, Insurance, Funds, etc.) 8 Specialised financing 9 Corporates 5 Retail banking – LCL 2 Retail banking – Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance 16 Retail banking – CACIB 1 Retail banking – CA Italia 3 LGD Sovereigns 1 Financial Institutions (Banks, Insurance, Funds, etc.) 3 Specialised financing 8 Corporates 1 Retail banking – LCL 12 Retail banking – Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance 16 Retail banking – CACIB 1 Retail banking – CA Italia 2 CCF Retail banking – LCL 3 Retail banking – Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance 4 5 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 307 5 Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures 4.4.2.2.3. Quality of exposures under the internal ratings-based approach Presentation of the internal ratings system and procedure The internal ratings systems and procedures are described in the section entitled “Risk Factors – Risk Management – Risk Measurement methods and systems”. As exposure to Retail customers’ credit risk categories does not use the same internal ratings as the other categories, they are presented separately. Credit risk exposures by portfolio and probability of default (PD) range Internal ratings-based approach foundation at 31 December 2018 (CR6) Original Off-balance on-balance sheet EAD post sheet gross exposures Average CRM and Average Average RWA (in millions of euros) PD scale exposure pre CCF CCF post-CCF Average PD LGD maturity RWA density EL Provisions Central 0.00 to < 0.15 83,844 80 68.17% 83,926 0.00% 45.00% 613 0.73% 1 governments 0.15 to < 0.25 112 112 0.16% 45.00% 46 41.15% and central banks 0.25 to < 0.50 0.50 to < 0.75 0.63% 44.98% 79.94% 0.75 to < 2.50 1 1 1.42% 45.00% 1 112.67% 2.50 to < 10.00 10.00 to < 100.00 100.00 (Default) Sub-total 83,957 80 68.17% 84,039 0.00% 45.00% 660 0.79% 1 7 Institutions 0.00 to < 0.15 322,296 2,022 57.10% 323,509 0.03% 1.09% 1,643 0.51% 1 0.15 to < 0.25 170 51 68.33% 205 0.16% 24.60% 51 24.77% 0.25 to < 0.50 372 21 32.24% 379 0.30% 37.60% 240 63.28% 0.50 to < 0.75 137 25 45.44% 149 0.60% 45.00% 153 102.70% 0.75 to < 2.50 57 11 62.49% 64 0.96% 44.98% 73 114.83% 2.50 to < 10.00 3 2 67.23% 5 5.00% 45.00% 9 184.16% 10.00 to < 100.00 10 1 25.18% 10 19.77% 45.00% 26 252.39% 1 100.00 (Default) Sub-total 323,047 2,133 57.01% 324,321 0.03% 1.18% 2,195 0.68% 3 5 Corporates 0.00 to < 0.15 8,852 7,243 83.76% 14,952 0.04% 44.95% 3,009 20.13% 3 – Other 0.15 to < 0.25 2,750 2,189 76.66% 4,429 0.16% 44.88% 1,867 42.15% 3 0.25 to < 0.50 2,793 2,994 73.25% 4,955 0.30% 44.77% 2,914 58.81% 7 0.50 to < 0.75 2,785 2,171 78.79% 4,485 0.60% 44.82% 3,666 81.73% 12 0.75 to < 2.50 3,316 2,297 69.82% 4,908 1.15% 44.67% 5,024 102.37% 25 2.50 to < 10.00 156 175 85.46% 305 5.00% 44.77% 493 161.53% 7 10.00 to < 100.00 322 138 70.05% 418 18.87% 44.82% 1,053 251.55% 35 100.00 (Default) 330 73 71.61% 379 100.00% 44.89% 170 Sub-total 21,303 17,279 78.44% 34,831 1.68% 44.86% 18,025 51.75% 262 422 Corporates 0.00 to < 0.15 86 118 84.51% 186 0.05% 45.00% 32 17.22% – SME 0.15 to < 0.25 204 60 91.00% 259 0.16% 44.95% 92 35.46% 0.25 to < 0.50 350 114 79.01% 441 0.30% 44.87% 224 50.94% 1 0.50 to < 0.75 416 112 79.12% 503 0.60% 44.40% 348 69.21% 1 0.75 to < 2.50 2,151 509 74.07% 2,479 1.32% 44.23% 2,200 88.75% 14 2.50 to < 10.00 139 22 64.67% 150 5.00% 44.11% 189 126.07% 3 10.00 to < 100.00 82 18 40.15% 84 15.68% 43.90% 161 191.47% 6 100.00 (Default) 176 9 57.87% 178 100.00% 44.78% 80 Sub-total 3,605 963 76.62% 4,280 5.52% 44.41% 3,247 75.87% 105 149 TOTAL (ALL PORTFOLIOS) 431,912 20,454 76.07% 447,471 0.21% 13.23% 24,127 5.39% 372 583 308 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures Credit risk exposures by portfolio and probability of default (PD) range Internal ratings-based approach foundation at 31 December 2017 (CR6) Original Off-baon-balance lance sheet EAD post sheet gross exposures Average CRM and Average Average RWA (in millions of euros) PD scale exposure pre CCF CCF post-CCF Average PD LGD maturity RWA density EL Provisions Central 0.00 to < 0.15 72,818 80 66.18% 72,909 45.00% 697 0.96% 1 governments 0.15 to < 0.25 158 158 0.16% 45.00% 65 41.14% and central banks 0.25 to < 0.50 105 105 0.30% 45.00% 60 57.64% 0.50 to < 0.75 13 13 0.60% 45.00% 10 79.98% 0.75 to < 2.50 113 113 0.81% 45.00% 102 90.28% 2.50 to < 10.00 50.00% 150.00% 10.00 to < 100.00 100.00 (Default) Sub-total 73,206 80 66.18% 73,297 45.00% 934 1.27% 1 9 Institutions 0.00 to < 0.15 307,612 2,754 60.76% 309,350 0.03% 1.27% 1,955 0.63% 1 0.15 to < 0.25 217 1 28.92% 218 0.16% 36.15% 75 34.65% 0.25 to < 0.50 471 7 31.75% 473 0.30% 38.92% 312 65.82% 1 0.50 to < 0.75 19 21 59.81% 31 0.60% 45.00% 29 92.22% 0.75 to < 2.50 61 16 29.86% 66 0.95% 44.98% 75 113.29% 2.50 to < 10.00 1 1 25.30% 1 5.00% 45.00% 2 190.42% 10.00 to < 100.00 4 3 88.96% 6 19.66% 45.00% 17 269.33% 1 100.00 (Default) 100.00% 45.00% Sub-total 308,385 2,803 60.51% 310,146 0.03% 1.37% 2,464 0.79% 3 1 Corporates – 0.00 to < 0.15 8,269 7,401 84.88% 14,556 0.04% 44.97% 2,890 19.85% 3 Other 0.15 to < 0.25 2,325 2,510 75.86% 4,229 0.16% 44.90% 1,774 41.95% 3 0.25 to < 0.50 2,501 2,467 73.05% 4,297 0.30% 44.71% 2,527 58.82% 6 0.50 to < 0.75 2,489 1,862 74.20% 3,849 0.60% 44.84% 3,160 82.12% 10 0.75 to < 2.50 3,093 2,063 70.85% 4,541 1.17% 44.62% 4,658 102.59% 24 2.50 to < 10.00 123 54 76.94% 164 5.00% 44.44% 264 160.88% 4 10.00 to < 100.00 130 145 75.75% 240 18.00% 44.88% 599 249.91% 19 100.00 (Default) 395 69 58.53% 430 100.00% 44.95% 193 Corporates – Sub-total 0.00 to < 0.15 19,325 25 16,571 31 78.60% 32,304 75.80% 49 1.81% 44.86% 0.04% 45.00% 15,873 49.14% 8 17.07% 262 385 5 SME 0.15 to < 0.25 38 10 85.89% 46 0.16% 44.91% 17 37.57% 0.25 to < 0.50 264 73 75.67% 319 0.30% 44.52% 166 52.15% 0.50 to < 0.75 328 101 69.19% 399 0.60% 44.39% 279 70.00% 1 0.75 to < 2.50 1,875 523 72.63% 2,205 1.36% 44.21% 1,970 89.31% 13 2.50 to < 10.00 114 24 54.50% 123 5.00% 44.01% 154 124.70% 3 10.00 to < 100.00 87 22 53.94% 94 15.06% 44.42% 185 195.60% 6 100.00 (Default) 209 9 53.40% 209 100.00% 44.63% 93 Sub-total 2,940 792 71.52% 3,445 7.64% 44.31% 2,779 80.67% 117 191 TOTAL (ALL PORTFOLIOS) 403,857 20,246 75.75% 419,193 0.23% 12.70% 22,050 5.26% 384 585 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 309 5 Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures Credit risk exposures by portfolio and probability of default (PD) range Advanced internal ratings-based approach at 31 December 2018 (CR6) Original Off-balance on-balance sheet EAD post sheet gross exposures Average CRM and Average Average RWA (in millions of euros) PD scale exposure pre CCF CCF post-CCF Average PD LGD maturity RWA density EL Provisions Central 0.00 to < 0.15 68,908 2,890 66.98% 81,026 0.01% 1.40% 614 227 0.28% governments 0.15 to < 0.25 453 64.06% 1,166 0.16% 10.00% 1,031 116 9.99% and central banks 0.25 to < 0.50 378 378 0.30% 9.98% 404 36 9.52% 0.50 to < 0.75 775 214 75.00% 323 0.60% 10.00% 559 47 14.65% 0.75 to < 2.50 296 490 75.00% 45 1.24% 46.88% 1,331 58 127.73% 2.50 to < 10.00 685 315 73.86% 82 5.00% 59.76% 1,459 140 171.06% 2 10.00 to < 100.00 84 108 76.34% 26 12.41% 77.60% 1,126 104 402.17% 3 100.00 (Default) 78 31 100.00% 45.00% 1,367 1.04% 17 Sub-total 71,657 4,017 66.96% 83,077 0.06% 1.72% 620 729 0.88% 22 25 Institutions 0.00 to < 0.15 21,439 3,671 83.99% 26,882 0.03% 11.31% 608 929 3.46% 1 0.15 to < 0.25 814 492 46.90% 501 0.16% 38.49% 759 230 46.00% 0.25 to < 0.50 789 1,165 39.05% 1,139 0.30% 42.29% 529 437 38.33% 1 0.50 to < 0.75 404 712 44.30% 565 0.60% 52.66% 425 383 67.74% 1 0.75 to < 2.50 842 1,087 41.63% 862 0.96% 39.11% 543 632 73.37% 3 2.50 to < 10.00 47 87 20.81% 21 5.00% 56.40% 438 56 267.61% 1 10.00 to < 100.00 95 24 27.69% 100 19.48% 39.01% 1,639 229 228.88% 7 100.00 (Default) 377 377 100.00% 45.01% 625 394 Sub-total 24,807 7,238 70.72% 30,447 1.38% 15.01% 606 2,897 9.52% 409 400 Corporates – 0.00 to < 0.15 24,839 52,479 54.05% 51,939 0.04% 35.57% 730 7,382 14.21% 8 Other 0.15 to < 0.25 10,366 15,375 56.74% 16,328 0.16% 43.59% 965 6,007 36.79% 10 0.25 to < 0.50 7,098 16,846 48.19% 11,779 0.30% 49.51% 959 6,306 53.53% 14 0.50 to < 0.75 7,763 8,937 59.27% 9,493 0.60% 45.77% 919 6,761 71.22% 21 0.75 to < 2.50 8,218 10,956 56.01% 10,561 1.10% 45.60% 1,109 9,755 92.37% 43 2.50 to < 10.00 495 636 55.96% 304 5.00% 50.28% 773 418 137.67% 6 10.00 to < 100.00 944 1,704 36.15% 952 15.53% 41.71% 1,004 1,591 167.14% 49 100.00 (Default) 1,575 283 43.77% 1,580 100.00% 45.12% 843 11 0.72% 1,310 Sub-total 61,298 107,215 53.82% 102,935 1.94% 40.65% 854 38,232 37.14% 1,460 1,794 Corporates – 0.00 to < 0.15 6 4 20.00% 6 0.06% 46.61% 1,443 2 24.78% SME 0.15 to < 0.25 2 100.00% 2 0.16% 48.16% 619 1 29.32% 0.25 to < 0.50 3 3 54.78% 4 0.30% 47.60% 1,104 3 60.56% 0.50 to < 0.75 20 142 75.85% 36 0.60% 35.76% 623 17 48.13% 0.75 to < 2.50 127 247 49.36% 217 1.33% 36.03% 1,056 160 73.77% 1 2.50 to < 10.00 10 1 63.61% 10 5.00% 38.42% 1,134 10 108.87% 10.00 to < 100.00 51 163 75.10% 161 19.65% 45.90% 1,626 164 101.40% 4 100.00 (Default) 7 84.72% 8 100.00% 45.05% 402 0.00% 4 Sub-total 227 558 60.44% 444 9.66% 40.12% 1,222 356 80.23% 9 7 Corporates – 0.00 to < 0.15 1,757 1,419 51.18% 9,192 0.03% 5.50% 1,354 259 2.82% Specialised 0.15 to < 0.25 8,036 2,429 68.05% 10,219 0.16% 9.73% 1,350 1,046 10.24% 1 Lending 0.25 to < 0.50 10,573 2,943 63.51% 10,421 0.30% 12.23% 1,313 1,801 17.28% 4 0.50 to < 0.75 8,274 2,683 45.15% 7,961 0.60% 11.62% 1,286 1,736 21.81% 5 0.75 to < 2.50 10,506 3,679 57.63% 9,774 1.12% 14.37% 1,280 3,234 33.09% 15 2.50 to < 10.00 1,301 161 40.18% 1,036 5.00% 15.65% 1,121 559 53.97% 8 10.00 to < 100.00 1,672 241 59.39% 1,127 15.74% 19.58% 1,111 1,134 100.60% 35 100.00 (Default) 1,195 29 78.00% 1,159 100.00% 41.97% 1,093 62 5.39% 421 Sub-total 43,314 13,584 57.21% 50,890 3.14% 11.74% 1,304 9,832 19.32% 489 761 310 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures Original Off-balance on-balance sheet EAD post sheet gross exposures Average CRM and Average Average RWA (in millions of euros) PD scale exposure pre CCF CCF post-CCF Average PD LGD maturity RWA density EL Provisions Retail – 0.00 to < 0.15 35,383 1,578 100.00% 36,961 0.09% 11.68% 1,044 2.82% 4 Secured by 0.15 to < 0.25 4,533 15 100.00% 4,548 0.22% 17.37% 364 8.00% 2 immovable property non 0.25 to < 0.50 20,035 900 100.00% 20,935 0.43% 11.29% 1,751 8.37% 10 SME 0.50 to < 0.75 0.75 to < 2.50 17,503 1,179 100.00% 18,682 1.49% 11.29% 3,544 18.97% 31 2.50 to < 10.00 6,470 905 100.00% 7,375 5.40% 11.60% 3,063 41.53% 47 10.00 to < 100.00 389 8 100.00% 398 27.24% 318 79.89% 14 100.00 (Default) 877 2 99.12% 879 100.00% 38.92% 389 44.23% 342 Sub-total 85,190 4,588 100.00% 89,778 1.85% 11.98% 10,472 11.66% 450 377 Retail – Other 0.00 to < 0.15 146 2,340 54.81% 1,429 0.09% 68.56% 58 4.09% 1 SME 0.15 to < 0.25 13 346 26.41% 104 0.25% 56.34% 9 8.39% 0.25 to < 0.50 218 1,987 60.44% 1,419 0.45% 65.53% 205 14.42% 4 0.50 to < 0.75 0.75 to < 2.50 961 1,836 57.18% 2,010 1.70% 61.48% 747 37.13% 21 2.50 to < 10.00 1,661 983 74.04% 2,389 5.30% 61.61% 1,894 79.30% 77 10.00 to < 100.00 171 28 74.80% 191 35.04% 61.51% 331 172.72% 40 100.00 (Default) 318 2 66.04% 319 100.00% 85.92% 63 19.79% 274 Sub-total 3,488 7,521 58.16% 7,862 6.87% 64.98% 3,306 42.05% 419 384 Retail – 0.00 to < 0.15 14,319 437 95.55% 14,736 0.09% 12.13% 441 3.00% 2 Qualifying 0.15 to < 0.25 2,442 57 86.96% 2,491 0.21% 27.18% 302 12.13% 1 revolving 0.25 to < 0.50 4,546 280 99.18% 4,824 0.46% 37.62% 1,292 26.79% 8 0.50 to < 0.75 0.75 to < 2.50 12,362 454 104.28% 12,835 1.46% 46.41% 7,254 56.52% 88 2.50 to < 10.00 9,453 245 100.80% 9,700 4.70% 49.27% 7,338 75.65% 211 10.00 to < 100.00 1,170 4 98.89% 1,173 10.40% 16.52% 1,194 101.78% 235 100.00 (Default) 1,990 4 80.89% 1,993 100.00% 71.77% 452 22.70% 1,476 Sub-total 46,282 1,480 99.43% 47,753 5.73% 34.42% 18,275 38.27% 2,021 1,977 Retail – Secured by 0.00 to < 0.15 0.15 to < 0.25 205 597 7 100.00% 100.00% 205 604 0.11% 0.20% 17.62% 14.92% 8 29 3.82% 4.88% 5 immovable property SME 0.25 to < 0.50 1,615 13 100.00% 1,629 0.52% 15.15% 160 9.81% 1 0.50 to < 0.75 0.75 to < 2.50 1,502 23 100.00% 1,525 1.24% 14.61% 259 16.98% 3 2.50 to < 10.00 1,201 37 100.00% 1,238 5.09% 14.10% 455 36.74% 9 10.00 to < 100.00 202 8 100.00% 210 11.37% 8.99% 145 69.07% 8 100.00 (Default) 236 236 100.00% 42.76% 38 15.97% 101 Sub-total 5,559 88 100.00% 5,647 6.08% 15.85% 1,093 19.36% 123 107 Retail – Other 0.00 to < 0.15 152 7 68.89% 157 0.11% 20.49% 10 6.39% non-SME 0.15 to < 0.25 3,213 142 83.07% 3,332 0.19% 32.88% 700 21.00% 2 0.25 to < 0.50 4,961 289 73.64% 5,173 0.52% 34.71% 1,672 32.32% 9 0.50 to < 0.75 0.75 to < 2.50 4,640 280 77.19% 4,856 1.28% 36.84% 2,055 42.33% 23 2.50 to < 10.00 4,413 324 81.38% 4,676 4.90% 37.67% 2,864 61.24% 86 10.00 to < 100.00 727 52 87.85% 773 13.41% 735 95.07% 72 100.00 (Default) 1,252 31 71.54% 1,274 100.00% 78.08% 219 17.17% 994 Sub-total 19,358 1,124 78.51% 20,241 8.48% 36.92% 8,254 40.78% 1,187 977 TOTAL (ALL PORTFOLIOS) 361,180 147,413 58.49% 439,074 2.48% 21.42% 93,447 21.28% 6,590 6,810 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 311 5 Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures Credit risk exposures by portfolio and probability of default (PD) range Advanced internal ratings-based approach at 31 December 2017 (CR6) Original Off-balance on-balance sheet EAD post sheet gross exposures Average CRM and Average Average RWA (in millions of euros) PD scale exposure pre CCF CCF post-CCF Average PD LGD maturity RWA density EL Provisions Central 0.00 to < 0.15 55,093 987 63.24% 63,423 1.12% 614 74 0.12% governments 0.15 to < 0.25 72 54.35% 531 0.16% 10.00% 1,251 59 11.18% and central banks 0.25 to < 0.50 1,227 100 55.15% 1,466 0.30% 15.74% 495 229 15.60% 1 0.50 to < 0.75 686 294 75.00% 284 0.60% 10.00% 642 44 15.58% 0.75 to < 2.50 304 551 74.48% 43 1.21% 47.28% 1,572 52 121.72% 2.50 to < 10.00 129 163 74.06% 19 5.00% 60.00% 1,386 43 233.72% 1 10.00 to < 100.00 616 187 70.03% 58 12.18% 67.55% 1,440 208 360.02% 5 100.00 (Default) 88 21 100.00% 45.00% 1,609 3 14.47% 15 Sub-total 58,215 2,282 63.08% 65,845 0.06% 1.68% 619 713 1.08% 22 44 Institutions 0.00 to < 0.15 23,484 3,307 96.18% 31,329 0.02% 10.58% 567 1,094 3.49% 1 0.15 to < 0.25 720 230 44.81% 574 0.16% 40.89% 651 206 35.83% 0.25 to < 0.50 1,366 652 33.36% 1,198 0.30% 45.33% 447 424 35.41% 1 0.50 to < 0.75 1,478 768 36.03% 1,024 0.60% 50.97% 167 505 49.29% 2 0.75 to < 2.50 705 687 50.33% 651 1.10% 33.22% 526 373 57.23% 2 2.50 to < 10.00 20 71 24.21% 7 5.00% 50.79% 737 11 166.59% 10.00 to < 100.00 18 52 23.62% 17 15.47% 60.88% 1,015 56 324.19% 1 100.00 (Default) 371 2 29.30% 366 100.00% 45.03% 631 0.01% 383 Sub-total 28,161 5,769 83.29% 35,167 1.12% 14.24% 553 2,669 7.59% 392 389 Corporates – 0.00 to < 0.15 19,201 54,356 48.83% 44,975 0.04% 35.28% 759 6,544 14.55% 7 Other 0.15 to < 0.25 6,207 16,476 48.16% 12,990 0.16% 45.03% 965 4,900 37.72% 8 0.25 to < 0.50 8,955 14,160 50.69% 13,547 0.30% 43.45% 953 7,541 55.66% 16 0.50 to < 0.75 6,525 7,057 51.66% 6,761 0.60% 44.75% 871 4,790 70.84% 15 0.75 to < 2.50 7,631 9,631 51.98% 9,484 1.04% 49.52% 1,089 9,058 95.51% 39 2.50 to < 10.00 855 528 53.59% 667 5.00% 40.99% 789 851 127.48% 12 10.00 to < 100.00 1,027 2,628 41.30% 1,585 14.82% 39.86% 749 2,573 162.33% 70 100.00 (Default) 2,169 894 55.53% 2,480 100.00% 45.54% 887 419 16.88% 1,611 Sub-total 52,569 105,731 49.29% 92,490 3.21% 40.39% 862 36,675 39.65% 1,779 2,509 Corporates – 0.00 to < 0.15 3 20.00% 1 0.06% 73.95% 395 17.88% SME 0.15 to < 0.25 1 1 82.46% 2 0.17% 39.42% 668 25.09% 0.25 to < 0.50 1 57.63% 1 0.30% 47.64% 1,216 67.74% 0.50 to < 0.75 17 3 73.36% 19 0.60% 46.46% 781 12 63.45% 0.75 to < 2.50 57 243 43.82% 113 1.18% 42.88% 1,023 98 86.55% 1 2.50 to < 10.00 19 12 83.80% 28 5.00% 43.66% 1,260 37 128.44% 1 10.00 to < 100.00 29 11 76.19% 20 17.53% 40.58% 467 32 161.06% 1 100.00 (Default) 25 14 49.31% 32 100.00% 45.03% 1,200 1 2.24% 3 Sub-total 148 288 49.25% 216 17.73% 43.49% 1,003 180 83.50% 6 3 Corporates – 0.00 to < 0.15 2,260 1,453 50.39% 9,530 0.02% 5.48% 1,357 252 2.64% Specialised 0.15 to < 0.25 7,953 1,768 64.85% 8,771 0.16% 9.49% 1,363 928 10.58% 1 Lending 0.25 to < 0.50 10,384 2,841 59.63% 10,882 0.30% 12.60% 1,242 1,868 17.17% 4 0.50 to < 0.75 6,040 2,644 60.53% 6,064 0.60% 10.97% 1,328 1,334 22.00% 4 0.75 to < 2.50 10,174 3,270 50.22% 9,308 1.13% 14.85% 1,250 3,279 35.22% 15 2.50 to < 10.00 1,650 276 72.55% 1,065 5.00% 11.95% 1,234 483 45.36% 6 10.00 to < 100.00 1,552 194 74.92% 1,367 15.06% 19.42% 1,235 1,274 93.22% 35 100.00 (Default) 1,258 24 79.80% 1,241 100.00% 38.30% 1,143 44 3.54% 510 Sub-total 41,272 12,470 57.34% 48,227 3.51% 11.70% 1,296 9,461 19.62% 576 510 312 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures Original Off-balance on-balance sheet EAD post sheet gross exposures Average CRM and Average Average RWA (in millions of euros) PD scale exposure pre CCF CCF post-CCF Average PD LGD maturity RWA density EL Provisions Retail – 0.00 to < 0.15 31,799 1,214 100.00% 33,013 0.09% 11.79% 940 2.85% 4 Secured by 0.15 to < 0.25 3,939 10 100.00% 3,949 0.22% 17.42% 313 7.93% 2 immovable property non 0.25 to < 0.50 18,205 669 100.00% 18,874 0.42% 11.43% 1,576 8.35% 9 SME 0.50 to < 0.75 0.75 to < 2.50 17,091 864 100.00% 17,955 1.47% 11.29% 3,382 18.84% 30 2.50 to < 10.00 6,105 575 100.00% 6,680 5.48% 11.64% 2,793 41.82% 43 10.00 to < 100.00 393 6 100.00% 398 27.00% 313 78.59% 14 100.00 (Default) 1,024 2 100.00% 1,026 100.00% 45.26% 4 0.40% 464 Sub-total 78,556 3,339 100.00% 81,895 2.15% 12.21% 9,322 11.38% 565 251 Retail – Other 0.00 to < 0.15 106 2,244 51.14% 1,254 0.09% 68.72% 51 4.08% 1 SME 0.15 to < 0.25 11 342 27.09% 104 0.23% 55.84% 8 7.75% 0.25 to < 0.50 211 1,914 59.27% 1,346 0.44% 64.41% 187 13.90% 4 0.50 to < 0.75 0.75 to < 2.50 913 1,717 56.26% 1,879 1.63% 60.56% 664 35.34% 19 2.50 to < 10.00 1,715 807 79.00% 2,353 5.37% 60.80% 1,862 79.15% 76 10.00 to < 100.00 179 24 78.43% 198 34.66% 61.03% 343 173.05% 41 100.00 (Default) 332 1 65.07% 333 100.00% 85.89% 18 5.28% 286 Sub-total 3,468 7,050 56.71% 7,467 7.42% 64.31% 3,133 41.96% 427 300 Retail – 0.00 to < 0.15 13,828 389 92.86% 14,190 0.09% 13.69% 468 3.30% 2 Qualifying 0.15 to < 0.25 2,306 51 87.31% 2,350 0.21% 23.98% 250 10.63% 1 revolving 0.25 to < 0.50 4,320 211 98.79% 4,529 0.45% 38.59% 1,238 27.33% 8 0.50 to < 0.75 0.75 to < 2.50 12,088 345 102.34% 12,441 1.46% 47.44% 7,223 58.06% 88 2.50 to < 10.00 9,463 199 102.24% 9,666 4.67% 51.20% 7,614 78.77% 218 10.00 to < 100.00 1,236 4 95.17% 1,239 14.88% 21.03% 1,271 102.53% 260 100.00 (Default) 2,229 3 91.06% 2,231 100.00% 72.72% 265 11.88% 1,642 Sub-total 45,469 1,202 97.94% 46,646 6.53% 36.05% 18,329 39.29% 2,220 1,875 Retail – Secured by 0.00 to < 0.15 0.15 to < 0.25 176 391 2 100.00% 176 393 0.11% 0.20% 17.88% 16.97% 7 22 3.81% 5.58% 5 immovable property SME 0.25 to < 0.50 1,114 13 100.00% 1,127 0.51% 16.90% 121 10.73% 1 0.50 to < 0.75 0.75 to < 2.50 961 11 100.00% 973 1.21% 17.03% 188 19.38% 2 2.50 to < 10.00 744 11 100.00% 755 5.25% 17.03% 336 44.48% 7 10.00 to < 100.00 138 5 100.00% 143 10.26% 9.26% 109 76.39% 7 100.00 (Default) 307 100.00% 307 100.00% 53.30% 1 0.19% 164 Sub-total 3,831 42 100.00% 3,873 9.97% 19.81% 784 20.23% 180 89 Retail – Other 0.00 to < 0.15 124 7 70.87% 129 0.11% 22.95% 10 7.52% non-SME 0.15 to < 0.25 3,072 147 85.87% 3,200 0.20% 31.91% 657 20.54% 2 0.25 to < 0.50 4,537 233 75.04% 4,712 0.50% 31.93% 1,387 29.43% 7 0.50 to < 0.75 0.75 to < 2.50 4,210 217 84.75% 4,394 1.22% 30.94% 1,659 37.76% 17 2.50 to < 10.00 3,891 237 85.41% 4,093 4.89% 31.51% 2,228 54.44% 65 10.00 to < 100.00 589 49 80.05% 629 13.47% 545 86.67% 54 100.00 (Default) 1,400 31 76.38% 1,423 100.00% 82.42% 14 0.96% 1,172 Sub-total 17,822 921 82.00% 18,580 9.85% 34.32% 6,500 34.98% 1,318 933 TOTAL (ALL PORTFOLIOS) 329,512 139,095 55.43% 400,406 3.12% 21.82% 87,765 21.92% 7,485 6,902 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 313 5 Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures The disparities between customer types seen in prior years in the retail The differences in respect of PD levels are even more pronounced if we banking portfolio were again apparent in 2018. The PD levels observed observe the contributions of expected losses attributable to significant in loans secured by real estate assets are significantly lower than for differences in LGD levels from one portfolio to another: Exposure to other classes. For instance, 70% of gross exposures to the “Retail loans “Retail loans secured by real estate assets” accounted for 52.4% of secured by real estate assets” portfolio have a PD of under 0.5%, while total Retail customer EAD but only 10.7% of expected losses. this figure is 43% for “Other loans to small and medium businesses” in the IRB portfolio – the Group’s Retail banking arm. 314 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures PD and average LGD by type of performing exposure under the A-IRB approach by geographic area The LGDs in this table are regulatory and may be subject to floors on certain portfolios. 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 A-IRB approach A-IRB approach Type of exposure Geographical area PD LGD PD LGD Loans to SME o/w other loans All geographical areas 2.69% 35.66% 2.52% 31.63% France (including overseas départements and territories) 2.60% 31.85% 2.41% 29.97% Western Europe Excluding Italy 1.83% 27.25% 2.43% 23.35% Italy 3.04% 48.25% 3.10% 40.85% o/w secured by real estate All geographical areas 2.70% 14.83% 2.73% 17.02% assets France (including overseas départements and territories) 2.58% 13.58% 2.47% 16.93% Italy 2.90% 17.00% 3.07% 17.15% Retail loans o/w secured by real estate All geographical areas 1.03% 11.80% 1.06% 11.87% assets France (including overseas départements and territories) 1.07% 10.70% 1.10% 10.86% Italy 0.87% 17.37% 0.86% 17.42% o/w revolving All geographical areas 3.13% 63.55% 3.26% 62.75% France (including overseas départements and territories) 2.67% 61.69% 2.69% 61.16% Italy 4.08% 67.40% 4.58% 66.35% o/w others All geographical areas 2.38% 33.87% 2.48% 35.17% France (including overseas départements and territories) 3.17% 34.36% 3.23% 35.64% Western Europe Excluding Italy 1.05% 17.02% 1.00% 16.20% Italy 2.96% 62.42% 3.26% 62.92% Asia-Pacific excluding Japan 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Central governments and central banks All geographical areas 0.02% 1.73% 0.03% 1.75% France (including overseas départements and territories) 0.04% 2.33% 0.04% 1.74% North America 0.00% 1.00% 0.00% 1.00% Western Europe Excluding Italy 0.01% 1.44% 0.03% 1.76% Italy 0.03% 3.11% 0.05% 3.83% Japan 0.00% 1.00% 0.00% 1.00% Asia-Pacific excluding Japan 0.04% 1.83% 0.04% 1.66% 5 Africa and Middle East 0.07% 6.97% 0.09% 7.56% Eastern Europe 0.31% 10.84% 0.31% 45.00% Corporates All geographical areas 0.57% 31.60% 0.67% 30.91% France (including overseas départements and territories) 0.56% 30.03% 0.58% 27.94% North America 0.72% 29.16% 1.29% 31.32% Western Europe Excluding Italy 0.64% 37.57% 0.55% 36.67% Italy 0.38% 37.41% 0.81% 40.14% Japan 0.42% 17.71% 0.63% 21.54% Asia-Pacific excluding Japan 0.33% 33.05% 0.29% 30.36% Africa and Middle East 0.30% 54.18% 0.37% 48.79% Eastern Europe 0.45% 40.06% 0.38% 41.68% Institutions All geographical areas 0.17% 16.42% 0.11% 16.88% France (including overseas départements and territories) 0.18% 14.15% 0.10% 13.87% North America 0.11% 13.85% 0.15% 12.00% Western Europe Excluding Italy 0.11% 18.17% 0.11% 19.56% Italy 0.22% 28.86% 0.06% 6.86% Japan 0.13% 22.02% 0.13% 25.29% Asia-Pacific excluding Japan 0.16% 32.07% 0.16% 36.24% Africa and Middle East 0.08% 36.61% 0.09% 32.65% Eastern Europe 0.64% 75.03% 0.54% 55.40% Only the following entities located in France (the corporate entity of Crédit Agricole S.A. and LCL) use the F-IRB method for their RWA calculations on the Central governments and central banks, institutions and corporate exposure classes. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 315 5 Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures 4.4.2.2.4. Use of credit derivatives for hedging purposes Effect of credit derivatives used for credit risk mitigation (CRM) on risk-weighted assets (RWA) under the internal ratings-based approach at 31 December 2018. Effect of credit derivatives on risk-weighted assets (CR7) 31/12/2018 Pre-credit derivatives (in millions of euros) RWAs Actual RWAs 1 Exposures under FIRB 2 Central governments and central banks 3 Institutions 4 Corporates – SMEs 5 Corporates – Specialised lending 6 Corporates – Other 7 Exposures under AIRB 8 Central governments and central banks 3 9 Institutions 16 16 10 Corporates – SMEs 4,283 2,982 11 Corporates – Specialised lending 1 1 12 Corporates – Other 13 Retail – Secured by real estate SMEs 14 Retail – Secured by real estate non-SMEs 15 Retail – Qualifying revolving 16 Retail – Other SMEs 17 Retail – Other non-SMEs 18 Equity IRB 19 Other non credit obligation assets 20 TOTAL 4,303 2,999 4.4.2.2.5. Change in RWA between 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2018 Statement of risk-weighted asset (RWA) flows for credit risk exposures under the internal ratings-based approach (CR8) 31/12/2018 (in millions of euros) RWA amounts Capital requirements 1 RWAs as at the end of the previous reporting period 140,778 11,262 2 Asset size 5,383 431 3 Asset quality (1,726) (138) 4 Model updates 1,603 128 5 Methodology and policy 6 Acquisitions and disposals 7 Foreign exchange movements 1,161 93 8 Other (1,411) (113) 9 RWAs as at the end of the reporting period 145,788 11,663 4.4.2.2.6. Back-testing results Periodic inspection is conducted annually by the Internal Audit function In the following paragraphs, back-testing covers all the methods and or any third party specifically authorised by it. The audit plan covers: procedures used to verify the performance and stability of the internal nn systems for calculating ratings and estimating risk parameters, as risk models (PD, LGD, CCF), specifically by comparing forecasts with well as compliance with minimum requirements; actual results. nn systems functioning (correct implementation). With regard to permanent control, a back-testing Committee has been The corresponding reports are sent to the person responsible for established within each entity. The Committee (which may, for some monitoring the relevant entity within the Group Risk Management entities, be a specific agenda item for the Risk Committee) is chaired department. by the Risk Management department of the relevant entity and includes The entity performs internal controls (permanent and periodic) on: a representative from the Group Risk Management and Permanent nn the quality of input and output data within the system; Controls department. It meets at least twice a year and is the subject nn the conceptual and technical quality of systems for calculating ratings of reports to the Chief Executive Officer and the Head of the entity’s Permanent Control department, as well as the Group Risk Management and estimating risk parameters; department. nn the completeness of data used for the calculation of risk-weighted assets. 316 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures Back-testing is critical in maintaining the pertinence and performance Management department or its delegate). This provides the Group of rating models. A first phase of analysis is based chiefly on the annually, through the Standards and Methodologies Committee, with the quantitative analysis of the predictive model as a whole and its main result of back-testing after consulting an ad hoc Committee to confirm explanatory variables. the proper application of selected statistical methods and the validity of This exercise can also detect significant changes in the structure results, and proposes, where appropriate, suitable corrective measures and behaviour of portfolios and customers. Back-testing then results (revision of the method, recalibration, training, recommendations for in decisions to adjust or recast models in order to factor in the new control, etc.). structural elements. This allows changes in non-cyclical behaviour These ex-post controls are performed – through the cycle – on historical or change in the franchise to be identified, revealing the impact of data covering as long a period as possible. The following tables show commercial or risk strategies implemented by the Bank. the back-testing results for 2018 in respect of the Probability of Default Across the Group as a whole, each rating method is back-tested at (PD) and Loss Given Default (LGD) models. least once a year by the unit responsible for the method (Group Risk Post-control of the probability of default (PD) by portfolio (CR9) – Retail customers at 31 December 2018 Arithmetic Number of obligors Defaulted Average hisWeighted average PD End of End of obligors in torical annual Exposure class PD range average PD by obligors(1) previous year the year the year default rate Sovereigns 0 to < 0.15 0.1% 0.1% 3,446,902 3,489,657 3,437 0.1% 0.15 to < 0.25 0.2% 0.2% 394,909 106,297 1,551 0.2% 0.25 to < 0.50 0.4% 0.4% 1,456,807 1,657,772 4,164 0.3% 0.50 to < 0.75 0.6% 0.6% 915,390 995,530 5,040 0.6% 0.75 to < 2.50 1.5% 1.5% 2,731,864 2,798,681 34,902 1.4% 2.50 to < 10.00 4.7% 4.8% 1,908,365 2,027,111 75,226 4.4% 10.00 to < 100 27.6% 26.8% 393,574 408,765 101,165 24.3% TOTAL 1.7% 1.7% 11,247,811 11,483,813 225,485 1.6% Local authorities 0 to < 0.15 0.15 to < 0.25 0.2% 0.2% 85,350 85,788 202 0.2% 0.25 to < 0.50 0.4% 0.4% 1,386 1,445 3 0.4% 0.50 to < 0.75 0.5% 0.5% 80,592 81,391 405 0.4% 0.75 to < 2.50 1.2% 1.3% 85,035 84,440 1,067 1.1% 2.50 to < 10.00 4.7% 5.7% 122,083 124,262 5,843 5.1% 10.00 to < 100 TOTAL 21.3% 2.5% 22.9% 3.7% 26,043 400,489 26,932 404,258 5,668 13,188 21.1% 3.3% 5 (1) The performance of the rating methodologies is measured by way of regular backtestings, in accordance with regulation. Backtestings compare the estimated probability of default (arithmetic average PD weighted by debtors) with the observed results (historical annual default rate). Loss Given Default (LGD) retail customers at 31 December 2018 Exposure class Estimated LGD (%) LGD before Prudential margin (%) Individual Customers 24% 18% Business Customers 29% 24% The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 317 5 Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures Post-control of the probability of default (PD) by portfolio (CR9) – excl. retail customers at 31 December 2018 Number of obligors Average Arithmetic Defaulted historical Weighted average PD End of End of obligors in annual Exposure class PD range average PD by obligors(1) previous year the year the year default rate Sovereigns 0 to < 0.15 0.0% 0.0% 104 100 0.0% 0.15 to < 0.25 0.2% 0.2% 10 17 0.0% 0.25 to < 0.50 0.3% 0.3% 8 5 0.0% 0.50 to < 0.75 0.6% 0.6% 9 10 0.0% 0.75 to < 2.50 1.3% 1.4% 20 17 0.0% 2.50 to < 10.00 5.0% 5.0% 11 13 2.0% 10.00 to < 100 12.0% 13.8% 16 13 1 2.6% TOTAL 0.1% 1.6% 178 175 1 0.4% Local authorities(2) 0 to < 0.15 0.0% 0.0% 5,968 6,393 4 0.0% 0.15 to < 0.25 0.2% 0.2% 102 96 0.0% 0.25 to < 0.50 0.3% 0.3% 66 66 1 0.5% 0.50 to < 0.75 0.6% 0.6% 55 54 0.0% 0.75 to < 2.50 1.2% 1.2% 16 14 0.0% 2.50 to < 10.00 5.0% 5.0% 4 3 0.0% 10.00 to < 100 12.0% 14.7% 4 3 0.0% TOTAL 0.1% 0.1% 6,215 6,629 5 0.0% Financial Institutions 0 to < 0.15 0.0% 0.0% 2,386 2,638 0.0% 0.15 to < 0.25 0.2% 0.2% 853 783 0.0% 0.25 to < 0.50 0.3% 0.3% 627 755 0.0% 0.50 to < 0.75 0.6% 0.6% 438 579 0.0% 0.75 to < 2.50 0.9% 1.1% 251 264 0.2% 2.50 to < 10.00 5.0% 5.0% 43 72 0.0% 10.00 to < 100 12.1% 13.2% 53 41 0.0% TOTAL 0.1% 0.4% 4,651 5,132 0.0% Corporates(2) 0 to < 0.15 0.0% 0.0% 1,854 1,865 0.1% 0.15 to < 0.25 0.2% 0.2% 1,453 1,638 0.1% 0.25 to < 0.50 0.3% 0.3% 3,148 3,280 1 0.2% 0.50 to < 0.75 0.6% 0.6% 3,601 4,214 12 0.3% 0.75 to < 2.50 1.2% 1.4% 16,284 17,889 121 0.8% 2.50 to < 10.00 5.0% 5.0% 2,492 2,707 94 3.6% 10.00 to < 100 16.1% 15.4% 1,663 1,912 152 9.8% TOTAL 0.7% 2.1% 30,495 33,505 380 1.5% Specialised financing 0 to < 0.15 0.1% 0.1% 70 60 0.0% 0.15 to < 0.25 0.2% 0.2% 303 296 0.0% 0.25 to < 0.50 0.3% 0.3% 475 468 2 0.3% 0.50 to < 0.75 0.6% 0.6% 206 273 1 0.1% 0.75 to < 2.50 1.1% 1.1% 373 338 1 1.2% 2.50 to < 10.00 5.0% 5.0% 50 34 4 4.7% 10.00 to < 100 14.2% 14.1% 53 45 4 8.6% TOTAL 1.0% 1.0% 1,530 1,514 12 1.0% (1) The performance of the rating methodologies is measured by way of regular backtestings, in accordance with regulation. Backtestings compare the estimated probability of default (arithmetic average PD weighted by debtors) with the observed results (historical annual default rate). (2) PD internal models in the process of recalibration. 318 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures Loss Given Default (LGD) excl. retail customers at 31 December 2018 Exposure class Estimated LGD (%) LGD before Prudential margin (%) Sovereigns 45% 32% Local authorities F-IRB approach F-IRB approach Financial institutions(1) 56% 58% Corporates 45% 38% Specialised financing 24% 24% (1) LDG internal models in the process of recalibration. 4.4.2.2.7. Comparison between estimated and actual losses items in the trading book, counterparty risk is calculated in accordance The ratio of Expected Losses (EL)/ to Exposure at Default (EAD) was with the provisions relating to the regulatory supervision of market risk. 1.36% at 31 December 2018 (1.71% at 31 December 2017). This ratio The regulatory treatment of counterparty risk on transactions on forward is calculated for the Central government and central banks, Institutions, financial instruments in the banking portfolio is defined on a regulatory Corporates, Retail customers and Equity portfolios in the IRBA approach. basis in Regulation (EU) 575/2013 of 26 June 2013. Crédit Agricole At the same time, the ratio of provisions to gross exposures was 1.18% S.A. Group uses the market price method to measure its exposure to at 31 December 2018, compared with 1.31% at end-2017. counterparty risk on transactions on forward financial instruments in the banking portfolio (Article 274) or the internal model method (Article 283) 4.4.2.3. Counterparty risk within the scope of Crédit Agricole CIB. Crédit Agricole S.A. and its subsidiaries calculate counterparty risk for all their exposures, whether in the banking book or the trading book. For 4.4.2.3.1. Analysis of exposure to counterparty risk Exposure to counterparty risk by approach at 31 December 2018 Standard IRB Total 31/12/2018 Gross Gross Gross Capital (in billions of euros) Exposure EAD RWA Exposure EAD RWA Exposure EAD RWA Requirement Central governments and central banks 2.3 2.3 0.0 7.6 7.6 0.1 9.9 9.9 0.1 0.0 Institutions 15.8 15.0 1.6 22.5 23.1 3.8 38.3 38.1 5.3 0.4 Corporates 2.1 1.7 1.6 22.7 22.0 6.9 24.8 23.7 8.5 0.7 Retail Customers Shares Securitisations 5 Other non credit-obligation assets TOTAL 20.1 19.0 3.2 52.9 52.6 10.8 73.0 71.6 14.0 1.1 Exposure to counterparty risk by approach at 31 December 2017 Standard IRB Total 31/12/2017 Gross Gross Gross Capital (in billions of euros) Exposure EAD RWA Exposure EAD RWA Exposure EAD RWA Requirement Central governments and central banks 1.9 1.9 7.2 7.1 0.3 9.0 9.0 0.3 Institutions 17.6 15.5 1.3 18.5 18.4 3.6 36.0 34.0 4.9 0.4 Corporates 2.6 2.1 2.0 16.8 16.7 5.7 19.4 18.8 7.7 0.6 Retail Customers Shares Securitisations Other non credit-obligation assets TOTAL 22.0 19.5 3.3 42.4 42.2 9.6 64.5 61.7 12.9 1.0 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 319 5 Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures The total gross exposure to counterparty risk was €73.0 billion at 31 December 2018 (in the form of derivatives: €47.3 billion and in the form of securities financing transactions: €25.7 billion Information on exposure to transactions on forward financial instruments is also provided in Note 3.1 “Credit risk” to the consolidated financial statements. 4.4.2.3.2. Exposure to counterparty risk by approach Analysis of exposure to counterparty risk by approach (CCR1) Potential Replacement future 31/12/2018 cost/current credit EAD post (in millions of euros) Notional market value exposure EEPE Multiplier CRM RWAs 1 Mark to market 6,336 917 2,919 1,463 2 Original exposure 3 Standardised approach 4 IMM (for derivatives and SFTs) 21,975 1.5 32,963 8,310 Of which securities financing 5 transactions Of which derivatives and long 6 settlement transactions 21,975 1.5 32,963 8,310 Of which from contractual cross7 product netting Financial collateral simple method 8 (for SFTs) Financial collateral comprehensive 9 method (for SFTs) 21,426 2,857 10 VaR for SFTs 11 TOTAL 12,630 4.4.2.3.3. Exposure to counterparty risk under the standardised method Exposure to counterparty risk under the standardised approach by regulatory portfolio and by risk weighting at 31 December 2018 (CCR3) Risk weight Total Exposure 31/12/2018 Exposure classes to credit o/w (in millions of euros) 0% 2% 4% 10% 20% 35% 50% 70% 75% 100% 150% Other risk unrated Central governments or central banks 2,226 45 1 3 2,276 2,276 Regional governments or local authorities Public sector entities 4 6 2 12 5 Multilateral developments banks International organisations Banks (Institutions) 34 9,899 3,965 1,010 59 13 14,982 13,404 Corporate 17 183 1,489 9 1,697 1,236 Retail 4 4 4 Default 2 2 Institutions and corporates with a short-term credit assessment Other items TOTAL 2,264 9,899 4,033 1,197 4 1,552 24 18,973 16,925 320 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures Exposure to counterparty risk under the standardised approach by regulatory portfolio and by risk weighting at 31 December 2017 (CCR3) Risk weight Total 31/12/2017 Exposure Exposure classes to credit o/w (in millions of euros) 0% 2% 4% 10% 20% 35% 50% 70% 75% 100% 150% Other risk unrated Central governments or central banks 1,664 185 1 4 1,854 1,854 Regional governments or local authorities Public sector entities 7 8 1 Multilateral developments banks International organisations Banks (Institutions) 63 11,674 2,686 1,042 57 15,523 13,456 Corporate 94 145 1,838 17 2,094 1,572 Retail 5 5 5 Default 1 1 Institutions and corporates with a short-term credit assessment Other items TOTAL 1,728 11,674 2,973 1,188 5 1,899 18 19,485 16,888 4.4.2.3.4. Exposure to counterparty risk under the advanced approach Counterparty risk exposures by portfolio and probability of default (PD) range, supervisory portfolios for foundation internal ratings-based approach at 31 December 2018 (CCR4) 31/12/2018 Average (in millions of euros) PD scale EAD post-CRM Average PD Average LGD maturity RWA RWA density Institutions 0.00 to < 0.15 975 0.03% 0.94% 0.15 to < 0.25 0.25 to < 0.50 1 0.30% 37.60% 1 57.64% 0.50 to < 0.75 0.75 to < 2.50 2.50 to < 10.00 5 10.00 to < 100.00 100.00 (Default) Sub-total 976 0.03% 0.97% 1 0.06% Corporates – Other 0.00 to < 0.15 7 0.03% 44.99% 5.61% 0.15 to < 0.25 0.25 to < 0.50 0.50 to < 0.75 0.75 to < 2.50 2.50 to < 10.00 10.00 to < 100.00 100.00 (Default) Sub-total 7 0.03% 44.99% 5.61% TOTAL 984 0.03% 1.30% 1 0.10% The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 321 5 Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures Counterparty risk exposures by portfolio and probability of default (PD) range, supervisory portfolios for foundation internal ratings-based approach at 31 December 2017 (CCR4) 31/12/2017 Average (in millions of euros) PD scale EAD post-CRM Average PD Average LGD maturity RWA RWA density Institutions 0.00 to < 0.15 327 0.03% 0.98% 0.03% 0.15 to < 0.25 0.25 to < 0.50 2 0.30% 38.92% 1 57.64% 0.50 to < 0.75 0.75 to < 2.50 7 0.75% 45.00% 8 113.28% 2.50 to < 10.00 10.00 to < 100.00 100.00 (Default) Sub-total 336 0.05% 2.16% 10 2.84% Corporates – Other 0.00 to < 0.15 8 0.03% 44.95% 5.61% 0.15 to < 0.25 0.25 to < 0.50 0.50 to < 0.75 0.75 to < 2.50 2.50 to < 10.00 10.00 to < 100.00 100.00 (Default) Sub-total 8 0.03% 44.95% 5.61% TOTAL 344 0.05% 3.11% 10 2.91% 322 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures Counterparty risk exposures by portfolio and probability of default (PD) range, supervisory portfolios for advanced internal ratings-based approach at 31 December 2018 (CCR4) 31/12/2018 Average (in millions of euros) PD scale EAD post-CRM Average PD Average LGD maturity RWA RWA density Central governments 0.00 to < 0.15 7,201 0.01% 1.29% 1,050 18 0.25% and central banks 0.15 to < 0.25 172 0.16% 10.00% 1,031 14 7.89% 0.25 to < 0.50 106 0.30% 9.98% 404 9 8.92% 0.50 to < 0.75 74 0.60% 10.00% 559 12 16.70% 0.75 to < 2.50 54 1.19% 45.70% 1,333 59 110.76% 2.50 to < 10.00 10.00 to < 100.00 5 19.85% 56.70% 1,139 12 264.80% 100.00 (Default) Sub-total 7,612 0.04% 2.03% 1,037 125 1.64% Institutions 0.00 to < 0.15 17,503 0.03% 13.47% 625 1,311 7.49% 0.15 to < 0.25 1,885 0.16% 38.49% 759 715 37.94% 0.25 to < 0.50 1,362 0.30% 42.29% 529 772 56.66% 0.50 to < 0.75 474 0.60% 52.66% 425 420 88.63% 0.75 to < 2.50 838 0.81% 31.07% 771 270 32.21% 2.50 to < 10.00 12 5.00% 56.40% 438 34 293.57% 10.00 to < 100.00 113 19.99% 35.50% 1,738 242 213.94% 100.00 (Default) 3 100.00% 45.01% 625 1 24.78% Sub-total 22,190 0.21% 18.85% 636 3,765 16.97% Corporates – Other 0.00 to < 0.15 12,314 0.04% 34.48% 694 1,341 10.89% 0.15 to < 0.25 1,955 0.16% 43.59% 965 971 49.70% 0.25 to < 0.50 2,152 0.30% 49.51% 959 1,004 46.65% 0.50 to < 0.75 1,893 0.60% 45.77% 919 1,175 62.05% 0.75 to < 2.50 1,524 1.07% 46.42% 1,119 1,277 83.77% 2.50 to < 10.00 80 5.00% 50.28% 773 106 132.98% 10.00 to < 100.00 196 19.03% 44.21% 844 510 260.44% 100.00 (Default) 2 100.00% 45.12% 843 1 55.21% Sub-total 20,115 0.42% 39.04% 803 6,385 31.74% Corporates – SME 0.00 to < 0.15 0.15 to < 0.25 63 3 0.03% 0.16% 47.06% 48.16% 1,296 619 13 1 21.43% 38.33% 5 0.25 to < 0.50 3 0.30% 47.60% 1,104 2 58.27% 0.50 to < 0.75 2 0.60% 35.76% 623 1 83.37% 0.75 to < 2.50 29 1.33% 34.91% 1,039 31 105.99% 2.50 to < 10.00 2 5.00% 38.42% 1,134 3 175.04% 10.00 to < 100.00 1 19.44% 45.56% 1,596 1 211.00% 100.00 (Default) 100.00% 45.05% 402 12.79% Sub-total 102 0.94% 43.40% 1,185 53 51.60% Corporates – Specialised 0.00 to < 0.15 587 0.06% 9.99% 1,317 36 6.17% lending 0.15 to < 0.25 409 0.16% 9.73% 1,350 58 14.18% 0.25 to < 0.50 421 0.30% 12.23% 1,313 98 23.33% 0.50 to < 0.75 291 0.60% 11.62% 1,286 68 23.48% 0.75 to < 2.50 226 0.96% 14.04% 1,232 73 32.31% 2.50 to < 10.00 25 5.00% 15.65% 1,121 8 32.55% 10.00 to < 100.00 104 14.28% 18.61% 1,121 155 149.00% 100.00 (Default) 5 100.00% 41.97% 1,093 Sub-total 2,069 1.29% 11.64% 1,296 497 24.01% TOTAL 52,087 0.31% 23.91% 10,824 20.78% The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 323 5 Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures Counterparty risk exposures by portfolio and probability of default (PD) range, supervisory portfolios for advanced internal ratings-based approach at 31 December 2017 (CCR4) 31/12/2017 Average (in millions of euros) PD scale EAD post-CRM Average PD Average LGD maturity RWA RWA density Central governments 0.00 to < 0.15 6,776 0.01% 1.05% 1,069 15 0.23% and central banks 0.15 to < 0.25 36 0.16% 10.00% 1,251 2 6.91% 0.25 to < 0.50 140 0.30% 15.74% 495 15 10.69% 0.50 to < 0.75 36 0.60% 10.00% 642 6 16.39% 0.75 to < 2.50 169 0.97% 46.48% 1,333 189 111.48% 2.50 to < 10.00 10.00 to < 100.00 10 19.98% 50.66% 1,652 28 274.80% 100.00 (Default) Sub-total 7,167 0.07% 2.56% 1,064 256 3.57% Institutions 0.00 to < 0.15 14,156 0.04% 16.82% 817 1,271 8.98% 0.15 to < 0.25 1,548 0.16% 40.89% 651 600 38.73% 0.25 to < 0.50 1,287 0.30% 45.33% 447 790 61.36% 0.50 to < 0.75 671 0.60% 50.97% 167 526 78.42% 0.75 to < 2.50 409 0.84% 31.81% 742 241 58.85% 2.50 to < 10.00 4 5.00% 50.79% 737 9 224.04% 10.00 to < 100.00 53 19.48% 38.15% 1,489 114 214.28% 100.00 (Default) 100.00% 45.03% 631 59.31% Sub-total 18,128 0.16% 22.57% 753 3,551 19.59% Corporates – Other 0.00 to < 0.15 7,896 0.04% 38.42% 831 969 12.27% 0.15 to < 0.25 1,527 0.16% 45.03% 965 642 42.05% 0.25 to < 0.50 1,986 0.30% 43.45% 953 1,157 58.26% 0.50 to < 0.75 1,047 0.60% 44.75% 871 726 69.35% 0.75 to < 2.50 1,200 0.94% 49.95% 1,120 1,066 88.79% 2.50 to < 10.00 81 5.00% 40.99% 789 95 117.85% 10.00 to < 100.00 130 16.93% 40.94% 748 278 212.89% 100.00 (Default) 19 100.00% 45.54% 887 2 12.29% Sub-total 13,888 0.52% 41.37% 890 4,935 35.53% Corporates – SME 0.00 to < 0.15 53 0.03% 47.58% 1,309 9 16.98% 0.15 to < 0.25 0.17% 39.42% 668 38.90% 0.25 to < 0.50 6 0.30% 47.64% 1,216 4 60.08% 0.50 to < 0.75 3 0.60% 46.46% 781 2 80.31% 0.75 to < 2.50 36 1.59% 44.28% 1,140 39 106.81% 2.50 to < 10.00 4 5.00% 43.66% 1,260 7 163.15% 10.00 to < 100.00 3 19.22% 39.74% 499 6 245.97% 100.00 (Default) 100.00% 45.03% 1,200 Sub-total 106 1.58% 46.07% 1,208 67 63.06% Corporates – Specialised 0.00 to < 0.15 752 0.06% 10.85% 1,309 57 7.62% lending 0.15 to < 0.25 734 0.16% 9.49% 1,363 97 13.28% 0.25 to < 0.50 584 0.30% 12.60% 1,242 129 22.09% 0.50 to < 0.75 271 0.60% 10.97% 1,328 80 29.41% 0.75 to < 2.50 250 1.00% 13.90% 1,221 64 25.69% 2.50 to < 10.00 52 5.00% 11.95% 1,234 15 28.03% 10.00 to < 100.00 138 18.11% 20.24% 1,314 299 216.93% 100.00 (Default) 10 100.00% 38.30% 1,143 Sub-total 2,791 1.57% 11.70% 1,302 741 26.55% TOTAL 42,080 0.36% 24.70% 9,549 22.69% 324 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures 4.4.2.3.5. Guarantees Impact of the compensation and guarantees held on the exposed securities (RCC5-A) Gross positive 31/12/2018 fair value or net Netted current Net credit (in millions of euros) carrying amount Netting benefits credit exposure Collateral held exposure 1 Derivatives 162,012 135,999 26,013 1,634 24,379 2 SFTs 18,727 10,771 7,957 386 7,571 3 Cross-product netting 4 TOTAL 180,740 146,770 33,970 2,020 31,950 Composition of guarantees for counterparty risk exposures (RCC5-B) Collateral used in derivative transactions Collateral used in SFTs Fair Value of collateral Fair Value of posted Fair Value Fair Value received collateral of collateral of posted 31/12/2018 (in millions of euros) Segregated Unsegregated received collateral 1 Cash 20,677 1 521 2 Corporate bonds, Sovereign debt, Government agency debt 47 147 3 Equity securities 3 4 Other collateral 3 TOTAL 20,730 1 668 4.4.2.3.6. Change in RWA under the internal models method (IMM) between 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2018 Statement of flows of risk-weighted assets (RWA) for counterparty risk exposures under the internal models method (IMM) (CCR7) (in millions of euros) RWA amounts Capital requirements 1 RWAs as at the end of the previous reporting period 7,996 640 2 Asset size (892) (71) 3 Credit quality of counterparties 490 39 4 Model updates (IMM only) 5 5 Methodology and policy (IMM only) 6 Acquisitions and disposals 7 Foreign exchange movements 999 80 8 Other (282) (23) 9 RWAs as at the end of the current reporting period 8,310 665 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 325 5 Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures 4.4.2.3.7. Central Counterparty Exposures (CCP) Central Counterparty Exposures (CCP) (CCR8) 31/12/2018 (in millions of euros) EAD post CRM RWAs 1 Exposures to QCCPs (total) 515 2 Exposures for trades at QCCPs (excluding initial margin and default fund contributions); of which 8,891 221 3 (i) OTC derivatives 6,758 136 4 (ii) Exchange-traded derivatives 51 43 5 (iii) SFTs 2,082 42 6 (iv) Netting sets where cross-product netting has been approved 7 Segregated initial margin 3,553 8 Non-segregated initial margin 129 3 9 Prefunded default fund contributions 751 291 10 Alternative calculation of own funds requirements for exposures 11 Exposures to non-QCCPs (total) 12 Exposures for trades at non-QCCPs (excluding initial margin and default fund contributions); of which 13 (i) OTC derivatives 14 (ii) Exchange-traded derivatives 15 (iii) SFTs 16 (iv) Netting sets where cross-product netting has been approved 17 Segregated initial margin 18 Non-segregated initial margin 19 Prefunded default fund contributions 20 Unfunded default fund contributions 4.4.2.3.8. CVA Under the directive, banks use a regulatory formula (“standardised The CRD 4 directive brought in a new capital charge to cover volatility approach”) or are authorised to calculate their capital requirements in the CVA (Credit Valuation Adjustment) or valuation adjustment for using their internal models for both counterparty risk and specific rate assets grouped together under the term “CVA Risk”, which is intended risk using the advanced method (“CVA VaR”). to include in the valuation of OTC derivatives credit events affecting The CVA requirement under the advanced approach is calculated on our counterparties. The CVA is thus defined as the difference between the basis of expected positive exposure on OTC derivative transactions the valuation excluding risk of default and the valuation including the involving “Financial institution” counterparties excluding intragroup probability of default of our counterparties. transactions. Within this scope, the tools used to estimate capital requirements are the same as for market VaR in respect of specific interest rate risk. Capital requirement for credit valuation adjustment (CVA) (CCR2) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 (in millions of euros) EAD post-CRM RWA EAD post-CRM RWA 1 Total portfolios subject to the Advanced CVA capital charge 15,684 2,486 15,951 1,893 2 (i) VaR component (including the 3×multiplier) 22 18 3 (ii) Stressed VaR component (including the 3×multiplier) 177 134 4 All portfolios subject to the Standardised CVA capital charge 17,636 1,117 10,019 964 EU4 Based on the original exposure method 5 TOTAL SUBJECT TO THE CVA CAPITAL CHARGE 33,320 3,603 25,970 2,857 326 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures 4.4.2.4. Credit and counterparty risk mitigation techniques Definitions: nn collateral: a security interest giving the bank the right to liquidate, keep or obtain title to certain amounts or assets in the event of default or other specific credit events affecting the counterparty, thereby reducing the credit risk on an exposure; nn personal guarantee: undertaking by a third party to pay a sum in the event of the counterparty’s default or other specific credit events, therefore reducing the credit risks on an exposure. Exposures under the advanced approach 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Risk mitigation amount Risk mitigation amount Personal Personal Total guarantees Total guarantees exposure and credit Total exposure and credit Total (in millions of euros) amount derivatives Collateral collateral amount derivatives Collateral collateral Central governments or central banks 83,286 3,493 40 3,533 67,664 2,580 11 2,592 Institutions 53,612 2,552 555 3,107 52,058 662 1,352 2,014 Corporates 248,892 44,008 38,506 82,514 234,415 38,216 40,561 78,777 TOTAL 385,790 50,053 39,101 89,154 354,138 41,458 41,925 83,383 Exposures under the standardised approach 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Risk mitigation amount Risk mitigation amount Personal Personal Total guarantees Total guarantees exposure and credit Total exposure and credit Total (in millions of euros) amount derivatives Collateral collateral amount derivatives Collateral collateral Central governments or central banks 53,159 8 8 16 47,997 81 81 Institutions 43,627 808 808 42,852 2,154 2,154 Corporates 120,760 4,223 19,739 23,962 112,128 1,992 18,552 20,543 TOTAL 217,546 4,231 20,555 24,786 202,977 1,992 20,787 22,778 5 4.4.2.4.1. Credit risk mitigation techniques period. This haircut also applies for currency mismatch risk when the securities and the collateralised exposure are denominated in different Collateral management system currencies. Additional haircuts are applied when the size of the stocks position implies a block sale or when the borrower and the issuer of the The main categories of collateral taken by the bank are described in the collateral securities belong to the same risk group. section entitled “Risk Factors – Credit Risk – Collateral and guarantees For retail banking (LCL, Cariparma), revaluation is automatic based on received”. changes in the property market indices. In contrast, for project-type When a credit is granted, collateral is analysed to assess the value of property financing, assets are mainly revalued on the basis of an expert the asset, its liquidity, volatility and the correlation between the value of appraisal combining various approaches (asset value, rental value, etc.) the collateral and the quality of the counterparty financed. Regardless and include external benchmarks. of collateral quality, the first criterion in the lending decision is always Other types of assets may also be pledged as non recourse financial the borrower’s ability to repay sums due from cash flow generated by assets. This is notably the case for certain activities such as aircraft, its operating activities, except for specific trade finance transactions. shipping, real estate or commodities financing. These businesses are For financial collateral, a minimum exposure coverage ratio is usually conducted by middle offices, which have specific expertise in valuing included in loan contracts, with readjustment clauses. Financial the assets financed. collateral is revalued according to the frequency of margin calls and the variability of the underlying value of financial assets transferred as Protection providers collateral or quarterly, as a minimum. The minimum coverage ratio (or the haircut applied to the value of Two major types of guarantee are mainly used (other than intragroup the collateral under prudential treatment) is determined by measuring guarantees): export credit insurance taken out by the Bank and the pseudo-maximum deviation of the value of the securities on unconditional payment guarantees. the revaluation date. This measurement is calculated with a 99% The main guarantee providers (excluding credit derivatives – see section confidence interval over a time horizon covering the period between below) are export credit agencies, which enjoy a good quality sovereign each revaluation, the period between the default date and the date rating. The largest are BPI (France), Sace S.p.A. (Italy), Euler Hermès on which asset liquidation starts, and the duration of the liquidation (Germany) and Korea Export Insurance (Korea). The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 327 5 Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures External ratings given to the export credit agencies Moody’s Standard & Poor’s Fitch Ratings 31/12/2018 Long term rating Long term rating Long term rating (in millions of euros) [outlook] [outlook] [outlook] Bpifrance Financement Aa2 [positive] Unrated AA [stable](1) Euler Hermès S.A. Aa3 [stable] AA [stable] Unrated Sace S.p.A. Unrated Unrated BBB+ [stable] (1) Rating given to EPIC Bpifrance. Moreover, the guarantees received from mutual guarantee companies cover a substantial portion of the loans in the Group’s “residential real estate” portfolio in France (see table hereinafter). These loans are backed by guarantees granted by Crédit Logement (rated Aa3 [stable] by Moody’s) or by the Group’s subsidiary insurance company, CAMCA Assurance S.A. (rated A+ [stable] by Fitch). The guarantors are subject to prudential regulation applying to either financing companies, for Crédit Logement, or insurance companies (Solvency 2), for CAMCA Assurance. Property loan amounts guaranteed by CAMCA and Crédit Logement Outstandings 31/12/2018 Outstandings 31/12/2017 Amount of % of guaranteed loans in the Amount of % of guaranteed loans in the guaranteed “residential mortgage loans” guaranteed “residential mortgage loans” (in millions of euros) outstandings portfolio in France outstandings portfolio in France Coverage by surety agencies (Crédit Logement, CAMCA) 64,066 83.00% 59,917 85.50% When a guarantee is issued, the guarantor applies an independent 4.4.2.4.2. Risk mitigation techniques applied to counterparty risk selection policy in addition to that already implemented by the bank. Where Crédit Logement is concerned, the guarantee issued covers, Credit derivatives for hedging purposes with no deductible, the payment of all amounts legally due by defaulting borrowers in principal, interest, insurance premiums and costs. In These techniques are presented in the chapter 5, under 3.4 “Risk respect of CAMCA Assurance, the guarantee mechanism is broadly management – Credit risk – Credit risk mitigation mechanisms – Use similar to that of Crédit Logement, with the difference that the payments of credit derivatives” section of this document. made by CAMCA Assurance with respect to the guarantee arise once the Credit derivatives used for hedging purposes are described in the “Risk bank’s means of recourse against the borrower have been exhausted. management – Credit risk – Credit risk mitigation mechanisms – Use In the end, these guarantee provisions significantly enhance the quality of credit derivatives” and in chapter II.2.2 below. of the property loans guaranteed and constitute a full transfer of risk in respect of the loans. Exposures to credit derivatives (CCR6) Credit derivative hedges Other credit 31/12/2018 (in millions of euros) Protection bought Protection sold derivatives Notionals Single-name credit default swaps 3,727 Index credit default swaps Total return swaps Credit options Other credit derivatives TOTAL NOTIONALS 3,727 Fair values Positive fair value (asset) 107 Negative fair value (liability) (4) 4.4.2.5. Securitisation transactions The credit risk on securitisation transactions is presented in the Securitisation chapter below. 328 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures 4.4.2.6. Equity exposures in the banking portfolio nn options implicit in convertible, redeemable or exchangeable bonds; Crédit Agricole S.A. Group’s equity exposures, excluding the trading nn stock options; book, consist of securities “that convey residual, subordinated claims nn super-subordinated securities. on the assets or income of the issuer or have a similar economic The accounting policies and valuation methods used are described in substance”. These mainly include: Note 1.2 to the financial statements “Accounting policies and principles”. nn listed and unlisted equities and shares in investment funds; Gross exposure and exposure at default under the internal ratings-based approach at 31 December 2018 (CR10) 31/12/2018 Categories On-balance Off-balance Exposure Capital (in millions of euros) sheet amount sheet amount Risk weight amount RWAs requirements Exchange-traded equity exposures 1,074 121 190% 1,194 2,269 182 Private equity exposures 80 290% 80 231 19 Other equity exposures 14,121 370% 4,956 18,336 1,467 TOTAL 15,275 121 6,230 20,837 1,667 Gross exposure and exposure at default under the internal ratings-based approach AT 31 December 2017 (CR10) 31/12/2017 Categories On-balance Off-balance Exposure Capital (in millions of euros) sheet amount sheet amount Risk weight amount RWAs requirements Exchange-traded equity exposures 568 103 190% 663 1,260 101 Private equity exposures 65 290% 64 186 15 Other equity exposures 15,440 370% 6,058 22,416 1,793 TOTAL 16,073 103 6,786 23,862 1,909 Equity exposures under the internal ratings based approach mainly They cover transactions or schemes under which the credit risk consist of the portfolios of Crédit Agricole S.A., Crédit Agricole CIB and associated with an exposure or pool of exposures is sub-divided into Crédit Agricole Investissement et Finance. tranches and which have the following two features: Equity exposures (on and off-balance sheet) under the internal ratingsnn payments made in such transaction or scheme depend on the based approach amounted to €15.4 billion at 31 December 2018 performance of the underlying exposure or basket of exposures; (compared with €16.2 billion at 31 December 2017). Furthermore, equity exposures using the standardised approach nn the subordination of tranches determines how losses are distributed during the lifetime of the transaction or scheme. 5 amounted to €0.9 billion at 31 December 2018 for an RWA of €1.1 billion. Securitisation transactions include: The amounts of gains and losses on equity instruments realised nn conventional securitisations: a securitisation involving the transfer during the period under review are presented in Note 4 to the financial of the economic interest in the securitised exposures by transferring statements “Notes to the income statement and other comprehensive ownership of those exposures from the originator to a securitisation income”. entity or by a sub-participation of a securitisation entity, in which the securities issued do not represent payment obligations for the 4.4.3. Securitisation vehicles originator; nn synthetic securitisations: the risk is transferred in which the use of credit derivatives or guarantees and in which the securitised 4.4.3.1. Definitions of securitisation transactions exposures remain exposures for the originator. Crédit Agricole S.A. Group acts as originator, sponsor and investor in The securitisation exposures detailed below cover all securitisation securitisation transactions as per the Basel 3 framework. exposures (recorded on or off-balance sheet) that generate riskSecuritisation transactions, listed below, consist of transactions defined weighted assets (RWA) and capital requirements with respect to its in directive 2013/36/EU (“CRD 4”) and EU Regulation 575/2013 of regulatory portfolio, according to the following typologies: 26 June 2013 (“CRR”) in force since 1 January 2014. The directive nn the securitisation exposures for which the Group is deemed an and regulations incorporate into European law the Basel 3 international originator; reforms (issued in December 2010) introducing, among other things, nn exposures in which the Group is an investor; new requirements for bank solvency and oversight of liquidity risk. These nn exposures in which the Group is a sponsor; texts are supplemented by Regulations (EU) 2017/2401 and 2017/2402 of the European Parliament and the Council of 12 December 2017. nn securitisation swap exposures (exchange or interest rate hedges) Regulation 2017/2402 revises the general framework of securitisation allocated to securitisation vehicles. and creates a specific framework for simple, transparent, and standardised securitisations, and Regulation 2017/2401 amends the calculation formulas applicable for securitisations with regard to the solvency ratio. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 329 5 Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures The proprietary securitisation transactions carried out as part of New securitisations by Crédit Agricole CIB in 2018 non-derecognised collateralised financing transactions, are not described below. Their impact on the consolidated financial statements As part of the management of the financing portfolio, the Execution is detailed in Note 6.7 to the financial statements “Transferred assets Management teams set up a synthetic securitisation transaction for a not derecognised or derecognised with on-going involvement”. US$2 billion portfolio of international trade and emerging country assets Note that most securitisation transactions on behalf of European in March 2018 with the IFC, of the World Bank Group, to replace a similar customers involve Ester Finance Titrisation, a wholly owned banking securitisation that expired in 2017. In this transaction, Crédit Agricole subsidiary of Crédit Agricole CIB, which finances the purchase of CIB undertakes to reallocate US$510 million of the paid-up capital to receivables and therefore makes Crédit Agricole CIB both sponsor new social financing in emerging countries, in accordance with the 2017 and, via Ester Finance Titrisation, originator of these securitisation Social Bonds Principles (2017). In addition, the Execution Management transactions. team set up a second synthetic securitisation transaction at the end of October 2018, on a portfolio of €2 billion of assets from another CACIB 4.4.3.2. Purpose and strategy business line, with a private investor; this transaction is secured by collateral cash equal to the amount of risk guaranteed. 4.4.3.2.1. Proprietary securitisation transactions 4.4.3.2.2. Securitisation transactions carried out on behalf Crédit Agricole S.A. Group’s proprietary securitisation transactions are of customers as arranger, sponsor, intermediary the following: or originator Collateralised financing transactions Only Crédit Agricole CIB, within Crédit Agricole S.A., carries out securitisation transactions on behalf of its customers. These transactions are designed for the issue of securities and, where Securitisation transactions on behalf of customers within Global appropriate, can be wholly or partially placed with investors, sold under Markets activities allow Crédit Agricole CIB to raise funds or manage repurchase agreements or kept on the issuer’s balance sheet as liquid a risk exposure on behalf of its customers. When carrying out these securities reserves that can be used to manage refinancing. This activity activities, Crédit Agricole CIB can act as an originator, sponsor, arranger relates to several of the Group’s entities, mainly CA Consumer Finance or investor: and its subsidiaries. nn as a sponsor and arranger, Crédit Agricole CIB structures and Crédit Agricole S.A.’s transfer of risks by means of proprietary manages securitisation programmes that refinance assets of the securitisation transactions are the following: bank’s customers, mainly via ABCP (Asset Backed Commercial Paper) programmes, namely LMA in Europe, Atlantic and La Fayette in the Risk transfer transaction carried out by FCA Bank IN 2017 United States and ITU in Brazil. These specific entities are protected from Crédit Agricole CIB bankruptcy risk but are consolidated for FCA Bank often uses securitisation transactions to help fund itself. accounting purposes at Group level since the entry into force on These transactions are part of the “collateralised financing transactions” 1 January 2014 of the new IFRS 10 rules. The liquidity facilities discussed below. protect investors from credit risk and guarantee the liquidity of the In December 2017, as part of its ABEST car loan securitisation programmes; programme, FCA Bank carried out the ABEST 15 transaction (standard nn as an investor, the Group invests directly in certain securitisation securitisation) in which FCA Bank assigned 95% of the mezzanine and exposures and is a liquidity provider or counterparty of derivative junior tranches to third-party investors. This risk transfer transaction exposures (exchange or interest rate swaps for instance); enabled FCA Bank to reduce the capital initially allocated to the loan nn as an arranger, sponsor or originator, Crédit Agricole CIB carries portfolio that was securitised. out securitisation transactions on behalf of its customers. At 31 December 2018, there were four active consolidated multi-seller Active management of the financing portfolio of Crédit Agricole CIB vehicles (LMA, Atlantic, La Fayette and ITU), structured by the Group on behalf of third parties. LMA, Atlantic, La Fayette and ITU are In addition to using credit derivatives (see the “Credit Risks – Use of fully ABCP supported programmes. This ABCP programme activity credit derivatives” section of the “Risk Factors and Pillar 3” chapter), this finances the working capital requirements of some of the Group’s activity consists of using synthetic securitisation to manage the credit customers by backing short-term financing with traditional assets, risk of the bank, optimise capital allocation, reduce the concentration of such as trade receivables or financial loans. The amount of the outstanding loans to corporates, release resources to contribute to the assets held by these vehicles and financed through the issuance of renewal of the banking portfolio (as part of the Distribute to Originate marketable securities amounted to €24 billion at 31 December 2018 model) and maximise the return on capital. This activity is managed by (€24 billion at 31 December 2017). the Execution Management teams within the Finance Department of The default risk on the assets held by these vehicles is borne by the Crédit Agricole CIB. The approach used to calculate the risk-weighted sellers of the underlying receivables through credit enhancement or by exposures on proprietary securitisation positions is the regulatory insurers for certain types of risk upstream of the ABCP programmes. formula approach. In this business, the Bank does not systematically Crédit Agricole CIB bears the risk through liquidity facilities. purchase protection on all tranches, as the management goal is to cover some of the more risky financing portfolio tranches whilst keeping part of the overall risk. 330 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures Activities carried out as sponsor Crédit Agricole CIB’s securitisation exposures are treated in accordance with the IRB-securitisation framework approach, i.e.: The programme activity was sustained throughout 2018, and the newly nn Supervisory Formula Approach: “Regulatory Formula Approach” in securitised outstandings mainly relate to trade receivables and financial residual cases where there are neither public external ratings nor any loans. possibility of applying the IAA method for exposures with no public For part of this ABCP programme activity, Crédit Agricole CIB acts as external rating; the originator insofar as the structures involve the entity Ester Finance nn Ratings-Based Approach (RBA) for exposures with a public external Titrisation, which is a consolidated Group entity. rating (directly or inferred) from an agency approved by the Committee The amount committed to liquidity facilities granted to LMA, Atlantic, of European Banking Supervisors (CEBS). The external agencies used La Fayette and ITU as sponsors was €32 billion at 31 December 2018 are Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s, Fitch Ratings and Dominion Bond (€32 billion at 31 December 2017). Rating Services (DBRS); nn Internal Assessment Approach (IAA): internal rating methodology Activities carried out as investor approved by Crédit Agricole S.A.’s Standards and Methodology Committee for the main asset classes (particularly trade receivables As part of its sponsor activities, the Group can grant guarantees and and car financing) when there are no agency ratings for the exposure liquidity facilities to securitisation vehicles or act as a counterparty under consideration. for derivatives in ad hoc securitisation transactions. These are mainly In line with regulations, the internal assessment approaches used exchange rate swaps provided to the ABCP programmes and interest by Crédit Agricole CIB replicate the public methodologies of external rate swaps for some ABS issues. These activities are recorded in the rating agencies. The latter have two components: banking portfolio as investor activities. –– a quantitative component that in particular evaluates the Moreover, Crédit Agricole CIB may be called upon to directly finance enhancement of transactions having regard to historical on its balance sheet some securitisation transactions on behalf of its performances as well as the possible risk of commingling customers (mainly aircraft transactions and vehicle fleet financing) or generated by the transaction, provide support through a liquidity facility to an issue by special purpose –– a qualitative component that supplements the quantitative vehicles external to the bank (SPV or ABCP programme not sponsored approach and that makes it possible, among other things, to by the bank). In this case, Crédit Agricole CIB is deemed to be an evaluate the quality of structures or indeed reporting. investor. Overall, this activity represented commitments of €2 billion at The internal rating methodologies apply to the securitisation of trade 31 December 2018 (€2 billion at 31 December 2017). receivables, car loans and dealer financing. Stress test parameters are dependent on the rating of securitisations Intermediation transactions and of the securitised underlyings. For example, for a rating equivalent to AA (on the S&P scale), the stress test parameter for default risk Crédit Agricole CIB participates in the structuring and in the placement of is around 2.25 for trade receivables transactions, usually 3 for car securities, backed by client asset pools and to be placed with investors. loan securitisation, and for the securitisation of dealer financing, the In this business, the Bank retains a relatively low risk via the possible credit stress scenario is comprised of a number of items including in contribution of back-up lines to securitisation vehicles or via a share of particular a three notch downgrade in the car manufacturer’s rating. the notes issued. Note that aside from regulatory calculation purposes, internal ratings 5 are used in the course of the origination process to evaluate the 4.4.3.3. Risk monitoring and recognition profitability of transactions. Lastly, as regards the management of internal models, an independent unit within Crédit Agricole Group is 4.4.3.3.1. Risk monitoring responsible for validating internal methodologies. Moreover, regular The management of risks related to securitisation transactions follows audits are conducted by the Control and Audit department to ensure the rules established by the Group, according to which these assets are the internal methodologies are relevant. Back-testing and stress recorded in the banking portfolio (credit and counterparty risk) or in the testing are also done regularly by the modelling teams. trading book (market and counterparty risk). These ratings cover all types of risks generated by such securitisation The development, sizing and targeting of securitisation transactions are transactions: intrinsic risks on receivables (debtor insolvency, payment periodically reviewed by Portfolio Strategy Committees specific to those delays, dilution, offsetting of receivables) or risks on the structuring activities and the countries to which they relate, as well as in the course of transactions (legal risks, risks relating to the receivables collection of Group Risk Management Committee meetings. circuit, risks relating to the quality of information supplied periodically by Risks on securitisation transactions are measured against the capacity managers of transferred receivables, other risks related to the seller, etc.). of the assets transferred over to financing structures to generate These critically examined ratings are only a tool for making decisions sufficient flows to cover the costs, mainly financial, of these structures. pertaining to these transactions; such decisions are taken by credit Committees at various levels. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 331 5 Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures As from 1 January 2019, a new regulation on securitisations is Moreover, investments made in securitisation instruments (cash or applicable. It provides for a change in the hierarchy of RWA calculation synthetic) are recognised according to their classification and the approaches on the one hand, and an increase in weights on the other. associated valuation method (see Note 1.3 to the consolidated financial The implementation of this new regulation has been finalised in the statements on accounting policies and methods for financial asset Group’s rating tools. classification and valuation methods). Credit decisions relate to transactions that are reviewed at least once a The securitisation exposures can be classified in the following year by the same Committees. Committee decisions incorporate varying accounting categories: limits according to the evolution of the acquired portfolio (arrears rate, nn “Financial assets at amortised cost ”: these securitisation exposures loss rate, rate of sector-based or geographical concentration, rate of are measured following initial recognition at amortised cost based on dilution of receivables or periodic valuation of assets by independent the effective interest rate and may, if necessary, be impaired; experts, etc.). Non-compliance with these limits may cause the structure nn “Financial assets at fair value through recyclable equity”: these to become stricter or place the transaction in early amortisation. securitisation exposures are remeasured at fair value on the These credit decisions also include, in liaison with the Bank’s other closing date and any changes in fair value are recognised in other credit Committees, an assessment focusing on the risk generated by the comprehensive income; sellers of the receivables and the possibility of substituting the manager nn “Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss”: these by a new one in the event of a failure in the management of those securitisation exposures are remeasured at fair value on the closing receivables. date and any changes in fair value are recognised through profit or Like all credit decisions, these decisions include aspects of compliance loss under “Net gains (losses) on financial instruments at fair value and “country risk”. through profit or loss”. Gains (losses) on the disposal of these securitisation exposures are At 31 December 2018, Ester Finance Titrisation recognised impaired recognised in accordance with the rules of the original category of the receivables for €383.9 million and an impairment of €38.9 million. Net exposures sold. of impairment, this entity had €17.1 billion in securitised assets. The liquidity risk associated with securitisation activities is monitored 4.4.3.4. Summary of activity on behalf of customers in 2018 by the business lines in charge, but also centrally by the Market Risk and Asset and the Steering Department of CACIB. The impact of these Crédit Agricole CIB’s Securitisation activity in 2018 was characterised by: activities is incorporated into the Internal Liquidity Model indicators, nn support of the development of the public ABS market in the United mainly stress scenarios, liquidity ratios and liquidity gaps. The States and in Europe. Crédit Agricole CIB structured and organised management of liquidity risk at Crédit Agricole CIB is described in more the placement (arranger and bookrunner) of a significant number detail in the paragraph entitled “Liquidity and financing risk” of the Risk of primary ABS issues on behalf of its major “Financial institution” factors section in this chapter. customers, in particular in the automotive industry and in consumer The management of currency risk with respect to securitisation finance; nn on the ABCP programme market, Crédit Agricole CIB maintained its transactions does not differ from that of the Group’s other assets. As regards interest rate risk management, securitised assets are ranking as one of the leaders in this segment, both in Europe and on refinanced through ad hoc vehicles according to interest rate matching the US market. This was achieved via the renewal and implementation rules similar to those applying to other assets. of new securitisation transactions for trade receivables or financial loans on behalf of its mainly Corporate customers, while ensuring that For assets managed in run-off mode, each transfer of position is first the profile of risks borne by the Bank remained good. The strategy approved by the Market Risk department. of Crédit Agricole CIB, focused on the financing of its customers, is 4.4.3.3.2. Accounting policies well perceived by investors and resulted in financing conditions that As part of securitisation transactions, a derecognition test is carried are always competitive; out pursuant to IFRS 9 (the criteria can be found in Note 1.3 to the nn at 31 December 2018, Crédit Agricole CIB had no early-redemption consolidated financial statements on accounting policies and methods). securitisation transactions. Moreover, Crédit Agricole did not provide any implicit support to securitisation transactions in 2018. In the case of synthetic securitisations, the assets are not derecognised in that they remain under the control of the institution. The assets are Apart from Crédit Agricole CIB, the Group continued to carry out still recognised according to their classification and original valuation securitisation transactions to help refinance itself. method (see Note 1.3 to the consolidated financial statements on accounting policies and methods for financial asset classification and valuation methods). 332 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures 4.4.3.5. Exposures 4.4.3.5.1. Exposure at default to securitisation transaction risks in the banking portfolio that generate risk-weighted assets Securitisation exposures in the banking portfolio IRB and standardised (SEC1) Bank acts as originator Bank acts as sponsor Banks acts as investor 31/12/2018 (in millions of euros) Traditional Synthetic Sub-total Traditional Synthetic Sub-total Traditional Synthetic Sub-total 1 Securitisation 14,649 7,506 22,155 21,066 21,066 1,236 1,236 Residential real 2 estate loans 41 41 5 5 Commercial real 3 estate loans 15 15 4 Credit card loans 74 74 5 Leasing 3,112 3,112 12 12 Loans to corporates 6 and SMEs 6,177 6,177 404 404 7 Personal loans 150 150 4,008 4,008 57 57 8 Trade receivables 14,499 14,499 7,390 7,390 121 121 9 Other 1,329 1,329 6,425 6,425 645 645 10 Re-securitisation 1,298 7 1,305 11 TOTAL 31/12/2018 15,947 7,513 23,460 21,066 21,066 1,236 1,236 TOTAL 31/12/2017 13,289 4,096 17,385 21,290 21,290 1,796 3 1,807 Exposure at default of securitisation transactions by weighting IRB and standardised 31/12/2018 EAD Securities Underlying (in millions of euros) SFA IAA RBA Standard Total 1 Securitisation 9,355 29,567 3,072 2,463 44,457 2 Residential real estate loans 46 46 3 Commercial real estate loans 15 15 4 Credit card loans 74 74 5 Leasing 2,977 57 91 3,125 6 7 Loans to corporates and SMEs Personal loans 6,178 2,875 404 509 831 6,582 4,215 5 8 Trade receivables 197 21,672 140 22,009 9 Other 2,980 2,043 2,041 1,327 8,391 10 Re-securitisation 1,305 1,305 11 TOTAL 31/12/2018 9,355 29,567 4,377 2,463 45,762 TOTAL 31/12/2017 5,949 27,675 4,852 2,007 40,483 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 333 5 Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures Exposure at default of securitisation transactions broken down by onand off-balance sheet accounting classification Exposure values on 31/12/2018 Underlying asset On balance Off balance (in millions of euros) sheet sheet Total 1 Securitisation 2,137 42,320 44,457 2 Residential real estate loans 46 46 3 Commercial real estate loans 15 15 4 Credit card loans 48 26 74 5 Leasing 91 3,034 3,125 6 Loans to corporates and SMEs 6,581 6,582 7 Personal loans 782 3,434 4,215 8 Trade receivables 140 21,870 22,009 9 Other 1,077 7,314 8,391 10 Re-securitisation 1,298 7 1,305 11 TOTAL 3,435 42,326 45,762 Securitisation exposures in the banking portfolio and related capital requirements – Bank acting as issuer or agent IRB and standardised (SEC3) Exposure values Exposure values RWA (by RW bands) (by regulatory approach) (by regulatory approach) Capital charge after cap > 50% > 100% > 20% to to IRB RBA IRB RBA IRB RBA ≤ 20% to 50% 100% < 1250% 1250% (including IRB SA/ (including IRB SA/ (including IRB SA/ 31/12/2018 (in millions of euros) RW RW RW RW RW IAA) SFA SSFA 1250% IAA) SFA SSFA 1250% IAA) SFA SSFA 1250% 1 Total exposures 41,283 286 1,479 100 1,350 31,849 9,304 1,995 1,350 3,127 706 1,429 758 250 57 114 61 2 Traditional securitisation 33,848 286 1,479 100 1,301 31,849 1,868 1,995 1,301 3,127 186 1,429 314 250 15 114 25 3 of which securitisation 33,848 286 1,479 100 3 31,849 1,868 1,995 3 3,127 186 1,429 34 250 15 114 3 4 of which retail underlying 3,453 70 651 100 3,381 892 264 722 21 58 5 of which wholesale 30,395 216 828 3 28,468 1,868 1,103 3 2,863 186 707 34 229 15 57 3 6 of which re-securitisation 1,298 1,298 280 22 7 of which senior 1,298 1,298 280 22 8 of which non-senior 9 Synthetic securitisation 7,435 49 7,435 49 521 445 42 36 10 of which securitisation 7,435 43 7,435 43 521 444 42 36 11 of which retail underlying 12 of which wholesale 7,435 43 7,435 43 521 444 42 36 13 of which re-securitisation 7 7 1 0 14 of which senior 7 7 1 0 15 of which non-senior 334 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures Securitisation exposures in the banking portfolio and related capital requirements – Bank acting as investor IRB and standardised (SEC4) Exposure values Exposure values RWA (by RW bands) (by regulatory approach) (by regulatory approach) Capital charge after cap > 20% > 50% > 100% to IRB RBA IRB RBA IRB RBA 31/12/2018 ≤ 20% to 50% to 100% < 1250% 1250% (including IRB SA/ (including IRB SA/ (including IRB SA/ (in millions of euros) RW RW RW RW RW IAA) SFA SSFA 1250% IAA) SFA SSFA 1250% IAA) SFA SSFA 1250% 1 Total exposures 836 3 426 787 9 468 358 1 115 4 29 9 2 Traditional securitisation 836 3 426 787 9 468 358 1 115 4 29 9 3 of which securitisation 836 3 426 787 9 468 358 1 115 4 29 9 4 of which retail underlying 49 13 49 13 4 10 0 1 5 of which wholesale 787 3 413 738 9 455 354 1 105 4 28 9 6 of which re-securitisation 7 of which senior 8 of which non-senior 9 Synthetic securitisation 10 of which securitisation 11 of which retail underlying 12 of which wholesale 13 of which re-securitisation 14 of which senior 15 of which non-senior Total securitised exposures standardised (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 5 Traditional securitisation 2,463 2,459 Synthetic securitisation Aggregate securitisation exposures held or acquired (exposures at default) standardised (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 With external credit rating 633 1,003 20% weightings 429 751 40% weightings 50% weightings 202 250 100% weightings 2 2 225% weightings 350% weightings 650% weightings Weightings = 1250% 1 1 Transparency approach 1,634 1,288 AGGREGATE SECURITISATION EXPOSURES HELD OR ACQUIRED 2,268 2,292 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 335 5 Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures 4.4.3.6. Exposure at default of securitisation transaction risks in the trading book that generate risk-weighted assets Exposure at default of securitisation transactions by role Securitisation exposures in the trading book (SEC2) Bank acts as originator Bank acts as sponsor Banks acts as investor 31/12/2018 (in millions of euros) Traditional Synthetic Sub-total Traditional Synthetic Sub-total Traditional Synthetic Sub-total 1 Securitisation 201 201 2 Residential real estate loans 3 Commercial real estate loans 4 Credit card loans 5 Leasing 6 Loans to corporates and SMEs 7 Personal loans 8 Trade receivables 9 Other 201 201 10 Re-securitisation 24 24 11 TOTAL 31/12/2018 226 226 TOTAL 31/12/2017 96 96 Exposure at default only concerns traditional securitisations. Exposure at default of securitisation transactions by approach and by weighting 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Risk weighting tranche Long Short Capital Long Short Capital (in millions of euros) Positions Positions requirement Positions Positions requirement EAD subject to weighting 7-10% weightings 60 35 12-18% weightings 113 20-35% weightings 29 5 40-75% weightings 100% weightings 4 150% weightings 200% weightings 225% weightings 250% weightings 4 300% weightings 350% weightings 420% weightings 4 500% weightings 650% weightings 750% weightings 850% weightings 1250% weightings 24 4 45 7 Internal valuation approach 226 5 96 8 Supervisory Formula Approach Transparency Approach NET TOTAL OF DEDUCTIONS OF EQUITY 1250% / Positions deducted from capital TOTAL TRADING BOOK 226 5 96 8 336 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures Capital requirements relating to securitisations held or acquired 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Total Total Long Short weighted Capital Long Short weighted Capital (in millions of euros) Positions Positions positions requirement Positions Positions positions requirement Weighted EAD 226 5 96 48 8 Securitisation 201 1 65 17 3 Resecuritisation 24 4 31 31 4 Deductions 4.4.4. Market risk 4.4.4.2. Rules and procedures for valuing the trading book The rules for valuing the various items in the trading book are described 4.4.4.1. Internal model market risk measurement in Note 1.3 to the financial statements, “Accounting policies and and management methodology principles”. Market risk measurement and management by internal methods are Measurement models are reviewed periodically as described in the described in the section entitled “Risk factors – Market risk – Market section entitled “Risk factors – Market risk – Market risk measurement risk measurement and management methodology”. and management methodology”. 4.4.4.3. Exposure to market risk of the trading book 4.4.4.3.1. Risk-weighted exposure using the standardised approach Risk-weighted exposure using the standardised approach (MR1) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Capital Capital (in millions of euros) RWA requirement RWA requirement Futures and forwards 1 Interest rate risk (general and specific) 776 62 797 64 2 Risk on shares (general and specific) 77 6 3 Currency risk 3,349 268 3,800 304 4 Commodities risk 4 0 Options 5 5 Simplificated approach 6 Delta-plus method 6 0 7 Scenarios based approach 31 2 24 2 8 Securitisation 95 8 9 TOTAL 4,167 333 4,793 383 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 337 5 Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures 4.4.4.3.2. Exposures using the internal models approach Risk-weighted assets and capital requirements Market risk under the internal models approach (MR2-A) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Capital Capital (in millions of euros) RWA requirement RWA requirement 1 VaR (higher of values a and b) 798 64 1,056 84 (a) Previous day’s VaR (VaRt-1) 14 17 (b) Average of the daily VaR on each of the preceding sixty business days (VaRavg) x multiplication factor (mc) 64 84 2 SVaR (higher of values a and b) 3,121 250 2,523 202 (a) Latest SVaR (sVaRt-1) 59 44 (b) Average of the SVaR during the preceding sixty business days (sVaRavg) X multiplication factor (ms) 250 202 3 Incremental risk charge -IRC (higher of values a and b) 2,502 200 2,152 172 (a) Most recent IRC value (incremental default and migration risks section 3 calculated) 193 114 (b) Average of the IRC number over the preceding 12 weeks 200 172 4 Comprehensive Risk Measure – CRM (higher of values a, b and c) (a) Most recent risk number for the correlation trading portfolio (b) Average of the risk number for the correlation trading portfolio over the preceding 12 weeks (c) 8% of the own funds requirement in SA on most recent risk number for the correlation trading portfolio 5 TOTAL 6,421 514 5,730 458 Values resulting from use of internal models Value of the trading portfolio using the internal models approach (IMA) (MR3) (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 1 VaR (10 days, 99%) 2 Maximum value 21 26 3 Mean value 16 21 4 Minimum value 12 16 5 End of period value 14 17 6 VaR in stressed period (10 days, 99%) 7 Maximum value 78 64 8 Mean value 62 51 9 Minimum value 53 43 10 End of period value 59 44 11 Capital requirement in line with IRC (99.9%) 12 Maximum value 236 339 13 Mean value 154 132 14 Minimum value 85 88 15 End of period value 149 88 16 Capital requirement in line with CRM (99.9%) 17 Maximum value 18 Mean value 19 Minimum value 20 End of period value 21 Floor (standard measure method) 338 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures 4.4.4.4. Back testing of the VaR (MR4) method 4.4.6. Operational risk The back-testing process of the VaR (Value at Risk) model to check the relevance of the model, as well as the results of this back-testing, are 4.4.6.1. Advanced measurement approach presented in Part 5 “Risk Management” of the Registration Document. The French Regulatory and Resolution Supervisory Authority (ACPR) has, since 1 January 2008, authorised Crédit Agricole S.A. Group’s 4.4.5. Global interest rate risk main entities to use the Advanced Measurement Approach (AMA) to The nature of interest rate risk, the main underlying assumptions retained calculate their regulatory capital requirements for operational risk. The and the frequency of interest rate risk measurements are described in Group’s other entities use the standardised approach, in accordance the section entitled “Risk factors – Asset/Liability Management – Global with regulations. interest rate risk”. The scope of application of the advanced measurement and standardised approaches and a description of the advanced measurement approach methodology are provided in the section entitled “Risk factors – Operational risk – Methodology”. 4.4.6.2. Insurance techniques for reducing operational risk The insurance techniques used to reduce operational risk are described in the section entitled “Risk factors – Operational risk – Insurance and coverage of operational risks”. 4.5. ASSET ENCUMBRANCE Medians of the four quarterly end-of-period values over the previous 12 months. Template A – Encumbered and unencumbered assets Carrying amount of Fair value of Carrying amount of Fair value of encumbered assets encumbered assets unencumbered assets unencumbered assets of which of which notionally notionally of which of which eligible EHQLA eligible EHQLA EHQLA and EHQLA and and HQLA(1)(2) and HQLA(1)(2) HQLA(1)(2) HQLA(1)(2) 010 030 040 050 060 080 090 100 5 (in millions of euros) 010 Assets of the reporting institution 73,954 7,282 1,180,617 165,050 030 Equity instruments 2,007 1,391 8,037 040 Debt securities 10,792 5,891 10,792 6,211 107,847 72,753 107,847 72,433 050 of which: covered bonds 21 22 21 962 939 944 939 944 060 of which: asset-backed securities 2,915 23 2,915 23 070 of which: issued by general governments 7,281 4,503 7,281 4,823 53,508 51,779 53,508 51,459 080 of which: issued by financial corporations 3,214 1,153 3,214 1,153 40,001 19,280 40,001 19,280 090 of which: issued by non-financial corporations 228 235 228 235 9,551 1,694 9,551 1,694 120 Other assets 62,374 1,061,895 92,668 121 of which: Loans and advances other than loans on demand 45,532 820,375 (1) Figures as at 31 December 2018. (2) EHQLA: Assets of extremely high liquidity and credit quality. HQLA: Assets of high liquidity and credit quality. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 339 5 Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures Template B – Collateral received Unencumbered Fair value of encumbered Fair value of collateral received collateral received or own or own debt securities issued debt securities issued available for encumbrance of which of which notionally notionally eligible EHQLA eligible EHQLA and HQLA(1)(2) and HQLA(1)(2) (in millions of euros) 010 030 040 060 130 Collateral received by the reporting institution 162,217 71,932 33,153 21,944 140 Loans on demand 150 Equity instruments 3,465 1,484 1,315 907 160 Debt securities 82,267 70,448 31,371 20,666 170 of which: covered bonds 31 9 1,389 1,940 180 of which: asset-backed securities 1,386 190 of which: issued by general governments 72,674 63,756 25,304 18,789 200 of which: issued by financial corporations 6,871 4,118 5,714 531 210 of which: issued by non-financial corporations 3,292 2,574 1,475 1,346 220 Loans and advances other than loans on demand 75,336 230 Other collateral received 87 240 Own debt securities issued other than own covered bonds or asset-backed securities 241 Own covered bonds and asset-backed securities issued and not yet pledged 13,915 6,056 250 TOTAL ASSETS, COLLATERAL RECEIVED AND OWN DEBT SECURITIES ISSUED 236,567 79,014 (1) Figures as at 31 December 2018. (2) EHQLA: Assets of extremely high liquidity and credit quality. HQLA: Assets of high liquidity and credit quality. Template C – Sources of encumbrance Matching liabilities, Assets, collateral received and own contingent liabilities debt securities issued other than or securities lent covered bonds and ABSs encumbered (in millions of euros) 010 030 010 Carrying amount of selected financial liabilities 271,904 224,138 011 of which: Derivatives 87,897 15,661 012 of which: Deposits 131,787 145,302 013 of which: Debt securities issued 53,575 64,472 Template D – Additional descriptive information differently, and to limit the share of assets pledged in order to retain good quality assets that can be easily liquidated in the market through Crédit Agricole S.A. monitors and manages the encumbrance level of existing mechanisms in case of stress. assets pledged in the Crédit Agricole Group. The sources of asset encumbrance mainly related to loans and advances The asset encumbrance ratio for Crédit Agricole S.A. Group represented (other than loans on demand) are as follows: 15.6% at 31 December 2018. nn covered bonds referred to in Article 52-(4), first sub-paragraph, of The encumbrance for assets and collateral received for Crédit Agricole Directive 2009/65/EC, issued by the following three vehicles: S.A. Group mainly covers loans and advances (other than loans on –– Crédit Agricole Home Loan SFH, pledging the receivables of the demand). The pledge of receivables due from private customers aims Regional Banks and LCL, to obtain refinancing under advantageous conditions or to constitute –– Crédit Agricole Public Sector SCF, pledging the receivables of reserves that can easily be made liquid if needed. The policy of Crédit Crédit Agricole CIB, Agricole S.A. aims to both diversify the instruments used to improve resistance to liquidity stress, which could affect individual markets –– Crédit Agricole Italia OBG Srl, pledging the receivables of Crédit Agricole Italia Group. 340 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures At 31 December 2018, the placed covered bonds amounted to nn debt securities (other than covered bonds or ABSs) issued to the €38.0 billion for a total of €43.5 billion in encumbered underlying Caisse de Refinancement de l’Habitat (CRH) in the form of promissory assets (and collateral received) thus complying with the contractual notes, pledging the collateral received from the Regional Banks and and regulatory requirements as well as those of the rating agencies, the receivables of LCL: if applicable, in terms of over-collateralisation. –– at 31 December 2018, these securities amounted to €9.9 billion At 31 December 2018, the covered bonds retained and not yet for a total of €15.0 billion in encumbered assets and collateral pledged as collateral amounted to €0.4 billion for a total of €0.5 billion received. in unencumbered underlying assets; As Crédit Agricole S.A. is the central actor in most of these secured nn asset-backed securities (ABS) issued during securitisation financing mechanisms, these levels of encumbrance are broken down transactions – as defined in Article 4-(1), item 61, of the Regulation at an intragroup level between Crédit Agricole S.A., its subsidiaries and (EU) No. 575/2013 – mainly carried out by the CA Consumer Finance the Crédit Agricole Regional Banks. Group and its subsidiaries: The other main sources of asset encumbrance in the Crédit Agricole –– at 31 December 2018, placed asset-backed securities amounted Group are: to €5.3 billion for a total of €5.6 billion in encumbered underlying nn repurchase agreements, mainly associated with the activity of assets, Crédit Agricole CIB and mainly encumbering the collateral received –– at 31 December 2018, asset-backed securities retained and not comprising debt securities and incidentally, equity instruments. In yet pledged as collateral amounted to €15.5 billion for a total of particular, this source concentrates the majority of encumbrance €18.2 billion of unencumbered underlying assets; held in the second material currency (USD), within the meaning of nn guaranteed deposits (other than repurchase agreements) mainly appendix XVII of the Execution Regulation (EU) No. 680/2014, other associated with funding transactions: from the ECB under TLTROs, than the declaration currency (EUR): via Crédit Agricole CIB’s ESTER securitisation conduit, as well as –– at 31 December 2018, repurchase agreements amounted to French or supranational organisations (such as the CDC and the EIB): €82.1 billion for a total of €82.9 billion in encumbered assets and –– at 31 December 2018, guaranteed deposits (other than repurchase collateral received; agreements) amounted to €48.1 billion for a total of €59.3 billion in nn derivatives associated mainly with the OTC derivative activity of Crédit encumbered assets and collateral received; Agricole CIB and encumbering mainly cash as part of margin calls: –– at 31 December 2018, margin calls amounted to €15.3 billion. Guaranteed deposits Repurchase agreements and CB funding(1) (€82.9 billion) (€59.3 billion) Covered bonds Derivatives (€43.5 billion) (€15.3 billion) Securitisations Debt securities(2) Total FINREP 5 (€5.6 billion) (€15.0 billion) balence sheet (€1,281 billion) Other(3) Collateral received(4) (€7.1 billion) (€187 billion) Autres (3) Total encumbered Asset encumbrance level (7,1 Mds d’€)assets €1,469 billion and collateral received = €229 billion at 31/12/2018 15.6% (1) Central banks. (2) Other than covered bonds or ABSs. (3) Mainly stock lending and borrowing. (4) Excluding collateral received that could not be encumbered. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 341 5 Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures 4.6. LIQUIDITY COVERAGE RATIO Quantitative information Scope of consolidation (solo/consolidated) (in millions of euros) Total unweighted value (average) Total weighted value (average) Quarter ending on 31/03/2018 30/06/2018 30/09/2018 31/12/2018 31/03/2018 30/06/2018 30/09/2018 31/12/2018 Number of data points used in the calculation of averages 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 High-quality liquid assets 1 Total high-quality liquid assets (HQLA) 179,012 175,060 173,024 174,114 Cash-outflows 2 Retail deposits and deposits from small business customers, of which: 343,879 349,816 356,037 361,467 21,214 21,609 22,023 22,376 3 Stable deposits 280,165 284,686 289,275 293,348 14,008 14,234 14,464 14,667 4 Less stable deposits 63,714 65,130 66,763 68,119 7,206 7,374 7,559 7,708 5 Unsecured wholesale funding 204,618 211,947 219,304 223,539 102,896 106,292 11,0828 112,694 6 Operational deposits (all counterparties) and deposits in networks of cooperative banks 78,064 81,130 82,791 84,567 22,805 24,176 24,875 25,667 7 Non-operational deposits (all counterparties) 119,937 121,242 123,746 126,419 73,474 72,541 73,186 74,474 8 Unsecured debt 6,616 9,574 12,767 12,554 6,616 9,574 12,767 12,554 9 Secured wholesale funding 16,596 16,965 17,322 17,954 10 Additional requirements 135,616 136,736 138,951 142,532 37,480 36,802 36,404 36,280 11 Outflows related to derivative exposures and other collateral requirements 12,224 11,018 9,944 9,458 11,743 10,609 9,581 8,883 12 Outflows related to loss of funding on debt products 13 Credit and liquidity facilities 123,392 125,717 129,006 133,074 25,737 26,193 26,823 27,396 14 Other contractual funding obligations 31,287 27,925 24,308 24,468 9,123 5,005 1,331 1,316 15 Other contingent funding obligations 43,067 43,232 44,691 46,176 818 943 914 869 16 TOTAL CASH OUTFLOWS 188,127 187,614 188,822 191,489 Cash-inflows 17 Secured lending (eg reverse repos) 115,889 122,769 130,667 135,560 14,006 14,196 14,300 14,260 18 Inflows from fully performing exposures 93,672 96,632 99,829 102,246 40,254 41,531 42,786 43,489 19 Other cash inflows 3,016 3,320 3,385 3,438 2,841 3,030 3,066 3,162 EU-19a (Difference between total weighted inflows and total weighted outflows arising from transactions in third countries where there are transfer restrictions or which are denominated in non-convertible currencies) 342 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures Scope of consolidation (solo/consolidated) (in millions of euros) Total unweighted value (average) Total weighted value (average) Quarter ending on 31/03/2018 30/06/2018 30/09/2018 31/12/2018 31/03/2018 30/06/2018 30/09/2018 31/12/2018 EU-19b (Excess inflows from a related specialised credit institution) 20 TOTAL CASH INFLOWS 212,576 222,721 233,882 241,244 57,101 58,758 60,151 60,911 EU-20a Fully exempt inflows 123 123 EU-20b Inflows Subject to 90% Cap EU-20c Inflows Subject to 75% Cap 185,969 197,044 208045 217331 56,978 58,758 60,151 60,911 21 FULLY EXEMPT INFLOWS 179,012 175,060 173,024 174,114 22 INFLOWS SUBJECT TO 90% CAP 131,026 128,856 128,670 130,578 23 INFLOWS SUBJECT TO 75% CAP 137% 136% 134% 133% Qualitative information Concentration of funding Crédit Agricole Group S.A. follows a prudent refinancing policy, with a very diversified access and liquidity sources to the markets, in terms of investor base and products. Derivative exposures Cash outflows for this item mainly materialise the risk associated with increases in margin calls and potential collateral calls on derivative transactions in an unfavourable market scenario and increases in margin calls following a deterioration in the Group’s external rating. At 31 December 2018, the total collateral the Group would need to provide in case of downgrading of its credit rating amounted to €3.3 billion. Currency mismatch in the LCR At 31 December 2018, Crédit Agricole S.A. Group had its net cash outflows covered by liquid assets denominated in the same currency in the main material currencies. The extent of residual mismatches observed in certain currencies is considered satisfactory, given the surplus top quality liquid assets available in the other material currencies, which could easily be converted to cover the requirements, including in a crisis situation. A description of the degree Crédit Agricole S.A. controls the management of liquidity risk. of centralisation of liquidity • Crédit Agricole S.A.’s cash enables it to meet the main short term refinancing needs (≤ 1 year) of the management and interaction between Regional Banks and the subsidiaries. It also coordinates the cash position of the subsidiaries for their the Group’s units additional fundraising. CACIB operates self-sufficiently for the management of its short-term refinancing, in close coordination with Crédit Agricole’s Cash Management department; 5 • for long-term refinancing (> 1 year), Crédit Agricole S.A. collects the long-term resource needs, plans refinancing programmes according to these needs and reallocates resources raised to Group entities. The Group’s main issuers are: Crédit Agricole S.A., CACIB, CA-CF, and CA Italia. Other items in the LCR calculation that are not captured in the LCR disclosure template but that the institution considers relevant for its liquidity profile 4.7. COMPENSATION POLICY The information on the compensation policy required pursuant to EU Regulation 575-2013 (CRR) can be found in chapter 3 of this Registration document. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 343 5 Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures 4.8. CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE Cross-reference table for Pillar 3 (CRR and CRD 4) 2018 Registration CRR article Topic Reference 2018 Registration document document 90 (CRD 4) Return on assets Management report p. 198 435 (CRR) 1. Risk management policy and Presentation of Committees – Corporate governance p. 108 to 114 objectives Main Group level Committees dealing with risk – Risk management p. 217 to 220 436 (a)(b) 2. Scope of consolidation Pillar 3 p. 265 to 266 Financial statements Note 12.2 and p. 282 to 283 p. 494 to 506 436 (c)(d)(e) 2. Scope of consolidation Unpublished information (CRR) 437 (CRR) 3. Equity Reconciliation of accounting and regulatory capital p. 276 Details of subordinated debt p. 271 438 (CRR) 4. Capital requirements Risk-weighted assets by business line and trends p. 284 to 286 439 (CRR) 5. Exposure to counterparty credit risk General presentation of counterparty credit risk – exposures p. 286 to 328 by type of risk Credit risk (all) Counterparty risk (all) 440 (CRR) 6. Capital buffer Minimum requirements and exposures by geographic area p. 267 to 270 p. 289 to 291 441 (CRR) 7. Indicators of global systemic Communication on the indicators required for globally systemically p. 268, A01 importance important banks (G-SIBs) + website and Press release 442 (CRR) 8. Adjustments for credit risk Default exposures and value adjustments p. 297 to 301 443 (CRR) 9. Asset encumbrance Asset encumbrance p. 339 to 341 444 (CRR) 10. Use of ECAIs Protection providers p. 327 to 328 445 (CRR) 11. Exposure to market risk Exposure to market risk of the trading book p. 337 to 339 446 (CRR) 12. Operational risk Operational risk p. 256 to 258 and p. 339 447 (CRR) 13. Equity exposures excluding the trading Equity exposures in the banking portfolio p. 287 and 329 book 448 (CRR) 14. Exposure to interest rate risk on Global interest rate risk – Risk management p. 242 to 243 positions not included in the trading and p. 339 book 449 (CRR) 15. Exposures to securitisation positions Securitisation – Pillar 3 p. 329 to 337 450 (CRR) 16. Compensation policy Compensation policy – Corporate governance p. 143 to 170 and 343 451 (CRR) 17. Leverage Leverage ratio p. 277 to 279 452 (CRR) 18. Use of the IRB approach to credit risk Credit risk – internal ratings-based approach p. 305 to 319 453 (CRR) 19. Use of credit risk mitigation techniques Credit risk mitigation mechanism p. 231 and p. 327 to 329 454 (CRR) 20. Use of the advanced measurement Operational risk p. 256 to 258 approaches to operational risk and 339 455 (CRR) 21. Use of internal market risk models Internal models approach to market risk capital requirements – Pillar 3 p. 337 to 339 Additional elements are presented on the consolidated report on risks available on our website: www.credit-agricole.com/finance/finance/espace-investisseurs/informations-financieres 344 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Risks and Pillar 3 4. Pillar 3 disclosures EDTF cross-reference table Management Risk factors Consolidated report and risk financial Recommendation and other management Pillar 3 statements Introduction 1 Cross-reference table p. 345 2 Terminology and risk measurements, p. 206 to 263 p. 286 and p. 373 to 390, key parameters used 302 to 315 394 to 422 3 Presentation of main risks and/or emerging risks p. 206 to 263 p. 394 to 422 4 New regulatory framework for solvency and Group p. 199 to 201 p. 244 to 247 p. 264 to 270 p. 422 objectives Governance and risk 5 Organisation of control and risk management p. 108 to 114 p. 217 to 220, management strategy 221 to 227 6 Risk management strategy and implementation p. 108 to 114 p. 206 to 263, p. 267 to 282 221 to 227 7 Risk mapping by business line p. 285 8 Governance and management of internal credit p. 217 to 220, p. 264 and market stress tests 231 Capital requirements 9 Minimum capital requirements p. 267 to 268 and risk-weighted 10a Breakdown of composition of capital p. 273 to 276(1) assets 10b Reconciliation of the balance sheet and prudential p. 266 to 276, balance sheet and accounting equity and regulatory 282 to 283 capital 11 Change in regulatory capital p. 273 to 276 12 Capital trajectory and CRD 4 ratio objectives p. 199 to 201 p. 267 to 282 13 Risk-weighted assets by business line and risk type p. 284 to 301 14 Risk-weighted assets and capital requirements p. 229 to 230 p. 284 to 301 by method and category of exposure 15 Exposure to credit risk by category of exposure p. 227 to 230, p. 287 to 329 and internal rating 234 16 Changes in risk-weighted assets by risk type p. 284 17 Description of back-testing models and efforts p. 236 to 237, p. 316 to 317 to improve their reliability 256 to 258 Liquidity 18 Management of liquidity and cash balance sheet p. 244 to 247 p. 342 to 343 19 20 Asset encumbrance Breakdown of financial assets and financial p. 339 to 341 p. 296 p. 416 to 417, 5 liabilities by contractual maturity 473 21 Liquidity and financing risk management p. 244 to 247 p. 342 to 343 Market risk 22 to Market risk measurement p. 235 to 241 p. 337 to 339 p. 373 to 390, 24 411 to 415, 480 to 493 25 Market risk management techniques p. 235 to 241 Credit risk 26 Maximum exposure, breakdown and diversification p. 227 to 235 p. 286 to 329 p. 394 to 411 of credit risks 27 and Provisioning policy and risk hedging p. 234 to 235 p. 373 to 390, 28 410 to 411, 427 29 Derivative instruments: notional, counterparty risk, p. 227 to 235, p. 319 to 329 p. 381, offsetting 235 to 236, 411 to 415, 239, 453 to 454, 247 to 248, 482 to 483 252 to 253 30 Credit risk mitigation mechanisms p. 231 p. 478 to 479 Other risks 31 Other risks: insurance sector risks, operational risks p. 108 to 114 p. 206 to 220, p. 422, and legal risks, information systems security and 248 to 256 435 to 439, business continuity plans 462 to 469 32 Declared risks and ongoing actions regarding p. 256 to 258 p. 463 to 467 operational and legal risks (1) Details of debt issues available on the website: www.credit-agricole.com/en/finance/finance/financial-publications The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 345 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6 Consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2018 approved by the Crédit Agricole S.A. Board of Directors on 13 February 2019 and subject to approval by the Combined General Meeting of Shareholders on 21 May 2019. General framework 348 Effects of the application Legal presentation of the entity 348 of IFRS 9 at 1 January 2018 362 Crédit Agricole internal relations 348 Related parties 351 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 371 Consolidated financial statements 354 Income statement 354 Statutory Auditors’ report Net income and other comprehensive income 355 on the consolidated financial statements511 Balance sheet – assets 356 Balance sheet – liabilities & equity 357 Statement of changes in equity 358 Cash flow statement 360 346 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. KEY FIGURES NET INCOME GROUP SHARE €4,400 m Revenues €19,736 m TOTAL BALANCE SHEET €1,624,394 m 6 Total customer loans €369,456 m Total customer deposits €597,170 m Total equity €65,516 m The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 347 6 Consolidated Financial Statements General framework GENERAL FRAMEWORK LEGAL PRESENTATION OF THE ENTITY Since the Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders of 29 November A bank with mutual roots 2001, the Company’s name has been: Crédit Agricole S.A. SAS Rue La Boétie, which is wholly owned by the Regional Banks, Since 1 July 2012, the address of the Company’s registered office has holds the majority of Crédit Agricole S.A.’s share capital. Shares in been: 12, place des États-Unis, 92127 Montrouge Cedex, France. SAS Rue La Boétie may not be transferred outside the Regional Banks’ Registration number: 784 608 416 Nanterre Trade and Companies network. Furthermore, any trading in these shares between Regional Register. Banks is governed by a liquidity agreement that in particular sets out NAF code: 6419Z. the procedures for determining the transaction price. This encompasses Crédit Agricole S.A. is a French Public Limited Company (Société both disposals of shares between the Regional Banks and capital Anonyme) with a Board of Directors governed by ordinary company law increases at SAS Rue La Boétie. and more specifically by Book II of the French Commercial Code. The Fédération Nationale du Crédit Agricole (FNCA) acts as a Crédit Agricole S.A. is also subject to the provisions of the French consultative and representative body, and as a communication forum Monetary and Financial Code and more specifically Articles for the Regional Banks. L. 512-47 et seq. thereof. In accordance with the provisions of the French Monetary and Financial Crédit Agricole S.A. was licensed as an authorised lending institution in Code (Articles L. 511-31 and L. 511-32), as the central body of the Crédit the mutual and cooperative banks category on 17 November 1984. As Agricole network, Crédit Agricole S.A. is responsible for exercising such, it is subject to oversight by the banking supervisory authorities, administrative, technical and financial control over the institutions and more particularly by the French Regulatory and Resolution affiliated to it in order to maintain a cohesive network (as defined in Supervisory Authority (ACPR) and the European Central Bank. Article R. 512-18 of the French Monetary and Financial Code) and to ensure their proper functioning and compliance with all regulations and Crédit Agricole S.A. shares are admitted for trading on Euronext Paris. legislation governing them. In that regard, Crédit Agricole S.A. may take Crédit Agricole S.A. is subject to the prevailing stock market regulations all necessary measures notably to ensure the liquidity and solvency of particularly with respect to public disclosure obligations. the network as a whole and of each of its affiliated institutions. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE INTERNAL RELATIONS Internal financing mechanisms Special savings accounts and time deposits and advances are used by Crédit Agricole S.A. to make “advances” (loans) to the Regional Banks, Crédit Agricole has instituted a number of internal financing mechanisms with a view to funding their medium and long-term loans. specific to the Group. A series of four internal financial reforms has been implemented. These reforms have permitted the transfer back to the Regional Banks, in the Regional Banks’ current accounts form of mirror advances (with maturities and interest rates precisely Each Regional Bank holds a current account with Crédit Agricole S.A., matching those of the savings funds received) of first 15%, 25%, then which records the financial movements resulting from internal financial 33% and, since 31 December 2001, 50% of the savings resources, transactions within the Group. This account, which may be in credit or which they are free to use at their discretion. debit, is presented in the balance sheet under “Crédit Agricole internal Since 1 January 2004, the financial margins generated by the centralised transactions – Current Accounts” and integrated on a specific line item, management of funds collected (and not transferred back via mirror either “Loans and receivables due from credit institutions” or “Due to advances) are shared by the Regional Banks and Crédit Agricole S.A. and credit institutions”. are determined by using replacement models and applying market rates. Special savings accounts Furthermore, 50% of new loans written since 1 January 2004 and falling within the field of application of financial relations between Crédit Funds held in special savings accounts (popular savings passbook Agricole S.A. and the Regional Banks may be refinanced in the form of accounts (Livret d’épargne populaire), sustainable development advances negotiated at market rates with Crédit Agricole S.A. passbook accounts (Livret de développement durable), home purchase savings plans and accounts, popular savings plans, youth passbook Hence, there are currently two types of advances: advances governed accounts (Livrets Jeunes) and passbook savings accounts (Livret A)) are by financial rules from before 1 January 2004 and those governed by collected by the Regional Banks on behalf of Crédit Agricole S.A. These the new rules. funds are required to be transferred to the latter. Crédit Agricole S.A. Crédit Agricole S.A. may also make additional financing available to the recognises them on its balance sheet as “Due to customers”. Regional Banks at market rates. Term deposits and advances Transfer of Regional Banks’ liquidity surpluses The Regional Banks also collect savings funds (passbook accounts, The Regional Banks may use their monetary deposits (demand deposits, bonds, warrants, certain term accounts and related accounts, etc.) non-centralised term deposits and negotiable certificates of deposit) to on behalf of Crédit Agricole S.A. These funds are transferred to Crédit finance lending to their customers. Surpluses must be transferred to Agricole S.A., and are recognised as such on its balance sheet. Crédit Agricole S.A. where they are booked as current or term accounts, under “Crédit Agricole internal transactions”. 348 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements General framework Investment of Regional Banks’ surplus capital with Crédit failed to cope with the bankruptcy of one or more Group affiliates, and Agricole S.A. hence of the network as a whole. By its very nature it also hinders Available surplus capital may be invested with Crédit Agricole S.A. in the the monitoring of the conditions for implementing the guarantee of the form of three to ten-year instruments with the same characteristics of obligations of Crédit Agricole S.A. granted in 1988 to its third party interbank money market transactions in all respects. creditors by the Regional Banks on a joint and several basis, and up to the aggregate amount of their own funds. It should be recalled that this guarantee may be exercised in the event of an asset shortfall at Crédit Foreign currency transactions Agricole S.A. identified in the course of its bankruptcy or dissolution. Crédit Agricole S.A. represents the Regional Banks with respect to the In connection with the institution of a resolution procedure, the Single Bank of France and centralises their foreign currency transactions. Resolution Board (SRB), should respect the fundamental principle that no creditor must suffer losses in connection with a resolution procedure Medium and long-term notes issued by Crédit Agricole S.A. that are greater than those it would suffer if the entity had been liquidated These are placed mainly on the market or by the Regional Banks with in a normal insolvency procedure (the “No Creditor Worse Off than on their customers. They are booked by Crédit Agricole S.A. under liabilities Liquidation” – NCWOL – principle, set forth in Article L. 613-57-I – of either as “Debt securities” or as “Subordinated debt”, depending on the the French Monetary and Financial Code, and Article 73 of the BRRD type of security issued. directive). Because this principle must be respected, Crédit Agricole S.A. considers that the existence of the guarantee granted in 1988 by the Hedging of Liquidity and Solvency risks Regional Banks in favour of the creditors of Crédit Agricole S.A., will have to be taken into account by the SRB, although it is not possible to Under the legal internal financial solidarity mechanism enshrined in determine how this will be done. Article L. 511-31 of the French Monetary and Financial Code, Crédit Agricole S.A. as a central body, must take all measures necessary to ensure the liquidity and solvency of each affiliated credit institution, Specific guarantees provided by the Regional Banks as well as the network as a whole. As a result, each member of the to Crédit Agricole S.A. (Switch) network and each affiliated institution benefits from this internal The Switch guarantee mechanism, established on 23 December 2011 financial solidarity mechanism. and supplemented by an initial addendum signed on 19 December 2013 The general provisions of the French Monetary and Financial Code are and twice amended in 2016 on 17 February (amendment No. 2) and transposed into internal provisions setting out the operational measures 21 July (amendment No. 3) respectively, forms parts of the financial required for this internal financial solidarity mechanism. arrangements between Crédit Agricole S.A., as central body, and During the IPO of Crédit Agricole S.A. in 2001, CNCA (now Crédit the mutual network of Crédit Agricole Regional Banks. The most Agricole S.A.) signed an agreement with the Regional Banks to govern recent amendments to these guarantees took effect retroactively internal relations within Crédit Agricole Group. The agreement notably on 1 July 2016, replacing the previous guarantees, and expire on provided for the creation of a Fund for Bank Liquidity and Solvency 1 March 2027, subject to total or partial early termination or extension Risks (FRBLS) designed to enable Crédit Agricole S.A. to fulfil its role as in accordance with the terms of the contract. central body by providing assistance to any affiliated members that may With this mechanism, and subject to the upper limit specified in experience difficulties. The main provisions of this agreement are set out the agreement, the Regional Banks assume, on behalf of Crédit in chapter III of the Registration document filed by Crédit Agricole S.A. Agricole S.A., regulatory requirements relating to the equity method with the Commission des opérations de Bourse on 22 October 2001 of accounting for certain equity investments held by Crédit Agricole under number R. 01-453. The fund was originally allocated €610 million S.A. They also assume the associated economic risks in the form of in assets. At 31 December 2018 it totalled €1,152 million, having been compensation, where applicable. increased by €40 million in the course of the year. The guarantees allow the transfer of regulatory requirements that Moreover, European legislation relating to the resolution of banking henceforth apply to Crédit Agricole S.A.’s equity investments in Crédit crises adopted in 2014 (the BRRD directive transposed into French Agricole Assurances (CAA), the latter being equity-accounted for law by Ordinance 2015-1024 of 20 August 2015, which also brought regulatory reasons: we are now talking about the Insurance Switch French law into line with the regulation establishing a Single Resolution Mechanism) introduced a number of significant changes to the guarantees. They are subject to fixed remuneration covering the present value of the risk and the cost of capital for the Regional Banks. 6 regulations applicable to credit institutions. The effectiveness of the mechanism is secured by cash deposits paid The new framework, which includes measures to prevent and to resolve by the Regional Banks to Crédit Agricole S.A. These cash deposits are banking crises, is intended to preserve financial stability, to ensure the calibrated to reflect the capital savings for Crédit Agricole S.A., and are continuity of activities, services and operations of institutions whose compensated at a fixed rate based on conditions prevailing for long-term failure could significantly impact the economy, to protect depositors liquidity. and to avoid or limit, as much as possible, the use of public financial The Insurance Switch guarantees protect Crédit Agricole S.A. from support. In this context, the European resolution authorities, including a decline in the equity-accounted value of these equity investments, the Single Resolution Board, were granted extensive powers to take all subject to payment by the Regional Banks of compensation from the necessary measures in connection with the resolution of all or part of a cash deposit. Likewise, if the equity-accounted value later recovers, credit institution or the group to which it belongs. Crédit Agricole S.A. could return previously paid compensation in This resolution framework does not affect the legal internal financial accordance with a clawback provision. solidarity mechanism enshrined in Article L. 511-31 of the French In regulatory terms: Monetary and Financial Code, which applies to the Crédit Agricole nn Crédit Agricole S.A. reduces its capital requirements in proportion to Network, as defined in Article R. 512-18 of the same Code. Crédit the amount of the guarantee provided by the Regional Banks; Agricole S.A. considers that, in practice, this mechanism should be nn the Regional Banks symmetrically record capital requirements implemented prior to any resolution procedure. matching those offloaded by Crédit Agricole S.A. The application of the resolution procedure to Crédit Agricole Group would thus mean that the legal internal solidarity mechanism had The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 349 6 Consolidated Financial Statements General framework This mechanism, which is neutral at Crédit Agricole Group level, enables Capital ties between Crédit Agricole S.A. the rebalancing of capital allocation between Crédit Agricole S.A. and and the Regional Banks the Regional Banks. In accounting terms: The capital ties between Crédit Agricole S.A. and the Regional Banks are governed by an agreement entered into by the parties prior to Crédit nn the guarantees are essentially insurance contracts, due to the Agricole S.A.’s initial public offering. existence of an insurance risk as defined by IFRS 4. For the insured, they are treated as a first demand guarantee received and their Under the terms of this agreement, the Regional Banks exercise their compensation is recognised in stages as a deduction from the control over Crédit Agricole S.A. through SAS Rue La Boétie, a holding interest margin under Revenues. In the event of a call on guarantees, company wholly-owned by them. The purpose of SAS Rue La Boétie is or following an improvement in fortunes, where applicable, the to hold enough shares to ensure that it always owns at least 50% of the compensation payment or redemption proceeds would be recognised share capital and voting rights of Crédit Agricole S.A. under cost of risk; In addition, under the agreement, Crédit Agricole S.A. directly owned nn it should be noted that the Insurance Switch guarantees are approximately 25% of the share capital of each Regional Bank (except triggered on a half-yearly basis and are assessed on the basis of for the Caisse régionale de la Corse which is owned at 99.9%). half-yearly changes in the equity-accounted value of the Crédit Following the transaction to simplify the Group’s capital structure on Agricole Assurances equity investments. At each quarterly closing, 3 August 2016, the bulk of the cooperative investment certificates the Regional Banks are required to estimate if there is a risk that (certificats coopératifs d’investissement or CCIs) and the cooperative compensation will be payable and to fund provisions accordingly. associate certificates (certificats coopératifs d’associés or CCAs) held On the other hand, Crédit Agricole, S.A. cannot recognise equivalent by Crédit Agricole S.A. were transferred to a holding company (“Sacam income because it is not certain. At each half-yearly close, and if Mutualisation”) jointly owned by the Regional Banks. the conditions have been met, Crédit Agricole. S.A. and the Regional Banks recognise on a symmetrical basis the effects of triggering the guarantees (calling or claw-back). 350 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements General framework RELATED PARTIES The related parties of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group are the consolidated Management of retirement, early retirement companies, including companies accounted for using the equity method, and end-of-career allowances: internal hedging the Group’s Senior Executives and the Regional Banks, given the Group’s contracts within the Group legal structure and due to fact that Crédit Agricole S.A. is the central body of the Crédit Agricole network. As presented in Note 1.2 “Accounting policies and principles”, employees In accordance with the internal financial mechanisms at Crédit Agricole, are provided with various types of post-employment benefits. These transactions between Crédit Agricole S.A. and the Regional Banks(1) include: are presented on the balance sheet and income statement as Crédit nn end-of-career allowances; Agricole internal transactions (Note 4.1 “Interest income and expenses”, nn retirement plans, which may be either “defined-contribution” or Note 4.2 “Fee and commission income and expenses”, Note 6.5 “defined-benefit” plans. “Financial assets at amortised cost” and Note 6.8 “Financial liabilities The liability in this respect is partially funded by collective insurance at amortised cost”). contracts taken out with Predica, Crédit Agricole Group’s life insurance company. Other shareholders’ agreements These contracts govern: Shareholder agreements signed during the year are detailed in Note 2 nn the setting up by the insurance company of mutual funds for investing “Major structural transactions and material events during the period”. contributions made by the employer to build up sufficient funds to cover end-of-career allowances or retirement benefits; Relationships between controlled companies nn the management of the funds by the insurance company; affecting the consolidated balance sheet nn the payment to the beneficiaries of the allowances and of the benefits A list of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group companies can be found in Note 11 due under the various plans. “Scope of consolidation at 31 December 2018”. Since the transactions Information on post-employment benefits is provided in Note 7 and outstandings at year-end between the Group’s fully consolidated “Employee benefits and other compensation” in paragraphs 7.3 and 7.4. companies are eliminated on consolidation, only transactions with companies consolidated by the equity method affect the Group’s Relations with senior management consolidated financial statements. Detailed information on senior management compensation is provided The main corresponding outstandings and commitments in the in paragraph 7.7 of Note 7 “Employee benefits and other compensation”, consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2018 relate to transactions as well as in the “Compensation policy” section, chapter 3 “Corporate with the equity-accounted entities for the following amounts: governance” of the Registration document. nn loans and receivables due from credit institutions: €2,590 million; There exist no material transactions between Crédit Agricole S.A. and nn loans and receivables due from customers: €2,088 million; its senior management, their families or the companies they control and nn amounts due to credit institutions: €1,068 million; which are not included in the Group’s scope of consolidation. nn amounts due to customers: €186 million; nn commitments given on financial instruments: €4,218 million; nn commitments received on financial instruments: €4,957 million. The transactions entered into with these entities did not have a material effect on the income statement for the period. 6 (1) Except for the Caisse régionale de la Corse, which is fully consolidated. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 351 6 Consolidated Financial Statements General framework CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. % INTEREST(1) FRENCH INTERNATIONAL ASSET GATHERING RETAIL RETAIL BANKING BANKING C R É D IT AG R I CO LE S.A. INSURANCE ASSET MANAGEMENT WEALTH MANAGEMENT 76.9% CRÉDIT 95.6% LCL 100% 68.4% 1.6% CA Indosuez AGRICOLE AMUNDI LE CRÉDIT 13.5% CRÉDIT AGRICOLE Wealth (Group) ASSURANCES OTHER LYONNAIS FONDATIONS CARIPARMA Holding SA GROUP SA 100% 4.4% SA ENTITIES CACIB SACAM 9.5% SA SACAM SPA Italy DEVELOPPEMENT INTERNATIONAL 100% PREDICA 100% AMUNDI ASSET CA Indosuez 100% CRÉDIT AGRICOLE 81.3% SA MANAGEMENT Wealth (Europe) FRIULADRIA SA SA Luxembourg SPA Italy 100% PACIFICA SA KBI 100% CA Indosuez 100% CRÉDIT AGRICOLE 80% Global Investors (Switzerland) SA CARISPEZIA Ltd Ireland SA Switzerland SPA Italy CRÉDIT AGRICOLE 100% CREDITOR 85% CPR AM CFM Indosuez CALIT INSURANCE 86.4% 13.6% 69% SA Wealth SA SRL Italy SA Monaco 15% CA LEASING & FACTORING CRÉDIT SOCIÉTÉ AGRICOLE GÉNÉRALE CA Indosuez 100% 100% Wealth (France) 100% VITA DE GESTION CRÉDIT SA SA 78.7% SPA Italy DU MAROC SA Morocco CALI Europe 5.9% ÉTOILE GESTION BANCA 94.1% 100% 94.1% SA LEONARDO SA Luxembourg OTHER CRÉDIT AGRICOLE GROUP SA Italy BANK ENTITIES 100% PJSC Ukraine BFT INVESTMENT 100% MANAGERS SA CRÉDIT AGRICOLE 100% POLSKA SA SA Poland CRÉDIT AGRICOLE 47.4% EGYPT SAE Egypt 13.1% CACIB CRÉDIT AGRICOLE 100% SRBIJA SA Serbia (1) Direct % interest held by Crédit Agricole S.A. and its subsidiaries, excluding treasury shares. (2) Consolidated as of January 2019. 352 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements General framework AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 SPECIALISED FINANCIAL LARGE CUSTOMERS CORPORATE CENTRE SERVICES C R É D IT AG R I CO LE S.A. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE 97.8% CRÉDIT CACIF 100% 100% UNI-MÉDIAS 100% CONSUMER AGRICOLE CIB FINANCE SA SAS SA 2.2% SA SACAM DEVELOPPEMENT CRÉDIT AGRICOLE DELFINANCES 100% 51% FIRECA 100% LEASING 49% SAS & FACTORING SAS REGIONAL BANKS SA ASSET SERVICING 100% CRÉDIT AGRICOLE CACEIS FONCARIS 100% 50% PAYMENT 100% SA SA SERVICES 50% EFL REGIONAL SAS BANKS SA Poland CAISSE CACEIS Bank CACEIS Fund CRÉDIT AGRICOLE 100% 100% RÉGIONALE 99.9% 50% France Administration IMMOBILIER DE CORSE SCCV SA 50% SA SA SACAM IMMOBILIER CACEIS CACEIS CRÉDIT 100% 100% SILCA 49.6% 23.2% (Switzerland) Corporate Trust AGRICOLE-GROUP INFRASTRUCTURE SA Switzerland SA SNC 50.4% PLATFORM(2) 76.8% OTHER GROUP OTHER GROUP 6 COMPANIES COMPANIES SAS Financial transactions between Crédit Agricole S.A. and its subsidiaries are subjected to regulated agreements, as the case may be, that are mentioned in the statutory auditors’ special report. Internal mechanisms of Crédit Agricole Group (in particular between Crédit Agricole S.A. and the Regional Banks) are detailed in the paragraph “Internal financing mechanisms”, in introduction of the consolidated financial statements. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 353 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated financial statements CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The shaded areas in the tables to the notes to the consolidated financial statements concern items that are not applicable in the corresponding financial reporting framework. INCOME STATEMENT (in millions of euros) Notes 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Interest and similar income 4.1 24,817 24,704 Interest and similar expenses 4.1 (13,247) (12,428) Fee and commission income 4.2 10,600 9,534 Fee and commission expenses 4.2 (6,441) (5,729) Net gains (losses) on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss 4.3 (3,093) 4,620 Net gains (losses) on held for trading assets/liabilities 496 Net gains (losses) on other financial assets/liabilities at fair value through profit or loss (3,589) Net gains (losses) on financial instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income 4.4 192 Net gains (losses) on debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 71 Remuneration of equity instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss (dividends) 121 Net gains (losses) on available-for-sale financial assets 3,028 Net gains (losses) arising from the derecognition of financial assets at amortised cost 4.5 Net gains (losses) arising from the reclassification of financial assets at amortised cost to financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 4.5 Net gains (losses) arising from the reclassification of financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income to financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 4.5 Income on other activities 4.6 42,517 32,831 Expenses on other activities 4.6 (35,900) (37,926) Reclassification of net gains (losses) of designated financial assets applying the overlay approach 5.3 291 Revenues 19,736 18,634 Operating expenses 4.7 (11,830) (11,438) Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of property, plant & equipment and intangible assets 4.8 (759) (765) Gross operating income 7,147 6,431 Cost of risk 4.9 (1,081) (1,422) Operating income 6,066 5,009 Share of net income of equity-accounted entities 255 728 Net gains (losses) on other assets 4.11 89 6 Change in value of goodwill 6.15 86 186 Pre-tax income 6,496 5,929 Income tax charge 4.11 (1,466) (1,732) Net income from discontinued operations (3) 20 Net income 5,027 4,217 Non-controlling interests 6.20 627 568 NET INCOME GROUP SHARE 4,400 3,649 Earnings per share(1) (in euros) 6.19 1.387 1.124 Diluted earnings per share(1) (in euros) 6.19 1.387 1.124 (1) Corresponds to income including net income from discontinued operations. 354 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated financial statements NET INCOME AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (in millions of euros) Notes 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Net income 5,027 4,217 Actuarial gains and losses on post-employment benefits 4.12 51 4 Other comprehensive income on financial liabilities attributable to changes in own credit risk(1) 4.12 383 Other comprehensive income on equity instruments that will not be reclassified to profit or loss(1) 4.12 130 Pre-tax other comprehensive income on items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss excluding equity-accounted entities 4.12 564 4 Pre-tax other comprehensive income on items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss on equity-accounted entities 4.12 1 24 Income tax related to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss excluding equity-accounted entities 4.12 (259) (28) Income tax related to items accounted that will not be reclassified to profit or loss on equity-accounted entities 4.12 (3) (1) Other comprehensive income on items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss from discontinued operations 4.12 5 (9) Other comprehensive income on items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss net of income tax 4.12 308 (10) Gains and losses on translation adjustments 4.12 248 (683) Gains and losses on available-for-sale financial assets (530) Other comprehensive income on debt instruments that may be reclassified to profit or loss 4.12 (1,225) Gains and losses on hedging derivative instruments 4.12 (138) (356) Reclassification of net gains (losses) of designated financial assets applying the overlay approach 4.12-5.3 (356) Pre-tax other comprehensive income on items that may be reclassified to profit or loss excluding equity-accounted entities 4.12 (1,471) (1,569) Pre-tax other comprehensive income on items that may be reclassified to profit or loss on equity-accounted entities, Group Share 4.12 (11) (386) Income tax related to items that may be reclassified to profit or loss excluding equity-accounted entities 4.12 547 355 Income tax related to items that may be reclassified to profit or loss on equity-accounted entities 4.12 1 (16) Other comprehensive income on items that may be reclassified to profit or loss from discontinued operations 4.12 (2) (15) Other comprehensive income on items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss of income tax 4.12 (936) (1,631) OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME NET OF INCOME TAX 4.12 (628) (1,641) NET INCOME AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 4,399 2,576 Of which Group share 3,805 2,070 Of which non-controlling interests 594 506 (1) Of which €78 million transferred to Reserves of items that will not be reclassified (see Note 4.12). 6 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 355 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated financial statements BALANCE SHEET – ASSETS (in millions of euros) Notes 31/12/2018 01/01/2018 31/12/2017 Cash, central banks 6.1 66,976 50,755 50,761 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 3.1-6.2-6.6-6.7 365,475 363,737 321,404 Held for trading financial assets 225,605 222,136 Other financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss 139,870 141,601 Hedging derivative Instruments 3.2-3.4 14,322 16,429 16,435 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 3.1-6.4-6.6-6.7 253,620 258,603 Debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income that may be reclassified to profit or loss 250,202 255,478 Equity instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 3,418 3,125 Available-for-sale financial assets 3.1-6.4-6.6-6.7 307,058 Financial assets at amortised cost 3.1-3.3-6.5-6.6-6.7 840,201 781,522 Loans and receivables due from credit institutions 412,981 388,716 394,051 Loans and receivables due from customers 369,456 341,114 360,079 Debt securities 57,764 51,692 Revaluation adjustment on interest rate hedged portfolios 6,375 5,978 5,978 Held-to-maturity financial assets 3.1-6.5-6.6-6.7 20,179 Current and deferred tax assets 6.10 4,480 4,741 4,462 Accruals, prepayments and sundry assets 6.11 38,013 36,197 36,197 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 257 495 495 Deferred participation benefits 6.16 52 Investments in equity-accounted entities 6.12 6,368 5,108 5,177 Investment property 6.13 6,408 6,196 6,196 Property, plant and equipment 6.14 4,069 4,210 4,210 Intangible assets 6.14 2,287 2,180 2,180 Goodwill 6.15 15,491 15,421 15,421 TOTAL ASSETS 1,624,394 1,551,572 1,550,283 356 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated financial statements BALANCE SHEET – LIABILITIES & EQUITY (in millions of euros) Notes 31/12/2018 01/01/2018 31/12/2017 Central banks 6.1 949 3,185 3,185 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 6.2 228,111 227,848 227,887 Held for trading financial liabilities 193,956 196,444 Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss 34,155 31,404 Hedging derivative Instruments 3.2-3.4 12,085 13,271 13,271 Financial liabilities at amortised cost 913,600 840,095 Due to credit institutions 3.3-6.8 131,960 125,590 125,590 Due to customers 3.1-3.3-6.8 597,170 550,746 550,746 Debt securities 3.3-6.8 184,470 163,759 163,708 Revaluation adjustment on interest rate hedged portfolios 6,612 6,565 6,565 Current and deferred tax liabilities 6.10 2,376 3,287 3,482 Accruals, deferred income and sundry liabilities 6.11 42,309 40,530 40,530 Liabilities associated with non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 229 354 354 Insurance company technical reserves 6.16 324,033 322,516 320,417 Provisions 6.17 5,809 4,935 4,421 Subordinated debt 3.3-6.18 22,765 25,421 25,421 Total Liabilities 1,558,878 1,488,007 1,485,577 Equity 65,516 63,565 64,706 Equity – Group share 58,811 57,135 58,056 Share capital and reserves 27,009 26,749 26,749 Consolidated reserves 26,179 28,568 24,705 Other comprehensive income 1,214 1,812 2,947 Other comprehensive income on discontinued operations 9 6 6 Net income (loss) for the year 4,400 3,649 Non-controlling interests 6,705 6,430 6,650 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 1,624,394 1,551,572 1,550,283 6 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 357 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated financial statements STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Group share Share and capital reserves Share Total premium and Elimination capital and consolidated of treasury Other equity consolidated (in millions of euros) Share capital reserves shares instruments reserves Equity at 1 January 2017 8,538 40,327 (132) 5,011 53,744 Capital increase Changes in treasury shares held 1 1 Issuance of equity instruments (12) (12) Remuneration of undated deeply subordinated notes (454) (454) Dividends paid in 2017 (1,716) (1,716) Impact of acquisitions/disposals on non-controlling interests (54) (54) Changes due to share-based payments 13 13 Changes due to transactions with shareholders (2,211) 1 (12) (2,222) Changes in other comprehensive income Share of changes in equity-accounted entities (55) (55) Net income for 2017 Other changes (13) (13) Equity at 31 December 2017 8,538 38,048 (131) 4,999 51,454 Appropriation of 2017 net income 3,649 3,649 Equity at 1 January 2018 8,538 41,697 (131) 4,999 55,103 Impacts of new accounting standards(1) 214 214 Equity at 1 January 2018 restated 8,538 41,911 (131) 4,999 55,317 Capital increase 61 168 229 Changes in treasury shares held (20) (20) Issuance of equity instruments 12 12 Remuneration of undated deeply subordinated notes (443) (443) Dividends paid in 2018 (1,802) (1,802) Impact of acquisitions/disposals on non-controlling interests (8) (8) Changes due to share-based payments 20 20 Changes due to transactions with shareholders 61 (2,065) (20) 12 (2,012) Changes in other comprehensive income (59) (59) Of which other comprehensive income on equity instruments that will not be reclassified to profit or loss reclassified to consolidated reserves (47) (47) Of which other comprehensive income attributable to changes in own credit risk reclassified to consolidated reserves (12) (12) Share of changes in equity-accounted entities 19 19 Net income for 2018 Other changes(2) (77) (77) EQUITY AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 8,599 39,729 (151) 5,011 53,188 (1) Details of the impact on equity related to the application of IFRS 9 are presented in the note “Impact on equity of the application of IFRS 9 at 1 January 2018”. (2) Other changes mainly concern an adjustment pursuant to the treatment of insurance investments and the and the impact of liabilities that are prescribed following new legal analyses. 358 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated financial statements Group share Non-controlling interests Other comprehensive income Other comprehensive income Other Other Other Other comprehencomprehencomprehencomprehensive income sive income Capital, sive income sive income on items on items that assoon items on items that that may be will not be ciated that may be will not be reclassified reclassified Total other reserves reclassified reclassified Total other Total to profit and to profit and comprehenNet Total and to profit and to profit and comprehenTotal consolidated loss loss sive income income equity income loss loss sive income equity equity 5,087 (555) 4,532 58,276 5,699 (13) (25) (38) 5,661 63,937 1 1 (12) (12) (454) (12) (12) (466) (1,716) (298) (298) (2,014) (54) 672 672 618 13 6 6 19 (2,222) 368 368 (1,854) (1,178) (33) (1,211) (1,211) (51) (51) (51) (1,262) (391) 23 (368) (423) 4 (11) (11) (7) (430) 3,649 3,649 568 568 4,217 (13) 111 111 98 3,518 (565) 2,953 3,649 58,056 6,750 (75) (25) (100) 6,650 64,706 (3,649) 3,518 (565) 2,953 58,056 6,750 (75) (25) (100) 6,650 64,706 (274) (861) (1,135) (921) (232) (19) 31 12 (220) (1,141) 3,244 (1,426) 1,818 57,135 6,518 (94) 6 (88) 6,430 63,565 229 229 (20) (20) 12 12 (443) (13) (13) (456) (1,802) (353) (353) (2,155) (8) 9 9 1 20 9 9 29 (2,012) (348) (348) (2,360) (908) 323 (585) (644) (1) (18) (13) (31) (32) (676) 6 47 47 (1) 1 1 12 12 (8) (2) (10) 9 2 (2) (2) 9 4,400 4,400 627 627 5,027 (77) 28 28 (49) 2,328 (1,105) 1,223 4,400 58,811 6,826 (114) (7) (121) 6,705 65,516 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 359 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated financial statements CASH FLOW STATEMENT The cash flow statement is presented using the indirect method. Financing activities show the impact of cash inflows and outflows Operating activities are representative of income-generating associated with operations of financial structure concerning equity and activities of the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group. long-term borrowing. Tax inflows and outflows are included in full within operating activities. The net cash flows attributable to the operating, investment and financing activities of discontinued operations are presented on Investment activities show the impact of cash inflows and outflows separate lines in the cash flow statement. associated with purchases and sales of investments in consolidated and non-consolidated companies, property, plant and equipment and Net cash and cash equivalents include cash, debit and credit intangible assets. This section includes strategic equity investments balances with central banks and debit and credit demand balances classified as at “Fair value through profit or loss” or “Fair value through with credit institutions. other comprehensive income on items that cannot be reclassified”. 360 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated financial statements (in millions of euros) Notes 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Pre-tax income 6,496 5,929 Net depreciation and impairment of property, plant & equipment and intangible assets 759 786 Impairment of goodwill and other fixed assets 6.15 (86) (186) Net depreciation charges to provisions 10,333 13,614 Share of net income of equity-accounted entities (482) (985) Net income (loss) from investment activities (89) (532) Net income (loss) from financing activities 2,970 3,214 Other movements (2,104) (5,389) Total non-cash and other adjustment items included in pre-tax income 11,301 10,522 Change in interbank items (14,938) 5,363 Change in customer items 15,330 12,327 Change in financial assets and liabilities 7,770 (4,670) Change in non-financial assets and liabilities (651) 140 Dividends received from equity-accounted entities(1) 190 245 Tax paid (568) (1,275) Net change in assets and liabilities used in operating activities 7,133 12,130 Cash provided (used) by discontinued operations 1 Total net cash flows from (used by) operating activities (A) 24,930 28,582 Change in equity investments(2) (1,072) (1,523) Change in property, plant & equipment and intangible assets (688) (1,060) Cash provided (used) by discontinued operations 6 Total net cash flows from (used by) investment activities (B) (1,754) (2,583) Cash received from (paid to) shareholders(3) (2,465) (1,589) Other cash provided (used) by financing activities(4) 535 3,654 Cash provided (used) by discontinued operations Total net cash flows from (used by) financing activities (C) (1,930) 2,065 Impact of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalent (D) 864 (1,521) NET INCREASE/(DECREASE) IN CASH & CASH EQUIVALENT (A + B + C + D) 22,110 26,543 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 52,075 25,532 Net cash accounts and accounts with central banks* 47,565 24,339 Net demand loans and deposits with credit institutions** 4,510 1,193 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 74,185 52,075 Net cash accounts and accounts with central banks* 66,017 47,565 Net demand loans and deposits with credit institutions** 8,168 4,510 NET CHANGE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 22,110 26,543 * Consisting of the net balance of the “Cash, central banks” item, excluding accrued interest and including cash of entities reclassified as discontinued operations. ** Consisting of the balance of the “Non doubtful current accounts in debit” and “Non doubtful overnight accounts and advances” items as detailed in Note 6.5 and the “Current accounts in credit” and “Overnight accounts and deposits” items as detailed in Note 6.8 (excluding accrued interest and including Crédit Agricole internal transactions). 6 (1) Dividends received from equity-accounted entities: at 31 December 2018, this amount includes the payment of dividends from insurance entities for €156 million, from Amundi subsidiaries for €16 million, from Wafasalaf for €13 million and from Crédit Agricole Immobilier for €5 million. (2) Change in equity investments: this line shows the net effects on cash of acquisitions and disposals of equity investments. The net impact on Group cash of acquisitions and disposals of consolidated equity investments (subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities) on 31 December 2018 is -€410 million. The main transactions relate to the acquisition of Banca Leonardo for -€20 million net of cash of acquired, the inclusion into the scope of consolidation of Iris Holding for -€88 million, the sale of Caceis USA and Caceis Canada for +€14 million, the sale of Banque Thémis for -€40 million, the subscription to the capital increases of equity-accounted entities with Frey for -€44 million, Amundi entities for -€69 million and CACF entities for -€89 million. During the same period, the net impact on Group cash of acquisitions and disposals of non-consolidated equity investments came to -€656 million, of which -€756 million from insurance investments. (3) Cash received from (paid to) shareholders: the main operation relates to the increase of capital reserved to employees for €135 million. This amount is predominantly comprised of -€2,611 million in dividends paid, excluding dividends paid in shares, by Crédit Agricole S.A. Group. It breaks down as follows: dividends paid by Crédit Agricole S.A. for -€1,802 million; dividends paid by non-controlled subsidiaries for -€366 million; and interest, equivalent to dividends on undated financial instruments treated as equity for -€443 million. (4) Other net cash flows from financing activities: at 31 December 2018, bond issues totalled €15,314 million and redemptions -€8,783 million. Subordinated debt issues totalled €2,624 million and redemptions -€5,430 million. This line also includes cash flows from interest payments on subordinated debt and bonds for -€3,190 million. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 361 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Effects of the application of IFRS 9 at 1 January 2018 EFFECTS OF THE APPLICATION OF IFRS 9 AT 1 JANUARY 2018 TRANSITION FROM THE BALANCE SHEET AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 TO 1 JANUARY 2018 The following tables present the financial assets and liabilities affected by the implementation of IFRS 9 at 1 January 2018. Financial assets Financial assets 31/12/2017 01/01/2018 IAS 39 Reclassifications in accordance with IFRS 9 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Other financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss Debt instruments Financial that do not assets Carrying Held for meet the Assets designated amount in trading conditions of backing at fair value accordance Central financial Equity the “SPPI” unit-linked through profit (in millions of euros) with IAS 39 banks assets instruments test contracts or loss Central banks 49,319 49,319 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 321,404 221,095 9,905 34,778 51,600 3 Held for trading financial assets 221,089 221,095 Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss(1) 100,315 9,905 34,778 51,600 3 Hedging derivative instruments 16,435 Available-for-sale financial assets 307,058 7 23,725 19,193 Loans and receivables due IAS 39 from credit institutions 394,051 Loans and receivables due from customers 360,079 1,034 2,455 Held-to-maturity financial assets 20,179 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 495 Investments in equity-accounted entities 5,177 Carrying amount determined in accordance with IAS 39 1,474,197 Restatement of carrying amount in accordance with IFRS 9 (6) (58) Carrying amount in accordance 01/01/2018 with IFRS 9 49,313 222,136 33,630 56,368 51,600 3 (1) Reclassifications related to financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss break down as follows: IAS 39 Reclassifications in accordance with IFRS 9 Of which financial assets reclassified out of financial assets Carrying designated at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with amount in IFRS 9 accordance Reclassifications Reclassifications (in millions of euros) with IAS 39 as required by IFRS 9 elected by the entity Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 100,315 100,312 Debt instruments 83,245 83,242 Equity instruments 17,070 17,070 362 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Effects of the application of IFRS 9 at 1 January 2018 01/01/2018 Reclassifications in accordance with IFRS 9 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income Financial assets at amortised cost Debt instruments Equity instruments at fair value at fair value through other through other Non-current comprehensive comprehensive Loans and Loans and assets held Investments Hedging income that may income that will receivables receivables for sale and in equityderivative be reclassified to not be reclassified due from credit due from discontinued accounted instruments profit or loss to profit or loss institutions customers Debt securities operations entities (6) 4,028 (6) 4,028 16,435 232,952 3,125 28,056 5,165 388,847 39 342,227 14,363 10,805 9,375 495 5,177 6 2,528 (131) (1,113) (141) (69) 16,429 255,478 3,125 388,716 341,114 51,692 495 5,108 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 363 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Effects of the application of IFRS 9 at 1 January 2018 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities 31/12/2017 01/01/2018 IAS 39 Reclassifications in accordance with IFRS 9 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Carrying amount Financial liabilities in accordance Held for trading designated at fair value (in millions of euros) with IAS 39 financial liabilities through profit or loss Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 227,887 196,444 31,404 Held for trading financial liabilities 196,444 196,444 Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss(1) 31,443 31,404 Hedging derivative instruments 13,271 IAS 39 Due to credit institutions 125,590 Due to customers 550,746 Debt securities 163,708 Liabilities associated with non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 354 Carrying amount determined in accordance with IAS 39 1,081,556 Restatement of carrying amount in accordance with IFRS 9 01/01/2018 Carrying amount in accordance with IFRS 9 196,444 31,404 (1) Reclassifications related to financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss break down as follows: IAS 39 Reclassifications in accordance with IFRS 9 Carrying Of which financial liabilities reclassified out of financial amount in liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss accordance in accordance with IFRS 9 with Reclassifications Reclassifications (in millions of euros) IAS 39 as required by IFRS 9 elected by the entity Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss 31,443 39 364 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Effects of the application of IFRS 9 at 1 January 2018 01/01/2018 Reclassifications in accordance with IFRS 9 Financial liabilities at amortised cost Liabilities associated with non-current assets held Hedging derivative for sale and discontinued instruments Due to credit institutions Due to customers Debt securities operations 39 39 13,271 125,590 550,746 163,708 354 12 13,271 125,590 550,746 163,759 354 6 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 365 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Effects of the application of IFRS 9 at 1 January 2018 TRANSITION BETWEEN IMPAIRMENT OR PROVISIONS CONSTITUTED UNDER IAS 39 AND CORRECTIONS OF VALUE FOR LOSSES CONSTITUTED UNDER IFRS 9 Pursuant to the application of IFRS 9 at 1 January 2018, the procedures for provisioning change significantly. The following table presents the transition from liability impairment or provisions recognised at 31 December 2017 (under the provisions of IAS 39) to the amount of value correction for losses recognised at 1 January 2018 (under the provisions of IFRS 9): 31/12/2017 01/01/2018 IAS 39 IFRS 9 – Impairment reclassifications Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Other financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss Debt instruments Financial that do not assets Held for meet the designated trading conditions of at fair value Amount of financial Equity the “SPPI” through profit (in millions of euros) impairment Central banks assets instruments test or loss Central banks Available-for-sale financial assets (1,158) (10) (545) (93) Loans and receivables due from credit institutions (386) Impairment in accordance Loans and receivables due with IAS 39 from customers (9,979) (185) Held-to-maturity financial assets Amount of impairment determined in accordance with IAS 39 (11,523) Restatement of impairment in accordance with IFRS 9 (6) 10 545 278 Of which restatement of assets reclassified out of the fair value through profit or loss category in accordance with IAS 39 Of which restatement of assets reclassified out of the availablefor-sale category in accordance with IAS 39 10 545 93 Of which restatement of assets reclassified out of the loans and receivables category in accordance with IAS 39 185 Of which restatement of assets reclassified out of the held-tomaturity category in accordance with IAS 39 Amount of impairment 01/01/2018 in accordance with IFRS 9 (6) 31/12/2017 Restatement of 01/01/2018 provisions in Provisions for off-balance sheet commitments accordance with (in millions of euros) IAS 39 – Amount of provisions IFRS 9 IFRS 9 – Amount of provisions Financing commitments 119 409 528 Guarantee commitments 370 105 475 Amount of provisions 489 514 1,003 366 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Effects of the application of IFRS 9 at 1 January 2018 01/01/2018 IFRS 9 – Impairment reclassifications Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income Financial assets at amortised cost Debt instruments at Equity instruments at fair value through other fair value through other comprehensive income comprehensive income that may be reclassified that will not be reclassified Loans and receivables due Loans and receivables due to profit or loss to profit or loss from credit institutions from customers Debt securities (4) (506) (386) (9,794) (144) 506 (47) (1,113) (15) (1) (140) 506 (10) 6 (47) (1,113) (2) (2) (3) (148) (433) (10,907) (15) The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 367 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Effects of the application of IFRS 9 at 1 January 2018 The breakdown between collective impairment and individual impairment under IAS 39 at 31 December 2017 is the following: 31/12/2017 Breakdown of impairment of financial assets in accordance with IAS 39 (in millions of euros) Collective impairment Individual impairment Amount of impairment in accordance with IAS 39 (1,946) (9,577) The breakdown of impairment by impairment stages (or buckets) under IFRS 9 at 1 January is the following: 01/01/2018 Financial assets (in millions of euros) Bucket 1 Bucket 2 Bucket 3 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income (104) (40) (4) Loans and receivables due from credit institutions Loans and receivables due from customers Debt securities (104) (40) (4) Financial assets at amortised cost (805) (1,558) (8,992) Loans and receivables due from credit institutions (46) (1) (386) Loans and receivables due from customers (745) (1,556) (8,606) Debt securities (14) (1) TOTAL (909) (1,598) (8,996) 01/01/2018 Off-balance sheet commitments (in millions of euros) Bucket 1 Bucket 2 Bucket 3 Financing commitments 133 277 118 Guarantee commitments 52 109 314 TOTAL 185 386 432 FINANCIAL ASSETS THAT WERE RECLASSIFIED DUE TO THE APPLICATION OF IFRS 9 31/12/2018 Recognition in accordance Recognition in accordance with IFRS 9 with IFRS 9 if the reclassification had not occurred Gain (loss) Interest Gain (loss) recognised revenues recognised in other Carrying (expenses) in net profit comprehen(in millions of euros) amount recognised Fair value or loss sive income Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss reclassified into financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 3,938 94 3,938 29 Debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income that may be reclassified to profit or loss 3,938 94 3,938 29 Equity instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss reclassified into financial assets at amortised cost Loans and receivables due from credit institutions Loans and receivables due from customers Debt securities Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income reclassified into financial assets at amortised cost 16,210 159 15,518 57 30 Loans and receivables due from credit institutions Loans and receivables due from customers Debt securities 16,210 159 15,518 57 30 TOTAL 20,148 253 19,456 86 30 368 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Effects of the application of IFRS 9 at 1 January 2018 Impact on equity of the application of IFRS 9 at 1 January 2018 Impact of 1st application of IFRS 9 at 01/01/2018(1) Consolidated Equity – NonShareholders’ Equity – controlling (in millions of euros) equity Group share interests EQUITY AT 31/12/2017 – IAS 39 64,706 58,056 6,650 Impacts on reserves (A+B+C) (18) 214 (232) Revaluation related to own credit risk on liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss 348 341 7 Reclassification from Available-for-sale assets to fair value through profit or loss (including cancellation of impairment where applicable; in the case of fair value hedges, reclassification unhedged portion only) 1,687 1,673 14 Reclassification from Available-for-sale assets to fair value through other comprehensive income that will not be reclassified to profit or loss: impact of cancellation of lasting impairment (where applicable) 445 384 61 Reclassification from Available-for-sale financial assets to financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income that will not be reclassified to profit or loss: reclassification of fair value of the hedged portion (where applicable) (499) (406) (92) Reclassification from amortised cost to fair value through profit or loss (including acquisition costs remaining to be amortised; in the case of fair value hedges, reclassification unhedged portion only) (110) (108) (2) Assets (to fair value through profit or loss) (110) (108) (2) Liabilities (to fair value through profit or loss) Reclassification from fair value through profit or loss to fair value through other comprehensive income that may be reclassified to profit or loss (75) (75) Reclassification from fair value through profit or loss to amortised cost (including fees and commissions remaining to be amortised) Assets (from fair value through profit or loss – by type or designated) Liabilities (from fair value through profit or loss – designated) Impacts on termination of hedges excluding fair value hedges Recognition of expected credit losses (on financial assets, assets within the field of application of IAS 17 and IFRS 15, off-balance sheet commitments) (1,192) (971) (221) Reclassification of equity instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss to fair value through other comprehensive income that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Impact of changes on financial assets/liabilities measured at amortised cost (63) (63) Reclassification of designated financial assets applying the overlay approach (494) (494) Reserves excluding equity-accounted entities (A) 48 280 (232) Reserves on equity-accounted entities (B) (66) (66) Reserves on discontinued operations (C) Impacts on other comprehensive income on items that may be reclassified to profit or loss (D+E+F) (293) (274) (19) Reclassification from Available-for-sale assets to fair value through profit or loss (in the case of fair value hedges, reclassification unhedged portion only) (1,687) (1,673) (14) 6 Reclassification from Available-for-sale assets to amortised cost (in the case of fair value hedges, reclassification unhedged portion only) (99) (99) Reclassification from amortised cost to fair value through other comprehensive income that may be reclassified to profit or loss (in the case of fair value hedges, reclassification unhedged portion only) 362 360 2 Reclassification of equity instruments from Available-for-sale assets to fair value through other comprehensive income that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 500 508 (8) Reclassification from fair value through profit or loss to fair value through other comprehensive income that may be reclassified to profit or loss 75 75 Impacts on termination of hedges excluding fair value hedges Recognition of expected credit losses on financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income that may be reclassified to profit or loss 32 31 1 Reclassification of designated financial assets applying the overlay approach 494 494 Other comprehensive income on items that may be reclassified to profit or loss (net of income tax) excluding equity-accounted entities (D) (324) (305) (19) Other comprehensive income on items that may be reclassified to profit or loss (net of income tax) on equity-accounted entities (E) 31 31 Other comprehensive income on items that may be reclassified to profit or loss from discontinued operations (F) (1) Amounts net of income tax. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 369 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Effects of the application of IFRS 9 at 1 January 2018 Impact on equity of the application of IFRS 9 at 1 January 2018 – following Impact of 1st application of IFRS 9 at 01/01/2018(1) Consolidated Equity – NonShareholders’ Equity – controlling (in millions of euros) equity Group share interests Impact on other comprehensive income on items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss (G+H+I) (830) (861) 31 Revaluation related to own credit risk on liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss (348) (341) (7) Reclassification of equity instruments from Available-for-sale assets to fair value through other comprehensive income that will not be reclassified to profit or loss (447) (486) 39 Reclassification of equity instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss to fair value through other comprehensive income that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Other comprehensive income on items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss (net of income tax) excluding equity-accounted entities (G) (796) (827) 31 Other comprehensive income on items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss (net of income tax) on equity-accounted entities (H) (33) (33) Other comprehensive income on items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss from discontinued operations (I) Total – Impact on equity due to initial application of IFRS 9 (1,141) (921) (220) EQUITY AT 01/01/2018 – IFRS 9 STANDARD 63,565 57,135 6,430 (1) Amounts net of income tax. 370 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DETAILED SUMMARY OF THE NOTES Note 1 Group accounting policies and principles, Note 6 Notes to the balance sheet 439 assessments and estimates applied372 6.1 Cash, central banks 439 1.1 Applicable standards and comparability 372 6.2 Financial assets and liabilities at fair value 1.2 Accounting policies and principles 373 through profit or loss  440 1.3 Consolidation principles and methods 6.3 Hedging derivative instruments 442 (IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IAS 28) 388 6.4 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 442 Note 2 Major structural transactions and material events during the period 390 6.5 Financial assets at amortised cost 444 2.1 Application of the new IFRS 9 standard 390 6.6 Transferred assets not derecognised or derecognised with on-going 2.2 Application of the new IFRS 15 standard 390 involvement446 2.3 Partnership between Crédit Agricole Consumer 6.7 Exposure to sovereign risk 450 Finance and Banco BPM for consumer credit in Italy 390 6.8 Financial liabilities at amortised cost 452 2.4 Exclusive partnership between Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance and Bankia 391 6.9 Information on the offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities 453 2.5 Bancassurance partnership with Credito Valtellinese in Italy 391 6.10 Current and deferred tax assets and liabilities 455 2.6 Main changes in the scope of consolidation 391 6.11 Accrued income and expenses and other assets and liabilities 455 2.7 Proposed sale of Crédit Agricole Life (IFRS 5)392 6.12 Joint ventures and associates 456 2.8 Removal of loyalty dividend392 6.13 Investment properties 458 2.9 Crédit Agricole S.A. capital increase reserved for employees392 6.14 Property, plant & equipment and intangible assets (excluding goodwill)459 2.10 Amundi capital increase reserved for employees 393 6.15 Goodwill  460 2.11 Launch of a programme to buy back Amundi shares393 6.16 Insurance company technical reserves 462 2.12 LCL capital increase 393 6.17 Provisions 463 2.13 Tax litigation on Emporiki securities 393 6.18 Subordinated debt 468 2.14 FCA Bank fine 393 6.19 Equity 469 2.15 Social and governmental measures 393 6.20 Non-controlling interests 472 2.16 Deposit Guarantee and resolution Fund and Single Resolution Fund 394 6.21 Breakdown of financial assets and financial liabilities by contractual maturity 473 Note 3 Financial management, risk exposure and hedging policy 394 Note 7 Employee benefits and other compensation 474 3.1 Credit risk 394 7.1 Analysis of employee expenses 474 3.2 Market risk 411 7.2 Average headcount 474 3.3 Liquidity and financing risk 416 7.3 Post-employment benefits, defined‑contribution plans474 3.4 Cash flow and fair value interest rate and foreign exchange hedging 418 7.4 Post-employment benefits, defined-benefit plans  475 3.5 Operational risks 422 7.5 Other employee benefits 477 3.6 Capital management and regulatory ratios 422 7.6 Share-based payments 477 7.7 Executive compensation 477 Note 4 Notes on net income and other comprehensive income422 4.1 Interest income and expenses 422 Note 8 Commitments given and received and other guarantees478 6 4.2 Fees and commissions income and expense 423 Note 9 Reclassifications of financial instruments 479 4.3 Net gains (losses) on financial instruments Note 10 Fair value of financial instruments 480 at fair value through profit or loss 423 10.1 Fair value of financial assets and liabilities 4.4 Net gains (losses) on financial instruments at fair recognised at amortised cost 480 value through other comprehensive income 424 10.2 Information about financial instruments 4.5 Net gains (losses) from the derecognition measured at fair value 482 of financial assets at amortised cost 425 10.3 Estimated impact of inclusion of the margin 4.6 Net income (expenses) on other activities 425 at inception493 4.7 Operating expenses 425 Note 11 Scope of consolidation at 31 December 2018 493 4.8 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of property, plant & equipment and intangible assets 426 11.1 Information on subsidiaries 493 4.9 Cost of risk427 11.2 Scope of consolidation  494 4.10 Net gains (losses) on other assets 428 Note 12 Investments in non-consolidated companies 4.11 Income tax charge 428 and structured entities 507 4.12 Changes in other comprehensive income 429 12.1 Information on subsidiaries 507 12.2 Non-consolidated structured entities 507 Note 5 Segment reporting 432 5.1 Operating segment information 433 Note 13 Events subsequent to 31 December 2018 510 5.2 Segment information: geographical analysis 434 5.3 Insurance specificities 435 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 371 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 Note 1 Group accounting policies and principles, assessments and estimates applied 1.1 APPLICABLE STANDARDS AND COMPARABILITY Pursuant to EC Regulation No. 1606/2002, the consolidated financial The standards and interpretations are the same as those applied and statements have been prepared in accordance with IAS/IFRS standards described in the Group’s financial statements for the financial year and IFRIC interpretations applicable at 31 December 2018 and as ended 31 December 2017. adopted by the European Union (carve-out version), thus using certain They have been supplemented by the IFRS standards as adopted by the exceptions in the application of IAS 39 on macro-hedge accounting. European Union at 31 December 2018 and that must be applied for the These standards and interpretations are available on the European first time in 2018. These cover the following: Commission website at: https://ec.europa.eu/info/businesseconomy-euro/company-reporting-and-auditing/company-reporting/ financial-reporting_en. Date published Date of first-time by the European application: Applicable Standards, amendments or interpretations Union financial years from in the Group IFRS 9 “Financial instruments” 22 November 2016 Replacing IAS 39 “Financial Instruments: classification and measurement, 1 January 2018 Yes (EU 2016/2067) impairment and hedge accounting” Amendment to IFRS 4 “Insurance contracts”/IFRS 9 “Financial instruments” 3 November 2017 Optional approaches for insurance undertakings to manage the gap between 1 January 2018 Yes (EU 2017/1988) the application of IFRS 9 and IFRS 4 IFRS 15 “Revenue from contracts with customers” 22 September 2016 Replacing IAS 11 on the recognition of construction contracts 1 January 2018 Yes (EU 2016/1905) and IAS 18 on the recognition of revenue Amendment to IFRS 15 “Revenue from contracts with customers” 31 October 2017 1 January 2018 Yes Clarifications to IFRS 15 (EU 2017/1987) Improvements to IFRS cycle 2014-2016: nn IFRS 12 “Disclosure of interests in other entities” 7 February 2018 1 January 2017 Yes nn IAS 28 “Investments in associates and joint ventures” (EU 2018/182) 1 January 2018 Yes nn IFRS 1 “First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards” 1 January 2018 No Amendment to IFRS 2 “Classification and measurement of share-based 26 February 2018 payment transactions” 1 January 2018 Yes (EU 2018/289) Clarifications to IFRS 2 Amendment to IAS 40 “Investment property” 14 March 2018 Clarifications of the principle of transfer, entry to or exit 1 January 2018 Yes (EU 2018/400) from the Investment Property category IFRIC 22 “Foreign currency transactions and advance consideration” 3 April 2018 1 January 2018 Yes Clarifications to IAS 21 “Effects of changes in foreign exchange rates” (EU 2018/519) Accordingly, the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group publishes, for the first 2017 financial instruments are recognised and measured under IAS 39 time from 1 January 2018, its IFRS financial statements under IFRS 9 as described in the accounting policies and principles presented in the “Financial instruments” and IFRS 15 “Revenue from contracts with 2017 financial statements. customers” (see chapter 1.2 “Accounting policies and principles”). IFRS 15 “Revenue from contracts with customers” will replace IFRS 9 “Financial instruments” replaces IAS 39 “Financial instruments: IAS 11 “Construction contracts” and IAS 18 “Revenue”, along with recognition and measurement”. It sets new principles governing the all interpretations relating to (IFRIC 13 “Customer loyalty programs”, classification and measurement of financial instruments, impairment IFRIC 15 “Agreements for the construction of real estate”, IFRIC 18 of credit risk and hedge accounting, excluding macro-hedging “Transfers of assets from customers” and SIC 31 “Revenue – Barter transactions. transactions involving advertising services”). IFRS 9 is applied retrospectively with a mandatory effective date of For the first-time application of IFRS 15, the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group 1 January 2018 by adjusting the opening balance sheet on the date has chosen the modified retrospective method without comparison with of first-time application, with no restatement of the 2017 comparative the 2017 financial year. The application of IFRS 15 did not have any financial statements. Consequently, the assets and liabilities relative to material impact on earnings or equity. 372 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 Moreover, as long as the early application of standards and interpretations adopted by the European Union is optional for a period, this option is not selected by the Group, unless otherwise stated. This in particular applies to: Date of first-time Date published mandatory by the European application: financial Applicable Standards, amendments or interpretations Union years from in the Group Amendment to IFRS 9 “Financial instruments” 22 March 2018 1 January 2019(1) Yes Options for early redemption with negative penalty (EU 2018/498) IFRS 16 “Leases” 31 October 2017 1 January 2019 Yes Replacing IAS 17 on the recognition of leases (EU 2017/1986 IFRIC 23 “Uncertainty over income tax treatments” 23 October 2018 Clarification of IAS 12 on measuring and recognising a tax asset or liability 1 January 2019 Yes (EU 2018/1595) when there is uncertainty as to the application of tax legislation (1) The Group decided to apply the amendment to IFRS 9 early from 1 January 2018. IFRS 16 “Leases” will supersede IAS 17 and all related interpretations The standards and interpretations published by the IASB at (IFRIC 4 “Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease”, 31 December 2018 but not yet adopted by the European Union are not SIC 15 “Operating Leases – Incentives” and SIC 27 “Evaluating the applied by the Group. They will become mandatory only as from the date substance of transactions in the legal form of a lease”). It will apply to planned by the European Union and have not been applied by the Group reporting periods beginning 1 January 2019. at 31 December 2018. The main change made by IFRS 16 relates to accounting for lessees. This concerns IFRS 17 in particular: IFRS 16 will call for a model in respect of lessees that recognises all IFRS 17 “Insurance contracts” will replace IFRS 4. At its meeting of leases on the balance sheet, with a lease liability on the liability side 14 November 2018, the IASB decided to defer its effective date by representing commitments over the life of the lease and on the asset one year to 1 January 2022. It sets out the new measurement and side, an amortisable right-to-use. recognition principles for insurance contract liabilities and evaluation of In 2017, Crédit Agricole S.A. Group began taking steps to implement their profitability, in addition to their presentation. In 2017, scoping work IFRS 16 within the required timeframe, incorporating the Accounting, began on the implementation project in order to identify the challenges Finance, Risk and Purchasing functions. An initial study on the impact and impacts of the standard on the Group’s insurance subsidiaries. of the application of the standard on the Group was undertaken in This work continued throughout 2018. the second half of 2017 on the basis of the financial statements at In addition, a number of amendments were published by the IASB, which 31 December 2016. All this work continued in 2018. The Group finalised do not significantly impact the Group and which apply subject to their its key options pertaining to the interpretation of the standard, decided adoption by the European Union. This involved the amendments to IAS 12 upon the IT solutions needed to allow the processing of the data from all “Income taxes”, IAS 23 “Borrowing costs”, IFRS 3/IFRS 11 “Business Group leases and in the second half estimated the impact on the basis combinations/Joint arrangements”, IAS 19 “Employee benefits” and of the financial statements at 31 December 2017. IAS 28 “Investments in associates” applicable at 1 January 2019, and The Group will apply the modified retrospective approach in accordance an amendment to IAS 1/IAS 8 “Presentation of financial statements” with IFRS 16 C5 (b), recognising the cumulative effect of initial applicable at 1 January 2020. application on the date of transition (1 January 2019). As a result, the Group does not expect IFRS 16 to have a significant impact on its equity. The Group elected to use the two recognition exemptions allowed under the standard for the following leases: nn short-term leases; 6 nn low value asset leases. 1.2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND PRINCIPLES Use of assessments and estimates to prepare Accounting estimates based on assumptions are principally used in the the financial statements following assessments: nn financial instruments measured at fair value; Estimates made to draw up the financial statements are by nature nn investments in non-consolidated companies; based on certain assumptions and involve risks and uncertainties as to nn pension schemes and other post-employment benefits; whether they will be achieved in the future. nn stock option plans; Future results may be influenced by many factors, including: nn depreciation on debt instruments at amortised cost or at fair value nn activity in domestic and international financial markets; through other comprehensive income that can be reclassified; nn fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates; nn provisions; nn the economic and political climate in certain industries or countries; nn impairment of goodwill; nn changes in regulations or legislation. nn deferred tax assets; This list is not exhaustive. nn valuation of equity-accounted entities; nn policyholders’ deferred profit sharing The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 373 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 The procedures for the use of assessments or estimates are described Financial assets in the relevant sections below. Classification and measurement of financial assets Non-derivative financial assets (debt or equity instruments) are Financial instruments (IFRS 9, IAS 39 and IAS 32) classified on the balance sheet in accounting categories that determine their accounting treatment and their subsequent valuation mode. These Definitions financial assets are classified in one of the following three categories: IAS 32 defines a financial instrument as any contract that gives rise to a nn financial assets at fair value through profit or loss; financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity instrument nn financial assets at amortised cost; of another entity, meaning any contract representing contractual rights nn financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income. or obligations to receive or pay cash or other financial assets. The criteria for the classification and valuation of financial assets Derivative instruments are financial assets or liabilities whose value depends on the nature of the financial assets, according to whether changes according to that of an underlying asset, which requires a low they are qualified as: or nil initial investment, and for which settlement occurs at a future date. nn debt instruments (i.e. loans and fixed or determinable income Financial assets and liabilities are treated in the financial statements in securities); or accordance with IFRS 9 as adopted by the European Union, including for nn equity instruments (i.e. shares). financial assets held by the Group’s insurance entities. Debt instruments IFRS 9 sets the principles governing the classification and measurement of financial instruments, impairment of credit risk and hedging The classification and valuation of a debt instrument depends on the accounting, excluding macro-hedging transactions. combination of two criteria: the business model and the analysis of the contractual terms, unless the fair value option is used. It should nevertheless be noted that the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group nn The three business models: has opted not to apply the IFRS 9 general hedging model. All hedging relationships consequently remain within the scope of IAS 39 pending The business model represents the strategy followed by the future provisions relating to macro-hedging. management of the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group for managing its financial assets in order to achieve its objectives. The business Conventions for valuing financial assets and liabilities model is specified for a portfolio of assets and does not constitute a case-by-case intention for an isolated financial asset. Initial valuation We distinguish three business models: During their initial recognition, financial assets and liabilities are measured at fair value as defined by IFRS 13. –– the collection only model for which the aim is to collect contractual cash flows over the lifetime of the assets; this model does not Fair value as defined by IFRS 13 corresponds to the price that would always imply holding all of the assets until their contractual be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an ordinary maturity; however, sales of assets are strictly governed, transaction between market participants, on the principal or the most –– the mixed model where the aim is to collect the contractual cash advantageous market, at the measurement date. flows over the lifetime of the assets and to sell the assets; under Subsequent valuation this model, both the sale of the financial assets and receipt of cash After initial recognition, financial assets and liabilities are measured flows are essential, and according to their classification either at amortised cost using the –– the selling only model, where the main aim is to sell the assets. effective interest rate method (EIR) or at fair value as defined by IFRS 13. In particular, it concerns portfolios where the aim is to collect cash For derivative instruments, they are always measured at their fair value. flows via sales, portfolios whose performance is assessed based Amortised cost corresponds to the amount at which the financial on fair value and portfolios of financial assets held for trading. asset or liability is measured during its initial recognition, including nn The contractual terms (“Solely Payments of Principal & Interest” transaction costs directly attributable to its acquisition or issue, reduced [SPPI] test): by repayments of principal, increased or reduced by the cumulative –– SPPI testing combines a set of criteria, examined cumulatively, to amortisation calculated by the effective interest rate method (EIR) on establish whether contractual cash flows meet the characteristics any difference (discount or premium) between the initial amount and of simple financing (principal repayments and interest payments the amount at maturity. In the case of a financial asset, the amount is on the remaining amount of principal due); adjusted if necessary in order to correct for impairment (see the section –– the test is satisfied when the financing gives entitlement only to on “Provisions for credit risk”). the repayment of the principal and when the payment of interest The effective interest rate (EIR) is the rate that exactly discounts received reflects the time value of money, the credit risk associated estimated future cash payments or receipts through the expected life with the instrument, the other costs and risks of a conventional of the financial instrument or, when appropriate, a shorter period, to loan contract and a reasonable margin, whether the interest rate obtain the net carrying amount of the financial asset or financial liability. is fixed or variable. In simple financing, interest represents the cost of the passage of time, the price of credit and liquidity risk over the period, and other components related to the cost of carrying the asset (e.g. administrative costs). In some cases, when qualitative analysis of this nature does not allow a conclusion to be made, quantitative analysis (or benchmark testing) is carried out. This additional analysis consists of comparing the contractual cash flows of the asset under review with the cash flows of a benchmark asset. 374 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 If the difference between the cash flows of the financial asset and Each tranche is assigned a rank of subordination that specifies the order the benchmark asset is considered immaterial, the asset is deemed of distribution of cash flows generated by the structured entity. to be simple financing. In this case, the SPPI test requires an analysis of the characteristics of Moreover, specific analysis is conducted when the financial asset is contractual cash flows of the asset concerned and underlying assets issued by special purpose entities establishing a differentiated order according to the “look-through” approach and the credit risk borne by of payment among the holders of the financial assets by contractually the tranches subscribed compared to the credit risk of the underlying linking multiple instruments and creating concentrations of credit risk assets. (“tranches”). The mode of recognition of debt instruments resulting from qualification of the business model combined with the SPPI test may be presented in the following diagram: Business models Debt instrument Collection only Mixed Selling only Fair value through other Satisfied Amortised cost comprehensive income Fair value through (items that can be reclassified) profit or loss SPPI test Fair value through Fair value through Fair value through Non satisfied profit or loss profit or loss profit or loss Debt instruments at amortised cost which are included in a portfolio of financial instruments managed as Debt instruments are measured at amortised cost if they are eligible for a unit and with the purpose of making a profit from short term price the collection model and if they pass the SPPI test. fluctuations or an arbitrage margin. Although contractual cash flows They are recorded at the settlement date and their initial valuation also are received during the period that the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group includes accrued interest and transaction costs. holds the assets, the collection of these contractual cash flows is not essential but ancillary; This category of financial assets is impaired under the conditions nn debt instruments that do not fulfil the criteria of the SPPI test. This is described in the specific paragraph “Provisioning for credit risks”. notably the case of UCITS; Debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income nn financial instruments classified in portfolios which the Crédit Agricole (items that can be reclassified) S.A. Group designates at fair value in order to reduce an accounting Debt instruments are measured at fair value through other treatment difference on the income statement. In this case, the comprehensive income on items that can be reclassified if they are instrument is classified as designated at fair value through profit or eligible for the mixed model and if they pass the SPPI test. loss. They are recorded at the trade date and their initial valuation also Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss are initially includes accrued interest and transaction costs. recognised at fair value, excluding transaction costs (directly recorded Amortisation of any premiums or discounts and transaction costs on to profit or loss) and including accrued interest. fixed-income securities is recognised in the income statement using They are subsequently measured at fair value and changes in fair value the effective interest rate method. These financial assets are subsequently measured at fair value, with are recognised in profit or loss, under Revenues, offset against the outstandings account. 6 changes in fair value recorded in other comprehensive income on items This category of financial assets is not impaired. that can be reclassified and offset against the outstandings account Debt instruments measured by definition at fair value through profit or (excluding accrued interest recognised in profit or loss according to the loss are recorded on the settlement date. effective interest rate method). Debt instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss are If the securities are sold, these changes are transferred to the income recorded on the trade date. statement. This category of financial instruments is impaired under the conditions Equity instruments issued described in the specific paragraph “Provisions for credit risks” (without Equity instruments are by default recognised at fair value through profit this affecting the fair value on the balance sheet). or loss, except in the case of the irrevocable option for classification at Debt instruments at fair value through profit or loss fair value through other comprehensive income on items that cannot be reclassified, providing that these instruments are not held for trading Debt instruments are measured at fair value through profit or loss in purposes. the following cases: nn the instruments are classified in portfolios composed of financial Equity instruments at fair value through profit or loss assets held for trading or for which the main objective is disposal. Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss are initially Financial assets held for trading are assets acquired or generated by recognised at fair value, excluding transaction costs (directly recorded to the enterprise primarily with the aim of disposal in the short term or profit or loss). They are recorded at the settlement date. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 375 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 They are subsequently measured at fair value and changes in fair value financial assets continue to be recognised to the extent of the Group’s are recognised in profit or loss, under Revenues, offset against the continuing involvement in the asset. outstandings account. Financial assets renegotiated for commercial reasons without financial This category of financial assets is not impaired. difficulties of the counterpart with the aim of developing or keeping a commercial relation are derecognised at the date of the renegotiation. Equity instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income The new loans granted to customers are recorded at this date at their on items that cannot be reclassified (irrevocable option) fair value on the date of renegotiation. Subsequent recognition depends The irrevocable option to recognise equity instruments at fair value on the business model and the SPPI test. through other comprehensive income on items that cannot be reclassified is adopted at the transactional level (line by line) and applies Interests paid by the Government (IAS 20) from the date of initial recognition. These securities are recorded at the trade date. Under French Government measures to support the agricultural and rural sector and to help home buyers, certain Crédit Agricole S.A. The initial fair value includes transaction costs. Group entities grant subsidised loans at rates fixed by the Government. During subsequent valuations, changes in fair value are recognised in Consequently, the Government pays these entities the difference other comprehensive income on items that cannot be reclassified. In between the subsidised lending rate and a predetermined benchmark case of disposal, these changes are not reclassified to profit or loss. The rate. Thus, the loans that benefit from these subsidies are granted at gain or loss on disposal is recognised in other comprehensive income. market rates. Only dividends are recognised in profit or loss. The subsidy system is periodically reviewed by the Government. In accordance with IAS 20, subsidies received from the Government are Reclassification of financial assets recorded in profit or loss under Interest and similar income and spread In the case of a significant change in the business model used for over the life of the corresponding loans. managing financial assets (new activity, acquisition of entities, disposal or discontinuation of a significant activity), a reclassification of these Overlay approach applicable to insurance activities financial assets is necessary. The reclassification applies to all financial The Crédit Agricole S.A. Group uses the overlay approach for financial assets in the portfolio from the date of reclassification. assets held for the purposes of an activity related to insurance In other cases, the business model remains unchanged for existing contracts, which are designated in accordance with the option offered financial assets. If a new business model is identified, it applies by the amendments to IFRS 4 (Applying IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments” prospectively to new financial assets grouped in a new management with IFRS 4 “Insurance Contracts”), published by the IASB in portfolio. September 2016. This approach aims to remedy the temporary accounting consequences Temporary investments in/disposals of securities of the discrepancy between the date of entry into force of IFRS 9 and that Temporary disposals of securities (loans of securities, securities of the new standard on insurance contracts replacing IFRS 4 (IFRS 17). delivered under repurchase agreements) do not generally fulfil the This has the effect of eliminating from the income statement part of the conditions for derecognition. additional accounting mismatch and the temporary volatility which could Securities lent or sold under repurchase agreements remain on the be caused by application of IFRS 9 before the entry into force of IFRS 17. balance sheet. In the case of securities under repurchase agreements, Eligible financial assets are designated instrument by instrument, and the amounts received, representing the liability to the transferee, are this may be done: recognised on the liabilities side of the balance sheet by the transferor. nn at 1 January 2018, during the initial application of IFRS 9; or Securities borrowed or received under repurchase agreements are not nn subsequently, but only at the time of the initial recognition of the recognised on the balance sheet of the transferee. assets in question. In the case of securities under repurchase agreements, a debt to the In application of the overlay approach, the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group transferor is recorded on the balance sheet of the transferee and offset reclassifies, for designated financial assets only, their impact in the against the amount paid. If the security is subsequently resold, the income statement under other comprehensive income such that the transferee records a liability equivalent to the fair value of fulfilling their amount presented in the income statement corresponds to that which obligation to return the security received under the agreement. would have been presented in the income statement if IAS 39 had been Revenue and expenses relating to such transactions are posted to profit applied. and loss on a prorata temporis basis, except in the case of classification Consequently, the amount reclassified is equal to the difference of assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss. between: nn the amount presented in net income under IFRS 9 for designated Derecognition of financial assets financial assets; and A financial asset (or group of financial assets) is fully or partially nn the amount that would have been presented in net income for derecognised if: designated financial assets if the insurer had applied IAS 39. nn the contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial asset In the income statement, the effects of this reclassification are expire; recognised in revenues, before tax effects, on the line “Reclassification nn or are transferred or are deemed to have expired or been transferred of net gains or losses on financial assets related to the overlay approach”. because they belong de facto to one or more beneficiaries; and The tax effects related to this reclassification are presented on the line substantially all the risks and rewards of the financial asset are “Income tax charge”. transferred. In the statement of other comprehensive income, the effects of this In this case, any rights or obligations created or retained at the time of reclassification are recognised as net gains and losses recognised transfer are recognised separately as assets and liabilities. directly in other comprehensive income (items that can be reclassified) If the contractual rights to the cash flows are transferred but some of on the line “Reclassification of net gains or losses on financial assets the risks and rewards of ownership as well as control are retained, the related to the overlay approach”. 376 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 The financial assets that may be designated must fulfil the following Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss due to their nature characteristics: Financial instruments issued primarily to be bought back in the short nn they are held by insurers within the Group for purposes of the term, instruments forming part of an identified portfolio of financial insurance activity; instruments which are managed together and which have indications nn they are measured at fair value through profit or loss under IFRS 9 of a recent profile of short-term profit-taking, and derivatives (with the but would not have been measured in this way under IAS 39; they exception of certain hedging derivatives) are measured at fair value due are financial assets which, under IAS 39 would have been recognised to their nature. at amortised cost (assets held to maturity, loans and receivables) or Changes in the fair value of this portfolio are recognised through profit at fair value through other comprehensive income (available-for-sale or loss. financial assets). Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss Evaluation of the impact of the designated financial assets on the income Financial liabilities fulfilling one of the three conditions defined by the statement standard may be designated for measurement at fair value through profit Pursuant to the overlay approach, the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group or loss: for hybrid issues comprising one or more separable embedded continues to apply the accounting policies and principles that the Group derivatives, in order to reduce or eliminate the distortion of accounting applied under IAS 39 for the recognition of profit or loss from designated treatment, or in the case of groups of managed financial liabilities for financial assets: which performance is measured at fair value. Financial assets at amortised cost under IAS 39 This option is irrevocable and applies mandatorily from the date of initial Financial assets at amortised cost are initially recognised at their initial recognition of the instrument. fair value, including directly-attributable transaction costs and accrued During subsequent measurement, these financial liabilities are interest. measured at fair value through profit or loss for changes in fair value They are subsequently measured at amortised cost with amortisation not related to own credit risk and through other comprehensive income of any premium or discount and transaction costs using the corrected on items that cannot be reclassified for changes in value related to own effective interest rate method. credit risk, unless this aggravates an accounting mismatch. Available-for-sale financial assets under IAS 39 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Available-for-sale financial assets are initially recognised at initial fair All other liabilities fulfilling the definition of a financial liability (excluding value, including transaction costs that are directly attributable to the derivatives) are measured at amortised cost. acquisition, and accrued interest. These liabilities are initially measured at fair value (including transaction Available-for-sale financial assets are later measured at fair value and income and costs) and subsequently at amortised cost using the subsequent changes in fair value are recorded in other comprehensive effective interest rate method. income. If the securities are sold, these changes are transferred to the income Deposits and savings accounts statement. Deposits and savings accounts are recorded under the category Amortisation of any premiums or discounts and transaction costs on “Financial liabilities at amortised cost – Due to customers” in spite of the fixed-income securities is recognised in the income statement using characteristics of the collection system within the Crédit Agricole S.A. the effective interest rate method. Group, with deposits originating from the Regional Banks centralised at Crédit Agricole S.A. For the Group, the ultimate counterparty for these Depreciation of designated financial assets under IAS 39 deposits is the end customer. Impairment must be recognised when there is objective evidence of The deposits and savings are initially measured at fair value and impairment resulting from one or more events occurring after the initial subsequently at amortised cost. recognition of the financial asset. Regulated savings products are by nature deemed to be at market rates. Objective evidence of loss corresponds to a prolonged or significant decline in the value of the security for equity securities or the Provisions are accounted where necessary against home purchase savings plans and accounts as set out in Note 6.17 “Provisions”. 6 appearance of significant deterioration in credit risk evidenced by a risk of non-recovery for debt securities. Reclassification of financial liabilities For equity securities, Crédit Agricole S.A. Group uses quantitative The initial classification of financial liabilities is irrevocable. No criteria as indicators of potential impairment. These quantitative criteria subsequent reclassification is authorised. are mainly based on a loss of 30% or more of the value of the equity Only requalification (debt instrument versus equity instrument) may take instrument over a period of six consecutive months. Crédit Agricole place. S.A. Group may also take account of other factors such as financial difficulties of the issuer, or short term prospects, etc. Distinction between debt instruments and equity Notwithstanding the above-mentioned criteria, Crédit Agricole S.A. Group Securities are classed as debt instruments or equity instruments based recognises an impairment loss when there is a decline in the value of the on the economic substance of the contractual terms. equity instrument higher than 50% or prolonged over three years. A financial liability is a debt instrument if it includes a contractual obligation: Securities are classed as debt instruments or equity Financial liabilities instruments based on the economic substance of the contractual terms. Classification and measurement of financial liabilities A financial liability is a debt instrument if it includes a contractual Financial liabilities are classified on the balance sheet in the following obligation: two accounting categories: nn to provide another entity with cash, another financial asset or a nn financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, either due to variable number of equity instruments; or their nature or optionally; nn to exchange financial assets and liabilities with another entity at nn financial liabilities at amortised cost. potentially unfavourable conditions. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 377 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 An equity instrument is a non-redeemable financial instrument which nn Bucket 2: if the credit quality deteriorates significantly for a given offers discretionary return representing a residual interest in a company transaction or portfolio, the entity recognises the losses expected after deduction of all its financial liabilities (net assets) and which is not to maturity; qualified as a debt instrument. nn Bucket 3: when one or more default events have occurred on the transaction or on a counterparty with an adverse effect on the Treasury share buyback estimated future cash flows, the entity recognises incurred credit Treasury shares or equivalent derivative instruments such as options losses to maturity. Subsequently, if the conditions for classifying on shares bought by the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group with a fixed strike financial instruments in Bucket 3 are not met, the financial ratio, including shares held to cover stock option plans, do not meet the instruments are reclassified in Bucket 2, then in Bucket 1 according definition of a financial asset and are deducted from equity. They do not to the subsequent improvement in the quality of the credit risk. generate any impact on the income statement. Definition of default Derecognition and modification of financial liabilities A financial liability is derecognised in full or in part: The definition of default for the requirements of ECL provisioning is identical to that used in management and for the calculation of nn when it is extinguished; or regulatory ratios. A debtor is, therefore, considered to be in default when nn when quantitative or qualitative analyses suggest it has undergone a at least one of the following conditions has been met: substantial change following restructuring. nn a payment generally more than ninety days past due, unless specific A substantial modification of an existing financial liability must circumstances point to the fact that the delay is due to reasons be recorded as an extinction of an initial financial liability and the independent of the debtor’s financial situation; recognition of a new financial liability (novation). Any differential nn the entity believes that the debtor is unlikely to settle its credit between the carrying amount of the extinct liability and the new liability obligations unless it avails itself of certain measures such as will be recognised immediately in the income statement. enforcement of collateral security right. If the financial liability is not derecognised, the original effective interest The definition of “default” is applied uniformly to all financial instruments, rate is maintained. A discount/premium is recognised immediately in unless information becomes available indicating that another definition the income statement on the date of modification and is then spread, of “default” is more suitable for a specific financial instrument. using the original effective interest rate, over the residual lifetime of the instrument. A loan in default (Bucket 3) is said to be impaired when one or more events occur which have a negative effect on the estimated future cash flows from this financial asset. Indications of impairment of a financial Provisions for credit risks asset cover observable data on the following events: Scope of application nn significant financial difficulties of the issuer or borrower; In accordance with IFRS 9, the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group recognises a nn a breach of contract, such as default or overdue payment; correction for changes in value for expected credit losses (ECL) on the nn the granting, by the lender(s) to the borrower, for economic or following outstandings: contractual reasons related to financial difficulties of the borrower, nn financial assets of debt instruments recognised at amortised cost or of one or more favours that the lender(s) would not have considered fair value through other comprehensive income (items that can be under other circumstances; reclassified) (loans and receivables, debt securities); nn the growing probability of bankruptcy or financial restructuring of nn financing commitments which are not measured at fair value through the borrower; profit or loss; nn the disappearance of an active market for the financial asset due to nn guarantee commitments coming under IFRS 9 and which are not financial difficulties; measured at fair value through profit or loss; nn the purchase or creation of a financial asset with a significant nn rental receivables coming under IAS 17; and discount, which reflects the credit losses suffered. nn trade receivables generated by transactions under IFRS 15. It is not necessarily possible to isolate a particular event. The impairment Equity instruments (at fair value through profit or loss or through other of the financial asset could result from the combined effect of several comprehensive income on items that cannot be reclassified) are not events. concerned by impairment provisions. On the “Large Customers” scope: the defaulting counterparty does Derivative instruments and other instruments at fair value through profit not return to a sound situation until it has completely regularised or loss are subject to the calculation of counterparty risk which is not the delay recorded and the other elements triggering the default covered by the ECL model. This calculation is described in chapter 5 (elimination of default for the parent company, elimination of an alert “Risk factors and Pillar 3”. leading to default, etc.). Credit risk and provisioning stages On the “Retail banking” scope: loans in default only return to non-default Credit risk is defined as risk of loss related to default by a counterparty status after full settlement of unpaid amounts. leading to its inability to meet its commitments to the Group. Definition of expected credit loss (“ECL”) The process of provisioning credit risk has three stages (Buckets): ECL is defined as the weighted expected probable value of the nn Bucket 1: upon initial recognition of the financial instrument (credit, discounted credit loss (principal and interest). It represents the present debt security, guarantee, etc.), the entity recognises the 12-month value of the difference between the contractual cash flows and the expected credit losses; expected cash flows (including principal and interest). The ECL approach is designed to anticipate as early as possible the recognition of expected credit losses. 378 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 ECL governance and measurement nn the second level is linked to the expert assessment, based on local The governance of the system for measuring IFRS 9 parameters is forward-looking information, of the risk held by each entity in its based on the structure implemented as part of the Basel framework. The portfolios that may lead to an adjustment in the Group Bucket 2 Group’s Risk Management Department is responsible for defining the reclassification criteria (switching a portfolio or sub-portfolio to ECL methodological framework and supervising the loan loss provisioning at maturity). system. Each financial instrument is, without exception, assessed for significant The Group primarily relies on the internal rating system and current deterioration. Contagion is not required for the downgrading of financial Basel processes to generate the IFRS 9 parameters required to calculate instruments of the same counterparty from Bucket 1 to Bucket 2. The ECL. The assessment of the change in credit risk is based on an significant deterioration assessment must consider the change in credit expected loss model and extrapolation based on reasonable scenarios. risk of the principal debtor without taking account of any guarantee, All information that is available, relevant, reasonable and justifiable, including for transactions with a shareholder guarantee. including of a forward-looking nature, must be retained. Possible losses in respect of portfolios of small loans with similar The formula includes the probability of default, loss given default and characteristics may be estimated on a statistical basis rather than exposure at default parameters. individually assessed. These calculations are broadly based on the internal models used as To measure the significant deterioration of credit risk since initial part of the regulatory framework, but with adjustments to determine an recognition, it is necessary to look back at the internal rating and PD economic ECL. IFRS 9 recommends a Point in Time analysis while having (Probability of Default) at origination. regard to historical loss data and forward-looking macroeconomic data, Origination means the trading date, on which the entity became bound whereas the prudential regulation uses Through the Cycle analysis for by the contractual terms of the financial instrument. For financing and probability of default and Downturn analysis for Loss Given Default guarantee commitments, origination means the date on which the (LGD). irrevocable commitment was made. The accounting approach also requires the recalculation of certain Basel In the absence of an internal rating model, Crédit Agricole S.A. Group parameters, in particular to eliminate internal recovery costs or floors uses the absolute threshold of non-payment for over thirty days as the that are imposed by the regulator in the regulatory calculation of loss maximum threshold for significant deterioration and classification in given default (LGD). Bucket 2. ECLs are calculated according to the type of product concerned, i.e. For outstandings (with the exception of securities) for which internal financial instruments or off-balance sheet instruments. rating systems are in place (in particular exposures monitored by The expected credit losses for the coming 12 months make up a authorised methods), Crédit Agricole S.A. Group considers that all of percentage of the lifetime expected credit losses, and represent the information incorporated into the rating systems allows for a more the lifetime cash flow shortfalls in the event of a default during the detailed assessment than the non-payment for over thirty days criterion 12 months following the reporting period (or a shorter period if the alone. expected lifetime of the financial instrument is less than 12 months), If deterioration since origination is no longer observed, impairment may weighted by the probability of default. be reduced to 12-month expected credit losses (Bucket 1). Expected credit losses are discounted at the effective interest rate used To make up for the fact that certain significant deterioration factors or for the initial recognition of the financial instrument. indicators may not be identifiable at instrument level, the standard allows The IFRS 9 parameters are measured and updated in accordance for the assessment of significant deterioration at financial instrument with the methodologies defined by the Group and thus enable the portfolio level, or for groups of portfolios or parts of portfolios. establishment of a first benchmark provisioning level or shared base. Portfolios can be created for the collective assessment of deterioration The models and parameters used are backtested at least annually. for instruments that share common characteristics, such as: Forward-looking macroeconomic data are taken into account in nn instrument type; accordance with a methodological framework applicable at two levels: nn credit risk rating (including internal Basel II rating for entities with an internal ratings system); nn at Group level for the determination of a shared framework for the consideration of forward-looking data in the estimation of PD and nn collateral type; 6 LGD parameters over the transaction amortisation period; nn date of initial recognition; nn at the level of each entity in respect of its own portfolios. nn remaining term until maturity; nn business sector; Significant deterioration of credit risk nn geographical location of the borrower; All Group entities must assess, for each financial instrument, the deterioration of credit risk from origination to each reporting date. Based nn the value of collateral relative to the financial assets, if this has an on this assessment of the change in credit risk, the entities must classify impact on the probability of default (for example, non-recourse loans their exposure into different risk categories (Buckets). in certain countries or loan-to-value ratios); nn distribution channel, purpose of financing, etc. To assess significant deterioration, the Group employs a process based on two levels of analysis: Differentiation of significant deterioration by market is therefore possible nn the first level is based on absolute and relative Group criteria and (home loans, consumer finance, loans to farmers or small businesses, rules that apply to all Group entities; corporate finance, etc.). The grouping of financial instruments for the purposes of collective credit risk assessment may change over time, as new information becomes available. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 379 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 For securities, Crédit Agricole S.A. Group uses an approach that consists In the absence of derecognition, the reduction of future cash flows of applying an absolute level of credit risk, in accordance with IFRS 9, granted to a counterparty, or the postponing of these flows as part of below which exposures are classified in Bucket 1 and provisions are a restructuring, shall result in the recognition of a discount in the cost made based on 12-month ECL. of risk. As such, the following rules shall apply for monitoring the significant The restructuring discount is equal to the difference between: deterioration of securities: nn the carrying amount of the loan; nn “Investment Grade” securities, at the reporting date, are classified in nn and the sum of the “restructured” future cash flows discounted at the Bucket 1 and provisions are made based on 12-month ECL; effective interest rate at origination. nn “Non-Investment Grade” securities (NIG), at the reporting date, In the event of a waiver of part of the capital, this amount shall constitute must be subject to monitoring for significant deterioration, since a loss to be recorded in cost of risk. origination, and be classified in Bucket 2 (lifetime ECL) in the event Upon reversal of the discount, the portion associated with the passage of significant deterioration in credit risk. of time is recorded in revenues. Relative deterioration must be assessed prior to the occurrence of a known default (Bucket 3). Accounts uncollectible When a loan is deemed uncollectible, i.e. when it cannot be recovered in Restructuring due to financial difficulty full or in part, the amount deemed uncollectible must be derecognised Debt instruments restructured due to financial difficulties are those for from the balance sheet and written off. which the Group has amended the original financial terms (interest rate, The decision as to when to write off a loan is taken on the basis of term) for economic or legal reasons linked to the financial difficulties of an expert opinion. This must therefore be established by each entity, the borrower, under conditions that would not have been considered with its Risk Management Department, according to its own business under other circumstances. As such, these can be any debt instruments, knowledge. Before any write-offs, a Bucket 3 provision must be made regardless of the security’s credit risk deterioration category since initial (with the exception of assets at fair value through profit or loss). recognition. For loans at amortised cost or fair value through other comprehensive In accordance with the EBA (European Banking Authority) definition income on items that can be reclassified, the amount written off is as stated in the “Risk Factors and Pillar 3” chapter, loan restructuring recorded under cost of risk (nominal amount) and revenues (interest). corresponds to any amendments made to one or more credit agreements, as well as refinancings granted due to financial difficulties experienced by the client. Derivative financial instruments Classification and measurement This definition of restructuring must be applied to each agreement and not at client level (no contagion). Derivative instruments are financial assets or liabilities classified by default as derivative instruments held for trading unless they can be The definition of loans restructured due to financial difficulty is therefore considered to be hedging derivatives. comprised of two cumulative criteria: They are recorded on the balance sheet at their initial fair value on the nn amendments to agreements or loan refinancings; trading date. nn a client in financial difficulty. They are subsequently recognised at their fair value. “Amendments to agreements” cover the following example situations: At the end of each reporting period, the counterparty of the change in nn there is a difference between the amended agreement and the former fair value of derivatives on the balance sheet is recorded: conditions of the agreement, to the benefit of the borrower; nn through profit or loss for derivative instruments held for trading and nn the amendments made to the agreement result in more favourable for fair value hedges; conditions for the borrower, from which other customers of the bank, nn through other comprehensive income for cash flow hedging with a similar risk profile and at the same time, do not benefit. derivatives and net investments in foreign operations for the effective “Refinancings” cover situations in which a new debt is granted to the portion of the hedge. client to enable it to repay in full or in part another debt for which it cannot meet the contractual terms and conditions due to its financial Hedge accounting position. General framework The restructuring of a loan (whether performing or in default) infers In accordance with a decision made by the Group, Crédit Agricole the presumed existence of a proven risk of loss (Bucket 3). The need S.A. Group chooses not to apply the “hedge accounting” component to recognise impairment on the restructured exposure must therefore of IFRS 9, as permitted by the standard. All hedging relationships will be analysed accordingly (a restructuring does not automatically result continue to be documented in accordance with the rules of IAS 39 until, in the recognition of impairment for proven losses or classification as at the latest, the date on which the fair value macro-hedging text is default). adopted by the European Union. However, the eligibility of financial The “restructured loan” classification is temporary. instruments for hedge accounting under IAS 39 takes into account the Once the restructuring, as defined by the EBA, has been completed, the IFRS 9 principles for the classification and measurement of financial exposure maintains this “restructured” status for a minimum period of instruments. two years, if the exposure was normal at the time of restructuring, or Under IFRS 9, and taking account of the IAS 39 hedging principles, debt a minimum period of three years if the exposure was in default at the instruments at amortised cost or fair value through other comprehensive time of the restructuring. These periods are extended in the event of income (items that may be reclassified) are eligible for fair value hedging the occurrence of certain events provided for by the Group’s standards and cash flow hedging. (e.g. further incidents). Documentation Hedging relationships must comply with the following principles: nn fair value hedges are intended to provide protection from exposure to changes in the fair value of an asset or a liability that has been recognised, or of a firm commitment that has not been recognised, 380 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 attributable to the risk(s) hedged and that may have an impact on net for according to its classification. For debt instruments at fair income (for instance, the hedging of all or some changes in fair value value through other comprehensive income (items that may be caused by the interest rate risk of a fixed-rate debt); reclassified), changes in fair value subsequent to the ending of the nn cash flow hedges are intended to provide protection from exposure hedging relationship are recorded in other comprehensive income in to changes in the future cash flow of an asset or liability that has their entirety. For hedged items valued at amortised cost, which were been recognised, or of a transaction considered to be highly probable, interest rate hedged, the revaluation adjustment is amortised over the attributable to the risk(s) hedged and that could (in the event of a remaining life of those hedged items; planned transaction not carried out) have an impact on net income nn cash flow hedges: the hedging instrument is valued at fair (for instance, the hedging of changes in all or some of the future value through profit or loss. The amounts accumulated in other interest payments on a floating-rate debt); comprehensive income under the effective portion of the hedging nn net investment hedges in foreign operations are intended to provide remain in other comprehensive income until the hedged element protection against the risk of unfavourable changes in fair value affects profit or loss. For interest rate hedged instruments, income associated with the foreign exchange risk of an investment carried statement is affected according to the payment of interest. The out abroad in a currency other than the euro, Crédit Agricole S.A. revaluation adjustment is therefore amortised over the remaining life Group’s presentation currency. of those hedged items; Hedges must also meet the following criteria in order to be eligible for nn hedges of net investment in a foreign operation: the amounts hedge accounting: accumulated in other comprehensive income under the effective portion of the hedging remain in other comprehensive income as nn the hedging instrument and the instrument hedged must be eligible; long as the net investment is held. The income is recorded once the nn there must be formal documentation from inception, primarily net investment in a foreign operation exits the scope of consolidation. including the individual identification and characteristics of the hedged item, the hedging instrument, the nature of the hedging Embedded derivatives relationship and the nature of the hedged risk; An embedded derivative is a component of a hybrid contract that meets nn the effectiveness of the hedge must be demonstrated, at inception the definition of a derivative product. This definition applies only to and retrospectively, by testing at each reporting date. financial liabilities and non-financial contracts. Embedded derivatives For interest rate hedges for a portfolio of financial assets or financial must be accounted for separately from the host contract if the following liabilities, Crédit Agricole S.A. Group documents the hedging relationship three conditions are met: for fair value hedges in accordance with the carve-out version of IAS 39 nn the hybrid contract is not measured at fair value through profit or loss; as adopted by the European Union. In particular: nn the embedded component taken separately from the host contract nn the Group documents these hedging relationships based on its gross has the characteristics of a derivative; position in derivative instruments and hedged items; nn the characteristics of the derivative are not closely related to those nn the effectiveness of the hedging relationships is measured by of the host contract. maturity schedules. Further details on the Group’s risk management strategy and its Determination of the fair value of financial instruments application are presented in chapter 5 “Risks and Pillar 3”. When determining the fair value of financial instruments, observable inputs must be prioritised. It is presented using the hierarchy defined Measurement in IFRS 13. The remeasurement of the derivative at fair value is recorded in the IFRS 13 defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an financial statements as follows: asset or paid to transfer a liability in an ordinary transaction between nn fair value hedges: the change in value of the derivative is recognised market participants, on the principal or the most advantageous market, in the income statement symmetrically with the change in value of the at the measurement date. hedged item in the amount of the hedged risk. Only the net amount Fair value applies individually to each financial asset or financial liability. of any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised in the income A portfolio exemption may be used where the management and risk statement; nn cash flow hedges: the change in value of the derivative is recognised in monitoring strategy so allow and are appropriately documented. Thus, certain fair value parameters are calculated on a net basis when a group 6 the balance sheet through a specific account in other comprehensive of financial assets and financial liabilities is managed on the basis of its income (items that may be reclassified) for the effective portion and net exposure to market or credit risks. This is notably the case for the any eventual ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised in the CVA/DVA calculation described in chapter 5 “Risks and Pillar 3”. income statement. Profits or losses on the derivative accrued through The Group considers that the best evidence of fair value is reference to other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss when quoted prices published in an active market. the hedged cash flows occur; When such quoted prices are not available, fair value is determined nn hedges of net investment in a foreign operation: the change in value using valuation techniques that maximise the use of relevant observable of the derivative is recognised in the balance sheet in the translation data and minimise the use of unobservable data. adjustment equity account (items that may be reclassified) and any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised in the income When a debt is valued at fair value through profit or loss (by nature or statement. designated), fair value takes account of the own credit risk of the issuer. Where the conditions for benefiting from hedge accounting are no longer Fair value of structured issues met, the following accounting treatment must be applied prospectively: In accordance with IFRS 13, the Group values its structured issues, nn fair value hedges: only the hedging instrument continues to be recognised at fair value, by taking as a reference the issuer spread that revalued through profit or loss. The hedged item is wholly accounted specialist participants agree to receive to acquire new Group issues. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 381 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 Counterparty risk on derivative instruments When the models are consistent notably with standard models based Crédit Agricole S.A. Group incorporates into fair value the assessment on observable market data (such as interest rate yield curves or implied of counterparty risk for derivative assets (Credit Valuation Adjustment volatility surfaces), the day one gain or loss resulting from the initial fair or CVA) and, using a symmetrical treatment, the non-performance risk value measurement of the related instruments is recognised in profit or for derivative liabilities (Debit Valuation Adjustment or DVA or own credit loss at inception. risk). Level 3: fair value that is measured using significant unobservable inputs The CVA makes it possible to determine the expected losses due to the counterparty from the perspective of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group, and For some complex instruments that are not traded in an active market, DVA, the expected losses due to Crédit Agricole S.A. Group from the fair value measurement is based on valuation techniques using perspective of the counterparty. assumptions that cannot be observed on the market for an identical instrument. These instruments are disclosed within level 3. The CVA/DVA is calculated on the basis of an estimate of expected losses based on the probability of default and loss given default. The This mainly concerns complex interest rate instruments, equity methodology used maximises the use of observable market inputs. It derivatives, structured credit instruments for which fair value is primarily based on market data such as registered and listed Credit measurement includes, for instance, correlation or volatility inputs that Default Swaps (or Single Name CDS) or index CDS in the absence of are not directly benchmarkable with market data. registered CDS on the counterparty. In certain circumstances, historical The transaction price is deemed to reflect the fair value at initial default data may also be used. recognition, any recognition of day one gain or loss is deferred. Fair value hierarchy The margin relating to these structured financial instruments is generally recognised through profit or loss over the period during which inputs are The standard classifies fair value into three levels based on the deemed unobservable. When market data become “observable”, the observability of inputs used in valuation techniques. remaining margin to be deferred is immediately recognised in profit Level 1: fair value corresponding to quoted prices (unadjusted) in active or loss. markets Valuation methodologies and models used for financial instruments that Level 1 is composed of financial instruments that are directly quoted are disclosed within levels 2 and 3 incorporate all factors that market in active markets for identical assets and liabilities that the entity can participants would consider in setting a price. They shall be beforehand access at the measurement date. These are stocks and bonds quoted validated by an independent control. Fair value measurement notably in active markets (such as the Paris Stock Exchange, the London includes both liquidity risk and counterparty risk. Stock Exchange or the New York Stock Exchange, etc.) and also fund securities quoted in an active market and derivatives traded on an Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities organised market, in particular futures. In accordance with IAS 32, Crédit Agricole S.A. Group nets a financial A market is regarded as being active if quoted prices are readily and asset and a financial liability and reports the net amount when, and only regularly available from an exchange, broker, dealer, pricing service when, it has a legally enforceable right to offset the amounts reported or regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and regularly and intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and occurring market transactions on an arm’s length basis. settle the liability simultaneously. For financial assets and liabilities with offsetting market risks, Crédit The derivative instruments and the repurchase agreements handled Agricole S.A. Group uses mid-prices as a basis for establishing fair with clearing houses that meet the two criteria required by IAS 32 have values for the offsetting risk positions. The Group applies the current been offset on the balance sheet. asking price to open short positions and the current bid price to open long positions. Net gains (losses) on financial instruments Net gains (losses) on financial instruments at fair value through Level 2: fair value measured using directly or indirectly observable inputs profit or loss other than those in Level 1 For financial instruments recognised at fair value through profit or loss, The inputs used are observable either directly (i.e. prices) or indirectly this item notably includes the following income statement elements: (derived from prices) and generally consist of data from outside the nn dividends and other revenues from equities and other variablecompany, which are publicly available or accessible and based on a income securities which are classified under financial assets at fair market consensus. value through profit or loss; Level 2 is composed of: nn changes in fair value of financial assets or liabilities at fair value nn stocks and bonds quoted in an inactive market or not quoted in an through profit or loss; active market but for which the fair value is established using a nn gains and losses on disposal of financial assets at fair value through valuation methodology usually used by market participants (such as profit or loss; discounted cash flow techniques or the Black & Scholes model) and nn changes in fair value and gains and losses on disposal or termination based on observable market data; of derivative instruments not included in a fair value hedging nn instruments that are traded over the counter, the fair value of which relationship or cash flow hedge. is measured with models using observable market data, i.e. derived This heading also includes the ineffective portion of hedges. from various independently available external sources which can be obtained on a regular basis. For example, the fair value of interest rate swaps is generally derived from the yield curves of market interest rates as observed at the reporting date. 382 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 Net gains (losses) on financial instruments at fair value through The amount of these obligations is calculated taking account notably of: other comprehensive income nn subscriber behaviour models, based on assumptions regarding For financial assets recognised at fair value through other comprehensive subscriber behaviour drawn from historical experience, which may income, this item notably includes the following income statements not necessarily reflect actual trends in future behaviour; elements: nn an estimate of the amount and term of the loans that will be granted nn dividends from equity instruments classified as financial assets in the future, based on historical experience over an extended period at fair value through other comprehensive income that cannot be of time; reclassified; nn the yield curve for market rates and reasonably foreseeable trends. nn gains (losses) on disposals and income associated with the Certain estimates may be made to determine the amount of the termination of hedging relationships on debt instruments classified following provisions: as financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income nn the provision for operational risks, which although subject to that can be reclassified; examination for identified risks, requires Management to make nn net income on disposals or associated with the termination of fair assessments with regard to incident frequency and the potential value hedging instruments of financial assets at fair value through financial impact; other comprehensive income when the hedged item is sold. nn the provision for legal risks, which is based on Management’s best estimate in light of the information in its possession at the end of the Financing commitments and guarantees given reporting period. Financing commitments that are not designated as fair value through Detailed information is provided in Note 6.18 “Provisions”. profit or loss or not treated as derivative instruments within the meaning of IFRS 9 are not recognised on the balance sheet. They are, however, covered by provisions in accordance with the provisions of IFRS 9. Employee benefits (IAS 19) A financial guarantee contract is a contract under which the issuer must In accordance with IAS 19, employee benefits are recorded in four make specific payments to reimburse the holder for a loss incurred due categories: to a specific debtor’s failure to make a payment when due under the nn short-term employee benefits, including salaries, social security initial or amended terms of a debt instrument. contributions, annual leave, profit-sharing and incentive plans and Financial guarantee contracts are recognised at fair value initially then premiums, are defined as those which are expected to be settled subsequently at the higher of: within twelve months of the period in which the related services have nn the value adjustment amount for losses determined in accordance been rendered; with the provisions of the “Impairment” section of IFRS 9; or nn long-term employee benefits (long-service awards, variable nn the amount originally recognised less, where applicable, the sum compensation and premium payable 12 months or more after the of income recognised in accordance with the principles of IFRS 15 end of the period); “Revenue from contracts with customers”. nn termination benefits; nn post-employment benefits falling into two categories: defined-benefit Provisions (IAS 37 and 19) schemes and defined-contribution schemes. Crédit Agricole S.A. Group has identified all obligations (legal or Long-term employee benefits constructive) resulting from a past event for which it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and for Long-term employee benefits are employee benefits other than which the due date or amount of the settlement is uncertain but can be post-employment benefits or termination benefits but not fully due to reliably estimated. These estimates are discounted where applicable employees within twelve months after the end of the period in which the whenever there is a material impact. related services have been rendered. For obligations other than those related to credit risk, Crédit Agricole These include, in particular, bonuses and other deferred compensation S.A. Group has set aside general provisions to cover: payable twelve or more months after the end of the period in which they nn operational risks; were earned, but which are not share-based. The measurement method is similar to the one used by the Group for 6 nn employee benefits; post-employment benefits with defined-benefit plans. nn commitment execution risks; nn claims and liability guarantees; Post-employment benefits nn tax risks; Defined-benefit plans nn risks related to home purchase savings schemes. At each reporting date, Crédit Agricole S.A. Group sets aside reserves The latter provision is designed to cover the Group’s obligations in to cover its liabilities for retirement and similar benefits and all other the event of unfavourable moves impacting home purchase savings employee benefits falling in the category of defined-benefit plans. schemes. These obligations are: (i) to pay a fixed interest rate on In keeping with IAS 19, these commitments are stated based on a set the savings contract determined at inception for an undefined period of actuarial, financial and demographic assumptions, and in accordance of time; and (ii) to grant a loan to home purchase savings plan and with the Projected Credit Units method. Under this method, for each account savers at a rate fixed at inception of the contract. The provision year of service, a charge is booked in an amount corresponding to the is calculated for each generation of home purchase savings plan and employee’s vested benefits for the period. The charge is calculated for all home purchase savings accounts, with no netting of obligations based on the discounted future benefit. between generations. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 383 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 Liabilities for retirement and other future employee benefits are based Share-based payments (IFRS 2) on assumptions made by Management with respect to the discount rate, staff turnover rate and probable increases in salary and social IFRS 2 on “Share-based payment” requires valuation of share-based security costs. If the actual figures differ from the assumptions made, payment transactions in the Company’s income statement and balance the retirement liability may increase or decrease in future years (see sheet. This standard applies to transactions with employees and more Note 7.4 “Post-employment benefits, defined-benefit plans”). specifically to: nn share-based payment transactions settled in equity instruments; Discount rates are determined based on the average term of the commitment, that is, the arithmetical average of the terms calculated nn share-based payment transactions settled in cash. between the valuation date and the payment date weighted by employee Share-based payment plans initiated by Crédit Agricole S.A. Group turnover assumptions. that are eligible for IFRS 2 are mainly transactions settled in equity The anticipated return on plan assets is also estimated by Management. instruments (stock options, free share allocation plans, variable Returns are estimated on the basis of expected returns on fixed income compensation settled in indexed cash or in shares, etc.). securities, and notably bond yields. Options granted are measured at their fair value on the date of grant The expected return on plan assets is determined using discount rates primarily using the Black & Scholes model. These options are recognised applied to measure the defined benefit obligation. as a charge under Employee expenses, with a corresponding adjustment to equity, spread over the vesting period (four years for existing plans). In accordance with IAS 19 revised, all actuarial gains or losses are recognised in other comprehensive income. Employee share issues offered to employees as part of the Employee savings plans are also subject to the IFRS 2 standard. Shares may be The amount of the provision is equal to: offered to employees with a maximum discount of 20%. These plans nn the present value of the obligation to provide the defined benefits at have no vesting period but the shares are subject to a lock-up period the end of the reporting period, calculated in accordance with the of five years. The benefit granted to employees is measured as the actuarial method recommended by IAS 19; difference between the fair value per share acquired taking account of nn if necessary, reduced by the fair value of the assets allocated to the lock-up period and the purchase price paid by the employee on the covering these commitments. These may be represented by an subscription date multiplied by the number of shares subscribed. eligible insurance policy. In the event that 100% of the obligation is A more detailed description of the method, existing plans and valuation covered by a policy that meets exactly the expense amount payable methods is provided in Note 7.6 “Share-based payments”. over the period for all or part of a defined-benefit plan, the fair value of the policy is deemed to be the value of the corresponding obligation, The cost of share based payments settled in Crédit Agricole S.A. equity i.e. the amount of the corresponding actuarial liability. instruments and the cost of share subscriptions are recognised in the financial statements of the entities that employ the plan beneficiaries. For such obligations that are not covered, a provision for retirement The impact is recorded under Employee expenses, with a corresponding benefits is recognised under Provisions on the liabilities side of the increase in Consolidated reserves-Group share. balance sheet. This provision is equal to Crédit Agricole S.A. Group’s liabilities towards employees in service at financial year-end, governed by the Crédit Agricole Group collective agreement that came into effect Current and deferred taxes (IAS 12) on 1 January 2005. In accordance with IAS 12, the income tax charge includes all income A provision to cover the cost of early retirement commitments is also taxes, whether current or deferred. listed under Provisions. This provision covers the additional discounted IAS 12 defines current tax liability as “the amount of income tax payable cost of the various early retirement agreements signed by Crédit (recoverable) in respect of the taxable profit (tax loss) for a reporting Agricole Group entities under which employees of eligible age may take period”. Taxable income is the profit (or loss) for a given accounting early retirement. period measured in accordance with the rules determined by the tax Lastly, certain Group companies are liable to pay supplementary authorities. retirement benefits. A provision is calculated on the basis of the The applicable rates and rules used to measure the current tax liability Company’s actuarial liability for these benefits. These provisions are are those in effect in each country where the Group’s companies are also shown on the liabilities side of the balance sheet under Provisions. established. Defined contribution plans The current tax liability includes all taxes on income, payable or recoverable, for which payment is not subordinated to the completion Employers contribute to a variety of compulsory pension schemes. of future transactions, even if payment is spread over several years. Pension schemes assets are managed by independent organisations and the contributing companies have no legal or implied obligation to The current tax liability must be recognised as a liability until it is paid. If pay additional contributions if the funds managed do not have sufficient the amount that has already been paid for the current year and previous assets to cover all benefits corresponding to services rendered by years exceeds the amount due for these years, the surplus must be employees during the year and during prior years. Consequently, Crédit recognised under assets. Agricole S.A. Group has no liabilities in this respect other than its Moreover, certain transactions carried out by the entity may have tax on-going contributions. consequences that are not taken into account in measuring the current tax liability. IAS 12 defines a difference between the carrying amount of an asset or liability and its tax base as a temporary difference. 384 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 This standard requires that deferred taxes be recognised in the following When tax credits on income from securities portfolios and amounts cases: receivable are effectively used to pay income tax due for the year, nn a deferred tax liability should be recognised for any taxable temporary they are recognised under the same heading as the income with differences between the carrying amount of an asset or liability on which they are associated. The corresponding tax charge continues the balance sheet and its tax base, unless the deferred tax liability to be recognised under the Income tax charge heading in the income arises from: statement. –– initial recognition of goodwill, However, given that the legislative intent when introducing the tax credit –– the initial recognition of an asset or a liability in a transaction that for competitiveness and employment (crédit d’impôt pour la compétitivité is not a business combination and that does not affect either the et l’emploi – CICE) was to reduce employee expenses, Crédit Agricole accounting or the taxable profit (taxable loss) at the transaction S.A. Group chose to recognise the CICE (Article 244 quater-C of the date; French General Tax Code – CGI) as a reduction in employee expenses. nn a deferred tax asset should be recognised for any deductible temporary differences between the carrying amount of an asset or Treatment of fixed assets (IAS 16, 36, 38 and 40) liability on the balance sheet and its tax base, insofar as it is deemed Crédit Agricole S.A. Group applies component accounting for all of its probable that a future taxable profit will be available against which property, plant and equipment. In accordance with the provisions of such deductible temporary differences can be allocated; IAS 16, the depreciable amount takes account of the potential residual nn a deferred tax asset should also be recognised for carrying forward value of property, plant and equipment. unused tax losses and tax credits insofar as it is probable that a future Land is measured at cost less any impairment losses. taxable profit will be available against which the unused tax losses and tax credits can be allocated. Property used in operations, investment property and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses The tax rates applicable in each country are used as appropriate. since the time they were placed in service. Deferred taxes are not discounted. Purchased software is measured at acquisition cost less accumulated Taxable unrealised gains on securities do not generate any taxable depreciation and impairment losses since acquisition. temporary differences between the carrying amount of the asset and Proprietary software is measured at cost less accumulated depreciation the tax base. As a result, deferred tax is not recognised on these gains. and impairment losses since completion. When the relevant securities are classified as financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income, unrealised gains and Apart from software, intangible assets are mainly assets acquired losses are recognised directly through other comprehensive income. during a business combination resulting from contractual rights The tax charge or saving effectively borne by the entity arising from (e.g. distribution agreement). These were valued on the basis of these unrealised gains or losses is reclassified as a deduction from corresponding future economic benefits or expected service potential. these gains. Fixed assets are depreciated over their estimated useful lives. In France long-term capital gains on the sale of equity investments, as The following components and depreciation periods have been adopted defined by the General Tax Code, are exempt from tax as from the tax by Crédit Agricole S.A. Group following the application of the measures year commencing on 1 January 2007; with the exception of 12% of on component accounting for property, plant and equipment. These long-term capital gains that are taxed at the normally applicable rate. depreciation periods are adjusted according to the type of asset and Accordingly, unrealised gains recognised at the end of the year generate its location: a temporary difference requiring the recognition of deferred tax on this Component Depreciation period share. Land Not depreciable Current and deferred tax is recognised in net income for the financial year, unless the tax arises from: Structural works 30 to 80 years nn either a transaction or event that is recognised directly through other Non-structural works 8 to 40 years comprehensive income, during the same year or during another year, Plant and equipment 5 to 25 years in which case it is directly debited or credited to other comprehensive income; Fixtures and fittings Computer equipment 5 to 15 years 4 to 7 years 6 nn or a business combination. Special equipment 4 to 5 years Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other if, and only if: Exceptional depreciation charges corresponding to tax-related nn the entity has a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets depreciation and not to any real impairment in the value of the asset against current tax liabilities; and are eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. nn the deferred tax assets and liabilities apply to income taxes assessed by the same tax authority: Foreign currency transactions (IAS 21) a) either for the same taxable entity, or In accordance with IAS 21, a distinction is made between monetary b) for different taxable entities that intend either to settle current tax (e.g.: debt instruments) and non-monetary items (e.g.: equity instruments). assets and liabilities on a net basis, or to settle their tax assets and liabilities at the same time during each future financial year in which it is expected that substantial deferred tax assets or liabilities will be paid or recovered. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 385 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 On the reporting date, foreign-currency denominated monetary assets Insurance businesses (IFRS 4) and liabilities are translated into Crédit Agricole S.A. Group’s functional currency at the closing rate. The resulting translation adjustments are Liabilities remain partially valued under French GAAP, as permitted by recorded in the income statement. There are three exceptions to this IAS and IFRS regulations, pending further amendments to the existing rule: standards. Financial assets held by Crédit Agricole S.A. Group’s insurance companies have been reclassified into the financial assets nn for debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive categories set out in IFRS 9. income that can be reclassified, only the translation adjustments calculated on amortised cost are taken to the income statement; The technical reserves of non-life insurance contracts include (i) the balance is recorded in other comprehensive income that can be reserves for claims, to cover the total cost of claims incurred but not yet reclassified; paid, and (ii) reserves relating to earned premiums (mainly provisions for nn translation adjustments on elements designated as cash flow hedges unearned premiums), allowing for the recognition of premiums relating or forming part of a net investment in a foreign entity are recognised to risks hedged over the course of a financial year as earnings for said in other comprehensive income that can be reclassified. year, and therefore to carry forward the portion of premiums written over the course of the year for a risk hedging period subsequent to the Non-monetary items are treated differently depending on the type of current financial year. items: The mathematical provisions of life insurance contracts and financial nn items at historical cost are measured at the foreign exchange rate on contracts containing discretionary participation features correspond to the transaction date; the difference between the current value of insurer commitments and nn items at fair value are measured at the foreign exchange rate at the policyholder commitments. Provisions are calculated using actuarial end of the reporting period; methods that include assumptions pertaining to the premiums, the nn for financial liabilities designated under the fair value option, performance of financial assets, contract redemption rates and changes translation adjustments related to changes in fair value of own credit in operating expenses. risk are recorded in other comprehensive income that cannot be Contracts containing discretionary participation features are collectively reclassified. classified as a liability under insurance company’s technical reserves. Translation adjustments on non-monetary items are recognised: They are recognised in the same way as insurance contracts. Premiums nn in the income statement if the gain or loss on the non-monetary item on these contracts are recognised as income and the increase in is recorded in the income statement; obligations to policyholders is recognised as an expense. nn in other comprehensive income that cannot be reclassified if the gain Life insurance technical reserves are conservatively estimated based or loss on the non-monetary item is recorded in other comprehensive on the technical rates defined in the contracts. Liabilities associated income that cannot be reclassified. with contracts with or without discretionary participation features or minimum guarantee are measured based on the fair value of the Revenues from contracts with customers (IFRS 15) underlying assets or its equivalent at the end of the reporting period and are recorded under financial liabilities. Fee and commission income and expenses are recognised in income based on the nature of services with which they are associated. The financial margin on these policies is taken to profit or loss, after reversal of technical items (premiums, benefits, etc.), according to Fees and commissions that are an integral part of the effective yield on deposit accounting principles. a financial instrument are recognised as an adjustment to the yield on the instrument and included in its effective interest rate. Property and casualty insurance policy liabilities are estimated at the end of the reporting period, without applying any discount. Claims The recognition of other types of fees and commissions on the income management costs associated with technical reserves are charged to a statement must reflect the rate of transfer to the customer of control of provision in the financial statements at the reporting date. the goods or services sold: nn the net income from a transaction associated with the provision of For non-life insurance contracts, acquisition costs are recognised as services is recognised under “Fee and commission income” at the and when the premium is earned. For life insurance contracts, directly time of transfer of control of the service to the customer, if this can be identifiable acquisition costs are deferred over the profit generation reliably estimated. This transfer may occur as the service is provided period. (ongoing service) or on a specific date (one-off service): Total expenses related to the insurance business are presented in a) fee and commission income from ongoing services (fees and Note 4.6 “Net income (expenses) on other activities”. commissions on payment instruments, for example) is recognised As permitted by the extension of local GAAP specified by IFRS 4 and CRC in income according to the degree of progress of the service Regulation 2000-05 pertaining to consolidated financial statements provided, for insurance companies, “shadow accounting” is used to account b) fee and commission income paid or received as compensation for for insurance liabilities for contracts with discretionary participation one-off services is recognised in income, in its entirety, when the features. Under this practice, positive or negative valuation differences service is provided. in the corresponding financial assets that will potentially revert to Fee and commission income payable or receivable and contingent upon policyholders are recognised in a “Deferred profit sharing” account. the achievement of a performance target is recognised for the amount at This policyholders’ deferred profit sharing is recognised on the liabilities which it is highly probable that the income thus recognised will not later side of the balance sheet under Insurance company technical reserves be subject to a significant downward adjustment upon resolution of the or on the asset side with an offsetting entry in the income statement or contingency. These estimates are updated at the end of each reporting in the valuation reserve, in the same way as unrealised gains and losses period. In practice, this condition can result in the deferred recognition of on the underlying assets. certain items of performance-related fee and commission income until the expiry of the performance assessment period and until such income has been definitively acquired. 386 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 The method used for valuation of deferred policyholders’ profit-sharing, a) the net lease receivable: amount owed by the lessee, comprising resulting from the application of shadow accounting, was changed in outstanding finance lease receivable and financial amortisation 2015. for the period between the most recent instalment and the The rate of deferred policyholders’ profit-sharing, previously based on reporting date, historically observed data, is now valued prospectively on the basis of b) the net carrying amount of the leased fixed assets, analysis scenarios consistent with the Company’s management policies. c) the provision for deferred taxes. It is only updated if it changes significantly. In the lessee’s financial statements, finance leases are restated such To determine whether the deferred profit-sharing asset is recoverable, that they are recognised in the same way as if the asset had been tests are carried out to determine whether any unrealised losses can purchased on credit, by recognising a financial liability, recording the be applied to future surpluses before testing for liability shortfall in purchased asset on the balance sheet and depreciating the asset. accordance with the CNC recommendation of 19 December 2008. In the income statement, the theoretical depreciation charge (the charge These tests are based: that would have been recognised if the asset had been purchased) and nn firstly, on liquidity analyses of the Company, which show the the finance expenses (incurred in connection with the financing) are company’s capacity to access funding sources to meet its obligations recorded in the place of the lease payments. and its ability to hold assets with unrealised losses even if new For operating leases, the lessee recognises payments as expenses production declines. The tests were performed with and without and the lessor records the corresponding income under rents, and the new production; leased assets on its balance sheet. nn secondly, on a comparison between the average value of future services measured by the internal model replicating the Company’s Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued management decisions and the value of the assets representing the operations (IFRS 5) obligations at market value. This shows the company’s ability to meet its obligations. A non-current asset (or a disposal group) is classified as held-for-sale if its carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale Lastly, sensitivity tests on the ability to activate the deferred profit transaction rather than through continuing use. sharing are also carried out: nn in the event of a uniform 10% increase in redemptions applied to For this to be the case, the asset (or disposal group) must be available redemption rates drawn from scenarios similar to those used by the for immediate sale in its present condition and its sale must be highly French Regulatory and Resolution Supervisory Authority; probable. nn in the event of an additional 10% decline in the equity markets. The relevant assets and liabilities are shown separately on the balance sheet under Non-current assets held-for-sale and discontinued In accordance with IFRS 4, at each reporting date, the Group also operations and Liabilities associated with non-current assets held-forascertains that insurance liabilities (net of deferred acquisition costs sale and discontinued operations. and associated intangible assets) are adequate to meet estimated future cash flows. A non-current asset (or disposal group) classified as held-for-sale is measured at the lower of its carrying amount and fair value less costs The liability adequacy test used to verify this must meet the following of sale. In case of unrealised losses, impairment is recognised in the minimum requirements, as defined in paragraph 16 of the standard: income statement. Non-current assets are no longer amortised when nn it must consider all future contractual cash flows, including associated they are reclassified. management costs, fees and commissions as well as options and If the fair value of a group held for sale less selling costs is less than its guarantees implicit in these contracts; carrying amount after impairment of non-current assets, the difference nn if the test shows that the liability is inadequate, it is wholly recognised is allocated to other group held for sale assets including the financial in profit or loss. assets and is recognised under net income of held-for-sale operations. Leases (IAS 17) A discontinued operation is a component that the Group has either disposed of, or that is classified as held-for-sale, according to the As required by IAS 17, leases are analysed in accordance with their substance and financial reality. They are classified as operating leases following situations: nn it represents a separate major business line or geographical area of 6 or finance leases. operations; Finance lease transactions are treated as an acquisition of a fixed asset nn it is part of a single coordinated plan to dispose of a separate major by the lessee financed by a loan from the lessor. business line or geographical area of operations; or In the lessor’s financial statements, analysis of the economic substance nn it is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale. of the transactions results in the following: The following are disclosed on a separate line of the income statement: nn recognition of a financial receivable from the customer, which is nn the profit or loss from discontinued operations until the date of amortised by the lease payments received; disposal, net of tax; nn lease payments are broken down into interest and principal, known nn the gain or loss recognised on the disposal or on measurement to fair as financial amortisation; value less costs of sale of the assets and liabilities constituting the nn recognition of a net reserve for unrealised gains or losses. This is discontinued operations, net of tax. equal to the difference between: The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 387 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 1.3 CONSOLIDATION PRINCIPLES AND METHODS (IFRS 10, IFRS 11 AND IAS 28) Scope of consolidation Joint control is deemed to exist when there is a contractual division of control over an economic activity. Decisions affecting the entity’s The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements relevant activities require unanimous agreement of the joint controllers. of Crédit Agricole S.A. and those of all companies over which, in compliance with IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IAS 28, Crédit Agricole S.A. In traditional entities, significant influence is defined as the power to exercises control, joint control or significant influence. influence but not control a company’s financial and operational policies. Crédit Agricole S.A. is presumed to have significant influence if it owns 20% or more of the voting rights in an entity, whether directly or Definitions of control indirectly through subsidiaries. In compliance with international accounting standards, all entities under control, under joint control or under significant influence are Exclusions from the scope of consolidation consolidated, provided that they are not covered by the exclusions below. In accordance with IAS 28, minority interests held by entities for which the paragraph 18 option has been applied, are excluded from the scope Exclusive control over an entity is deemed to exist if Crédit Agricole of consolidation insofar as they are classified under financial assets at S.A. is exposed to or entitled to receive variable returns as a result of its fair value through profit or loss by nature. involvement with the entity and if the power it holds over this entity allows it to influence these returns. Power in this context means substantive (voting or contractual) rights. Rights are considered substantive if the Consolidation methods holder of the rights can in practice exercise them when decisions about The methods of consolidation are respectively defined by IFRS 10 and the Company’s relevant activities are made. IAS 28 (revised). They depend on the type of control exercised by Crédit Crédit Agricole S.A. is deemed to control a subsidiary through voting Agricole S.A. over the entities that can be consolidated, regardless of rights when its rights give it the practical ability to direct the subsidiary’s activity or whether or not they have legal entity status: relevant activities. Crédit Agricole S.A. is generally considered to control nn full consolidation, for controlled entities, including entities with a subsidiary when it holds more than half the existing or potential voting different financial statement structures, even if their business is not rights in an entity, whether directly or indirectly through subsidiaries, an extension of that of Crédit Agricole S.A.; except when it can be clearly demonstrated that such ownership does nn the equity method, for the entities over which Crédit Agricole S.A. not give it the power to direct its relevant activities. Control is also exercises significant influence and joint control. deemed to exist where Crédit Agricole S.A. holds half or less than half Full consolidation consists in substituting for the value of the shares of the voting rights, including potential rights, in an entity but is able each of the assets and liabilities carried by each subsidiary. The equity in practice to direct its relevant activities at its sole discretion, notably and income attributable to non-controlling interests is presented because of the existence of contractual arrangements, the size of its separately in the consolidated balance sheet and income statement. stake in the voting rights compared to those of other investors, or other reasons. Non-controlling interests are as defined by IFRS 10 and incorporate instruments representing present ownership interests and that give right Control of a structured entity is not assessed on the basis of voting to a proportional share of the net assets in the event of liquidation and rights as these have no effect on the entity’s returns. When assessing the other equity instruments issued by the subsidiary and not held by control, consideration is given not only to contractual arrangements in the Group. force but also to whether Crédit Agricole S.A. was involved in creating the entity and what decisions it made at that time, what agreements The equity method consists in substituting for the value of shares the were made at its inception and what risks are borne by Crédit Agricole Group’s proportional share of the equity and income of the companies S.A., any rights under agreements that give the investor the power to concerned. direct relevant activities in specific circumstances only and any other The change in the carrying amount of these shares includes changes facts or circumstances that indicate the investor can direct the entity’s in goodwill. relevant activities. Where there is a management agreement, the In the event of incremental share purchases or partial disposals with extent of decision-making powers granted to the delegated manager continued joint control or significant influence, Crédit Agricole S.A. and the remuneration accorded by such contractual arrangements are Group recognises: examined to establish whether the manager is in practice acting as an nn in the case of an increase in the percentage of interest, additional agent (with delegated powers) or as a principal (on their own account). goodwill; Furthermore, when decisions on the entity’s relevant activities are nn in the case of a reduction in the percentage of interest, a gain or loss taken, the indicators used to assess whether an entity is acting as agent on disposal/dilution in profit or loss. or principal are as follows: the extent of the decision-making powers compared to the powers over the entity delegated to the manager, the Restatements and eliminations remuneration provided for under the contractual arrangements, any substantive rights that may affect the decision-making capacity of other Where necessary, financial statements are restated to harmonise the parties involved in the entity and the exposure to variable returns of valuation methods applied by consolidated companies. other interests in the entity. The impact of Group internal transactions on the consolidated balance sheet and income statement is eliminated for fully consolidated entities. Capital gains or losses arising from intra-Group asset transfers are eliminated; any potential lasting impairment measured at the time of disposal in an internal transaction is recognised. 388 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 Translation of foreign subsidiaries’ financial Some transactions relating to the acquired entity are recognised statements (IAS 21) separately from the business combination. This applies primarily to: nn transactions that end an existing relationship between the acquired Financial statements of subsidiaries denominated in foreign currencies company and the acquiring company; are translated into euros in two stages: nn transactions that compensate employees or the selling shareholders nn if applicable, the local currency in which the financial statements are of the acquired company for future services; prepared is translated into the functional currency (currency of the nn transactions whose aim is to have the acquired company or its former main business environment of the entity). The translation is made shareholders repay expenses borne by the acquirer. as if the information had been recognised initially in the functional currency (same translation principles as for foreign currency These separate transactions are generally recognised in the income transactions); statement at the acquisition date. nn the functional currency is translated into euros, the currency in The transferred consideration at the time of a business combination which the Group’s consolidated financial statements are presented. (the acquisition cost) is measured as the total of fair values transferred Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate. Income and by the acquirer, on the date of acquisition in exchange for control of the expenses included in the income statement are translated at the acquired entity (for example: cash, equity instruments, etc.). average exchange rate for the period. Translation adjustments for The costs directly attributable to the business combination shall be assets, liabilities and income statement items are recorded under a recognised as expenses, separately from the business combination. specific item in equity. These translation differences are recognised If the transaction has very strong possibilities of occurring, they are as income during the total or partial transfer of the entity. In the event recognised under the heading Net gains (losses) on other assets, of the sale of a subsidiary (exclusive control), the reclassification of otherwise they are recognised under the heading Operating expenses. equity as income takes place only in the event of a loss of control. The difference between the sum of acquisition costs and non-controlling interests and the net balance on the date of acquisition of acquired Business combinations – Goodwill identifiable assets and liabilities assumed, valued at their fair value, is Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method recognised, when it is positive, in the assets side of the consolidated in accordance with IFRS 3, except for business combinations under balance sheet, under the heading “Goodwill” when the acquired entity common control (in particular mergers of Regional Banks), which are is fully consolidated and under the heading “Investments in equityexcluded from the field of application of IFRS 3. Pursuant to IAS 8, accounted entities” when the acquired company is consolidated using these transactions are entered at carrying amount using the pooling the equity method of accounting. Any badwill is recognised immediately of interests method, with reference to US standard ASU805-50 which through profit or loss. seems to comply with the IFRS general principles. Goodwill is carried in the balance sheet at its initial amount in the On the date of acquisition, the identifiable assets, liabilities and currency of the acquired entity and translated at the closing rate at the contingent liabilities of the acquired entity which satisfy the conditions end of the reporting period. for recognition set out in IFRS 3 are recognised at their fair value. When control is taken by stages, the interest held before taking control Notably, restructuring liabilities are only recognised as a liability of the is revalued at fair value through profit or loss at the date of acquisition acquired entity if, at the date of acquisition, the acquiree is under an and the goodwill is calculated once, using the fair value at the date of obligation to complete the restructuring. acquisition of acquired assets and liabilities taken over. Price adjustment clauses are recognised at fair value even if their Goodwill is tested for impairment whenever there is objective evidence application is not probable. Subsequent changes in the fair value of of a loss of value and at least once a year. clauses if they are financial liabilities are recognised in the income The choices and assumptions used in assessing the holdings that do statement. Only price adjustment clauses relating to transactions where not allow control at the date of acquisition may influence the amount of control was obtained at the latest by 31 December 2009 may still be initial goodwill and any impairment resulting from a loss of value. recorded against goodwill, because these transactions were accounted For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the Group for under IFRS 3 pre revision (2004). The non-controlling interests that are shares of current interests giving rights to a share of the net assets in the event of liquidation may be Cash Generating Units (CGUs) that are expected to benefit from the business combination. The CGUs have been defined within the Group’s 6 business lines as the smallest identifiable group of assets and liabilities measured, at acquirer’s choice, in two ways: functioning in a single business model. Impairment testing consists of nn at fair value on the date of acquisition; comparing the carrying amount of each CGU, including any goodwill nn at the share of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquired allocated to it, with its recoverable amount. company revalued at fair value. The recoverable amount of the CGU is defined as the higher of fair The option may be exercised at each acquisition. value diminished of selling costs and value in use. The value in use is the present value of the future cash flows of the CGU, as set out in The balance of interests not allowing control (equity instruments issued medium-term business plans prepared by the Group for management by the subsidiary and not held by the Group) should be recognised for purposes. its fair value on the date of acquisition. When the recoverable amount is lower than the carrying amount, a The initial assessment of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities may corresponding impairment loss is recognised for the goodwill allocated be revised within a maximum period of 12 months after the date of to the CGU. This impairment is irreversible. acquisition. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 389 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 2 In the case of an increase in the percentage ownership interest of the sheet; on initial recognition, the liability is measured at the estimated Group in an entity that is already exclusively controlled, the difference present value of the exercise price of the options granted to the between the acquisition cost and the share of net assets acquired is minority shareholders. Against this liability, the share of net assets recognised under the item “Consolidated reserves, Group share”; in the belonging to the minority shareholders concerned is reduced to zero event that the Group’s percentage ownership interest in an entity that and the remainder is deducted from equity; remains under its exclusive control declines, the difference between nn subsequent changes in the estimated value of the exercise price the selling price and the carrying amount of the share of net assets sold will affect the amount of the liability, offset by an equity adjustment. is also recognised directly under Consolidated reserves Group share. Symmetrically, subsequent changes in the share of net assets due to The expenses arising from these transactions are recognised in equity. minority shareholders are cancelled, offset in equity. The accounting treatment of sale options granted to minority When there is a loss of control, the proceeds from the disposal are shareholders is as follows: calculated on the entirety of the entity sold and any investment share nn when a sale option is granted to the minority shareholders of a kept is recognised in the balance sheet at its fair value on the date fully consolidated subsidiary, a liability is recognised in the balance control was lost. Note 2 Major structural transactions and material events during the period The scope of consolidation and changes to it are shown in detail at the end of the notes in Note 11 “Scope of consolidation at 31 December 2018”. 2.1 APPLICATION OF THE NEW IFRS 9 STANDARD In accordance with the IFRS standards and amendments adopted The regulatory provisions for the application of these texts to the Group’s by the European Union on 22 November 2016, 3 November 2017 consolidated financial statements are presented in Note 1 “Group and 22 March 2018, the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group implemented the accounting policies and principles, assessments and estimates applied”. following arrangements as at 1 January 2018: The impact of the first application of the new IFRS 9 standard, adopted nn application of IFRS 9 on financial instruments; with effect from 1 January 2018, is -€1,141 million on equity, of which nn application of the overlay approach applicable to insurance activities; -€921 million in Group share. This impact of -€ 1,141 million on equity nn early application of the amendment to Prepayment Features with is mainly related to impairment of -€ 1,260 million. The first application Negative Compensation. impact on Bucket 3 impairment is mainly related to the Italian entities of the Group. The detailed impacts of the application of IFRS 9 as at 1 January 2018 are presented in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 2.2 APPLICATION OF THE NEW IFRS 15 STANDARD The IFRS 15 standard applicable at 1 January 2018, introduced as a The accounting consequences of this new standard are minimal for the replacement for IAS 18, aims to standardise the accounting principles Crédit Agricole Group insofar as Group practices for the recognition of related, in particular, to long-term manufacturing and construction fee and commission income already comply with this text. contracts, IT service contracts and licences, and sales of bundles The current rate of recognition of income complies with the requirements of goods and services. It does not apply to income on financial of IFRS 15, whether the services are ongoing or are one-offs. Therefore, instruments (IFRS 9), income on leases (see new IFRS 16 applicable the variable components of fee and commission income (e.g. asset from 1 January 2019) or to income on insurance contracts (IFRS 17 management) are recognised only at the time at which they become applicable from 1 January 2022). certain, as required by IFRS 15. 2.3 PARTNERSHIP BETWEEN CRÉDIT AGRICOLE CONSUMER FINANCE AND BANCO BPM FOR CONSUMER CREDIT IN ITALY On 30 November 2018, Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance and Banco ProFamily S.p.A. business distributed outside the banking network BPM signed a final Memorandum of Understanding with a view to of BPM has been carved out in a separate entity, which will remain a reinforcing their global partnership across Italy in consumer credit for fully-owned subsidiary of Banco BPM before being sold. the next 15 years. Agos will extend the distribution of its products to the entire Banco BPM The transaction will significantly reinforce Agos’ leading position and network and distribution channels, including 2,300 branches, under an market share in the sector. At 31 December 2018, Agos had €13.9 billion exclusive 15-year agreement starting on closing of the transaction. in consumer credit under management. It is highly profitable with net The Memorandum of Understanding envisages the signing of various profit of €323 million in 2018. definitive agreements between Banco BPM, Crédit Agricole S.A. and As part of the agreement, Agos will acquire ProFamily S.p.A., a Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance, which will specify the terms and subsidiary of Banco BPM, which offers consumer loans distributed conditions of the partnership, including in relation to funding. across the BPM network. This transaction will take place once the 390 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 2 Agos’ current shareholding structure will be maintained (61% held The whole operation enables Banco BPM to reinforce its capital by Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance and 39% held by Banco BPM). structure while remaining associated in the long term with the economic However, Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance and Banco BPM agreed development of Agos. At the same time, Crédit Agricole Consumer to consider the possibility of an initial public offering of Agos. Such a Finance is strengthening an important partnership and continuing to transaction may provide flexibility to both shareholders while preserving develop its consumer finance business in Italy. their respective commitment to the future development of the company. In the event of a listing, Banco BPM would have the option to reduce its stake in Agos, while committing to maintain a minimum holding of 10%. 2.4 EXCLUSIVE PARTNERSHIP BETWEEN CRÉDIT AGRICOLE CONSUMER FINANCE AND BANKIA Following negotiations beginning 7 March 2018, Crédit Agricole The aim of this exclusive partnership is to accelerate the presence of Consumer Finance and Bankia signed an agreement on 28 May 2018 Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance in Spain, the fourth-largest consumer to jointly create a consumer finance company in Spain. finance market in the Eurozone. Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance builds The obtaining of regulatory authorisations and the approval of the on Bankia’s significant client base and its in-depth knowledge of the competition authority allowed for the creation on 2 July 2018 of the joint Spanish market. This partnership also provides Bankia with access to a venture Bamboo Consulting S.A., now called Crédit Agricole Consumer subsidiary dedicated to consumer finance, a growing market in Spain. Finance Bankia S.A. Bankia capitalises on Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance’s experience in partnership management. 2.5 BANCASSURANCE PARTNERSHIP WITH CREDITO VALTELLINESE IN ITALY On 24 July 2018, Crédit Agricole Assurances announced a new strategic Under this agreement, in the fourth quarter 2018, Crédit Agricole bancassurance partnership in Italy with Italian bank Credito Valtellinese Assurances acquired all the shares of a Credito Valtellinese Global (CreVal). The partnership will provide Crédit Agricole Assurances with Assicurazioni S.p.A. subsidiary, now called Stelvio Agenzia Assicurativa, exclusive access, via its Italian subsidiary Crédit Agricole Vita S.p.A., to following a reorganisation to refocus on only life, death and disability Credito Valtellinese’s distribution network for all savings products as insurance activities distributed by the Credito Valtellinese network. well as certain death & disability products for a term of up to 15 years. To reinforce this partnership, in July 2018, Crédit Agricole Assurances Credito Valtellinese has a network of 412 branches serving nearly one acquired a 5% minority interest in Credito Valtellinese. million customers. 2.6 MAIN CHANGES IN THE SCOPE OF CONSOLIDATION 2.6.1 Acquisition of Banca Leonardo In accordance with IFRS 3 (Revised), the post-combination balance sheets of these three banks, as at 21 December 2017, reflected a On 3 May 2018, Indosuez Wealth Management finalised the acquisition provisional fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed by of 94.1% of the share capital of Banca Leonardo, a leading independent the Group of €538 million. On this basis, negative goodwill totalling wealth management company in Italy, sealing the deal made in €408 million was recognised under “Change in value of goodwill” in November 2017. the income statement. This purchase is part of Crédit Agricole’s Medium-Term Plan “Strategic Following the finalisation of the work to identify, classify and measure Ambition 2020”, which provides for targeted acquisitions for the the assets and liabilities of the acquired companies, additional negative Group’s wealth management business. This is a milestone for Indosuez Wealth Management, enabling it to strengthen its presence in Europe by integrating an entity that operates in Crédit Agricole Group S.A.’s goodwill of €86 million was recognised under the same heading on the income statement as at 31 March 2018. 6 second domestic market. Merger of the San Miniato, Cesena and Rimini Italian In accordance with IFRS 3 (Revised), the balance sheet of Banca savings banks with Crédit Agricole Cariparma S.p.A. Leonardo, as at 3 May 2018, reflects the fair value of the assets acquired The San Miniato, Cesena and Rimini Italian savings banks were and the liabilities assumed by the Group, which totalled €1,140 million. absorbed by Crédit Agricole Cariparma S.p.A. on 24 June, 22 July and On this basis, goodwill in the amount of €22 million was recorded on 9 September 2018 respectively. the assets side of the balance sheet. Before these mergers took place, Credit Agricole Cariparma S.p.A. 2.6.2 Acquisition and merger of the Italian had launched public exchange offers of minority shares in these three subsidiaries in the second half of 2018. savings banks Crédit Agricole Cariparma S.p.A. launched public exchange offers on the remaining minority shares in the absorbed entities in exchange for Recognition of additional negative goodwill newly issued Crédit Agricole Cariparma S.p.A. shares. on the acquisition of Italian savings banks Following the agreement reached with the Italian Interbank Deposit 2.6.3 Acquisition by Crédit Agricole Assurances Protection Fund, on 21 December 2017, Crédit Agricole Cariparma of additional shares in GNB Seguros S.p.A. acquired 95.3% of the share capital of the Cesena and Rimini, plus 95.6% of San Miniato, savings banks for €130 million. Following Founded in 1996, GNB Seguros is the 13th non-life insurance company receipt of all regulatory clearance, these entities were fully consolidated located in Portugal with over €78 million in premiums issued as at in the financial statements as at 31 December 2017. end 2018. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 391 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 2 GNB Seguros has been fully consolidated into the Crédit Agricole S.A. 2.6.6 Sale of Forso Nordic AB Group. Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance and Saracen HoldCo AB (HoldCo AB), On 21 December 2018, Crédit Agricole Assurances increased its stake a holding company wholly owned by FCE (FORD), signed a partnership in GNB Seguros from 50% to 75%. The remaining 25% stake is held by on 30 June 2008 covering automotive financing activities in Sweden, Novo Banco, a Portuguese banking group. Denmark, Norway and Finland through a joint venture, Forso Nordic AB, This additional acquisition impacted Group equity by -€7.8 million. owned 50:50 by HoldCo AB and Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance. The transaction confirms Crédit Agricole Assurances’ ambition to On 29 May 2017, Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance decided to end continue developing its non-life insurance activities in Portugal and to the partnership, with termination effective from 31 August 2018. On strengthen its partnership with Novo Banco. 23 August 2017, HoldCo AB exercised its call option on the shares held by Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance. The exercise of this call option 2.6.4 Sale of Banque Thémis represents a binding and irrevocable commitment to buy out all of Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance’s stake. On 22 June 2017, LCL received a firm offer, approved by the European supervisory authorities, for the sale of Banque Thémis, which is As at 31 December 2017, with the conditions for applying IFRS 5 consolidated at 95% by the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group. satisfied and the disposal being treated as discontinued operations, the value of the Forso stake was transferred to a separate balance Banque Thémis was sold by LCL on 8 March 2018. sheet line under Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued As at 31 December 2018, there were no gains or losses made on the operations for €60.3 million and net income transferred to Net income sale of Thémis, its consolidated cost being equal to the sale price. There from discontinued or held-for-sale operations for -€1 million. A capital were no significant sale-related costs. loss on disposal of -€15 million was recognised under the same heading in the consolidated financial statements. 2.6.5 Sale of CACEIS USA and CACEIS Canada Following the approval of the Swedish regulator, the sale of Forso Nordic The entities CACEIS USA and CACEIS Canada, both wholly owned by AB took place on 29 August 2018 and generated no additional profit CACEIS, were sold on 31 May 2018. This sale generated a consolidated in the financial statements as at 31 December 2018. There were no capital gain of €9 million (€14 million recorded under Net gains (losses) significant sale-related costs. on other assets and -€5 million of currency effect recorded in Revenues). 2.7 PROPOSED SALE OF CRÉDIT AGRICOLE LIFE (IFRS 5) The sales contract signed on 7 July 2018 was sent to the regulator for In view of an unchanged sale plan and the search for a new buyer for the finalisation at the end of August. On 21 January 2019, the sale process entity or its portfolios, Crédit Agricole Life Greece was recorded under with the identified buyer was halted. IFRS 5 in the consolidated financial statements as at 31 December 2018. 2.8 REMOVAL OF LOYALTY DIVIDEND The removal of the loyalty dividend was approved by the Special Meeting This transaction resulted in the creation of 6,530,044 new ordinary of eligible shareholders on 4 April 2018 and later by the non-eligible shares (representing a capital increase of approximately 0.23%), of shareholders at the Extraordinary General Meeting held on 16 May 2018. which the delivery and admission for trading on Euronext Paris took As a reminder, this loyalty dividend applied to shares held and registered place on 24 May 2018. for more than two calendar years as at the reporting date of the These new shares, which bear dividend rights from 1 January 2018, financial year to which the dividend related and that continued to be are immediately fungible with the ordinary shares making up the share held on the date of payment of the dividend. Since 24 May 2018, eligible capital of Crédit Agricole S.A. shareholders received, as a compensatory measure, one new ordinary Following this transaction, the share capital stands at €8,557,903,710, share for every 26 eligible shares held in registered form for more than divided into 2,852,634,570 ordinary shares with a par value each of two years at 31 December 2017 and still held on the date of payment of €3, fully paid-up. the dividend relating to the 2017 financial year. 2.9 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. CAPITAL INCREASE RESERVED FOR EMPLOYEES The Crédit Agricole S.A. capital increase reserved for employees was This capital increase created 13,802,586 new shares, thereby bringing carried out on 1 August 2018. Some 19,000 Crédit Agricole Group the total number of shares comprising the share capital of Crédit employees, in France and 14 other countries, subscribed for a total Agricole S.A. to 2,866,437,156. amount of €135.5 million. The effect of this capital increase in the Group’s consolidated financial The proposed investment scheme was a standard offer with a statements translated into increases of €41.4 million in the share capital subscription including a 20% rebate on the share price. The new shares and of €94.1 million in share premiums and consolidated reserves. were issued and delivered to employees on 1 August 2018. 392 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 2 2.10 AMUNDI CAPITAL INCREASE RESERVED FOR EMPLOYEES On 21 June 2018, Amundi announced the launch of a capital increase At the end of this transaction, employees hold 0.3% of the capital, reserved for employees, which was first announced on 9 February 2018. compared to 0.2% previously. The subscription period for this capital increase reserved for employees This issue therefore increased the number of shares comprising the ended on 9 July 2018. capital of Amundi to 201,704,354. Nearly 1,000 employees from 14 countries participated in this capital increase, subscribing to 193,792 new shares (i.e. 0.1% of the capital) for a total amount of €10 million. 2.11 LAUNCH OF A PROGRAMME TO BUY BACK AMUNDI SHARES On 20 November 2018, Amundi announced via a press release that it This programme, which could run until 15 November 2019, includes was launching a share buyback programme as part of a performance the acquisition of approximately 2 million shares (at a maximum price share award plan for key managers of the Group. of €100 per share). 2.12 LCL CAPITAL INCREASE In a decision issued on 19 December 2017, the ECB imposed a new As such, on 15 June 2018, LCL performed a capital increase of requirement on LCL in connection with Pillar 2. As a result, compliance €950 million, through the issue of 36,651,200 new shares with a unit with a minimum CET1 ratio of 9.5% (full Basel 3 regime) was mandatory price of €25.92, subscribed in their entirety by Crédit Agricole S.A., thus from 30 June 2018. increasing its stake from 95.10% to 95.56%. 2.13 TAX LITIGATION ON EMPORIKI SECURITIES On 17 May 2018, Crédit Agricole S.A. benefited from a favourable of the provision with non-controlling interests was recognised at decision by the Versailles Court of Appeal (CAA Versailles), which found 31 December 2018 for a total amount of €954 million and gives rise to that the securities issued as part of the July 2012 capital increase were a provision for liabilities in the same amount due to the non-definitive investment securities since it has been proven that there existed, at nature of the decision by the Court of Appeal. the date of this transaction, an intention to sell the issued securities, Furthermore, a claim was filed by Crédit Agricole S.A. on 6 March 2018, resulting in non-compliance with the accounting criteria of use and following the upholding by the tax authorities of the adjustment relating long-term possession and justifying the registration of said securities to the securities issued as part of the January 2013 capital increase, as investment securities. Consequently, the provision made for 100% despite the favourable opinion by the National Tax Commission given of the issue value of the securities was tax deductible. on 13 January 2017, which stated that the tax adjustment should This legally enforceable decision was the subject of an appeal by the tax be abandoned. This claim was rejected by the tax authorities on authorities to the French Supreme Administrative Court (Conseil d’État) 7 August 2018. Thus, on 4 October 2018, Crédit Agricole S.A. filed a dated 18 July 2018. The tax income corresponding to the deduction request to the Administrative Court of Montreuil. 2.14 FCA BANK FINE During the third quarter of 2018, FCA Bank (a joint venture held equally Accordingly, a fine totalling €178.9 million was imposed on FCA Bank by Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance and FCA Italy S.p.A.) was notified S.p.A. This notification resulted in the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group making of monopolistic practices by the Italian Competition Authority (ICA). provision of €89.5 million. On 9 January 2019, the Italian Competition Authority sanctioned several banks and car manufacturers for breaching competition law. 6 2.15 SOCIAL AND GOVERNMENTAL MEASURES On 20 December 2018, after final reading, the French National Assembly A supplementary Finance Act announced for spring 2019 could provide (Assemblée Nationale) adopted the draft 2019 Finance Act. Following for the cancellation of the corporate income tax rate reduction, solely in approval by the French Constitutional Council (Conseil constitutionnel), 2019 for companies whose revenue is greater than €250 million. the 2019 Finance Act (Act No. 2018-1317 of 28 December 2018) As at 31 December 2018, given that the supplementary 2019 Finance was published in the Official Journal of the French Republic on Act was neither adopted or close to being adopted, it is therefore 30 December 2018. necessary to use the 32.02% corporate income tax rate for 2019 when As a result of the adoption of said act, a reduction of the corporate determining the deferred tax charge for drawing up the consolidated income tax rate was recognised, gradually lowering the rate to 25% in financial statements as at 31 December 2018. 2022, as originally voted for in the 2018 Finance Act. The 2019 Finance Act does not call into question this 25% downwards trend initially planned for the corporate income tax rate. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 393 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 3 In addition, under the 2019 Finance Act, the taxable share of costs The 12% share of costs and expenses of the gain will now apply to sales and expenses for gains on disposals of equity investments within a of these investments within the tax consolidation. consolidated group will no longer be neutralised. 2.16 DEPOSIT GUARANTEE AND RESOLUTION FUND AND SINGLE RESOLUTION FUND The Deposit Guarantee and Resolution Fund (FGDR) was created in The Single Resolution Fund will be gradually built up by contributions 2013 by the Law on the Separation and Regulation of Banking Activities from national resolution funds for a period of eight years from 2016, of 26 July 2013, and essentially takes over the tasks of the Deposit to reach a target of at least 1% of the covered deposits of all approved Guarantee Fund (FGD): credit institutions of the participating member states combined by 2023. nn management and implementation of deposit and security guarantee Having observed a strong increase in deposits in the participating schemes in France. To this end, it has raised ex-ante contributions member states, the Single Resolution Fund realised that it needed to from French institutions; review the contribution calculation, taking into account projection to nn with regard to resolution: it acts as an intermediary between the 2023 of said deposits: this new methodology resulted in an increase French institutions and the Single Resolution Fund. in contributions in 2018. As at 31 December 2018, expenses recorded The Single Resolution Fund (SRF) was created in 2014. It is a by the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group as “General Expenses” amounted to supranational fund financed by Eurozone member states, notably -€301 million, compared to -€242 million at 31 December 2017. enabling the pooling of financial resources to be used for banking resolution. Note 3 Financial management, risk exposure and hedging policy Crédit Agricole S.A.’s Financial Management department is responsible This department reports to the Chief Executive Officer of for organising financial flows within Crédit Agricole S.A. Group, defining Crédit Agricole S.A. and its task is to control credit, financial and and implementing refinancing rules, asset and liability management, operational risks. and managing regulatory prudential ratios. It sets out the principles and A description of these processes and commentary now appear in the ensures a cohesive financial management system throughout the Group. chapter on “Risk factors” in the management report, as allowed by The Group’s management of banking risks is handled by the Group Risk IFRS 7 standard. Nonetheless, the accounting breakdowns are still Management and Permanent Controls department. presented in the financial statements. 3.1 CREDIT RISK (See chapter “Risk Management – Credit Risk”) The different stages of impairment (“Performing assets” – Bucket 1 & Bucket 2 and ‘Impaired assets’ – Bucket 3) are presented in Note 1.2 3.1.1 Change in carrying amounts and value “Accounting policies and principles” in the chapter on “Financial adjustments for losses during the period Instruments – Provision for Credit Risk”. The following tables present a reconciliation of the opening and closing Value adjustments for losses correspond to the impairment of assets balances of value adjustments for losses recognised under Cost of risk and to provisions for off-balance sheet commitments recognised in net and associated carrying amounts, by accounting category and type of income (“Cost of risk”) relating to credit risk. instrument. 394 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 3 Financial assets at amortised cost: loans and receivables due from credit institutions (excluding Credit Agricole internal transactions) Performing assets Assets subject Assets subject Credit-impaired to 12-month ECL to lifetime ECL assets (Bucket 1) (Bucket 2) (Bucket 3) Total Gross Net Gross Gross Gross carrying Loss carrying carrying Loss carrying Loss carrying Loss amount allow‑ amount (in millions of euros) amount allowance amount allowance amount allowance (a) ance (b) (a) + (b) Balance at 1 January 2018 89,209 (46) 159 (1) 411 (386) 89,778 (433) 89,345 Transfer between buckets during the period 33 (29) (4) Transfer from 12-month ECL (Bucket 1) to lifetime ECL (Bucket 2) Return to lifetime ECL (Bucket 2) from 12-month ECL (Bucket 1) 29 (29) Transfer to lifetime ECL impaired (Bucket 3)‌(3) Return from lifetime ECL impaired (Bucket 3) to lifetime ECL (Bucket 2) / 12-month ECL (Bucket 1) 4 (4) Total after transfer 89,242 (46) 130 (1) 407 (386) 89,778 (433) 89,345 Changes in gross carrying amounts and loss allowances 9,165 19 (71) 5 (5) 9,099 14 New production: purchase, granting, origination...(1) 25,834 (15) 44 (1) 25,878 (16) Derecognition: disposal, repayment, maturity... (16,801) 15 (115) 1 (4) (16,920) 16 Write-off (4) 4 (4) 4 Changes of cash flows resulting in restructuring due to financial difficulties (3) (3) Changes in models’ credit risk parameters during the period 3 5 8 Changes in model/methodology Changes in scope 227 227 Transfers in non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Other (95) 19 13 (14) (82) 5 Total 98,407 (27) 59 (1) 412 (391) 98,877 (419) 98,457 Changes in carrying amount due to specific accounting assessment methods (with no significant impact on loss allowance)(2) 1,412 12 1,425 6 BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 99,819 (27) 71 (1) 412 (391) 100,302 (419) 99,883 Contractual amount outstanding of financial assets written off during the period, that are still subject to enforcement measures (1) Originations in Bucket 2 could include some originated loans in Bucket 1 reclassified in Bucket 2 during the period. (2) Includes the variations of fair value adjustments of micro-hedged instruments, the variations relating to the use of the EIR method (notably the amortisation of premiums/ discounts), the variations of the accretion of discounts on restructured loans (recovered as revenue over the remaining term of the asset), and the variations of changes in related receivables. (3) Transfers to impaired maturity ECL (Bucket 3) correspond to outstanding amounts initially classified as Bucket 1 which, during the year, were downgraded directly to Bucket 3, or to Bucket 2 and later to Bucket 3. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 395 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 3 Financial assets at amortised cost: loans and receivables due from customers Performing assets Assets subject Assets subject Credit-impaired to 12-month ECL to lifetime ECL assets (Bucket 1) (Bucket 2) (Bucket 3) Total Gross Net Gross Gross Gross carrying Loss carrying carrying Loss carrying Loss carrying Loss amount allowance amount (in millions of euros) amount allowance amount allowance amount allowance (a) (b) (a) + (b) Balance at 1 January 2018 303,914 (746) 33,017 (1,556) 15,092 (8,606) 352,022 (10,908) 341,114 Transfer between buckets during the period (1,015) (77) (689) 182 1,704 (478) (374) Transfer from 12-month ECL (Bucket 1) to lifetime ECL (Bucket 2) (8,204) 49 8,204 (164) (115) Return to lifetime ECL (Bucket 2) from 12-month ECL (Bucket 1) 8,068 (127) (8,068) 284 157 Transfer to lifetime ECL impaired (Bucket 3)(3) (1,025) 20 (1,113) 112 2,138 (609) (478) Return from lifetime ECL impaired (Bucket 3) to lifetime ECL (Bucket 2) / 12-month ECL (Bucket 1) 146 (19) 288 (50) (434) 131 62 Total after transfer 302,899 (823) 32,328 (1,374) 16,795 (9,085) 352,022 (11,282) 340,740 Changes in gross carrying amounts and loss allowances 31,089 31 (222) (43) (4,243) 1,739 26,624 1,727 New production: purchase, granting, origination...(1) 114,977 (595) 7,500 (480) 122,477 (1,075) Derecognition: disposal, repayment, maturity... (85,023) 273 (7,895) 528 (1,758) 767 (94,676) 1,568 Write-off (2,534) 2,464 (2,534) 2,464 Changes of cash flows resulting in restructuring due to financial difficulties (2) (8) (33) 13 (3) 2 (38) 7 Changes in models’ credit risk parameters during the period 376 (63) (1,514) (1,201) Changes in model/methodology Changes in scope 294 (1) 2 43 (20) 339 (21) Transfers in non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Other 843 (14) 204 (41) 9 40 1,056 (15) Total 333,988 (792) 32,106 (1,417) 12,552 (7,346) 378,646 (9,555) 369,091 Changes in carrying amount due to specific accounting assessment methods (with no significant impact on loss allowance)(2) 309 (408) 464 365 BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 334,297 (792) 31,698 (1,417) 13,016 (7,346) 379,011 (9,555) 369,456 Contractual amount outstanding of financial assets written off during the period, that are still subject to enforcement measures (1) Originations in Bucket 2 could include some originated loans in Bucket 1 reclassified in Bucket 2 during the period. (2) Includes the variations of fair value adjustments of micro-hedged instruments, the variations relating to the use of the EIR method (notably the amortisation of premiums/ discounts), the variations of the accretion of discounts on restructured loans (recovered as revenue over the remaining term of the asset), and the variations of changes in related receivables. (3) Transfers to impaired maturity ECL (Bucket 3) correspond to outstanding amounts initially classified as Bucket 1 which, during the year, were downgraded directly to Bucket 3, or to Bucket 2 and later to Bucket 3. 396 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 3 Financial assets at amortised cost: debt securities Performing assets Assets subject Assets subject Credit-impaired to 12-month ECL to lifetime ECL assets (Bucket 1) (Bucket 2) (Bucket 3) Total Gross Net Gross Gross Gross carrying Loss carrying carrying Loss carrying Loss carrying Loss amount allowance amount (in millions of euros) amount allowance amount allowance amount allowance (a) (b) (a) + (b) Balance at 1 January 2018 51,634 (14) 72 (1) 51,706 (15) 51,692 Transfer between buckets during the period (1) 1 Transfer from 12-month ECL (Bucket 1) to lifetime ECL (Bucket 2) (10) 10 Return to lifetime ECL (Bucket 2) from 12-month ECL (Bucket 1) 9 (9) Transfer to lifetime ECL impaired (Bucket 3)(2) Return from lifetime ECL impaired (Bucket 3) to lifetime ECL (Bucket 2) / 12-month ECL (Bucket 1) Total after transfer 51,633 (14) 73 (1) 51,706 (15) 51,692 Changes in gross carrying amounts and loss allowances 5,974 (2) (2) (1) 26 (14) 5,998 (17) New production: purchase, granting, origination... 17,123 (8) 30 (1) 17,153 (9) Derecognition: disposal, repayment, maturity... (11,436) 4 (11,436) 4 Write-off Changes of cash flows resulting in restructuring due to financial difficulties Changes in models’ credit risk parameters during the period 2 2 Changes in model/methodology Changes in scope Transfers in non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Other 287 (32) 26 (14) 281 (14) Total 57,608 (16) 71 (2) 26 (14) 57,704 (32) 57,672 Changes in carrying amount due to specific accounting assessment methods (with no significant impact on loss allowance)(1) 92 92 BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 57,699 (16) 71 (2) 26 (14) 57,796 (32) 57,764 6 Contractual amount outstanding of financial assets written off during the period, that are still subject to enforcement measures (1) Includes the variations of fair value adjustments of micro-hedged instruments, the variations relating to the use of the EIR method (notably the amortisation of premiums/ discounts), the variations of the accretion of discounts on restructured loans (recovered as revenue over the remaining term of the asset). (2) Transfers to impaired maturity ECL (Bucket 3) correspond to outstanding amounts initially classified as Bucket 1 which, during the year, were downgraded directly to Bucket 3, or to Bucket 2 and later to Bucket 3. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 397 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 3 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income: debt securities Performing assets Assets subject Assets subject Credit-impaired to 12-month ECL to lifetime ECL assets (Bucket 1) (Bucket 2) (Bucket 3) Total Carrying Loss Carrying Loss Carrying Loss Carrying Loss (in millions of euros) amount allowance amount allowance amount allowance amount allowance Balance at 1 January 2018 251,848 (104) 3,630 (40) (4) 255,478 (148) Transfer between buckets during the period 1,237 (3) (1,234) 6 3 3 Transfer from 12-month ECL (Bucket 1) to lifetime ECL (Bucket 2) (1) 1 Return to lifetime ECL (Bucket 2) from 12-month ECL (Bucket 1) 1,238 (3) (1,235) 6 3 3 Transfer to lifetime ECL impaired (Bucket 3)(2) Return from lifetime ECL impaired (Bucket 3) to lifetime ECL (Bucket 2) / 12-month ECL (Bucket 1) Total after transfer 253,085 (107) 2,396 (34) (4) 255,481 (145) Changes in carrying amounts and loss allowances (4,996) (6) (236) 12 (5,232) 6 Fair value revaluation during the period (4,659) (93) (4,752) New financial assets: acquisition, granting, origination… 31,607 (19) 144 (6) 31,751 (25) Derecognition: disposal, repayment, maturity… (33,768) 17 (301) 4 (34,069) 21 Write-off Changes of cash flows resulting in restructuring due to financial difficulties 15 15 15 15 Changes in models’ credit risk parameters during the period (4) (1) (5) Changes in model/methodology Changes in scope 124 124 Transfers in non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Other 1,700 (1) 1,699 Total 248,089 (113) 2,160 (22) (4) 250,249 (139) Changes in carrying amount due to specific accounting assessment methods (with no significant impact on loss allowance)(1) (53) 6 (47) BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 248,036 (113) 2,166 (22) (4) 250,202 (139) Contractual amount outstanding of financial assets written off during the period, that are still subject to enforcement measures (1) Includes the impacts of the use of the EIR method (notably the amortisation of premiums/discounts). (2) Transfers to impaired maturity ECL (Bucket 3) correspond to outstanding amounts initially classified as Bucket 1 which, during the year, were downgraded directly to Bucket 3, or to Bucket 2 and later to Bucket 3. 398 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 3 Financing commitments (excluding Crédit Agricole internal operations) Performing commitments Commitments subject Commitments subject Provisioned to 12-month ECL to lifetime ECL commitments (Bucket 1) (Bucket 2) (Bucket 3) Total Net amount of Amount of Amount of Amount of Amount of Loss commitcommitLoss commitLoss commitLoss commitallow‑ ment (in millions of euros) ment allowance ment allowance ment allowance ment (a) ance (b) (a) + (b) Balance at 1 January 2018 142,487 (133) 6,432 (277) 484 (118) 149,403 (528) 148,875 Transfer between buckets during the period (441) (35) 374 33 67 (3) (5) Transfer from 12-month ECL (Bucket 1) to lifetime ECL (Bucket 2) (1,373) 7 1,373 (13) (7) Return to lifetime ECL (Bucket 2) from 12-month ECL (Bucket 1) 996 (42) (997) 46 4 Transfer to lifetime ECL impaired (Bucket 3)(1) (66) (5) 71 (3) (3) Return from lifetime ECL impaired (Bucket 3) to lifetime ECL (Bucket 2) / 12-month ECL (Bucket 1) 2 2 (4) 1 1 Total after transfer 142,046 (168) 6,806 (245) 551 (121) 149,403 (533) 148,870 Changes in commitments and loss allowances 21,119 7 (1,625) (1) (304) 102 19,190 108 New commitments given 62,704 (93) 1,518 (162) 64,222 (255) End of commitments (44,975) 92 (3,225) 190 (400) 147 (48,600) 429 Write-off (42) 42 (42) 42 Changes of cash flows resulting in restructuring due to financial difficulties 8 (3) 9 (3) 17 Changes in models’ credit risk parameters during the period 8 (26) (60) (78) Changes in model/methodology Changes in scope Other 3,390 (8) 86 (12) 138 (27) 3,614 (47) BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 163,165 (160) 5,181 (246) 247 (19) 168,593 (425) 168,168 (1) Transfers to impaired maturity ECLs (Bucket 3) correspond to outstanding amounts initially classified as Bucket 1 which, during the year, were downgraded directly to Bucket 3, or to Bucket 2 and later to Bucket 3. 6 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 399 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 3 Guarantee commitments (excluding Crédit Agricole internal operations) Performing commitments Commitments subject Commitments Provisioned to 12-month ECL subject to lifetime ECL commitments (Bucket 1) (Bucket 2) (Bucket 3) Total Net amount of Amount of Amount of Amount of Amount of Loss commitcommitLoss commitLoss commitLoss commitallow‑ ment (in millions of euros) ment allowance ment allowance ment allowance ment (a) ance (b) (a) + (b) Balance at 1 January 2018 82,642 (52) 4,061 (109) 2,875 (314) 89,578 (475) 89,103 Transfer between buckets during the period (369) (8) 253 20 116 (41) (29) Transfer from 12-month ECL (Bucket 1) to lifetime ECL (Bucket 2) (976) 2 976 (4) (2) Return to lifetime ECL (Bucket 2) from 12-month ECL (Bucket 1) 698 (10) (698) 14 4 Transfer to lifetime ECL impaired (Bucket 3)(1) (95) (25) 10 120 (42) (32) Return from lifetime ECL impaired (Bucket 3) to lifetime ECL (Bucket 2) / 12-month ECL (Bucket 1) 4 (4) 1 1 Total after transfer 82,273 (60) 4,314 (89) 2,991 (355) 89,578 (504) 89,074 Changes in commitments and loss allowances (3,827) 4 (501) (17) (201) 70 (4,529) 57 New commitments given 23,560 (35) 814 (28) 24,374 (63) End of commitments (24,270) 21 (1,598) 52 (337) 122 (26,205) 195 Write-off (5) 5 (5) 5 Changes of cash flows resulting in restructuring due to financial difficulties (2) 2 Changes in models’ credit risk parameters during the period 16 (31) (75) (90) Changes in model/methodology Changes in scope Other (3,117) 4 283 (12) 141 18 (2,693) 10 BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 78,446 (56) 3,813 (106) 2,790 (285) 85,049 (447) 84,602 (1) Transfers to impaired maturity ECLs (Bucket 3) correspond to outstanding amounts initially classified as Bucket 1 which, during the year, were downgraded directly to Bucket 3, or to Bucket 2 and later to Bucket 3. 400 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 3 Impairment deducted from financial assets at 31 December 2017 Changes Reversals and Translation Other (in millions of euros) 31/12/2016 in scope Depreciation utilisations adjustments movements 31/12/2017 Loans and receivables due from credit institutions 435 1 (6) (41) (3) 386 Loans and receivables due from customers 10,533 292 2,878 (3,588) (322) (73) 9,720 Of which collective impairment 2,445 69 291 (687) (115) (56) 1,947 Finance leases 272 180 (194) 1 259 Held-to-maturity securities Available-for-sale financial assets 1,408 117 82 (436) (12) (1) 1,158 Other financial assets 173 29 (43) (7) (17) 135 TOTAL IMPAIRMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS 12,821 409 3,170 (4,267) (382) (93) 11,658 3.1.2 Maximum exposure to credit risk An entity’s maximum exposure to credit risk represents the carrying amount, net of any impairment loss recognised and without taking account of any collateral held or other credit enhancements (e.g. netting agreements that do not qualify for offset in accordance with IAS 32). The tables below show the maximum exposures as well as the amount of collateral held and other credit enhancements allowing this exposure to be reduced. Impaired assets at the end of the reporting period constitute the impaired assets (Bucket 3). Financial assets not subject to impairment requirements (accounted at fair value through profit or loss) 31/12/2018 Credit risk mitigation Collateral held as security Other credit enhancement Financial Maximum instruments exposure to provided as Pledged Financial Credit (in millions of euros) credit risk collateral Mortgages securities guarantees derivatives Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (excluding equity securities and assets backing unit-linked contracts) 282,737 1,906 472 35 Financial assets held for trading 222,828 383 Debt instruments that do not meet the conditions of the “SPPI” test 59,907 1,906 89 35 Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 2 Hedging derivative instruments 14,322 506 6 TOTAL 297,059 1,906 978 35 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 401 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 3 Financial assets subject to impairment requirements 31/12/2018 Credit risk mitigation Collateral held as security Other credit enhancement Financial Maximum instruments exposure to provided Pledged Financial Credit (in millions of euros) credit risk as collateral Mortgages securities guarantees derivatives Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income that may be reclassified to profit or loss 250,202 of which impaired assets at the reporting date 1 Loans and receivables due from credit institutions of which impaired assets at the reporting date Loans and receivables due from customers 1 of which impaired assets at the reporting date 1 Debt securities 250,201 of which impaired assets at the reporting date Financial assets at amortised cost 527,087 8,641 76,224 6,031 105,003 387 of which impaired assets at the reporting date 5,703 128 1,291 26 2,999 Loans and receivables due from credit institutions (excluding Crédit Agricole internal transactions) 99,867 1,442 137 5,790 of which impaired assets at the reporting date 20 2,324 Loans and receivables due from customers 369,456 7,199 76,224 5,894 99,213 387 of which impaired assets at the reporting date 5,670 128 1,291 26 675 Debt securities 57,764 of which impaired assets at the reporting date 12 TOTAL 777,289 8,641 76,224 6,031 105,003 387 of which impaired assets at the reporting date 5,704 128 1,291 26 2,999 Off-balance sheet commitments subject to provision requirements 31/12/2018 Credit risk mitigation Collateral held as security Other credit enhancement Maximum Financial exposure instruments to credit provided Pledged Financial Credit (in millions of euros) risk as collateral Mortgages securities guarantees derivatives Guarantee commitments (excluding Crédit Agricole internal transactions) 84,603 8 357 5,995 4 of which provisioned commitments at the reporting date 2,505 27 13 Financing commitments (excluding Crédit Agricole internal transactions) 168,168 868 810 16,854 4,409 of which provisioned commitments at the reporting date 228 3 8 4 TOTAL 252,771 876 1,167 22,849 4,413 of which provisioned commitments at the reporting date 2,733 3 35 16 A description of the assets held as collateral is provided in Note 8 “Commitments given and received and other guarantees”. 402 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 3 Maximum exposure to credit risk at 31 December 2017 An entity’s maximum exposure to credit risk is the gross carrying amount, net of any offset amount and any recognised loss of value. (in millions of euros) 31/12/2017 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (excluding equity securities and assets backing unit-linked contracts) 251,891 Hedging derivative instruments 16,435 Available-for-sale financial assets (excluding equity securities) 276,090 Loans, receivables and security deposits due from credit institutions (excluding Crédit Agricole internal transactions) 106,897 Loans, receivables and security deposits due from customers 367,814 Held-to-maturity financial assets 20,179 Exposure to on-balance sheet commitments (net of impairment losses) 1,039,306 Financing commitments given (excluding Crédit Agricole internal operations) 149,257 Financial guarantee commitments given (excluding Crédit Agricole internal operations) 89,600 Provisions – Financing commitments (489) Exposure to off-balance sheet financing commitments (net of provisions) 238,368 MAXIMUM EXPOSURE TO CREDIT RISK 1,277,674 Guarantees and other credit enhancements amount to: (in millions of euros) 31/12/2017 Loans and receivables due from credit institutions (excluding Crédit Agricole internal transactions) 2,533 Loans and receivables due from customers 178,144 Financing commitments given (excluding Crédit Agricole internal operations) 18,809 Guarantee commitments given (excluding Crédit Agricole internal operations) 4,715 The amounts represent the amounts of guarantees and collateral The method used to update this valuation and the frequency at which used in the calculation of capital requirements for the purposes of the it is done depends on the nature of the collateral, and is done at least solvency ratio. They are valued by the Risk department on the basis once a year. The amount declared with respect to guarantees received of rules drawn up by the Standards and Methodology Committee of shall be no greater than the amount of assets covered. Crédit Agricole S.A. Group. 3.1.3 Concentrations of credit risk The carrying amounts and commitments are presented net of impairment and provisions. Exposure to credit risk by category of credit risk The credit risk categories are presented by probability of default intervals. The correspondence between internal ratings and probability of default intervals is discussed in the Chapter entitled “Risk Factors and Pillar 3 – Credit Risk Management” in the Crédit Agricole S.A. Registration Document. Financial assets at amortised cost (excluding Crédit Agricole internal transactions) At 31 December 2018 Carrying amount 6 Performing assets CreditAssets subject Assets subject impaired Credit risk to 12-month ECL to lifetime ECL assets (in million of euros) rating grades (Bucket 1) (Bucket 2) (Bucket 3) Total Retail customers PD ≤ 0,5% 87,946 316 88,262 0,5% < PD ≤ 2% 35,973 887 36,860 2% < PD ≤ 20% 20,572 10,655 31,227 20% < PD < 100% 1,711 1,711 PD = 100% 4,897 4,897 Total Retail customers 144,491 13,569 4,897 162,957 Non-retail customers PD ≤ 0,6% 285,549 6,194 291,743 0,6% < PD < 12% 61,775 9,323 71,098 12% ≤ PD < 100% 2,754 2,754 PD = 100% 8,557 8,557 Total Non-retail customers 347,324 18,271 8,557 374,152 Impairment (835) (1,420) (7,751) (10,006) TOTAL 490,980 30,420 5,703 527,103 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 403 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 3 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income that may be reclassified to profit or loss At 31 December 2018 Carrying amount Performing assets CreditAssets subject Assets subject impaired Credit risk rating to 12-month ECL to lifetime ECL assets (in million of euros) grades (Bucket 1) (Bucket 2) (Bucket 3) Total Retail customers PD ≤ 0,5% 0,5% < PD ≤ 2% 2% < PD ≤ 20% 20% < PD < 100% PD = 100% Total Retail customers Non-retail customers PD ≤ 0,6% 246,353 1,446 247,799 0,6% < PD < 12% 1,682 716 2,398 12% ≤ PD < 100% 4 4 PD = 100% Total Non-retail customers 248,035 2,166 250,201 TOTAL 248,035 2,166 250,201 Financing commitments (excluding Crédit Agricole internal transactions) At 31 December 2018 Amount of commitment Performing commitments Commitments subject Commitments subject Provisioned Credit risk rating to 12-month ECL to lifetime ECL commitments (in million of euros) grades (Bucket 1) (Bucket 2) (Bucket 3) Total Retail customers PD ≤ 0,5% 12,177 54 12,231 0,5% < PD ≤ 2% 3,010 133 3,143 2% < PD ≤ 20% 2,627 636 3,263 20% < PD < 100% 58 58 PD = 100% 17 17 Total Retail customers 17,814 881 17 18,712 Non-retail customers PD ≤ 0,6% 136,687 3,289 139,976 0,6% < PD < 12% 8,663 751 9,414 12% ≤ PD < 100% 260 260 PD = 100% 231 231 Total Non-retail customers 145,350 4,300 231 149,881 Provisions(1) (160) (246) (19) (425) TOTAL 163,004 4,935 229 168,168 (1) Expected or proven losses in respect of off-balance sheet commitments are covered by provisions recognised as liabilities on the balance sheet. 404 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 3 Guarantee commitments (excluding Crédit Agricole internal transactions) At 31 December 2018 Amount of commitment Performing commitments Commitments subject Commitments subject Provisioned Credit risk rating to 12-month ECL to lifetime ECL commitments (in million of euros) grades (Bucket 1) (Bucket 2) (Bucket 3) Total Retail customers PD ≤ 0,5% 868 15 883 0,5% < PD ≤ 2% 135 1 136 2% < PD ≤ 20% 35 19 54 20% < PD < 100% 3 3 PD = 100% 69 69 Total Retail customers 1,038 38 69 1,145 Non-retail customers PD ≤ 0,6% 74,849 2,840 77,689 0,6% < PD < 12% 2,558 878 3,436 12% ≤ PD < 100% 58 58 PD = 100% 2,721 2,721 Total Non-retail customers 77,407 3,776 2,721 83,904 Provisions(1) (56) (106) (285) (447) TOTAL 78,389 3,708 2,505 84,602 (1) Expected or proven losses in respect of off-balance sheet commitments are covered by provisions recognised as liabilities on the balance sheet. Credit risk concentrations by customer type Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss by customer type 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 (in millions of euros) Carrying amount (in millions of euros) Carrying amount General administration General administration Central banks Central banks Credit institutions Credit institutions Large corporates 2 Large corporates 2 Retail customers Retail customers TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS DESIGNATED TOTAL LOANS AND RECEIVABLES AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS 2 DESIGNATED AT FAIR VALUE 2 Carrying amount of credit derivatives and similar instruments limiting risk exposure Financial assets at amortised cost by customer type (excluding Crédit Agricole internal transactions) 6 At 31 December 2018 Carrying amount Performing assets CreditAssets subject Assets subject impaired to 12-month ECL to lifetime ECL assets (in millions of euros) (Bucket 1) (Bucket 2) (Bucket 3) Total General administration 32,642 137 87 32,866 Central banks 30,140 30,140 Credit institutions 83,432 70 411 83,913 Large corporates 201,057 18,064 8,059 227,180 Retail customers 144,544 13,569 4,897 163,010 Impairment (835) (1,420) (7,751) (10,006) TOTAL 490,980 30,420 5,703 527,103 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 405 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 3 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income that may be reclassified to profit or loss by customer type At 31 December 2018 Carrying amount Performing assets CreditAssets subject Assets subject impaired to 12-month ECL to lifetime ECL assets (in millions of euros) (Bucket 1) (Bucket 2) (Bucket 3) Total General administration 107,245 447 107,692 Central banks 1,025 1,025 Credit institutions 71,789 3 71,792 Large corporates 67,977 1,716 69,693 Retail customers TOTAL 248,036 2,166 250,202 Due to customers by customer type (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 General administration 16,803 15,575 Large corporates 200,104 174,494 Retail customers 380,263 360,677 TOTAL AMOUNT DUE TO CUSTOMERS 597,170 550,746 Financing commitments by customer type (excluding Crédit Agricole internal transactions) At 31 December 2018 Amount of commitment Performing commitments Commitments subject Commitments subject Provisioned to 12-month ECL to lifetime ECL commitments (in millions of euros) (Bucket 1) (Bucket 2) (Bucket 3) Total General administration 4,076 8 4,084 Central banks 641 641 Credit institutions 23,983 1 23,984 Large corporates 116,651 4,292 230 121,173 Retail customers 17,814 881 16 18,711 Provisions(1) (160) (246) (19) (425) TOTAL 163,005 4,935 228 168,168 (1) Expected or proven losses in respect of off-balance sheet commitments are covered by provisions recognised as liabilities on the balance sheet. Guarantee commitments by customer type (excluding Crédit Agricole internal transactions) At 31 December 2018 Amount of commitment Performing commitments Commitments subject Commitments subject Provisioned to 12-month ECL to lifetime ECL commitments (in million of euros) (Bucket 1) (Bucket 2) (Bucket 3) Total General administration 332 6 338 Central banks 568 568 Credit institutions 7,811 28 59 7,898 Large corporates 68,696 3,742 2,662 75,100 Retail customers 1,038 38 69 1,145 Provisions(1) (56) (106) (285) (447) TOTAL 78,389 3,708 2,505 84,602 (1) Expected or proven losses in respect of off-balance sheet commitments are covered by provisions recognised as liabilities on the balance sheet. 406 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 3 Loans and receivables due from credit institutions and due from customers by customer type (excluding Crédit Agricole internal transactions) at 31 December 2017 31/12/2017 of which gross loans and receiGross vables individually Individual Collective (in millions of euros) outstanding impaired impairment impairment Total General administration 6,008 102 21 29 5,958 Central banks 18,955 18,955 Credit institutions 76,027 (411) 386 75,641 Large corporates 209,796 9,656 4,996 1,229 203,571 Retail customers 154,254 5,528 3,016 689 150,549 TOTAL LOANS AND RECEIVABLES DUE FROM CREDIT INSTITUTIONS AND DUE FROM CUSTOMERS 465,040(1) 15,697 8,419 1,947 454,674 (1) Of which €11,449 million in restructured loans. Commitments given to customers by customer type at 31 December 2017 (in millions of euros) 31/12/2017 Financing commitments given to customers General administration 1,938 Large corporates 106,652 Retail customers 16,685 TOTAL LOAN COMMITMENTS 125,275 Guarantee commitments given to customers General administration 293 Large corporates 80,126 Retail customers 1,201 TOTAL GUARANTEE COMMITMENTS 81,620 Credit risk concentrations by geographical area Financial assets at amortised cost by geographical area (excluding Crédit Agricole internal transactions) At 31 December 2018 Carrying amount Performing assets CreditAssets subject Assets subject impaired (in millions of euros) to 12-month ECL (Bucket 1) to lifetime ECL (Bucket 2) assets (Bucket 3) Total 6 France (including overseas departments and territories) 247,024 14,920 4,495 266,439 Other European Union countries 141,448 8,403 6,238 156,089 Other European countries 15,940 1,038 297 17,275 North America 31,693 871 123 32,687 Central and South America 8,782 1,581 709 11,072 Africa and Middle East 14,636 1,991 1,278 17,905 Asia-Pacific (ex. Japan) 24,761 2,746 314 27,821 Japan 5,211 290 5,501 Supranational organisations 2,320 2,320 Impairment (835) (1,420) (7,751) (10,006) TOTAL 490,980 30,420 5,703 527,103 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 407 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 3 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income that may be reclassified to profit or loss by geographical area At 31 December 2018 Carrying amount Performing assets CreditAssets subject Assets subject impaired to 12-month ECL to lifetime ECL assets (in millions of euros) (Bucket 1) (Bucket 2) (Bucket 3) Total France (including overseas departments and territories) 123,231 1,088 124,319 Other European Union countries 87,396 1,078 88,474 Other European countries 4,248 4,248 North America 20,866 20,866 Central and South America 238 238 Africa and Middle East 1,269 1,269 Asia-Pacific (ex. Japan) 6,027 6,027 Japan 426 426 Supranational organisations 4,335 4,335 TOTAL 248,036 2,166 250,202 Due to customers by geographical area (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 France (including overseas departments and territories) 412,491 389,500 Other European Union countries 111,558 100,036 Other European countries 15,434 12,328 North America 14,180 12,704 Central and South America 4,170 5,281 Africa and Middle East 12,736 12,448 Asia-Pacific (ex. Japan) 12,789 10,523 Japan 13,723 7,683 Supranational organisations 89 243 TOTAL AMOUNT DUE TO CUSTOMERS 597,170 550,746 Financing commitments by geographical area (excluding Crédit Agricole internal transactions) At 31 December 2018 Amount of commitment Performing commitments Commitments subject Commitments subject Provisioned to 12-month ECL to lifetime ECL commitments (in millions of euros) (Bucket 1) (Bucket 2) (Bucket 3) Total France (including overseas departments and territories) 64,377 1,755 88 66,220 Other European Union countries 45,323 1,535 132 46,990 Other European countries 6,552 225 11 6,788 North America 26,962 1,159 13 28,134 Central and South America 3,182 149 3,331 Africa and Middle East 5,766 155 3 5,924 Asia-Pacific (ex. Japan) 7,412 202 7,614 Japan 3,591 1 3,592 Supranational organisations Provisions(1) (160) (246) (19) (425) TOTAL 163,005 4,935 228 168,168 (1) Expected or proven losses in respect of off-balance sheet commitments are covered by provisions recognised as liabilities on the balance sheet. 408 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 3 Guarantee commitments by geographical area (excluding Crédit Agricole internal transactions) At 31 December 2018 Amount of commitment Performing commitments Commitments subject Commitments subject Provisioned to 12-month ECL to lifetime ECL commitments (in millions of euros) (Bucket 1) (Bucket 2) (Bucket 3) Total France (including overseas departments and territories) 34,766 1,022 309 36,097 Other European Union countries 16,323 1,219 2,345 19,887 Other European countries 4,197 607 4,804 North America 9,828 312 24 10,164 Central and South America 1,485 18 69 1,572 Africa and Middle East 3,256 105 43 3,404 Asia-Pacific (ex. Japan) 5,395 298 5,693 Japan 3,195 233 3,428 Supranational organisations Provisions(1) (56) (106) (285) (447) TOTAL 78,389 3,708 2,505 84,602 (1) Expected or proven losses in respect of off-balance sheet commitments are covered by provisions recognised as liabilities on the balance sheet. Loans and receivables due from credit institutions and due from customers by geographical area (excluding Crédit Agricole internal transactions) at 31 December 2017 31/12/2017 of which gross loans and receivables Gross individually Individual Collective (in millions of euros) outstanding impaired impairment impairment Total France (including overseas departments and territories) 240,312 4,671 2,314 562 237,436 Other European Union countries 127,014 7,907 3,963 741 122,310 Other European countries 14,239 391 283 70 13,886 North America 25,931 152 53 246 25,632 Central and South America 11,678 964 756 59 10,863 Africa and Middle East 17,196 1,164 894 149 16,153 Asia-Pacific (ex. Japan) 24,981 429 156 115 24,710 Japan 3,575 19 5 3,570 Supranational organisations 114 114 TOTAL LOANS AND RECEIVABLES DUE FROM CREDIT INSTITUTIONS AND DUE FROM CUSTOMERS 465,040(1) 15,697 8,419 1,947 454,674 6 (1) Of which €11,449 million in restructured loans. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 409 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 3 Commitments given to customers by geographical area at 31 December 2017 (in millions of euros) 31/12/2017 Financing commitments given to customers France (including overseas departments and territories) 50,489 Other European Union countries 33,677 Other European countries 5,094 North America 19,865 Central and South America 5,710 Africa and Middle East 3,545 Asia-Pacific (ex-Japan) 5,919 Japan 976 Total loan commitments 125,275 Guarantee commitments given to customers France (including overseas departments and territories) 44,965 Other European Union countries 16,445 Other European countries 3,313 North America 7,502 Central and South America 1,121 Africa and Middle East 1,229 Asia-Pacific (ex-Japan) 4,003 Japan 3,043 Total guarantee commitments 81,620 3.1.4 Information on financial assets that were past due or individually impaired Analysis of financial assets that were past due or individually impaired by customer type 31/12/2018 Assets with significant increase in Assets without significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition credit risk since initial recognition but not impaired Credit-impaired assets (Bucket 1) (Bucket 2) (Bucket 3) > 30 days > 30 days > 30 days up to up to up to (in millions of euros) ≤ 30 days ≤ 90 days > 90 days ≤ 30 days ≤ 90 days > 90 days ≤ 30 days ≤ 90 days > 90 days Debt securities General administration Central banks Credit institutions Large corporates Retail customers Loans and receivables 4,189 1,015 995 1,149 41 64 477 4,668 General administration 51 163 3 1 60 Central banks Credit institutions 28 24 2 1 Large corporates 2,819 577 147 713 8 11 284 3,149 Retail customers 1,290 252 843 434 33 53 193 1,458 TOTAL 4,189 1,015 995 1,149 41 64 477 4,668 410 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 3 31/12/2017 Payments arrears on watch list loans Net carrying Net carrying Impairment amount of amount of of individually > 90 days > 180 days financial individually and collectively up to up to assets that impaired tested financial (in millions of euros) ≤ 90 days ≤ 180 days ≤ 1 year > 1 year were past due financial assets assets Equity instruments 1,931 1,085 Debt instruments 57 244 General administration Central banks Credit institutions 1 1 Large corporates 56 243 Retail customers Loans and receivables 5,096 165 115 108 5,485 7,278 10,366 General administration 50 3 1 2 55 81 50 Central banks Credit institutions 40 3 2 2 46 25 386 Large corporates 2,170 103 71 78 2,422 4,660 6,225 Retail customers 2,836 56 42 27 2,961 2,512 3,705 TOTAL WATCH LIST OR INDIVIDUALLY IMPAIRED FINANCIAL ASSETS 5,096 165 115 108 5,485 9,266 11,695 3.2 MARKET RISK (See chapter on « Risk management – Market risk ») Derivative instruments: analysis by remaining maturity The breakdown of market values of derivative instruments is shown by remaining contractual maturity. Hedging derivative instruments – fair value of assets 31/12/2018 Exchange-traded transactions Over-the-counter transactions > 1 year up > 1 year up Total market (in millions of euros) ≤ 1 year to ≤ 5 years > 5 years ≤ 1 year to ≤ 5 years > 5 years value Interest rate instruments 1,586 5,291 7,062 13,938 Futures 6 FRAs Interest rate swaps 1,496 5,283 7,062 13,840 Interest rate options Caps – floors – collars 90 8 98 Other options Currency 100 49 19 168 Currency futures 100 49 19 168 Currency options Other instruments 46 46 Other 46 46 Subtotal 1,731 5,340 7,081 14,152 Forward currency transactions 170 170 TOTAL FAIR VALUE OF HEDGING DERIVATIVES – ASSETS 1,901 5,340 7,081 14,322 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 411 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 3 31/12/2017 Derivative instruments by maturity Total > 1 year up market (in millions of euros) ≤ 1 year to ≤ 5 years > 5 years value Interest rate instruments 1,529 6,163 8,125 15,817 Interest rate swaps 1,445 6,163 8,124 15,732 Interest rate options Caps – floors – collars 84 84 Other options 1 1 Currency and gold instruments 177 44 73 294 Currency futures 173 44 73 290 Currency options 4 4 Other instruments 74 74 Equity and index derivatives 74 74 Subtotal 1,780 6,207 8,198 16,185 Forward currency transactions 250 250 TOTAL FAIR VALUE OF HEDGING DERIVATIVES – ASSETS 2,030 6,207 8,198 16,435 Hedging derivative instruments – fair value of liabilities 31/12/2018 Exchange-traded transactions Over-the-counter transactions Total > 1 year up > 1 year up market (in millions of euros) ≤ 1 year to ≤ 5 years > 5 years ≤ 1 year to ≤ 5 years > 5 years value Interest rate instruments 1,165 4,745 5,755 11,665 Futures FRAs Interest rate swaps 1,156 4,739 5,755 11,650 Interest rate options Caps – floors – collars 9 6 15 Other options Currency instruments 111 3 5 119 Currency futures 111 3 5 119 Currency options Other instruments 65 65 Others 65 65 Subtotal 1,341 4,748 5,760 11,849 Forward currency transactions 236 236 TOTAL FAIR VALUE OF HEDGING DERIVATIVES – LIABILITIES 1,577 4,748 5,760 12,085 412 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 3 31/12/2017 Derivative instruments by maturity Total > 1 year up market (in millions of euros) ≤ 1 year to ≤ 5 years > 5 years value Interest rate instruments 1,250 3,897 7,653 12,800 Interest rate swaps 1,232 3,882 7,653 12,767 Interest rate options Caps – floors – collars 16 12 28 Other options 2 3 5 Currency and gold instruments 212 13 8 233 Currency futures 209 13 8 230 Currency options 3 3 Other instruments 35 35 Equity and index derivatives 35 35 Subtotal 1,497 3,910 7,661 13,068 Forward currency transactions 193 10 203 TOTAL FAIR VALUE OF HEDGING DERIVATIVES – LIABILITIES 1,690 3,920 7,661 13,271 Derivative instruments held for trading – fair value of assets 31/12/2018 Exchange-traded transactions Over-the-counter transactions Total > 1 year up > 1 year up market (in millions of euros) ≤ 1 year to ≤ 5 years > 5 years ≤ 1 year to ≤ 5 years > 5 years value Interest rate instruments 687 1,460 2,207 2,431 16,344 42,584 65,713 Futures 674 1,458 2,207 4,339 FRAs 3 3 Interest rate swaps 1,660 12,458 30,457 44,575 Interest rate options 309 2,082 10,732 13,123 Caps – floors – collars 459 1,804 1,395 3,658 Other options 13 2 15 Currency instruments 29 3,997 2,479 2,692 9,197 Currency futures 29 2,928 1,596 2,219 6,772 Currency options 1,069 883 473 2,425 Other instruments 563 245 51 1,703 3,659 1,277 7,498 Equity and index derivatives 563 245 51 1,046 3,658 1,240 6,803 Precious metal derivatives 30 1 31 Commodities derivatives Credit derivatives 1 528 35 563 1 6 Others 98 2 100 Subtotal 1,279 1,705 2,258 8,131 22,482 46,553 82,408 Forward currency transactions 10,942 1,156 48 12,146 TOTAL FAIR VALUE OF TRANSACTION DERIVATIVES – ASSETS 1,279 1,705 2,258 19,073 23,638 46,601 94,554 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 413 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 3 31/12/2017 Exchange-traded Over-the-counter Total > 1 year up > 1 year up market (in millions of euros) ≤ 1 year to ≤ 5 years > 5 years ≤ 1 year to ≤ 5 years > 5 years value Interest rate instruments 175 1,022 1,812 7,789 18,122 48,645 77,565 Futures 168 1,020 1,812 3,000 FRAs 258 95 353 Interest rate swaps 6,410 14,098 32,905 53,413 Interest rate options 486 1,762 14,243 16,491 Caps – floors – collars 634 2,167 1,497 4,298 Other options 7 2 1 10 Currency and gold intruments 15 3,510 2,985 2,256 8,766 Currency futures 3 3,046 1,995 1,463 6,507 Currency options 12 464 990 793 2,259 Other instruments 86 343 605 1,511 2,896 545 5,986 Equity and index derivatives 85 342 605 1,443 2,525 392 5,392 Precious metal derivatives 1 5 21 27 Commodities derivatives Credit derivatives 26 367 58 451 Other 1 37 4 74 116 Subtotal 276 1,365 2,417 12,810 24,003 51,446 92,317 Forward currency transactions 11,602 1,762 114 13,478 TOTAL FAIR VALUE OF TRANSACTION DERIVATIVES – ASSETS 276 1,365 2,417 24,412 25,765 51,560 105,795 Derivative instruments held for trading – fair value of liabilities 31/12/2018 Exchange-traded transactions Over-the-counter transactions Total > 1 year up > 1 year up market (in millions of euros) ≤ 1 year to ≤ 5 years > 5 years ≤ 1 year to ≤ 5 years > 5 years value Interest rate instruments 739 1,113 2,077 2,149 15,957 43,041 65,076 Futures 732 1,112 2,077 3,921 FRAs Interest rate swaps 1,863 12,463 30,319 44,646 Interest rate options 132 1,608 10,795 12,535 Caps – floors – collars 153 1,886 1,927 3,965 Other options 7 1 1 9 Currency instruments 103 3,481 2,171 2,270 8,023 Currency futures 103 2,441 1,862 1,891 6,295 Currency options 1,040 309 379 1,728 Other instruments 251 518 190 1,616 1,931 1,534 6,041 Equity and index derivatives 251 518 190 720 1,849 1,493 5,021 Precious metal derivatives 40 41 Commodities derivatives Credit derivatives 760 82 41 883 Others 96 96 Subtotal 1,093 1,631 2,267 7,246 20,059 46,845 79,139 Forward currency transactions 11,531 1,918 14 13,465 TOTAL FAIR VALUE OF TRANSACTION DERIVATIVES – LIABILITIES 1,093 1,631 2,267 18,777 21,977 46,859 92,604 414 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 3 31/12/2017 Exchange-traded Over-the-counter Total > 1 year up > 1 year up market (in millions of euros) ≤ 1 year to ≤ 5 years > 5 years ≤ 1 year to ≤ 5 years > 5 years value Interest rate instruments 136 821 1,396 7,923 18,027 50,859 79,162 Futures 135 795 1,396 2,326 FRAs 263 89 352 Interest rate swaps 7,152 13,841 34,305 55,298 Interest rate options 115 1,686 14,564 16,365 Caps – floors – collars 391 2,411 1,990 4,792 Other options 1 26 2 29 Currency and gold instruments 34 3,577 2,280 1,885 7,776 Currency futures 2,763 1,991 1,333 6,087 Currency options 34 814 289 552 1,689 Other instruments 93 311 656 725 2,565 574 4,924 Equity and index derivatives 86 311 656 504 1,970 527 4,054 Precious metal derivatives 7 3 1 16 27 Credit derivatives 203 594 31 828 Others 15 15 Subtotal 263 1,132 2,052 12,225 22,872 53,318 91,862 Forward currency transactions 11,988 2,578 81 14,647 TOTAL FAIR VALUE OF TRANSACTION DERIVATIVES – LIABILITIES 263 1,132 2,052 24,213 25,450 53,399 106,509 Derivative instruments: total commitments 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Total notional amount Total notional amount (in millions of euros) outstanding outstanding Interest rate instruments 9,932,779 10,032,748 Futures 2,630,775 2,071,162 FRAs 2,180 670 Interest rate swaps 5,912,426 6,641,709 Interest rate options 719,866 705,566 Caps – floors – collars 470,579 461,944 Other options 196,953 151,697 Currency instruments 578,345 1,582,256 Currency futures Currency options 288,920 289,425 1,358,839 223,417 6 Other instruments 127,095 123,232 Equity and index derivatives 90,220 90,188 Precious metal derivatives 4,433 861 Commodities derivatives 8 1 Credit derivatives 29,196 32,182 Others 3,238 Subtotal 10,638,219 11,738,236 Forward currency transactions 1,878,752 533,483 TOTAL NOTIONAL AMOUNT 12,516,971 12,271,719 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 415 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 3 3.3 LIQUIDITY AND FINANCING RISK (See chapter on “Risk management – Asset/Liability Management”) Loans and receivables due from credit institutions and from customers by residual maturity 31/12/2018 > 3 months up > 1 year up (in millions of euros) ≤ 3 months to ≤ 1 year to ≤ 5 years > 5 years Indefinite Total Loans and receivables due from credit institutions (including Crédit Agricole internal transactions) 97,278 92,938 149,050 74,134 413,400 Loans and receivables due from customers (including finance leases) 84,774 39,763 134,781 115,915 3,778 379,011 Total 182,052 132,701 283,831 190,049 3,778 792,411 Impairment (9,974) TOTAL LOANS AND RECEIVABLES DUE FROM CREDIT INSTITUTIONS AND FROM CUSTOMERS 782,437 31/12/2017 > 3 months up > 1 year up (in millions of euros) ≤ 3 months to ≤ 1 year to ≤ 5 years > 5 years Indefinite Total Loans and receivables due from credit institutions (including Crédit Agricole internal transactions) 92,041 89,025 143,588 69,782 394,436 Loans and receivables due from customers (of which finance leases) 91,928 38,308 126,191 109,320 4,312 370,059 Total 183,969 127,333 269,779 179,102 4,312 764,495 Impairment (10,365) TOTAL LOANS AND RECEIVABLES DUE FROM CREDIT INSTITUTIONS AND FROM CUSTOMERS 754,130 Due to credit institutions and to customers by residual maturity 31/12/2018 > 3 months up > 1 year up (in millions of euros) ≤ 3 months to ≤ 1 year to ≤ 5 years > 5 years Indefinite Total Due to credit institutions (including Crédit Agricole internal transactions) 66,961 13,880 37,035 14,084 131,960 Due to customers 517,118 43,794 30,836 5,422 597,170 TOTAL AMOUNT DUE TO CREDIT INSTITUTIONS AND TO CUSTOMERS 584,079 57,674 67,871 19,506 729,130 31/12/2017 > 3 months up > 1 year up (in millions of euros) ≤ 3 months to ≤ 1 year to ≤ 5 years > 5 years Indefinite Total Due to credit institutions (including Crédit Agricole internal transactions) 55,616 13,960 38,252 17,762 125,590 Due to customers 479,428 36,163 29,575 5,580 550,746 TOTAL AMOUNT DUE TO CREDIT INSTITUTIONS AND TO CUSTOMERS 535,044 50,123 67,827 23,342 676,336 416 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 3 Debt securities and subordinated debt 31/12/2018 > 3 months up > 1 year up (in millions of euros) ≤ 3 months to ≤ 1 year to ≤ 5 years > 5 years Indefinite Total Debt securities Interest bearing notes 54 55 17 126 Interbank securities 329 1,576 6,273 2,128 10,306 Negotiable debt securities 48,947 25,455 4,150 57 78,609 Bonds 4,946 5,023 41,565 40,813 92,347 Other debt securities 887 937 1,258 3,082 TOTAL DEBT SECURITIES 55,163 33,046 53,263 42,998 184,470 Subordinated debt Dated subordinated debt 217 2,147 2,551 15,567 20,482 Undated subordinated debt 2,061 2,061 Mutual security deposits 161 161 Participating securities and loans 60 1 61 TOTAL SUBORDINATED DEBT 277 2,147 2,551 15,568 2,222 22,765 31/12/2017 > 3 months up > 1 year up (in millions of euros) ≤ 3 months to ≤ 1 year to ≤ 5 years > 5 years Indefinite Total Debt securities Interest bearing notes 61 69 130 Interbank securities 221 1,359 6,306 3,800 11,686 Negotiable debt securities 40,331 17,653 3,715 192 61,891 Bonds 4,693 4,262 32,546 44,675 86,176 Other debt securities 849 1,206 1,770 3,825 TOTAL DEBT SECURITIES 46,155 24,549 44,337 48,667 163,708 Subordinated debt Dated subordinated debt 2,141 543 5,483 14,063 22,230 Undated subordinated debt 67 2,867 2,934 Mutual security deposits 171 171 Participating securities and loans 1 85 86 TOTAL SUBORDINATED DEBT 2,208 543 5,483 14,064 3,123 25,421 Financial guarantees at risk given by expected maturity The amounts presented correspond to the expected amount of the call of financial guarantees at risk, i.e. guarantees that have been impaired or are 6 on a watch-list. 31/12/2018 > 3 months up > 1 year up (in millions of euros) ≤ 3 months to ≤ 1 year to ≤ 5 years > 5 years Indefinite Total Financial guarantees given 164 103 267 31/12/2017 > 3 months up > 1 year up (in millions of euros) ≤ 3 months to ≤ 1 year to ≤ 5 years > 5 years Indefinite Total Financial guarantees given 154 67 221 Contractual maturities of derivative instruments are given in Note 3.2 “Market risk”. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 417 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 3 3.4 CASH FLOW AND FAIR VALUE Future cash flow hedges INTEREST RATE AND FOREIGN A cash flow hedge modifies the risk related to variability in cash flows EXCHANGE HEDGING arising from floating-rate financial instruments. (See Note 3.2 “Market risk” and chapter on “Risk management – Asset/ Items hedged are principally floating-rate loans and deposits. Liability Management”) Hedge of net investment in foreign currency Fair value hedges A hedge of a net investment in foreign currency modifies the risk A fair value hedge modifies the risk caused by changes in the fair value inherent in exchange rate fluctuations connected with foreign currency of a fixed-rate financial instrument as a result of changes in interest investments in subsidiaries. rates. Fair value hedges transform fixed-rate assets or liabilities into floating-rate assets or liabilities. Items hedged are principally fixed-rate loans, securities, deposits and subordinated debts. Hedging derivative instruments 31/12/2018 Market value Notional (in millions of euros) Positive Negative amount Fair value hedges 12,648 11,750 783,720 Interest rate 12,397 11,522 746,100 Foreign exchange 251 228 37,620 Others Cash flow hedges 1,665 287 61,999 Interest rate 1,541 143 27,724 Foreign exchange 78 79 34,135 Others 46 65 140 Hedges of net investments in foreign operations 9 48 4,543 TOTAL HEDGING DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS 14,322 12,085 850,262 31/12/2017 Market value Notional (in millions of euros) Positive Negative Amount Fair value hedges 14,627 12,997 829,366 Interest rate 14,156 12,687 795,125 Equity instruments Foreign exchange 471 310 34,241 Credit Commodities Others Cash flow hedges 1,783 244 30,443 Interest rate 1,662 112 23,850 Equity instruments 74 35 159 Foreign exchange 47 97 6,434 Credit Commodities Others Hedges of net investments in foreign operations 25 30 3,187 TOTAL HEDGING DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS 16,435 13,271 862,996 418 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 3 Hedging derivatives: analysis by remaining maturity (notionals) The breakdown of notionals values of derivative instruments is shown by remaining contractual maturity. 31/12/2018 Exchange-traded transactions Over-the-counter transactions > 1 year up > 1 year up (in millions of euros) ≤ 1 year to ≤ 5 years > 5 years ≤ 1 year to ≤ 5 years > 5 years Total notional Interest rate instruments 273,147 255,434 245,243 773,824 Futures FRAs Interest rate swaps 273,043 254,339 242,755 770,137 Interest rate options Caps – floors – collars 104 1,095 2,488 3,687 Other options Currency instruments 12,350 1,984 14,334 Currency futures 12,350 1,984 14,334 Currency options Other instruments 140 140 Others 140 140 Subtotal 285,637 257,418 245,243 788,298 Forward currency transactions 57,193 2,082 2,689 61,964 TOTAL NOTIONAL OF HEDGING DERIVATIVES 342,830 259,500 247,932 850,262 Note 3.2 “Market risk – Derivative instruments: analysis by remaining maturity” breaks down the market value of hedging derivative instruments by remaining contractual maturity. Fair value hedges Hedging derivative instruments 31/12/2018 Carrying amount Changes in fair value during the period (including termination Notional (in millions of euros) Assets Liabilities of hedges during the period) Amount Fair value hedges Regulated markets Interest rate Futures Options Foreign exchange Futures 6 Options Others Over-the-counter markets 3,214 4,176 709 220,690 Interest rate 2,963 3,948 674 183,070 Futures 2,882 3,948 653 183,069 Options 81 21 1 Foreign exchange 251 228 35 37,620 Futures 251 228 35 37,620 Options Others Total Fair value micro-hedging 3,214 4,176 709 220,690 Fair value hedges of the interest rate exposure of a portfolio of financial instruments 9,434 7,574 (568) 563,030 TOTAL FAIR VALUE HEDGES 12,648 11,750 141 783,720 Changes in the fair value of hedging derivatives are recognised under “Net gains (losses) on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss” in the income statement. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 419 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 3 Hedged items Micro-hedging 31/12/2018 Present hedges Ended hedges Accumulated fair value hedge of which adjustments Fair value hedge accumulated to be adjusted adjustments during fair for hedging the period (including Carrying value hedge remaining to be termination of hedges (in millions of euros) amount adjustments amortised during the period) Debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income that may be reclassified to profit or loss 31,064 377 (342) Interest rate 31,014 377 (342) Foreign exchange 50 Other Debt instruments at amortised cost 63,327 655 148 Interest rate 47,016 654 91 Foreign exchange 16,311 1 57 Other Total fair value hedges on assets items 94,391 1,032 (194) Debt instruments at amortised cost 109,027 2,012 16 513 Interest rate 100,442 1,858 16 398 Foreign exchange 8,585 154 115 Other Total fair value hedges on liabilities items 109,027 2,012 16 513 The fair value of the hedged portions of micro-hedged financial instruments at fair value is recognised on the balance sheet line item to which it relates. Changes in the fair value of the hedged portions of micro-hedged financial instruments at fair value are recognised under “Net gains (losses) on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss” in the income statement. Macro-hedging 31/12/2018 Accumulated fair value hedge adjustments Carrying to be adjusted for hedging remaining to be (in millions of euros) amount adjusted, on ended hedges Debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income that may be reclassified to profit or loss 159 Debt instruments at amortised cost 248,848 94 Total – Assets 249,007 94 Debt instruments at amortised cost 342,175 373 Total – Liabilities 342,175 373 The fair value of the hedged portions of macro-hedged financial instruments at fair value is recognised under “Revaluation adjustment on interest rate hedged portfolios” on the balance sheet. Changes in the fair value of the hedged portions of macro-hedged financial instruments at fair value are recognised under “Net gains (losses) on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss” in the income statement. Gains (losses) from hedge accounting 31/12/2018 Net Income (Total gains (losses) from hedge accounting) Change in fair value Change in fair value of hedging derivatives of hedged items Hedge ineffectiveness (in millions of euros) (including termination of hedges) (including termination of hedges) portion Interest rate 106 (92) 14 Foreign exchange 35 (58) (23) Other TOTAL 141 (150) (9) 420 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 3 Cash flow hedges and hedges of net investments in foreign operation (NIH) Hedging derivative instruments 31/12/2018 Carrying amount Changes in fair value during the period (including termination of Notional (in millions of euros) Assets Liabilities hedges during the period) amount Cash flow hedges Regulated markets Interest rate Futures Options Foreign exchange Futures Options Other Over-the-counter markets 1,165 88 (44) 32,124 Interest rate 1,072 (55) 7,085 Futures 1,072 (55) 7,085 Options Foreign exchange 47 23 11 24,899 Futures 47 23 11 24,899 Options Other 46 65 140 Total Cash flow micro-hedging 1,165 88 (44) 32,124 Cash flow hedges of the interest rate exposure of a portfolio of financial instruments 469 143 (76) 20,639 Cash flow hedges of the foreign exchange exposure of a portfolio of financial instruments 31 56 (1) 9,236 Total Cash flow macro-hedging 500 199 (77) 29,875 TOTAL CASH FLOW HEDGES 1,665 287 (122) 61,999 Hedges of net investments in foreign operations 9 48 (5) 4,543 Changes in the fair value of hedging derivatives are recognised under “Other comprehensive income” excluding the ineffective portion of the hedging relationship which is recognised under “Net gains (losses) on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss” in the income statement. Gains (losses) from hedge accounting 31/12/2018 6 Net income Other comprehensive income on items that may (Hedge accounting be reclassified to profit and loss income or loss) Amount reclassified from other Effective portion of comprehensive income the hedge recognised into profit or loss during Hedge ineffectiveness (in millions of euros) during the period the period portion Cash flow hedges Interest rate (132) Foreign exchange 10 Others Total Cash flow hedges (122) Hedges of net investments in foreign operations 5 7 TOTAL CASH FLOW HEDGES AND HEDGES OF NET INVESTMENTS IN FOREIGN OPERATIONS (117) 7 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 421 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 4 3.5 OPERATIONAL RISKS Information on capital management and compliance with regulatory ratios as required by IAS 1 is presented in the (See chapter on “Risk management – Operational risks”) Chapter “Risks and Pillar 3”. The Group’s management of banking risks is handled by the Group Risk 3.6 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT AND Management and Permanent Controls department. This department REGULATORY RATIOS reports to the Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole S.A. and its task is to control credit, financial and operational risks. Crédit Agricole S.A. Finance department is tasked with ensuring the A description of these processes and commentary appear in the chapter adequacy of liquidity and capital between the requirements generated on “Risk management” in the management report, as allowed by IFRS 7 by the Group’s global operations and its liquidity and capital financial standard. Nonetheless, the accounting breakdowns are still presented resources. It is responsible for monitoring the prudential and regulatory in the financial statements. ratios (solvency, liquidity, leverage, resolution) of Crédit Agricole Group and of Crédit Agricole S.A. To this end, it sets out the principles and ensures a cohesive financial management system throughout the Group. Note 4 Notes on net income and other comprehensive income 4.1 INTEREST INCOME AND EXPENSES (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 (in millions of euros) 31/12/2017 On financial assets at amortised cost 16,637 Interbank transactions 1,617 Interbank transactions 1,664 Crédit Agricole internal transactions 3,285 Crédit Agricole internal transactions 2,955 Customer transactions 10,264 Customer transactions 10,726 Accrued interest receivable on available-for-sale Finance leases 714 financial assets 5,971 Debt securities 578 Accrued interest receivable on held-to-maturity financial assets 524 On financial assets recognised at fair value through other comprehensive income 5,581 Accrued interest receivable on hedging instruments 2,285 Interbank transactions Finance leases 710 Customer transactions Other interest income 48 Debt securities 5,581 INTERESTS AND SIMILAR INCOME(1) 24,704 Accrued interest receivable on hedging Interbank transactions (1,095) instruments 2,561 Crédit Agricole internal transactions (1,096) Other interest income 38 Customer transactions (5,102) INTEREST AND SIMILAR INCOME(1) 24,817 Debt securities (3,064) On financial liabilities at amortised cost (12,259) Subordinated debt (1,052) Interbank transactions (1,299) Accrued interest receivable on hedging instruments (797) Crédit Agricole internal transactions (1,112) Finance leases (194) Customer transactions (5,628) Other interest expense (28) Finance leases (194) INTERESTS AND SIMILAR EXPENSES (12,428) Debt securities (3,203) (1) Including €169 million on receivables impaired individually at 31 December 2017. Subordinated debt (823) Accrued interest receivable on hedging instruments (939) Other interest expenses (49) INTEREST AND SIMILAR EXPENSES (13,247) (1) Including €137 million in impaired receivables (Bucket 3) at 31 December 2018. 422 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 4 4.2 FEES AND COMMISSIONS INCOME AND EXPENSE 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 (in millions of euros) Income Expense Net Income Expense Net Interbank transactions 217 (43) 174 218 (40) 178 Crédit Agricole internal transactions 754 (505) 249 812 (544) 268 Customer transactions 1,991 (230) 1,761 1,841 (213) 1,628 Securities transactions 38 (79) (41) 44 (69) (25) Foreign exchange transactions 38 (44) (7) 37 (38) (1) Derivative instruments and other off-balance sheet items 272 (196) 76 350 (181) 169 Payment instruments and other banking and financial services 2,419 (3,550) (1,132) 2,142 (3,378) (1,236) Mutual funds management, fiduciary and similar operations 4,872 (1,794) 3,078 4,090 (1,266) 2,824 NET FEES AND COMMISSIONS 10,600 (6,441) 4,160 9,534 (5,729) 3,805 Fees and commissions from operations with retail customers and operations on payment instruments and other banking and financial transactions mainly came from Asset gathering and Specialised financial services activities. Commission income from managing Mutual funds, trusts and similar activities are mainly related to Asset management and Insurance activities. 4.3 NET GAINS (LOSSES) ON FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 Dividends received 1,085 Unrealised or realised gains (losses) on assets/liabilities held for trading (37) Unrealised or realised gains (losses) on equity instruments at fair value through profit or loss (1,372) Unrealised or realised gains (losses) on debt instruments at fair value through profit or loss (974) Net gains (losses) on assets backing unit-linked contracts (3,351) Unrealised or realised gains (losses) on assets/liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss(1) (135) Net gains (losses) on Foreign exchange transactions and similar financial instruments (excluding gains or losses on hedges of net investments in foreign operations) 1,701 Gains (losses) from hedge accounting (9) NET GAINS (LOSSES) ON FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS (3,093) (1) Excluding issuer credit spread for the relevant liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss. Under IFRS 9, the Crédit Agricole CIB issuer spread is classified with effect from 1 January 2018 as Equity under “Other comprehensive income on items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss”. (in millions of euros) 31/12/2017 6 Dividends received 628 Unrealised or realised gains (losses) on assets/liabilities held for trading 1,318 Unrealised or realised gains (losses) on assets/liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss 2,124 Net gains (losses) on Foreign exchange transactions and similar financial instruments (excluding gains or losses on hedges of net investments in foreign operations) 580 Gains (losses) from hedge accounting (30) NET GAINS (LOSSES) ON FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS 4,620 The impact of Crédit Agricole CIB’s issuer spread was an expense of €222 million on revenues at 31 December 2017. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 423 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 4 Analysis of net gains (losses) from hedge accounting: 31/12/2018 (in millions of euros) Gains Losses Net Fair value hedges 4,002 (4,000) 2 Changes in fair value of hedged items attributable to hedged risks 1,574 (2,281) (707) Changes in fair value of hedging derivatives (including termination of hedges) 2,428 (1,719) 709 Cash flow hedges Changes in fair value of hedging derivatives – ineffective portion Hedges of net investments in foreign operations Changes in fair value of hedging derivatives – ineffective portion Fair value hedges of the interest rate exposure of a portfolio of financial instruments 7,130 (7,141) (11) Changes in fair value of hedged items 3,743 (3,186) 557 Changes in fair value of hedging derivatives 3,387 (3,955) (568) Cash flow hedges of the interest rate exposure of a portfolio of financial instruments Changes in fair value of hedging instrument – ineffective portion TOTAL GAINS (LOSSES) FROM HEDGE ACCOUNTING 11,132 (11,141) (9) 31/12/2017 (in millions of euros) Gains Losses Net Fair value hedges 5,402 (5,412) (10) Changes in fair value of hedged items attributable to hedged risks 3,095 (1,970) 1,125 Changes in fair value of hedging derivatives (including termination of hedges) 2,307 (3,442) (1,135) Cash flow hedges Changes in fair value of hedging derivatives – ineffective portion Hedges of net investments in foreign operations Changes in fair value of hedging derivatives – ineffective portion Fair value hedges of the interest rate exposure of a portfolio of financial instruments 10,903 (10,923) (20) Changes in fair value of hedged items 5,687 (5,157) 530 Changes in fair value of hedging derivatives 5,216 (5,766) (550) Cash flow hedges of the interest rate exposure of a portfolio of financial instruments 1 (1) Changes in fair value of hedging instrument – ineffective portion 1 (1) TOTAL GAINS (LOSSES) FROM HEDGE ACCOUNTING 16,306 (16,336) (30) Details of gains (losses) from hedge accounting by type of relationship (fair value hedges, cash flow hedges, etc.) are presented in Note 3.4 “Hedge accounting”. 4.4 NET GAINS (LOSSES) ON FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 Net gains (losses) on debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss(1) 71 Remuneration of equity instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss (dividends)(2) 121 NET GAINS (LOSSES) ON FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 192 (1) Excluding realised gains or losses from impaired debt instruments (Bucket 3) mentioned in Note 4.9 “Cost of risk”. (2) Of which dividends on equity instruments at fair value through non-recyclable equity derecognised during the €11 million period. 424 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 4 Net gains (losses) on available-for-sale financial assets at 31 December 2017 (in millions of euros) 31/12/2017 Dividends received 1,092 Realised gains (losses) on available-for-sale financial assets(1) 2,025 Permanent impairment losses on equity investments (81) Gains (losses) on disposal of held-to-maturity financial assets and on loans and receivables (8) NET GAINS (LOSSES) ON AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS 3,028 (1) Excluding realised gains or losses on permanently impaired fixed income securities recognised as available-for-sale financial assets mentioned in Note 4.9 “Cost of risk”. 4.5 NET GAINS (LOSSES) FROM THE DERECOGNITION OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AT AMORTISED COST (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 Debt securities 5 Loans and receivables due from credit institutions Loans and receivables due from customers Gains arising from the derecognition of financial assets at amortised cost 5 Debt securities Loans and receivables due from credit institutions Loans and receivables due from customers (5) Losses arising from the derecognition of financial assets at amortised cost (5) NET GAINS (LOSSES) ARISING FROM THE DERECOGNITION OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AT AMORTISED COST(1) (1) Excluding realised gains or losses from the derecognition of impaired debt instruments (Bucket 3) mentioned in Note 4.9 “Cost of risk”. 4.6 NET INCOME (EXPENSES) ON OTHER ACTIVITIES (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Gains (losses) on fixed assets not used in operations (3) (1) Other net income from insurance activities(1)(2) 11,156 7,779 Change in insurance technical reserves(3) (4,975) (13,260) Net income from investment property 284 280 Other net income (expense) 155 107 INCOME (EXPENSE) RELATED TO OTHER ACTIVITIES 6,617 (5,095) (1) The €3,377 million increase in other net income from insurance activities was mainly due to an increase in net inflows in the amount of €3,100 million of which €2,500 million on the Retirement Savings activity. (2) The share of income of insurance activities and associates as well as the related share of benefits are classified as Other net income from insurance activities (see Note 6.12 ventures and associates”). 6 (3) The €8,285 million decrease in insurance company technical reserves is due in the main to market developments in unit-linked contracts. 4.7 OPERATING EXPENSES (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Employee expenses (7,123) (6,933) Taxes other than on income or payroll-related and regulatory contributions(1) (792) (763) External services and other operating expenses (3,915) (3,742) OPERATING EXPENSES (11,830) (11,438) (1) Of which -€301 million recognised in relation to the Single Resolution Fund at 31 December 2018. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 425 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 4 Fees paid to statutory auditors The breakdown of fees paid to Statutory Auditors by firm and type of engagement by fully consolidated Crédit Agricole S.A. Group companies was as follows in 2018: Board of auditors of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group Ernst & Young PricewaterhouseCoopers (in millions of euros excluding taxes) 2018 2017 2018 2017 Total 2018 Independant audit, certification, review of parent company and consolidated financial statements 16.94 17.53 14.34 14.87 31.28 Issuer 2.08 2.19 2.12 2.16 4.20 Fully consolidated subsidiaries 14.86 15.34 12.22 12.71 27.08 Non audit services 5.19 5.91 5.27 6.16 10.46 Issuer 0.70 0.58 1.08 1.36 1.78 Fully consolidated subsidiaries 4.49 5.33 4.19 4.80 8.68 TOTAL 22.13 23.44 19.61 21.03 41.74 The total sum of fees paid to PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit, statutory The total sum of fees paid to Ernst & Young & Autres, statutory auditor of Crédit Agricole S.A., appearing in the consolidated income auditor of Crédit Agricole S.A., appearing in the consolidated income statement for the year, amounts to €11.0 million, of which €8.6 million statement for the year, amounts to €9.8 million, of which €8 million relates to the certification of the accounts of Crédit Agricole S.A. and relates to the certification of the accounts of Crédit Agricole S.A. and its subsidiaries and €2.4 million relates to non-audit services (comfort its subsidiaries and €1.8 million relates to non-audit services (comfort letters, agreed-upon procedures, responsibility statements, services letters, agreed-upon procedures, responsibility statements, review of relating to social and environmental information, consultations, etc.). tax returns, services relating to social and environmental information, consultations, etc.). Other Statutory Auditors engaged in the audit of fully consolidated Crédit Agricole S.A. Group subsidiaries Mazars KPMG Deloitte Autres Total (in millions of euros excluding taxes) 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 Independant audit, certification, review of parent company and consolidated financial statements 1.22 1.31 0.23 0.29 0.20 0.14 0.32 0.34 1.97 Non audit services(1) 0.13 0.06 0.01 0.26 0.01 0.01 0.02 0.16 TOTAL 1.35 1.37 0.24 0.55 0.21 0.14 0.33 0.36 2.13 (1) Non audit services identified in this table correspond to assignments performed by these firms in the companies where they are statutory auditors. 4.8 DEPRECIATION, AMORTISATION AND IMPAIRMENT OF PROPERTY, PLANT & EQUIPMENT AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Depreciation charges and amortisation (760) (752) Property, plant and equipment (396) (382) Intangible assets (364) (370) Impairment losses (reversals) 1 (13) Property, plant and equipment (3) Intangible assets 1 (10) DEPRECIATION, AMORTISATION AND IMPAIRMENT OF PROPERTY, PLANT & EQUIPMENT AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS (759) (765) 426 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 4 4.9 COST OF RISK (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 Charges net of reversals to impairments on performing assets (Bucket 1 or Bucket 2) 99 Bucket 1: Loss allowance measured at an amount equal to 12-month expected credit loss (83) Debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income that may be reclassified to profit or loss 2 Debt instruments at amortised cost (57) Commitments by signature (28) Bucket 2: Loss allowance measured at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit loss 182 Debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income that may be reclassified to profit or loss 2 Debt instruments at amortised cost 122 Commitments by signature 58 Charges net of reversals to impairments on credit-impaired assets (Bucket 3) (1,030) Bucket 3: Credit-impaired assets (1,030) Debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income that may be reclassified to profit or loss Debt instruments at amortised cost (1,120) Commitments by signature 90 Other assets Risks and expenses (88) Charges net of reversals to impairment losses and provisions (1,019) Realised gains (losses) on disposal of impaired debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income that may be reclassified to profit and loss Realised gains (losses) on impaired debt instruments at amortised cost Losses on non-impaired loans and bad debt (197) Recoveries on loans and receivables written off 189 Recognised at amortised cost 189 Recognised in other comprehensive income that may be reclassified to profit or loss Discounts on restructured loans (28) Losses on commitments by signature (4) Other losses (36) Other gains 14 COST OF RISK (1,081) (in millions of euros) 31/12/2017 Charge to provisions and impairment losses (3,424) Fixed income available-for-sale financial assets (1) Loans and receivables (2,883) Held-to-maturity financial assets Other assets Financing commitments (27) (265) 6 Risks and expenses (249) Reversal of provisions and impairment losses 2,172 Fixed income available-for-sale financial assets 183 Loans and receivables 1,737 Held-to-maturity financial assets Other assets 18 Financing commitments 75 Risks and expenses 159 Net charge to reversal of impairment losses and provisions (1,253) Realised gains (losses) on impaired fixed income available-for-sale financial assets (138) Bad debts written off, not impaired (217) Recoveries on bad debts written off 233 Discounts on restructured loans (21) Losses on financing commitments Other losses (27) Other gains COST OF RISK (1,422) The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 427 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 4 4.10 NET GAINS (LOSSES) ON OTHER ASSETS (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Property, plant & equipment and intangible assets used in operations 77 5 Gains on disposals 82 28 Losses on disposals (6) (23) Consolidated equity investments 15 12 Gains on disposals 15 18 Losses on disposals (6) Net income (expense) on combinations (3) (11) NET GAINS (LOSSES) ON OTHER ASSETS 89 6 4.11 INCOME TAX CHARGE Income tax charge (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Current tax charge (1,310) (1,638) Deferred tax charge (9) (94) Reclassification of current tax charge (income) related to overlay approach (147) TOTAL TAX CHARGE (1,466) (1,732) Reconciliation of theoretical tax rate and effective tax rate At 31 December 2018 (in millions of euros) Base Tax rate Tax Pre-tax income, goodwill impairment, discontinued operations and share of net income of equity-accounted entities 6,155 34.43% (2,119) Impact of permanent differences (3.82%) 235 Impact of different tax rates on foreign subsidiaries (4.65%) 286 Impact of losses for the year, utilisation of tax loss carryforwards 0.53% (32) Impact of reduced tax rate (1.60%) 99 Impact of other items (1.07%) 66 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE AND TAX CHARGE 23.81% (1,466) The theoretical tax rate is the standard tax rate (including the additional social contribution) on taxable profits in France at 31 December 2018. At 31 December 2017 (in millions of euros) Base Tax rate Tax Pre-tax income, goodwill impairment, discontinued operations and share of net income of equity-accounted entities 5,015 34.43% (1,727) Impact of permanent differences (3.23%) 162 Impact of different tax rates on foreign subsidiaries (2.80%) 140 Impact of losses for the year, utilisation of tax loss carryforwards 1.06% (53) Impact of reduced tax rate (2.51%) 126 Impact of tax rate change 7.84% (393) Impact of other items (0.22%) 11 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE AND TAX CHARGE 34.57% (1,732) The theoretical tax rate is the standard tax rate (including the additional social contribution) on taxable profits in France at 31 December 2017. 428 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 4 4.12 CHANGES IN OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME The breakdown of income and expenses recognised for the period is presented below: Breakdown of total other comprehensive income (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 Other comprehensive income on items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss of income tax Gains and losses on translation adjustments 248 Revaluation adjustment of the period 241 Reclassified to profit or loss 7 Other changes Other comprehensive income on debt instruments that may be reclassified to profit or loss (1,225) Revaluation adjustment of the period (1,153) Reclassified to profit or loss (65) Other changes (7) Gains and losses on hedging derivative instruments (138) Revaluation adjustment of the period (146) Reclassified to profit or loss Other changes 8 Reclassification of net gains (losses) of designated financial assets applying the overlay approach (356) Revaluation adjustment of the period (291) Reclassified to profit or loss Other changes (65) Pre-tax other comprehensive income on items that may be reclassified to profit or loss on equity-accounted entities (11) Income tax related to items that may be reclassified to profit or loss excluding equity-accounted entities 547 Income tax related to items that may be reclassified to profit or loss on equity-accounted entities 1 Other comprehensive income on items that may be reclassified to profit or loss from discontinued operations (2) Other comprehensive income on items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss of income tax (936) Other comprehensive income on items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss net of income tax Actuarial gains and losses on post-employment benefits 51 Other comprehensive income on financial liabilities attributable to changes in own credit risk 383 Revaluation adjustment of the period 365 Reclassified to reserves 18 Other changes Other comprehensive income on equity instruments that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 130 Revaluation adjustment of the period 115 Reclassified to reserves 60 Other changes (45) Other comprehensive income on items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss on equity-accounted entities 1 Income tax related to items that will not be reclassified excluding equity-accounted entities (259) 6 Income tax related to items that will not be reclassified on equity-accounted entities (3) Other comprehensive income on items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss from discontinued operations 5 Other comprehensive income on items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss net of income tax 308 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME NET OF INCOME TAX (628) Of which Group share (595) Of which non-controlling interests (33) The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 429 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 4 (in millions of euros) 31/12/2017 Other comprehensive income on items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit and loss Gains and losses on translation adjustements (683) Revaluation adjustment of the period (683) Reclassified to profit or loss Other variations Gains and losses on available-for-sale financial assets (530) Revaluation adjustment of the period (131) Reclassified to profit or loss (481) Other variations 82 Gains and losses on hedging derivative instruments (356) Revaluation adjustment of the period (355) Reclassified to profit or loss Other variations (1) Pre-tax other comprehensive income on items that may be reclassified to profit and loss on equity-accounted entities (386) Income tax related to items that may be reclassified to profit and loss excluding equity-accounted entities 355 Income tax related to items that may be reclassified to profit and loss on equity-accounted entities (16) Net other comprehensive income on Items that may be reclassified to profit and loss on equity-accounted entities on discontinued operations (15) Other comprehensive income on items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit and loss, net of income tax (1,631) Other comprehensive income on items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit and loss Actuarial gains and losses on post-employment benefits 4 Other comprehensive income on items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss on equity-accounted entities 24 Income tax related to items that will not be reclassified excluding equity-accounted entities (28) Income tax related to items that will not be reclassified on equity-accounted entities (1) Net other comprehensive income on Items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss on equity-accounted entities on discontinued operations (9) Other comprehensive income on items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit and loss, net of income tax (10) OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME NET OF INCOME TAX (1,641) Of which Group share (1,579) Of which non-controlling interests (62) 430 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 4 Breakdown of tax impacts related to other comprehensive income 31/12/2017 01/01/2018 Changes 31/12/2018 Net of Net of Net of income Net of income income tax income tax of tax of of tax Income Net of which Income Net of which Income Net of which Income Net of of which tax income Group tax income Group tax income Group tax income Group (in millions of euros) Gross charges tax Share Gross charges tax Share Gross charges tax Share Gross charges tax Share Other comprehensive income on items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Gains and losses on translation adjustments (493) (5) (498) (387) (492) (5) (497) (387) 248 1 249 228 (244) (4) (248) (158) Gains and losses on available-forsale financial assets 4,493 (960) 3,533 3,500 Gains and losses on debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income that may be reclassified to profit or loss 3,702 (985) 2,717 2,704 (1,225) 332 (893) (856) 2,477 (653) 1,824 1,848 Gains and losses on hedging derivative instruments 625 (191) 434 427 625 (191) 434 427 (138) 48 (90) (88) 487 (143) 344 339 Reclassification of net gains (losses) of designated financial assets applying the overlay approach 509 (15) 494 494 (356) 166 (190) (190) 153 151 304 304 Other comprehensive income on items that may be reclassified to profit or loss excluding equity-accounted entities 4,625 (1,156) 3,469 3,540 4,344 (1,196) 3,148 3,238 (1,471) 547 (924) (906) 2,873 (649) 2,224 2,333 Other comprehensive income on items that may be reclassified to profit or loss on equity-accounted entities (25) (13) (38) (36) (11) (11) (8) (11) 1 (10) (8) (22) 1 (21) (16) Other comprehensive income on items that may be reclassified to profit or loss on equity-accounted entities on discontinued operations 13 (1) 13 14 15 (1) 14 14 (3) (2) (2) 12 (1) 11 11 Other comprehensive income on items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 4,613 (1,170) 3,444 3,518 4,348 (1,197) 3,151 3,244 (1,485) 548 (936) (916) 2,863 (649) 2,214 2,328 Other comprehensive income on items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Actuarial gains and losses on post-employment benefits Other comprehensive income (753) 181 (572) (547) (752) 178 (574) (548) 51 (12) 39 44 (701) 166 (535) (504) 6 on financial liabilities attributable to changes in own credit risk (523) 175 (348) (341) 383 (138) 245 241 (140) 37 (103) (100) Other comprehensive income on equity instruments that will not be reclassified to profit or loss (492) 40 (452) (490) 130 (109) 21 33 (362) (69) (431) (457) Other comprehensive income on items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss excluding equity-accounted entities (753) 181 (572) (547) (1,767) 393 (1,374) (1,379) 564 (259) 305 318 (1,203) 134 (1,069) (1,061) Other comprehensive income on items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss on equity-accounted entities (11) 2 (9) (9) (28) (12) (40) (40) 1 (3) (2) (2) (27) (15) (42) (42) Other comprehensive income on items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss from discontinued operations (9) (9) (9) (7) (7) (7) 5 5 5 (2) (2) (2) Other comprehensive income on items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss (773) 183 (590) (565) (1,802) 381 (1,421) (1,426) 570 (262) 308 321 (1,232) 119 (1,112) (1,105) OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 3,840 (987) 2,854 2,953 2,546 (816) 1,730 1,818 (915) 286 (628) (595) 1,631 (530) 1,102 1,223 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 431 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 5 Note 5 Segment reporting Definition of operating segments 3. International retail banking According to IFRS 8, information disclosed is based on the internal This business line encompasses foreign subsidiaries and investments reporting that is used by the Executive Committee to manage Crédit that are mainly involved in Retail banking. Agricole S.A. Group, to assess performance, and to make decisions These subsidiaries and equity investments are primarily located in about resources to be allocated to the identified operating segments. Europe: with Crédit Agricole Group Italy in Italy, Crédit Agricole Polska Operating segments according to the internal reporting consist of the in Poland and others in Ukraine and Serbia. business lines of the Group. Other subsidiaries operate around the Mediterranean, e.g. Crédit du At 31 December 2018, Crédit Agricole S.A.’s business activities were Maroc and Crédit Agricole Egypt. organised into six operating segments: Finally, this division also includes banks that are not significant in size. nn the following five business lines: Foreign consumer credit, leasing and factoring subsidiaries (subsidiaries –– Asset gathering, of Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance, Crédit Agricole Leasing & –– French retail banking – LCL, Factoring and EFL in Poland, etc.) are not included in this segment, but in “Specialised financial services”, except Calit in Italy, which is part of –– International retail banking, International Retail banking. –– Specialised financial services, It should be noted that Cesena, San Miniato and Rimini in Italy were –– Large customers; consolidated on 21 December 2017. These three savings banks have nn as well as the “Corporate Centre”. been merged into Cariparma in 2018. Presentation of business lines 4. Specialised financial services Specialised financial services comprises the Group subsidiaries that 1. Asset gathering provide financial products and services to individual customers, small This business line brings together: businesses, corporates and local authorities in France and abroad. nn insurance activities (savings solutions and property and casualty These include: insurance): nn consumer finance companies around Crédit Agricole Consumer –– life insurance and personal insurance, conducted mainly by Finance in France and through its subsidiaries or partnerships Predica in France and CA Vita in Italy, outside France (Agos, CreditPlus Bank, Ribank, Credibom, Interbank –– property & casualty insurance, conducted primarily by Pacifica, Group and FCA Bank). Forso was reclassified under IFRS 5 in the –– creditor insurance, conducted by Crédit Agricole Creditor Insurance financial statements at 31 December 2017, following the end of the and group insurance conducted mainly by Predica in France; partnership with Ford and was sold in the third quarter 2018; nn Specialised financial services for companies such as factoring and nn asset management activities of the Amundi Group (including operations of Pioneer Investments since July 2017), offering savings lease finance (Crédit Agricole Leasing & Factoring Group, EFL). solutions for retail clients and investment solutions for institutionals; 5. Large customers nn as well as wealth management activities conducted mainly by Crédit Agricole Indosuez Wealth Management subsidiaries (CA Indosuez The Large customers division includes the Corporate and Investment Switzerland S.A. CA Indosuez Wealth Europe, CFM Indosuez Wealth, bank, which itself consists of two main lines of business most of which CA Indosuez Wealth France). Banca Leonardo was integrated within are carried out by Crédit Agricole CIB, and Asset servicing for institutions this business line with effect from 3 May 2018. (CACEIS): nn financing activities, which include corporate banking in France and 2. French retail banking – LCL internationally and structured finance. Structured Finance consists LCL is a french retail banking network with a strong presence in urban of originating, structuring and financing large-scale operations in areas. It is organised into four business lines: retail banking for individual exporting and investing, often collateralised by physical assets customers, retail banking for small businesses, private banking and (planes, boats, office buildings, commodities, etc.) and complex and corporate banking. structured credit instruments; nn capital markets and investment banking activities bring together LCL offers a full range of banking products and services, together with capital market activities (treasury, foreign exchange,interest rate asset management, insurance and wealth management products. derivatives, debt markets), and investment banking activities It should be noted that the Banque Themis contribution recognised in the (mergers and acquisitions consulting and primary equity advisory); consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2017, in accordance nn asset servicing: CACEIS Bank for custody and CACEIS Fund with IFRS 5 on held-for-sale entities, was sold on 8 March 2018 with no Administration for fund administration. material impact on net income. 432 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 5 6. Corporate Centre nn the results from management companies, real-estate companies This segment mainly encompasses Crédit Agricole S.A.’s central body holding properties used in operations by several business lines and function, asset and liability management and management of debt by activities undergoing reorganisation; connected with acquisitions of subsidiaries or equity investments. nn the net impact of tax consolidation for Crédit Agricole S.A. as well as the revaluation of structured debt issued by Crédit Agricole CIB. It also includes: nn the results of the private equity business and results of various other Crédit Agricole S.A. Group companies (Uni-médias, Foncaris, etc.); 5.1 OPERATING SEGMENT INFORMATION Transactions between operating segments are effected at arm’s length. Segment assets are determined based on balance sheet elements for each operating segment. 31/12/2018 French retail International Specialised Asset banking retail financial Large Corporate (in millions of euros) gathering – LCL banking services customers center Total Revenues 5,778 3,433 2,732 2,769 5,368 (344) 19,736 Operating expenses (2,836) (2,391) (1,738) (1,380) (3,339) (905) (12,589) Gross operating income 2,942 1,042 994 1,389 2,029 (1,249) 7,147 Cost of risk (17) (220) (358) (467) 64 (83) (1,081) Operating income 2,925 822 636 922 2,093 (1,332) 6,066 Share of net income of equityaccounted entities 47 187 21 255 Net gains (losses) on other assets (3) 50 14 1 14 13 89 Change in value of goodwill 86 86 Pre-tax income 2,969 872 650 1,110 2,107 (1,212) 6,496 Income tax charge (774) (288) (185) (244) (550) 575 (1,466) Net income from discontinued operations (2) (1) (3) Net income 2,193 583 465 866 1,557 (637) 5,027 Non-controlling interests 285 26 124 128 29 35 627 NET INCOME GROUP SHARE 1,908 557 341 738 1,528 (672) 4,400 Under IFRS 9, the Crédit Agricole CIB issuer spread is classified with effect from 1 January 2018 as equity under “Other comprehensive income on items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss”. 31/12/2018 Specialised Asset French retail International financial Large Corporate (in millions of euros) gathering banking – LCL retail banking services customers center Total 6 Segment assets Of which investments in equity-accounted entities 4,048 2,135 185 6,368 Of which goodwill 6,864 4,772 1,693 1,025 1,137 15,491 TOTAL ASSETS 445,766 148,102 79,231 71,402 772,463 107,430 1,624,394 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 433 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 5 31/12/2017 French retail International Specialised Asset banking retail financial Large Corporate (in millions of euros) gathering – LCL banking services customers center(1) Total Revenues 5,263 3,492 2,482 2,721 5,332 (656) 18,634 Operating expenses (2,708) (2,442) (1,557) (1,407) (3,239) (850) (12,203) Gross operating income 2,555 1,050 925 1,314 2,093 (1,506) 6,431 Cost of risk (25) (204) (429) (440) (318) (6) (1,422) Operating income 2,530 846 496 874 1,775 (1,512) 5,009 Share of net income of equityaccounted entities 33 241 277 177 728 Net gains (losses) on other assets 4 6 (12) (1) 13 (4) 6 Change in value of goodwill 186 186 Pre-tax income 2,567 852 484 1,114 2,065 (1,153) 5,929 Income tax charge (646) (339) (153) (229) (710) 345 (1,732) Net income from discontinued operations 21 (1) 20 Net income 1,942 513 331 884 1,355 (808) 4,217 Non-controlling interests 222 25 97 118 48 58 568 NET INCOME GROUP SHARE 1,720 488 234 766 1,307 (866) 3,649 (1) The Crédit Agricole CIB issuer spread is classified under the Corporate Centre for -€222 in Revenues, +€76 in Income tax charge, -€146 in Net income including -€3 million in Non-controlling interests. 31/12/2017 French retail International Specialised Asset banking retail financial Large Corporate (in millions of euros) gathering – LCL banking services customers center Total Segment assets Of which investments in equityaccounted entities 3,044 1,945 188 5,177 Of which goodwill 6,793 4,772 1,692 1,023 1,141 15,421 TOTAL ASSETS 433,163 141,932 81,530 74,613 684,938 134,287 1,550,283 5.2 SEGMENT INFORMATION: GEOGRAPHICAL ANALYSIS The geographical analysis of segment assets and results is based on the place where operations are booked for accounting purposes. 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Net Net income income Group of which Segment of which Group of which Segment of which (in millions of euros) Share Revenues assets goodwill Share Revenues assets goodwill France (including overseas departments and territories) 1,886 10,436 1,303,129 9,945 1,483 10,089 1,257,683 9,947 Italy 597 3,167 88,934 1,974 750 2,686 90,973 1,974 Other European Union countries 799 2,989 77,701 2,351 348 2,824 66,582 2,330 Other European countries 135 741 18,809 682 113 673 19,483 654 North America 489 1,093 56,023 461 337 1,053 50,179 442 Central and South America 20 46 988 8 62 981 Africa and Middle East 149 450 9,861 33 312 457 8,595 32 Asia-Pacific (ex. Japan) 207 502 22,441 24 171 475 21,976 23 Japan 118 312 46,508 21 127 315 33,831 19 TOTAL 4,400 19,736 1,624,394 15,491 3,649 18,634 1,550,283 15,421 434 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 5 5.3 INSURANCE SPECIFICITIES (See chapter on “Risk management – Insurance sector risks” on managing this sector risk) Gross income from insurance activities 31/12/2018 Income Income statement poststatement prior to Reclassification reclassification reclassification of related to overlay of overlay (in millions of euros) overlay approach approach approach Written premium 33,534 33,534 Change in unearned premiums (210) (210) Earned premiums 33,324 33,324 Other operating income 252 252 Investment income 7,509 (3) 7,506 Investment expenses (370) 1 (369) Gains (losses) on disposals of investments net of impairment and amortisation reversals 41 379 420 Change in fair value of investments at fair value through profit or loss (6,702) 1,828 (4,874) Change in impairment on investments (8) (49) (57) Investment income net of expenses 471 2,157 2,628 Claims expenses(1) (27,685) (1,866) (29,551) Revenue from reinsurance operations 518 518 Expenses from reinsurance operations (608) (608) Net reinsurance income (expense) (90) (90) Contract acquisition costs (2,054) (2,054) Amortisation of investment securities and similar Administration costs (1,970) (1,970) Other current operating income (expense) (353) (353) Other operating income (expense) (3) (3) Operating income 1,892 291 2,182 Financing expenses (429) (429) Share of net income of associates Income tax charge (307) (147) (454) Net income from discontinued or held-for-sale operations (1) (1) Consolidated net income 1,154 144 1,298 Non-controlling interests 12 12 NET INCOME GROUP SHARE 1,142 144 1,286 (1) Including -€22 billion of cost of claims, -€1 billion of changes in policyholder profit-sharing and -€6 billion of changes in technical reserves at 31 December 2018. 6 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 435 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 5 (in millions of euros) 31/12/2017 Written premium 30,426 Change in unearned premiums (213) Earned premiums 30,213 Other operating income 119 Investment income 7,654 Investment expenses (565) Gains (losses) on disposals of investments net of impairment and amortisation reversals 1,668 Change in fair value of investments at fair value through profit or loss 3,002 Change in impairment on investments (54) Investment income net of expenses 11,705 Claims expenses(1) (35,877) Revenue from reinsurance operations 449 Expenses from reinsurance operations (578) Net reinsurance income (expense) (129) Contract acquisition costs (1,916) Amortisation of investment securities and similar (7) Administration costs (2,142) Other current operating income (expense) (180) Other operating income (expense) (7) Operating income 1,779 Financing expenses (279) Share of net income of associates Income tax charge (357) Net income from discontinued operations 21 Consolidated net income 1,164 Non-controlling interests 3 NET INCOME GROUP SHARE 1,161 (1) Including -€22 billion of cost of claims, -€2 billion of changes in policyholder profit-sharing and -€11 billion of changes in technical reserves at 31 December 2017. 436 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 5 Breakdown of insurance company investments (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 142,954 Financial assets held for trading 460 Treasury bills and similar securities Bonds and other fixed income securities Equity and other variable income securities Derivative instruments 460 Other financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss 142,494 Equity instruments 25,414 Equity and other variable income securities 8,730 Non-consolidated equity investments (328) Designated financial assets applying the overlay approach 17,012 Debt instruments that do not meet the conditions of the “SPPI” test 57,437 Loans and receivables 296 Debt securities 57,141 Treasury bills and similar securities 153 Bonds and other fixed income securities 4,973 Mutual funds 34,277 Designated financial assets applying the overlay approach 17,738 Assets backing unit-linked contracts 59,643 Treasury bills and similar securities 988 Bonds and other fixed income securities 12,213 Equity and other variable income securities 5,161 Mutual funds 41,281 Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss Loans and receivables Debt securities Treasury bills and similar securities Bonds and other fixed income securities Hedging derivative Instruments 1,072 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 214,284 Debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income that may be reclassified to profit or loss 214,109 Debt securities 214,109 Treasury bills and similar securities 61,593 Bonds and other fixed income securities 152,516 Equity instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 175 Equity and other variable income securities Non-consolidated equity investments 175 6 Financial assets at amortised cost 5,867 Loans and receivables 5,530 Debt securities 337 Treasury bills and similar securities Bonds and other fixed income securities 337 Impairment Investment property 6,280 Investments in associates and joint venture 3,785 TOTAL INSURANCE COMPANY INVESTMENTS 374,242 As of 31 December 2018, investments in Insurance entities on equity accounting method amount to €3,785 million compared with €2,864 million at 31 December 2017. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 437 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 5 31/12/2018 Carrying Unrealised Unrealised (in millions of euros) amount gains losses Debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income that may be reclassified to profit or loss 214,109 14,615 (743) Debt securities 214,109 14,615 (743) Treasury bills and similar securities 61,593 4,412 (171) Bonds and other fixed income securities 152,516 10,203 (572) Equity instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 175 3 (21) Equity and other variable income securities Non-consolidated equity investments 175 3 (21) Total of financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 214,284 14,618 (764) Income tax charge (3,839) 198 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ON FINANCIAL ASSETS AT FAIR VALEUR THROUGH OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (NET OF INCOME TAX) 10,779 (566) 31/12/2017 Carrying Unrealised Unrealised (in millions of euros) amount gains losses Treasury bills and similar securities 45,329 2,706 (74) Bonds and other fixed income securities 162,257 13,464 (346) Equities and other equity variable income securities 17,934 2,846 (185) Non-consolidated equity investments 8,209 2,432 (80) Total available-for-sale financial assets 233,729 21,448 (685) Income tax charges (5,774) 228 GAINS AND LOSSES ON AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS RECOGNISED IN OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (NET OF INCOME TAX) 15,674 (457) 31/12/2017 (in millions of euros) Carrying amount Fair value Bonds and other fixed income securities 3,069 3,803 Treasury bills and similar securities 7,736 9,245 Impairment Total held-to-maturity financial assets 10,805 13,048 Loans and receivables 7,426 7,424 Investment property 6,103 8,674 31/12/2017 (in millions of euros) Carrying amount Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss classified as held for trading or designated at fair value through profit or loss 107,634 Assets backing unit-linked contracts 59,635 Treasury bills and similar securities 3,639 Bonds and other fixed-income securities 27,125 Equities and other equity variable-income securities 15,729 Derivative instruments 1,506 31/12/2017 (in millions of euros) Carrying amount TOTAL INSURANCE COMPANY INVESTMENTS 365,697 438 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 6 Reclassification between net income and other comprehensive income for financial assets designated under the overlay approach 31/12/2018 Amount that Amount Amount would have been reclassified in other reported for reported for comprehensive the designated the designated income applying financial assets financial assets the overlay (in millions of euros) applying IFRS9 applying IAS39 approach Investment income 929 926 (3) Investment expenses (10) (9) 1 Gains (losses) on disposals of investments net of impairment and amortisation reversals 25 405 379 Change in fair value of investments at fair value through profit or loss (1,828) 1,828 Change in impairment on investments (49) (49) Investment income net of expenses (884) 1,272 2,157 Claims paid (1,866) Operating income 291 Income tax charge (147) NET INCOME GROUP SHARE 144 Note 6 Notes to the balance sheet 6.1 CASH, CENTRAL BANKS 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 (in millions of euros) Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Cash 1,581 1,441 Central banks 65,395 949 49,320 3,185 CARRYING AMOUNT 66,976 949 50,761 3,185 6 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 439 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 6 6.2 FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Equity instruments at fair value through profit or loss (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 Financial assets held for trading 225,605 (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 Other financial instruments at fair value through profit Equity and other variable income securities 19,315 or loss 139,870 Non-consolidated equity investments 9,036 Equity instruments 28,351 TOTAL EQUITY INSTRUMENTS AT FAIR VALUE Debt instruments that do not meet the conditions THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS 28,351 of the “SPPI” test 60,131 Assets backing unit-linked contracts 51,386 Financial assets designated at fair value through Debt instruments not meeting the SPPI criteria profit or loss 2 CARRYING AMOUNT 365,475 (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 of which lent securities 2,823 Debt securities 57,128 Treasury bills and similar securities 156 Bonds and other fixed income securities 11,637 (in millions of euros) 31/12/2017 Mutual funds 45,335 Financial assets held for trading 221,089 Loans and receivables 3,003 Financial assets designated at fair value through Loans and receivables due from credit institutions profit or loss 100,315 Loans and receivables due from customers 3,003 CARRYING AMOUNT 321,404 Securities bought under repurchase agreements of which lent securities 884 Pledged securities TOTAL DEBT INSTRUMENTS THAT DO NOT MEET Held for trading financial assets THE CONDITIONS OF THE “SPPI” TEST AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH P&L 60,131 (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 Equity instruments 2,777 Financial assets designated at fair value Equity and other variable income securities 2,777 through profit or loss Debt securities 19,295 Treasury bills and similar securities 14,219 (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 Bonds and other fixed income securities 5,043 Loans and receivables Mutual funds 33 Loans and receivables due from credit institutions Loans and receivables 108,979 Loans and receivables due from customers Loans and receivables due from credit institutions 191 Debt securities 2 Loans and receivables due from customers 1,374 Treasury bills and similar securities Securities bought under repurchase agreements 107,414 Bonds and other fixed income securities 2 Pledged securities TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS DESIGNATED Derivative instruments 94,554 AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS 2 CARRYING AMOUNT 225,605 (in millions of euros) 31/12/2017 (in millions of euros) 31/12/2017 Equity instruments 17,070 Equity instruments 3,485 Equities and other variable income securities 17,070 Equities and other variable income securities 3,485 Debt securities 83,243 Debt securities 17,250 Assets backing unit-linked contracts 51,600 Treasury bills and similar securities 12,804 Treasury bills and similar securities 3,639 Bonds and other fixed income securities 4,446 Bonds and other fixed income securities 28,004 Loans and advances 94,559 Loans and advances 2 Loans and receivables due from customers 1,600 Loans ans recevables due from credit institutions Securities bought under repurchase agreements 92,959 Loans and receivables due from customers 2 Pledged securities Securities bought under repurchase agreements Derivative instruments 105,795 Pledged securities CARRYING AMOUNT 221,089 CARRYING AMOUNT 100,315 Securities acquired under repurchase agreements include those that the entity is authorised to use as collateral. 440 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 6 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Financial liabilities held for trading 193,956 196,444 Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss 34,155 31,443 CARRYING AMOUNT 228,111 227,887 Held for trading financial liabilities (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Securities sold short 25,433 22,598 Securities sold under repurchase agreements 75,917 67,335 Debt securities 2 2 Derivative instruments 92,603 106,509 CARRYING AMOUNT 193,956 196,444 Detailed information on derivative instruments held for trading can be found in Note 3.2 on market risk, in particular on interest rates. Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss Financial liabilities for which changes in issuer spread are recognised in other comprehensive income and will not be reclassified 31/12/2018 Difference between Accumulated carrying amount amount of change Amount of change in and amount in fair value fair value during the contractually attributable to period attributable required to pay at changes in own to changes in own Amount realised at (in millions of euros) Carrying amount maturity credit risk credit risk derecognition(1) Deposits and subordinated liabilities Deposits Subordinated liabilities Debt securities 27,596 398 140 (365) (18) Other financial liabilities TOTAL 27,596 398 140 (365) (18) (1) The amount realised upon derecognition is transferred to consolidated reserves. Pursuant to IFRS 9, Crédit Agricole S.A.’s Group calculates changes in credit risk of all issues therefore correspond to those of said loans. 6 fair value attributable to changes in own credit risk using a methodology These are equal to the changes in fair value of the loan book caused by that allows for them to be separated from changes in value attributable changes in the cost of refinancing. to changes in market conditions. Calculation of realised gains/losses on own credit risk (recognised Basis for calculating own credit risk in consolidated reserves) The source taken into account for the calculation of own credit risk may The Group has elected to transfer fair value changes attributable to vary from one issuer to another. Within Crédit Agricole S.A.’s Group, the changes in own credit risk upon unwinding to consolidated reserves. source used is the change in its cost of market refinancing. Accordingly, when there is a total or partial early redemption, a sensitivity-based calculation is done. This consists of measuring the Calculation of unrealised gains/losses on own credit adjustment change in fair value attributable to the changes in own credit risk of (recognised in other comprehensive income) a given issuance as being the sum of the credit spread sensitivities The Crédit Agricole’s Group preferred approach is based on the liquidity multiplied by the change in this spread between the issuance date and component of issues. All issues are replicated by a group of vanilla the redemption date. loans/borrowings. Changes in fair value attributable to changes in own The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 441 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 6 Financial liabilities for which changes in the issuer spread are recognised in net income 31/12/2018 Accumulated amount Amount of change in fair Difference between of change in fair value value during the period carrying amount and attributable to changes attributable to changes in (in millions of euros) Carrying amount due on maturity in own credit risk own credit risk Deposits and subordinated liabilities 6,559 Deposits 6,559 Subordinated liabilities Debt securities Other financial liabilities TOTAL 6,559 31/12/2017 Fair value on the Difference between carrying (in millions of euros) balance sheet amount and due on maturity Deposits and subordinated liabilities 6,037 Deposits from credit institutions Other deposits 6,037 Subordinated liabilities Debt securities 25,406 432 Other financial liabilities TOTAL 31,443 432 6.3 HEDGING DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS Detailed information is provided in Note 3.4 on “Hedging accounting”. 6.4 FINANCIAL ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 31/12/2018 Carrying Unrealised Unrealised (in millions of euros) amount gains losses Debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income that may be reclassified to profit or loss 250,202 14,554 (1,077) Equity instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 3,418 619 (985) TOTAL 253,620 15,173 (2,062) Debt instruments recognised at fair value through other comprehensive income that can be reclassified 31/12/2018 Carrying Unrealised Unrealised (in millions of euros) amount gains losses Treasury bills and similar securities 75,753 4,658 (372) Bonds and other fixed income securities 174,449 9,896 (705) Total Debt securities 250,202 14,554 (1,077) Loans and receivables due from credit institutions Loans and receivables due from customers Total Loans and receivables Total debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income that may be reclassified to profit and loss 250,202 14,554 (1,077) Income tax charge (3,845) 290 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ON DEBT INSTRUMENTS THAT MAY BE RECLASSIFIED TO PROFIT OR LOSS (NET OF INCOME TAX) 10,709 (787) 442 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 6 Equity instruments recognised at fair value through other comprehensive income that cannot be reclassified Other comprehensive income on equity instruments that cannot be reclassified 31/12/2018 Unrealised gains/losses Carrying Unrealised Unrealised during the (in millions of euros) amount gains losses period Equity and other variable income securities 283 24 (46) (3) Non-consolidated equity investments 3,135 595 (939) 118 Total equity instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 3,418 619 (985) 115 Income tax charge (88) 16 (54) OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ON EQUITY INSTRUMENTS THAT WILL NOT BE RECLASSIFIED TO PROFIT OR LOSS (NET OF INCOME TAX) 531 (969) 61 Equity instruments derecognised during the period 31/12/2018 Fair value at Cumulative Cumulative the date of gains losses (in millions of euros) derecognition realised(1) realised(1) Equity and other variable income securities 31 5 (5) Non-consolidated equity investments 234 14 (74) Total investments in equity instruments 265 19 (79) Income tax charge 12 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ON EQUITY INSTRUMENTS THAT WILL NOT BE RECLASSIFIED TO PROFIT OR LOSS (NET OF INCOME TAX)(1) 19 (67) (1) Realised gains and losses are transferred to consolidated reserves at the time of derecognition of the instrument. Available-for-sale financial assets at 31 December 2017 31/12/2017 Carrying Unrealised Unrealised (in millions of euros) amount gains losses Treasury bills and similar securities 74,346 3,170 (202) Bonds and other fixed income securities 201,745 13,099 (396) Equities and other variable income securities Non-consolidated equity investments 18,690 12,277 2,926 3,231 (241) (304) 6 Total available-for-sale securities 307,058 22,426 (1,143) Available-for-sale receivables Total available-for-sale receivables Carrying amount of available-for-sale financial assets(1) 307,058 22,426 (1,143) Income tax charge (5,914) 291 GAINS AND LOSSES ON AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS RECOGNISED IN OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (NET OF INCOME TAX)(2) 16,512 (852) (1) The net carrying amount of impaired available-for-sale fixed-income securities is €32 million and the net carrying amount of impaired available-for-sale variable-income securities is €1,931 million. (2) For insurance companies, gains and losses on available-for-sale financial assets recognised in other comprehensive income (net of income tax) are offset by aftertax deferred policyholders’ profit-sharing liability of €12,747 million at 31 December 2017 (see Note 6.16 “Insurance company technical reserves”). The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 443 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 6 6.5 FINANCIAL ASSETS AT AMORTISED (in millions of euros) 31/12/2017 COST Credit institutions Debt securities 5,203 (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 Securities not traded in an active market 5,203 Loans and receivables due from credit institutions 412,981 Loans and receivables 89,779 Loans and receivables due from customers 369,456 Loans and receivables 82,801 Debt securities 57,764 Of which performing current accounts in debit 6,100 CARRYING AMOUNT 840,201 Of which performing overnight accounts and advances 16,411 Pledged securities 10 Loans and receivables due from credit institutions Securities bought under repurchase agreements 6,227 (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 Subordinated loans 665 Other loans and receivables 77 Credit institutions Gross amount 94,982 Loans and receivables 94,457 Impairment (386) Of which non doubtful current accounts in debit(1) 6,548 Net value of loans and receivables due Of which non doubtful overnight accounts and from credit institutions 94,596 advances(1) 25,369 Crédit Agricole internal transactions Pledged securities 1 Debt securities Securities bought under repurchase agreements 5,225 Securities not traded in an active market Subordinated loans 516 Loans and advances 299,455 Other loans and receivables 103 Current accounts 1,752 Gross amount 100,302 Term deposits and advances 294,906 Impairment (419) Securities bought under repurchase agreements 2,467 Net value of loans and receivables due from credit institutions 99,883 Subordinated loans 330 Crédit Agricole internal transactions Gross amount 299,455 Current accounts 1,944 Impairment Securities bought under repurchase agreements 1,746 Net value of loans and receivables within Crédit Agricole 299,455 Term deposits and advances 309,037 Subordinated loans 371 CARRYING AMOUNT 394,051 Total Crédit Agricole internal transactions 313,098 CARRYING AMOUNT 412,981 Loans and receivables due from customers (1) These transactions are partly comprised of the item “Net demand loans and deposits with credit institutions” on the Cash Flow Statement. (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 Loans and receivables due from customers Trade receivables 31,510 Other customer loans 313,894 Pledged securities 131 Securities bought under repurchase agreements 2,976 Subordinated loans 104 Insurance receivables 655 Reinsurance receivables 634 Advances in associates’ current accounts 144 Current accounts in debit 13,249 Gross amount 363,297 Impairment (9,168) Net value of loans and receivables due from customers 354,129 Finance leases Property leasing 5,544 Equipment leases, operating leases and similar transactions 10,170 Gross amount 15,714 Impairment (387) Net value of lease financing operations 15,327 CARRYING AMOUNT 369,456 444 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 6 (in millions of euros) 31/12/2017 Debt securities Loans and receivables due from customers (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 Debt securities 14,599 Treasury bills and similar securities 23,222 Securities not traded in an active market 14,599 Bonds and other fixed income securities 34,574 Loans and receivables 340,264 Total 57,796 Trade receivables 26,065 Impairment (32) Other customer loans 296,930 Securities bought under repurchase agreements 3,116 CARRYING AMOUNT 57,764 Subordinated loans 104 Insurance receivables 262 Held-to-maturity financial assets Reinsurance receivables 515 at 31 December 2017 Advances in associates current accounts 128 Current accounts in debit 13,144 (in millions of euros) 31/12/2017 Gross amount 354,863 Treasury bills and similar securities 17,082 Impairment (9,720) Bonds and other fixed income securities 3,097 Net value of loans and receivables due Total 20,179 from customers 345,143 Impairment Finance leases CARRYING AMOUNT 20,179 Property leasing 5,687 Equipment leases, operating leases and similar transactions 9,508 Gross amount 15,195 Impairment (259) Net value of lease financing operations 14,936 CARRYING AMOUNT 360,079 6 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 445 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 6 6.6 TRANSFERRED ASSETS NOT DERECOGNISED OR DERECOGNISED WITH ON-GOING INVOLVEMENT Transferred assets not derecognised in full at 31 December 2018 Transferred assets but still fully recognised Transferred assets of which securities of which sold/bought securitisation under Nature of assets transferred Carrying (nonrepurchase of which (in millions of euros) amount deconsolidating) agreements other(1) Fair value(2) Financial assets held for trading 10,488 10,488 10,488 Equity instruments 1,665 1,665 1,665 Debt securities 8,823 8,823 8,823 Loans and receivables Other financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss Equity instruments Debt securities Loans and receivables Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 21,435 6 20,501 929 21,274 Equity instruments Debt securities 21,435 6 20,501 929 21,274 Loans and receivables Financial assets at amortised cost 14,094 11,886 1,572 636 14,094 Debt securities 2,208 1,572 636 2,208 Loans and receivables 11,886 11,886 11,886 Total financial assets 46,017 11,891 32,561 1,565 45,856 Finance leases TOTAL TRANSFERRED ASSETS 46,017 11,891 32,561 1,565 45,856 (1) Including securities lending without cash collateral. (2) When the “counterparty” (counterparties) to the associated liabilities has (have) recourse only to the transferred assets”. 446 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 6 Transferred assets recognised to the extent Transferred assets but still fully recognised of on the entity’s continuing involvement Assets and associated Associated liabilities liabilities of which Initial Carrying amount of which securities sold/ total carrying of assets still securitisation bought under amount of recognised Carrying amount Carrying (nonrepurchase of which Net fair assets prior to (continuing of associated amount deconsolidating) agreements other(1) Fair value(2) value(2) transfer involvement) liabilities 10,137 10,137 10,137 351 1,609 1,609 1,609 56 8,528 8,528 8,528 295 20,435 20,435 20,335 939 20,435 20,435 20,335 939 10,908 9,356 1,552 10,908 3,186 1,552 1,552 1,552 656 9,356 9,356 9,356 2,530 41,481 9,356 32,125 41,380 4,476 41,481 9,356 32,125 41,380 4,476 6 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 447 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 6 Transferred assets not derecognised in full at 31 December 2017 Transferred assets still fully recognised Transferred assets of which of which securisation securities bought Nature of assets transferred Carrying (nonunder repurchase of which (in millions of euros) amount deconsolidating) agreements other(1) Fair value(2) Held for trading 13,318 13,318 13,318 Equity instruments 177 177 177 Debt securities 13,141 13,141 13,141 Loans and advances Designated at fair value through profit and loss 2,166 2,166 2,126 Equity instruments Debt securities 2,166 2,166 2,126 Loans and advances Available-for-sale 18,482 15,742 2,740 18,288 Equity instruments 544 544 544 Debt securities 17,938 15,742 2,196 17,744 Loans and advances Loans and receivables 12,700 11,463 201 1,036 12,700 Debt securities 1,237 201 1,036 1,237 Loans and advances 11,463 11,463 11,463 Held-to-maturity 2,140 2,140 2,125 Debt securities 2,140 2,140 2,125 Loans and advances Total financial assets 48,806 11,463 33,567 3,776 48,557 Finance leases TOTAL TRANSFERRED ASSETS 48,806 11,463 33,567 3,776 48,557 (1) Including securities lending without cash collateral. (2) When the “counterparty” (counterparties) to the associated liabilities has (have) recourseonly to the transferred assets. Securitisations Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance Securitisations Consolidated securitisations with external investors are a transfer of At 31 December 2018, Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance managed 16 assets within the meaning of the amendment to IFRS 7. The Group consolidated vehicles for securitisation of retail consumer loans and car effectively has an indirect contractual obligation to deliver to external dealer financing in Europe. Securitisation transactions carried out within investors the cash flows from assets sold to the securitisation fund Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance Group are not considered to form part (although these assets are recorded in the Group balance sheet through of a deconsolidation transaction under IFRS and have therefore been the consolidation of the fund). Receivables assigned to the securitisation reintegrated into Crédit Agricole S.A. Group’s consolidated financial fund are used as collateral for investors. statements. Fully self-subscribed consolidated securitisations do not constitute a transfer of assets within the meaning of IFRS 7. 448 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 6 Transferred assets recognised to the extent Transferred assets still fully recognised of the entity’s continuing involvement Assets and associated Carrying Associated liabilities liabilities Initial amount of of which of which total carrying assets still Carrying securisation securities bought amount of recognised amount of Carrying (nonunder repurchase of which Net fair assets prior to (continuing associated amount deconsolidating) agreements other(1) Fair value(2) value transfer involvement) liabilities 12,866 12,866 12,866 452 177 177 177 12,689 12,689 12,689 452 2,166 2,166 2,166 40 2,166 2,166 2,166 40 15,960 15,633 327 15,960 2,328 327 327 327 217 15,633 15,633 15,633 2,111 9,148 9,037 201 9,148 3,552 201 201 201 1,036 8,947 9,037 8,947 2,516 2,140 2,140 2,140 (15) 2,140 2,140 2,140 (15) 42,280 9,037 33,006 327 42,280 6,277 42,280 9,037 33,006 327 42,280 6,277 The carrying amounts of the relevant assets (net of related liabilities) Cariparma Securitisations amounted to €7,365 million at 31 December 2018. They include, in At 31 December 2018, Cariparma managed two home loan securitisation particular, outstanding customer loans with a net carrying amount of vehicles. These securitisation transactions are not considered to form €5,571 million. The amount of securities mobilised on the market stood part of a deconsolidation transaction under IFRS and have therefore at €5,042 million. The value of securities still available to be mobilised stood at €9,500 million. been reintegrated into Crédit Agricole S.A. Group’s consolidated financial statements. 6 The carrying amounts of the relevant assets amounted to €10,502 million at 31 December 2018. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 449 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 6 6.7 EXPOSURE TO SOVEREIGN RISK The scope of sovereign exposures recorded covers exposures to Governments, but does not include local authorities. Tax debt is excluded from these amounts. Exposure to sovereign debt corresponds to an exposure net of impairment (carrying amount) presented both gross and net of hedging. The Group’s exposure to sovereign risk is as follows: Banking activity Exposures net of impairment Other financial instruments at fair value through profit Financial assets or loss at fair value Other financial through other Held for instruments comprehensive Financial trading at fair value income that may assets at Total banking Total banking 31/12/2018 financial through profit be reclassified to amortised activity before activity after (in millions of euros) assets or loss profit or loss cost hedging Hedging hedging Saudi Arabia 8 880 888 888 Austria 15 15 15 Belgium 50 2,395 1,007 3,452 (129) 3,323 Brazil 381 211 592 592 China 6 19 25 25 Spain 332 52 384 384 United States 1,578 152 1,610 3,340 1 3,341 France 3 45 5,840 11,582 17,470 (611) 16,859 Greece Hong Kong 71 978 1,049 1,049 Iran Ireland Italy 519 3,013 4,985 8,517 (183) 8,334 Japan 23 1,948 1,971 1,971 Lithuania Poland 3 737 740 740 United Kingdom Russia 1 7 8 8 Syria Turkey Ukraine 31 34 65 65 Venezuela 59 59 59 Yemen Other countries 889 9 1,647 2,438 4,983 (6) 4,977 TOTAL 3,532 54 14,154 25,818 43,558 (928) 42,630 450 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 6 Exposures net of impairment Of which banking portfolio Total Hedging Held-toFinancial of which banking availablematurity Available-forassets at fair trading book activity for-sale Total banking 31/12/2017 financial sale financial value through Loans and (excluding before financial activity after (in millions of euros) assets assets profit or loss receivables derivatives) hedging assets hedging Saudi Arabia 542 2 544 544 Austria 15 44 59 59 Belgium 3,196 3,196 (122) 3,074 Brazil 7 38 86 131 131 China 65 3 68 68 Spain 1,463 1,463 1,463 United States 151 617 768 (3) 765 France 7,018 11,568 1,529 20,115 (859) 19,256 Greece Hong Kong 1,044 38 1,082 1,082 Iran Ireland 4 4 4 Italy 2,214 5,210 113 64 7,601 (187) 7,414 Japan 2,635 255 2,890 2,890 Lithuania Poland 759 2 760 761 United Kingdom Russia 8 5 13 13 Syria Turkey Ukraine 32 32 32 Venezuela 4 4 4 Yemen Other countries 114 2,961 15 (581) 1,972 4,481 (10) 4,470 TOTAL 9,346 29,118 15 1,899 2,833 43,211 (1,181) 42,030 6 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 451 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 6 Insurance activity Due to credit institutions For the insurance activity, exposure to sovereign debt is presented as net (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 of impairment, before hedging, and corresponds to an exposure before application of sharing mechanisms between insurer and policyholder Credit institutions specific to life insurance. Accounts and borrowings 75,531 67,123 of which current accounts in credit(1) 12,817 7,819 Gross exposures (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 of which overnight accounts and deposits(1) 1,678 1,858 Saudi Arabia Pledged securities Austria 3,667 3,388 Securities sold under repurchase Belgium 2,859 2,419 agreements 22,131 22,088 Brazil 1 Total 97,662 89,211 China Crédit Agricole internal transactions Spain 1,148 1,015 Current accounts in credit(1) 11,223 10,109 United States 39 17 Term deposits and advances 21,478 23,958 France 47,510 42,029 Securities sold under repurchase Greece agreements 1,597 2,312 Hong Kong Total 34,298 36,379 Iran CARRYING AMOUNT 131,960 125,590 Ireland 759 587 (1) These transactions are partly comprised of the item “Net demand loans and Italy 6,042 5,968 deposits with credit institutions” on the Cash Flow Statement. Japan 39 11 Lithuania 2 Poland 349 356 Due to customers United Kingdom 4 (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Russia Current accounts in credit 203,495 182,099 Syria Special savings accounts 288,414 275,058 Turkey Other amounts due to customers 101,775 89,768 Ukraine Securities sold under repurchase Venezuela agreements 840 1,706 Yemen Insurance liabilities 1,260 853 Other countries 1,977 964 Reinsurance liabilities 334 313 TOTAL EXPOSURE 64,393 56,757 Cash deposits received from ceding and retroceding companies against technical insurance commitments 1,052 949 6.8 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES CARRYING AMOUNT 597,170 550,746 AT AMORTISED COST Debt instruments (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 Due to credit institutions 131,960 (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Due to customers 597,170 Interest bearing notes 126 130 Debt securities 184,470 Money-market securities 10,306 11,686 CARRYING AMOUNT 913,600 Negotiable debt securities 78,610 61,891 Bonds(1) 92,347 86,176 Other debt securities 3,081 3,825 CARRYING AMOUNT 184,470 163,708 (1) Includes issues of Covered Bonds and issues of senior non-preferred bonds. The debt instruments issued by Crédit Agricole S.A. and subscribed for by Crédit Agricole S.A. Group insurance companies were eliminated for euro contracts. They were eliminated for the portion backing unit-linked contracts with financial risk borne by the policyholder. 452 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 6 6.9 INFORMATION ON THE OFFSETTING OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Offsetting – financial assets 31/12/2018 Offsetting effects on financial assets covered by master netting agreements and similar agreements Other amounts that can be offset under given conditions Amounts of Gross amounts other financial Gross of recognised Net amounts Gross amounts instruments amounts of financial of financial of financial received as recognised liabilities assets liabilities collateral, Net amount financial set off in the presented in covered by including after all Type of financial instrument assets before financial the financial master netting security offsetting (in millions of euros) offsetting statements statements(2) agreements deposits effects Derivatives(1) 167,617 57,578 110,039 80,604 17,018 12,417 Reverse repurchase agreements 169,727 52,233 117,493 8,609 104,480 4,404 Securities lent 5,669 5,669 5,669 Other financial instruments TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS SUBJECT TO OFFSETTING 343,013 109,811 233,201 89,213 121,499 22,490 (1) Including margin calls but before any XVA impact. (2) The net amount of financial assets shown in the summary statements is equal to the amount shown on the balance sheet as assets. 31/12/2017 Offsetting effects on financial assets covered by master netting agreements and similar agreements Other amounts that can be offset under given conditions Amounts of Gross amounts other financial Gross of recognised Net amounts Gross amounts instruments amounts of financial of financial of financial received as recognised liabilities assets liabilities collateral, Net amount Type of financial instrument financial assets before set off in the financial presented in covered by the financial master netting including security after all offsetting 6 (in millions of euros) offsetting statements statements(2) agreements deposits effects Derivatives(1) 198,500 75,436 123,064 97,826 13,097 12,142 Reverse repurchase agreements 134,424 29,647 104,777 19,889 22,284 62,604 Securities lent 4,531 4,531 4,531 Other financial instruments TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS SUBJECT TO OFFSETTING 337,456 105,083 232,373 117,715 35,381 79,277 (1) Including margin calls but before any XVA impact. (2) The net amount of financial assets shown in the summary statements is equal to the amount shown on the balance sheet as assets. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 453 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 6 Offsetting – financial liabilities 31/12/2018 Offsetting effects on financial covered by master netting agreements and similar agreements Other amounts that can be offset under given conditions Amounts of Gross Gross Gross other financial amounts of amounts of Net amounts amounts instruments recognised recognised of financial of financial received as financial financial liabilities assets collateral, Net amount liabilities assets set off presented in covered by including after all Type of financial instrument before in the financial the financial master netting security offsetting (in millions of euros) offsetting statements statements(2) agreements deposits effects Derivatives(1) 163,263 57,544 105,719 80,641 24,421 657 Repurchase agreements 152,745 52,233 100,512 8,609 85,682 6,221 Securities borrowed 5,977 5,977 5,977 Other financial instruments TOTAL FINANCIAL LIABILITIES SUBJECT TO OFFESTTING 321,987 109,778 212,209 89,249 110,104 12,856 (1) Including margin calls before any XVA impact. (2) The net amount of financial liabilities shown in the summary statements is equal to the amount shown on the balance sheet as liabilities. 31/12/2017 Offsetting effects on financial liabilities covered by master netting agreements and similar agreements Other amounts that can be offset under given conditions Amounts of Gross Gross Gross other financial amounts of amounts of Net amounts amounts instruments recognised recognised of financial of financial received as financial financial liabilities assets collateral, Net amount liabilities assets set off presented in covered by including after all Type of financial instrument before in the financial the financial master netting security offsetting (in millions of euros) offsetting statements statements(2) agreements deposits effects Derivatives(1) 196,186 75,444 120,742 97,826 11,272 11,644 Repurchase agreements 120,799 29,647 91,152 19,889 20,264 50,999 Securities borrowed 5,010 5,010 5,010 Other financial instruments TOTAL FINANCIAL LIABILITIES SUBJECT TO OFFESTTING 321,995 105,091 216,904 117,715 31,536 67,653 (1) Including margin calls before any XVA impact. (2) The net amount of financial liabilities shown in the summary statements is equal to the amount shown on the balance sheet as liabilities. 454 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 6 6.10 CURRENT AND DEFERRED TAX 6.11 ACCRUED INCOME AND EXPENSES ASSETS AND LIABILITIES AND OTHER ASSETS AND LIABILITIES (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Accruals, prepayments and sundry assets Current tax 1,350 1,490 Deferred tax 3,130 2,972 (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 TOTAL CURRENT AND DEFERRED Other assets 30,966 28,776 TAX ASSETS 4,480 4,462 Inventory accounts and miscellaneous 144 139 Current tax 692 1,144 Sundry debtors(1) 26,533 24,824 Deferred tax 1,684 2,338 Settlement accounts 2,126 1,887 TOTAL CURRENT AND DEFERRED Other insurance assets 344 281 TAX LIABILITIES 2,376 3,482 Reinsurer’s share of technical reserves 1,819 1,645 Accruals and deferred income 7,047 7,421 Net deferred tax assets and liabilities break down as follows: Items in course of transmission 2,324 2,640 (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 Adjustment and suspense accounts 673 463 Accrued income 2,592 2,712 Temporary timing differences – tax 2,179 Prepaid expenses 514 593 Non-deductible accrued expenses 329 Other accrual prepayments and sundry Non-deductible provisions for liabilities and charges 2,066 assets 945 1,013 Other temporary differences(1) (216) Deferred tax on reserves for unrealised gains CARRYING AMOUNT 38,013 36,197 or losses (308) (1) Including €49 million in respect of the contribution to the Single Resolution Financial assets at fair value through other Fund in the form of a security deposit at 31 December 2018. The Single comprehensive income (316) Resolution Fund may use the security deposit to provide funding unconditionally and at any time. Cash flow hedges (286) Gains and losses/Actuarial differences 103 Other comprehensive income attributable to changes Accruals, deferred income and sundry liabilities in own credit risk 56 Reclassification of net gains (losses) of designated (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 financial assets applying the overlay approach 135 Other liabilities (1) 30,705 29,411 Deferred tax on income and reserves (425) Settlement accounts 2,654 2,493 of which Reclassification of net gains (losses) Sundry creditors 27,798 26,718 of designated financial assets applying the overlay Liabilities related to trading securities 231 176 approach (135) Other insurance liabilities 22 24 TOTAL DEFERRED TAX 1,446 Accruals and deferred income 11,603 11,119 (1) The portion of deferred tax related to tax loss carryforwards is €431 million for 2018. Items in course of transmission(2) 3,271 3,735 Adjustment and suspense accounts 845 307 (in millions of euros) 31/12/2017 Unearned income 1,309 1,307 Temporary timing differences – tax 1,550 Accrued expenses 5,639 5,049 Other accrual prepayments and sundry Non-deductible accrued expenses Non-deductible provisions for liabilities and charges 279 1,871 liabilities 540 721 6 Other temporary differences(1) (600) CARRYING AMOUNT 42,309 40,530 Deferred tax on reserves for unrealised gains (1) The amounts shown include related debts. or losses (793) (2) Net amounts are shown. Available-for-sale assets (736) Cash flow hedges (192) Gains and losses/Actuarial differences 135 Deferred tax on income and reserves (123) TOTAL DEFERRED TAX 634 (1) The portion of deferred tax related to tax loss carryforwards is €626 million for 2017. Deferred tax assets are netted on the balance sheet by taxable entity. In order to assess the level of deferred tax assets to be recognised, Crédit Agricole S.A. takes into account for each company or tax group concerned the dedicated tax status and the earnings projections established during the budgetary process. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 455 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 6 6.12 JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES Financial information of joint ventures Automobiles) signed an agreement to extend their 50/50 joint venture and associates until 31 December 2021. Active in 16 European countries, the company manages all financing transactions for car dealers and private customers At 31 December 2018, for the following brands: Fiat, Lancia, Alfa Romeo, Maserati, Chrysler, nn the equity-accounted value of joint ventures totalled €2,204 million Jeep, Fiat Professional, Abarth, Ferrari in Europe as well as Jaguar Land (€1,797 million at 31 December 2017); Rover in continental Europe. It is key to the development of the Group’s nn the equity-accounted value of associates totalled €4,164 million automotive joint venture business. (€3,380 million at 31 December 2017). Material associates and joint ventures are presented in the table below. FCA Bank is a joint venture created with the Fiat Chrysler Automobiles These are the main joint ventures and associates that make up the Group. In July 2013, Crédit Agricole S.A., Crédit Agricole Consumer “Equity-accounted value on the balance sheet”. Finance and Fiat Chrysler Automobiles (formerly Fiat Group 31/12/2018 Dividends Equitypaid to Share Share of % of accounted Market Group’s of net shareholders’ (in millions of euros) interest value value entities income(1) equity(2) Joint ventures FCA Bank S.P.A 50.0% 1,672 133 1,427 Others 532 10 63 738 Net carrying amount of investments in equityaccounted entities (joint ventures) 2,204 196 2,165 Associates Icade 18.4% 935 911 59 22 566 Korian 23.2% 615 591 5 42 578 Altarea 24.7% 559 657 50 54 462 Ramsay – Générale de Santé 38.4% 439 624 3 181 Gac – Sofinco Auto Finance Co. Ltd. 50.0% 311 38 311 Sci Heart of La Defense(3) 33.3% 271 271 (5) 271 Sci Cargo Property Holding 28.0% 182 207 10 3 182 Wafasalaf 49.0% 135 13 12 79 ABC-CA Fund Management Co 22.8% 121 20 121 Frey 19.2% 114 100 2 14 112 Others 482 82 174 Net carrying amount of investments in equityaccounted entities (Associates) 4,164 285 3,037 NET CARRYING AMOUNT OF INVESTMENTS IN EQUITYACCOUNTED ENTITIES 6,368 481 5,202 (1) The share of income of insurance activities and associates as well as the related share of benefits are classified as Net Banking Income in the income statement. (2) Shareholders’ equity Group share in the financial statements of the joint venture or associate when the joint venture or associate is a sub-group. The effect of 2018 inclusion into the scope of consolidation of the insurance entities generate an impact of -€46 million in gains and losses on equity securities accounted in other comprehensive income that cannot be reclassified. (3) SCI Heart of La Défense entered the scope of consolidation under the equity method in 2018. 456 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 6 31/12/2017 EquityShare of Dividends paid Share of % of accounted market to Group’s Share of net shareholders’ (in millions of euros) interest value value entities income(1) equity(2) Joint ventures FCA Bank S.p.A. 50.0% 1,573 50 193 1,270 Autres 224 5 6 504 Net carrying amount of investments in equityaccounted entities (joint ventures) 1,797 199 1,774 Associates Banque Saudi Fransi(3) 92 173 Eurazeo(4) 13 77 Icade(5) 18.5% 966 1,123 14 597 Altarea 24.7% 544 825 42 83 447 Korian 23.0% 521 547 11 32 484 Ramsay – Générale de Santé 38.4% 435 459 22 177 Gac – Sofinco Auto Finance Co. Ltd 50.0% 216 30 216 SCI Cargo Property Holding(5) 29.9% 171 164 7 1 171 Infra Foch Topco 36.9% 91 168 26 27 (50) Patrimoine et Commerce(5) 19.9% 68 55 3 18 68 Eurosic(6) 21 56 Others 367 51 267 Net carrying amount of investments in equityaccounted entities (Associates) 3,380 563 2,377 NET CARRYING AMOUNT OF INVESTMENTS IN EQUITY-ACCOUNTED ENTITIES 5,177 783 4,151 (1) The share of income of insurance activities and associates as well as the related share of benefits are classified as Net Banking Income in the income statement. (2) Shareholders’ equity Group share in the financial statements of the joint venture or associate when the joint venture or associate is a sub-group. (3) Crédit Agricole Banque CIB sold 16.2% of Banque Saudi Fransi on 20 September 2017. The contribution of Banque Sandi Fransi covers the period strating 1 January 2017 to 20 September 2017. The remaining participation has been reclassified in Available-for-sale financial assets. (4) Crédit Agricole S.A. has sold its entire stake in Eurazeo on 16 June 2017. The contribution of Eurazeo covers the period starting 1 January 2017 to 16 June 2017. (5) SCI Cargo Property Holding, Icade and Patrimoine et Commerce entered the scope of consolidation under the equity method in 2017. (6) In connection Gecina and Eurosic merger, CAA disposed of all of its Eurosic shares. The company exited the scope of consolidation on 31 December 2017. The market value shown in the table above is the quoted price of the entities were subject to impairment tests, in case of an indication of shares on the market at 31 December 2018. This value may not be impairment, using the same methodology as for goodwill. representative of the selling value since the value in use of equityCondensed financial information for the material associates and joint accounted entities may be different from the equity-accounted value ventures of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group is shown below: determined pursuant to IAS 28. Investments in equity-accounted 31/12/2018 6 (in millions of euros) Revenues Net income Total assets Total equity Joint ventures FCA Bank S.p.A 954 387 30,396 2,854 Associates Icade 120 120 11,388 3,812 Korian 180 180 7,279 2,480 Altarea 220 220 8,247 3,060 Ramsay – Générale de Santé 7 7 2,502 511 Gac – Sofinco Auto Finance Co. Ltd. 172 76 5,520 1,267 SCI Heart of La Defense(1) (15) (15) 1,876 825 SCI Cargo Property Holding 10 10 595 576 Wafasalaf 25 161 ABC-CA Fund Management Co 108 59 420 724 Frey 71 71 1,048 581 (1) SCI Heart of La Défense entered the scope of consolidation under the equity method in 2018. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 457 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 6 31/12/2017 (in millions of euros) Revenues Net income Total assets Total equity Joint ventures FCA Bank S.p.A 821 387 27,081 2,540 Associates Icade(1) 77 77 10,049 3,864 Altarea 335 335 7,624 2,979 Korian 137 137 6,687 2,097 Ramsay – Générale de Santé 57 57 2,346 502 GAC – Sofinco Auto Finance Co.Ltd 161 59 4,099 873 SCI Cargo Property Holding(1) 4 4 606 593 Infra Foch Topco 72 72 3,081 603 Patrimoine et Commerce(1) 93 93 722 337 (1) SCI Cargo Property Holding, Icade and Patrimoine et Commerce entered the scope of consolidation under the equity method in 2017. Significant restrictions on joint ventures and associates Crédit Agricole S.A. Group has the following restrictions: These requirements limit the ability of the subsidiaries to distribute dividends. In the majority of cases, these are less restrictive than the Regulatory constraints regulatory limitations mentioned above. The subsidiaries of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group are subject to prudential regulation and regulatory capital requirements in their host countries. Restriction on assets backing unit-linked contracts for the The minimum equity capital (solvency ratio), leverage ratio and liquidity Insurance business ratio requirements limit the capacity of these entities to pay dividends Assets backing unit-linked contracts of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group or to transfer assets to Crédit Agricole S.A. Group. are held for the benefit of policyholders. Assets of the insurance subsidiaries of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group are mainly held for satisfying Legal constraints their obligation towards their policyholders. Assets transfers to other The subsidiaries of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group are subject to legal entities are possible following the legal conditions. However, in case of provisions concerning the distribution of capital and distributable earnings. a transfer, a part of the profit due to the transfer must be intended for the policyholders. 6.13 INVESTMENT PROPERTIES Changes Increases Decreases Translation Other (in millions of euros) 31/12/2017 01/01/2018 in scope (acquisitions) (disposals) adjustments movements 31/12/2018 Gross amount 6,283 6,283 153 518 (558) 96 6,492 Amortisation and impairment (87) (87) (3) 18 (12) (84) CARRYING AMOUNT(1) 6,196 6,196 153 515 (540) 84 6,408 (1) Including investment property let to third parties. Changes Increases Decreases Translation Other (in millions of euros) 31/12/2016 in scope (acquisitions) (disposals) adjustments movements 31/12/2017 Gross amount 5,697 14 1,484 (1,130) 218 6,283 Amortisation and impairment (80) (3) 5 (9) (87) CARRYING AMOUNT (1) 5,617 14 1,481 (1,125) 209 6,196 (1) Including investment property let to third parties. 458 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 6 Fair value of investment properties The market value of investment property recorded at amortised cost, as valued by “expert appraisers”, was €9,314 million at 31 December 2018 compared to €8,845 million at 31 December 2017. (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments Level 1 Valuation based on observable data Level 2 9,215 8,774 Valuation based on unobservable data Level 3 99 71 MARKET VALUE OF INVESTMENT PROPERTIES 9,314 8,845 All investment property are recognised at amortised cost in the balance sheet. 6.14 PROPERTY, PLANT & EQUIPMENT AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS (EXCLUDING GOODWILL) Decreases Changes Increases (disposals and Translation Other (in millions of euros) 31/12/2017 01/01/2018 in scope (acquisitions) redemptions) adjustments movements 31/12/2018 Property, plant & equipment used in operations Gross amount 8,400 8,400 5 331 (271) 29 (28) 8,466 Amortisation and impairment(1) (4,190) (4,190) (6) (398) 187 (14) 24 (4,397) CARRYING AMOUNT 4,210 4,210 (1) (67) (84) 15 (4) 4,069 Intangible assets Gross amount 6,530 6,530 2 534 (142) 3 58 6,985 Amortisation and impairment (4,350) (4,350) (1) (438) 120 (1) (28) (4,698) CARRYING AMOUNT 2,180 2,180 1 96 (22) 2 30 2,287 (1) Including depreciation on fixed assets let to third parties. Decreases (disposals Changes Increases and Translation Other (in millions of euros) 31/12/2016 in scope (acquisitions) redemptions) adjustments movements 31/12/2017 Property, plant & equipment used in operations Gross amount 7,884 319 556 (392) (72) 105 8,400 Amortisation and impairment(1) (4,055) (50) (395) 333 41 (64) (4,190) CARRYING AMOUNT 3,829 269 161 (59) (31) 41 4,210 Intangible assets Gross amount 5,386 737 564 (104) (14) (39) 6,530 6 Amortisation and impairment (3,803) (176) (435) 58 11 (5) (4,350) CARRYING AMOUNT 1,583 561 129 (46) (3) (44) 2,180 (1) Including depreciation on fixed assets let to third parties. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 459 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 6 6.15 GOODWILL Impairment Delosses TransIncreases creases during lation Other 31/12/2017 31/12/2017 01/01/2018 01/01/2018 (acquisi(Divestthe adjustmove31/12/2018 31/12/2018 (in millions of euros) gross net gross net tions) ments) period ments ments gross net Asset gathering 6,793 6,793 6,793 6,793 22 48 6,864 6,864 of which insurance 1,214 1,214 1,214 1,214 1,214 1,214 of which asset management 4,830 4,831 4,830 4,831 20 4,851 4,851 of which international wealth management 749 749 749 749 22 28 799 799 French Retail Banking – LCL 5,263 4,772 5,263 4,772 5,263 4,772 International retail banking 3,223 1,692 3,223 1,692 1 3,219 1,693 of which Italy 2,872 1,660 2,872 1,660 2,872 1,660 of which Poland 225 225 220 of which Ukraine 39 39 39 of which other countries 86 32 86 32 1 88 33 Specialised financial services 2,714 1,023 2,714 1,023 2 2,716 1,025 of which Consumer finance (excl. Agos) 1,692 954 1,692 954 2 1,694 956 of which Consumer finance – Agos 569 569 569 of which Factoring 453 69 453 69 453 69 Large customers 2,366 1,141 2,366 1,141 (4) 2,362 1,137 of which Corporate and investment banking 1,711 486 1,711 486 1,711 486 of which Asset servicing 655 655 655 655 (4) 651 651 Corporate Centre TOTAL 20,358 15,421 20,358 15,421 24 (4) 49 20,424 15,491 Group Share 18,820 14,046 18,820 14,046 23 (4) 46 18,884 14,111 Non-controlling interests 1,538 1,375 1,538 1,375 1 3 1,540 1,380 Determining the value in use of the CGUs Goodwill was subject to impairment tests based on the assessment of the nn the European Central Bank should continue to pursue a very value in use of the cash generating units (CGU) with which it is associated. accommodating monetary policy, even if a gradual tightening is Determining the value in use was based on discounting the CGUs’ implemented: short-term rates could leave their current negative estimated future cash flows calculated from activities forecasts over a territory by the end of 2019, but then their continued increase will be period over four years (2019-2022) developed for Group management very gradual; long-term core rates are expected to move relatively purposes, extrapolated over a fifth year in order to merge towards growth parallel to key rates, resulting in a curve with a constant, rather trends to infinity. shallow slope; overall, therefore, a scenario that is rather favourable The economic scenario on which the projected financial trajectories to retail banking activities in the euro zone, but in a moderate and are based is that of a slight downturn in economic growth in the gradual manner; main areas, accompanied by inflation that remains measured and a nn the monetary normalisation of the FED could continue – less strongly financial environment that is not without volatility, given the elements than in 2018 – and the US economy would slow down after the period of uncertainty prevailing at the time the scenario was prepared, but of strong growth triggered by the fiscal easing initiated in 2017; in the without a systemic shock. Central banks are gradually moving towards medium term, American and European growth rates would scarcely a less accommodating monetary policy, aware that the United States is be different, but with a capacity for defence through monetary policy ahead of schedule in this respect. Therefore: more clearly reconstituted in the United States; nn in the Euro zone, after a very dynamic 2017, the scenario incorporates nn economic developments in emerging countries are expected to a gradual convergence of the growth trajectory towards the level remain broadly positive, although contrasted by varying degrees of of long-term potential; at distinct absolute levels, this is also the vulnerability to monetary developments in the developed world and scenario envisaged for both France and Italy individually; real and trade conflicts: slowdown in China, acceleration in India, temporary core inflation would remain moderate; negative shock in Turkey, slight recovery in Brazil... 460 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 6 As of 31 December 2018, perpetual growth rates, discount rates and capital allocated rates as a proportion of risk-weighted assets were distributed by business lines as shown in the table below: 31/12/2018 (for Crédit Agricole S.A. fully consolidated entities) Perpetual growth rates Discount rate Capital allocated French retail banking – LCL 2.0% 7.8% 9.75% International retail banking – Italy 2.0% 9.6% 9.75% International retail banking – Others 7.0% 17.0% 9.5% Specialised financial services 2.0% 7.8% to 8.3% 9.6% to 9.7% 9.7% 80% of the solvency Asset gathering 2.0% 7.8% to 8.7% margin (Insurance) Large customers 2.0% 8.3% to 9.7% 9.7% The increase by the European Central Bank (ECB) of regulatory The discount rates determined at 31 December 2018 for all business prudential requirements under Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 with effect from lines reflect the continued low long-term interest rates in Europe and 2016 led Crédit Agricole S.A. progressively to raise the level of capital more particularly in France. Equity risk premiums increased slightly. allocated to CGUs as a percentage of risk-weighted assets for certain These changes are reflected in a slight increase in the discount rates entities. Last year, this allocation was 9.5% of RWA for all CGUs. used compared to the end of 2017, a slightly more marked increase for The French High Committee for Financial Stability has decided to the CGU discount rate(s)“International retail banking – Italy” (+0.5%). implement a counter-cyclical cushion of 0.25% of risk-weighted assets The perpetual growth rates at 31 December 2018 were unchanged from corresponding to French exposures, applicable as from 1 July 2019. As those used at 31 December 2017. a precautionary measure, we have taken into account the impact of this cushion, as well as the very marginal impact of the existing cushions in some foreign countries for allocating equity capital to CGUs from the beginning of 2019. This ultimately results in the adoption, for the various banking CGUs, of a CET1 equity allocation of between 9.50% and 9.75% of risk-weighted assets. Sensitivity of the valuation of CGUs to the main valuation parameters The sensitivity of the value in use of the CGUs comprising each of the major business segments to the variation of certain valuation parameters is presented in the following table: Sensitivity to capital Sensitivity to Sensitivity to cost of risk Sensitivity to the cost/income allocated discount rates in the final year ratio in the final year In 2018 +100 bp (50) bp +50 bp (10%) +10% (100) bp +100 bp French retail banking – LCL (1.5%) +9.2% (7.7%) +2.6% (2.6%) +3.2% (3.2%) International retail banking – Italy (4.6%) +6.6% (5.8%) +3.5% (3.5%) +3.5% (3.5%) International retail banking – Others (1.8%) +4.9% (4.5%) +0.9% (0.9%) +1.5% (1.5%) Specialised financial services (5.7%) +9.9% (8.4%) +11.5% (11.5%) +5% (5%) Asset gathering Large customers (0.6%) (8.5%) +8.2% +8.3% (7%) (6%) NM +1.2% NM (1.2%) +1.3% +2.6% (1.3%) (2.6%) 6 Sensitivity tests were conducted on goodwill Group share with changes –– a variation of +100 basis point in the level of equity allocated to in the main valuation parameters applied equally for all CGU’s. These banking CGUs would result in a negative difference between value tests showed that the International retail banking – Italy CGU affected, in use and consolidated value of approximately €135 million on the by the factoring in of persistently low rates as well as a significant International retail banking – Italy CGU. increase in the discount rate used to value it, is the most sensitive to nn With regard to operational parameters, deterioration hypothesis that the downgraded parameters of the model. The value of the LCL retail were simulated (respectively a scenario of a +10% increase on the banking CGU in France is also sensitive to the tightening of certain cost of risk in the terminal year of projection and this of +100 basis parameters, but to a lesser extent. points change on the cost/income ratio for the same year) would nn With regard to financial parameters: result in a negative difference between value in use and the carrying –– a variation of +50 basis points in discount rates would result in a amount, only for the International retail banking – Italy CGU (negative negative difference between value in use and the carrying amount difference of about €85 million for each of these hypothesis). of approximately €300 million on the LCL retail banking CGU in France and approximately €190 million for the International retail banking CGU – Italy; The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 461 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 6 6.16 INSURANCE COMPANY TECHNICAL RESERVES Breakdown of insurance technical reserves 31/12/2018 (in millions of euros) Life Non-life International Creditor Total Insurance contracts 190,622 5,394 19,475 1,860 217,351 Investment contracts with discretionary profit-sharing 73,316 13,819 87,135 Investment contracts without discretionary profit-sharing 2,366 1,484 3,850 Deferred participation benefits (liability) 16,244 16,244 Other technical reserves Total technical reserves 282,548 5,394 34,778 1,860 324,580 Deferred participation benefits (asset) 52 52 Reinsurer’s share of technical reserves (1,015) (457) (71) (275) (1,818) NET TECHNICAL RESERVES 281,533 4,937 34,759 1,585 322,814 31/12/2017 (in millions of euros) Life Non-life International Creditor Total Insurance contracts 169,685 4,892 16,516 1,773 192,866 Investment contracts with discretionary profit-sharing 90,169 12,789 102,958 Investment contracts without discretionary profit-sharing 2,507 1,394 3,901 Deferred participation benefits (liability) 20,978 500 21,478 Total technical reserves 283,339 4,892 31,199 1,773 321,203 Deferred participation benefits (asset) Reinsurer’s share of technical reserves (918) (398) (59) (270) (1,645) NET TECHNICAL RESERVES 282,421 4,494 31,140 1,503 319,558 Reinsurers’ share in technical reserves and other insurance liabilities is recognised under “Accruals, prepayments and sundry liabilities”. The breakdown of insurance company technical reserves is presented before elimination of issues in euro and in units of account subscribed by insurance companies. Deferred policyholders’ profit sharing, before tax, at 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017 breaks down as follows: 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Net deferred Deferred participation participation Deferred participation benefits (in millions of euros) benefits Deferred participation benefits benefits in Deferred participation on revaluation of financial (in millions of euros) liabilities assets at fair value through other comprehensive Deferred participation on revaluation of held-for-sale income and hedging derivatives (14,627) securities and hedging derivatives 18,255 Of which deferred participation on revaluation Of which deferred participation on revaluation of financial assets at fair value through other of held-for-sale securities(1) 17,408 comprehensive income(1) (15,519) Of which deferred participation hedging derivatives 847 Of which deferred participation hedging derivatives 892 Deferred participation on trading securities mark-toDeferred participation on financial assets at fair value market adjustment 443 through profit or loss adjustement 479 Other deferred participation (liquidity risk reserve Other deferred participation (2,043) cancellation) 2,780 TOTAL PRE-TAX OTHER DEFERRED PARTICIPATION TOTAL PRE-TAX OTHER DEFERRED PARTICIPATION BENEFITS (16,191) BENEFITS 21,478 (1) See Note 6.4 “Financial assets at fair value through other (1) See Note 6.4 “Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income”. comprehensive income”. 462 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 6 6.17 PROVISIONS Reversals, Reversals, Changes amounts amounts Translation Other (in millions of euros) 31/12/2017 01/01/2018 in scope Additions used not used adjustments movements 31/12/2018 Home purchase schemes risks 241 241 11 (7) 245 Execution risks of commitments by signature 489 1,003 777 (47) (898) 3 34 872 Operational risks 63 64 16 (3) (10) 1 68 Employee retirement and similar benefits(1) 1,832 1,832 (1) 145 (198) (51) 10 (28) 1,709 Litigation(2) 1,139 1,139 5 1,298 (65) (158) 6 (94) 2,132 Equity investments 13 12 (1) 1 (9) (1) (1) 1 Restructuring 35 35 (4) (7) 24 Other risks 609 609 2 210 (61) (103) (1) 102 758 TOTAL 4,421 4,935 6 2,458 (387) (1,235) 18 14 5,809 (1) See Notes 7.4 “Post employment benefits, defined-benefit plans” and 7.5 “Other employee benefits”. (2) See “Tax litigation on Emporiki securities” under Note 2 “Major structural transactions and material events during the period”. Reversals, Reversals, Changes amounts amounts Translation Other (in millions of euros) 31/12/2016 in scope Additions used unused adjustments movements 31/12/2017 Home purchase schemes risks 463 (222) 241 Execution risks of commitments by signature 271 18 265 (7) (76) (19) 37 489 Operational risks 167 1 32 (120) (16) (1) 63 Employee retirement and similar benefits 1,762 182 187 (227) (46) (25) (1) 1,832 Litigation 895 180 400 (122) (209) (4) (1) 1,139 Equity investments 6 10 (3) 13 Restructuring 44 1 (8) (2) 35 Other risks 675 3 131 (96) (110) (7) 13 609 TOTAL 4,283 385 1,025 (583) (681) (55) 47 4,421 At 31 December 2018, employee retirement and similar benefits The assessment notice dated 15 March 2017 relating to this adjustment, included €176 million (€139 million at 31 December 2017) of provisions for the amount of €312 million, resulted in a payment, and concurrently, arising from social costs of the adaptation plans. The provision for a receivable of the same amount was recorded on 31 December 2017. restructuring includes the non-social costs of those plans. In the context of this litigation, on 13 January 2017, the National Tax Commission decided that the tax adjustment should be abandoned. Tax audits The administration maintained it nonetheless, and on 4 October 2018 an appeal was lodged with the Administrative Court. 6 Crédit Agricole S.A. tax audit After an audit of accounts for the 2014 and 2015 financial years, Crédit Crédit Agricole CIB Paris tax audit Agricole S.A. has been the subject of adjustments as part of a proposed After an audit of accounts for the 2013, 2014 and 2015 financial years, correction received at the end of December 2018. Crédit Agricole S.A. is Crédit Agricole CIB has been the subject of adjustments as a part of challenging most of the proposed adjustments in a motivated manner. a proposed correction received at the end of December 2018. Crédit A provision has been recognised to cover the estimated risk. Agricole CIB is challenging the proposed adjustments. A provision has Crédit Agricole S.A. earlier underwent a tax audit covering the 2013 been recognised to cover the estimated risk. financial year. On conclusion of the audit the tax authorities issued a tax adjustment rejecting a tax deduction that was made, following the Merisma tax audit loss on the disposal of Emporiki Bank securities issued from a capital increase on 28 January 2013, four days prior to the sale of Emporiki Merisma, a Crédit Agricole CIB subsidiary, consolidated by Bank to Alpha Bank. The tax authorities dispute the fact that the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group for tax purposes, has been the object of tax securities of this subsidiary were treated as investment securities. adjustment notices for financial years 2006 to 2010, plus surcharges for abuse of law. Although still challenged, provisions have been set aside for the adjustments. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 463 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 6 Tax audit Crédit Agricole CIB Milan regarding transfer (if it were to be proven) in financing terrorism. The Court nonetheless pricing demanded that this be demonstrated by the plaintiffs if they are to win Following audits, Crédit Agricole CIB Milan received adjustment notices their case. Crédit Lyonnais vigorously denies the plaintiffs’ allegations. for the 2005 to 2013 financial years regarding transfer pricing from Under a ruling made on 28 February 2013, the judge issued a Summary the Italian tax authorities. Crédit Agricole CIB challenged the proposed Judgement referring Crédit Lyonnais and the plaintiffs to a jury trial on adjustments. At the same time, the case has been referred to the the merits. competent French-Italian authorities for all financial years. A provision In February 2018, Crédit Lyonnais filed a new motion for a summary was recognised to cover the estimated risk. judgement based on a recent case-law so that the plaintiffs’ claims can be dismissed without such a jury trial. CLSA liability guarantee On January 2019 the plaintiffs tried to modify their briefs in order to add In 2013, Crédit Agricole Group sold the CLSA entities to the Chinese new plaintiffs before their action be time-barred. The judge refused this group CITICS. request and two new actions (Fisher and Miller) have been filed before Following tax adjustments made to some CLSA entities in India the same court as the one in charge of the procedures Strauss/Wolf. and the Philippines, CITICS invoked the liability guarantee against They are similar to the pending actions, their legal analysis are identical Crédit Agricole S.A. Reasoned arguments have been submitted and their result will depend on the outcome of the motion for a summary challenging the adjustments. A provision was recognised to cover the judgement filed by Crédit Lyonnais in February 2018. estimated risk. From a procedural standpoint they will remain outstanding until then. Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance tax audit CIE case (Cheque Image Exchange) Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance was the subject of an audit of accounts In March 2008, LCL and Crédit Agricole S.A. and ten other banks were for the 2014 and 2015 financial years. It received an adjustment notice served notice of grievances on behalf of the Conseil de la concurrence in late 2017. CA Consumer Finance has recorded a provision in its i.e. the French Competition Council (now the Autorité de la concurrence). accounts for the adjustments that are disputed. They are accused of colluding to implement and apply interchange fees for cashing cheques, since the passage of the Cheque Image Exchange Crédit Agricole Assurances tax audit system, i.e. between 2002 and 2007. In the opinion of the Autorité de la Following a tax audit covering the 2008 and 2009 financial years, Crédit concurrence, these fees constitute anti-competitive price agreements Agricole Assurances was the subject of a contested adjustment before in the meaning of Articles 81 paragraph 1 of the treaty establishing the the administrative court. In 2018, Crédit Agricole Assurances obtained European Community and Article L. 420-1 of the French Commercial full relief for the adjustment, and thus recorded a receivable from the Code, and allegedly caused damage to the economy. State as an amount due that will be recovered in 2019. In their defense, the banks categorically refuted the anticompetitiveness Crédit Agricole Assurances was the subject of a tax audit in 2018 of the fees and contested the legality of the proceedings. relating to the financial years 2014, 2015 and 2016, which did not result In a decision published on 20 September 2010, the Autorité de la in an adjustment. concurrence stated that the Cheque Image Exchange fee (CEIC) was anti-competitive by its very aim and that it artificially increased the costs LCL tax audit borne by remitting banks, which resulted in an unfavourable impact on LCL was the subject of a tax audit in 2015 and 2016, which pertained the prices of banking services. Concerning one of the fees for related to the 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013 financial years. All financial services, the fee for cancellation of wrongly cleared transactions consequences, covered by a provision, have been paid in 2016 and (AOCT), the Autorité de la concurrence called on the banks to revise 2017. The fines imposed under the audit of regulated savings were their amount within six months of the notification of the decision. repaid in 2017, following contest. Other adjustments remain contested. The accused banks were sanctioned for an overall amount of €384.92 million. Inquiries and requests for regulatory information LCL and Crédit Agricole were respectively sentenced to pay €20.7 million The main files linked to inquiries and requests for regulatory information are: and €82.1 million for the CEIC and €0.2 million and €0.8 million for the AOCT. Strauss/Wolf/Faudem All of the banks appealed the decision to the Paris Court of Appeal. US citizens and members of their families who were victims of terrorist By a decree of 23 February 2012, the Court overruled the decision, attacks attributed to Hamas and committed in Israel between 2001 and stating that the Autorité de la concurrence had not proven the existence 2004 have brought proceedings against Crédit Lyonnais and another of competition restrictions establishing the agreement as having an bank before a New York court. anti-competitive purpose. They claim that these banks gave support to terrorists as they each The Autorité de la concurrence filed an appeal with the Supreme Court kept an account opened (in 1990 in the case of Crédit Lyonnais) by on 23 March 2012. a charity providing aid to Palestinians. The plaintiffs allege that the On 14 April 2015, the French Supreme Court (Cour de cassation) account was used to transfer funds to Palestinian entities accused overruled the Paris Court of Appeal’s decision dated 23 February 2012 of financing Hamas. The plaintiffs, who have not put a figure on the and remanded the case to the Paris Court of Appeal with a change in damages they have suffered, are claiming compensation for “injury, the composition of the Court on the sole ground that the Paris Court anguish and emotional pain”. of Appeal declared the UFC-Que Choisir and ADUMPE’s interventions As the matter and the proceedings currently stand, the plaintiffs have in the proceedings devoid of purpose without having considered their not provided proof that the charity was actually linked to terrorists, nor arguments. that Crédit Lyonnais was aware that its client could have been involved The Supreme Court did not rule on the merits of the case and Crédit Agricole has brought the case before the Paris Court of Appeal. 464 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 6 The Paris Court of Appeal issued a decree on 21 December 2017. Furthermore, Crédit Agricole CIB is currently under investigation opened It confirmed the decision of the Autorité de la concurrence dated by the Attorney General of the State of Florida on both the Libor and 20 September 2010 but reduced from €82,940,000 to €76,560,000 the Euribor. the sanction on Crédit Agricole. LCL’s sanction remains unchanged, at Following its investigation and an unsuccessful settlement procedure, an amount of €20,930,000. on 21 May 2014, the European Commission sent a notification of As well as the other banks parties to this procedure, LCL and Crédit grievances to Crédit Agricole S.A. and to Crédit Agricole CIB pertaining Agricole filed an appeal with the Supreme Court. to agreements or concerted practices for the purpose and/or effect of preventing, restricting or distorting competition in derivatives related Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) to the Euribor. In October 2015, Crédit Agricole S.A. and its subsidiary Crédit In a decision dated 7 December 2016, the European Commission Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank (Crédit Agricole CIB) jointly fined Crédit Agricole S.A. and Crédit Agricole CIB €114,654,000 reached agreements with the US and New York authorities that had for participating in a cartel in euro interest rate derivatives. been conducting investigations regarding US dollar transactions with Crédit Agricole S.A. and Crédit Agricole CIB are challenging this decision countries subject to US economic sanctions. The events covered by this and have asked the European Court of Justice to overturn it. agreement took place between 2003 and 2008. Additionally, the Swiss competition authority, COMCO, is conducting Crédit Agricole CIB and Crédit Agricole S.A., which cooperated with the an investigation into the market for interest rate derivatives, including US and New York authorities in connection with their investigations, the Euribor, with regard to Crédit Agricole S.A. and several Swiss have agreed to pay a total penalty amount of $787.3 million (i.e. and international banks. Moreover, in June 2016 the South Korean €692.7 million). The payment of this penalty has been allocated to the competition authority (KFTC) decided to close the investigation launched pre-existing reserve that had already been taken and, therefore, has not in September 2015 into Crédit Agricole CIB and the Libor index on affected the accounts for the second half of 2015. various currencies, Euribor and Tibor indices. The investigation into The agreements with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve certain foreign exchange derivatives (ABS-NDF) has been closed by System (Fed) and the New York State Department of Financial Services the KFTC according to a decision notified to Crédit Agricole CIB on (NYDFS) are with CASA and Crédit Agricole CIB. The agreement with 20 December 2018. the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) of the US Department of the Concerning the two class actions in the United States of America in which Treasury is with Crédit Agricole CIB. Crédit Agricole CIB also entered Crédit Agricole S.A. and Crédit Agricole CIB have been named since 2012 into separate deferred prosecution agreements (DPAs) with the United and 2013 along with other financial institutions, both as defendants in States Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia (USAO) and the one (“Sullivan” for the Euribor) and only Crédit Agricole S.A. as defendant District Attorney of the County of New York (DANY), the terms of which for the other (“Lieberman” for Libor), the “Lieberman” class action is at are three years. On 19 October 2018 the two deferred prosecution the preliminary stage that consists in the examination of its admissibility; agreements with USAO and DANY ended at the end of the three year proceedings are still suspended before the US District Court of New York period, Crédit Agricole CIB having complied with all its obligations under State. Concerning the “Sullivan” class action, Crédit Agricole S.A. and the DPAs. Crédit Agricole CIB introduced a motion to dismiss the applicants’ claim. Crédit Agricole continues to strengthen its internal procedures and its The US District Court of New York State upheld the motion to dismiss compliance programs regarding laws on international sanctions and regarding Crédit Agricole S.A. and Crédit Agricole CIB in first instance. will continue to cooperate fully with the US and New York authorities This decision is subject to appeal. with its home regulators, the European Central Bank and the French Since 1 July 2016, Crédit Agricole S.A. and Crédit Agricole CIB, together Regulatory and Resolution Supervisory Authority (ACPR), and with the with other banks, are also party to a new class action suit in the United other regulators across its worldwide network. States (“Frontpoint”) relating to the SIBOR (Singapore Interbank Offered Pursuant to the agreements with NYDFS and the US Federal Reserve, Rate) and SOR (Singapore Swap Offer Rate) indices. After having granted Crédit Agricole’s compliance program is subject to regular reviews a first motion to dismiss filed by Crédit Agricole S.A. and Crédit Agricole to evaluate its effectiveness, including a review by an independent CIB, the New York Federal District Court, ruling on a new request by consultant appointed by NYDFS for a term of one year and annual the plaintiffs, excluded Crédit Agricole S.A. from the Frontpoint case reviews by an independent consultant approved by the Federal Reserve. on the grounds that it had not contributed to the relevant indexes. The Court considered, however, taking into account recent developments 6 in case law, that its jurisdiction could apply to Crédit Agricole CIB, as Euribor/Libor and other indexes well as to all the banks that are members of the SIBOR index panel. Crédit Agricole S.A. and its subsidiary Crédit Agricole CIB, in their The allegations contained in the complaint regarding the SIBOR/USD capacity as contributors to a number of interbank rates, have received index and the SOR index were also rejected by the court, therefore requests for information from a number of authorities as part of the index SIBOR/Singapore dollar alone is still taken into account. investigations into: (i) the calculation of the Libor (London Interbank On 26 December, the plaintiffs filed a new complaint aimed at Offered Rates) in a number of currencies, the Euribor (Euro Interbank reintroducing into the scope of the Frontpoint case the alleged Offered Rate) and certain other market indices; and (ii) transactions manipulations of the SIBOR and SOR indexes that affected the connected with these rates and indices. These demands covered transactions in US dollars. Crédit Agricole CIB, alongside the other several periods from 2005 to 2012. defendants, will oppose the terms of this new complaint and has also As part of its cooperation with the authorities, Crédit Agricole S.A. and filed a new motion to dismiss to contest the jurisdiction maintained its subsidiary Crédit Agricole CIB carried out investigations in order against it to gather the information requested by the various authorities and in These class actions are civil actions in which the plaintiffs claim that particular the American authorities – the DOJ (Department of Justice) they are victims of the methods used to set the Euribor, Libor, SIBOR and and CFTC (Commodity Future Trading Commission) – with which they SOR rates, and seek repayment of the sums they allege were unlawfully are in discussions. It is currently not possible to know the outcome of received, as well as damages and reimbursement of costs and fees these discussions, nor the date when they will be concluded. paid. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 465 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 6 Banque Saudi Fransi the US Anti-Terrorism Act and the Justice Against Sponsors of Terrorism Crédit Agricole Corporate Investment Bank (Crédit Agricole CIB) has Act. Specifically, the complaints allege that Crédit Agricole S.A., Crédit received a Request for Arbitration submitted by Banque Saudi Fransi Agricole CIB, and other defendants processed US dollar transactions on (BSF) before the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC). The dispute behalf of Iran and Iranian entities in violation of sanctions administered relates to the performance of a Technical Services Agreement between by the US Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, BSF and Crédit Agricole CIB that is no longer in force. On 7 August 2018, which allegedly enabled Iran to fund terrorist organizations that, as is BSF quantified its claim at SAR 1,011,670,654.00, the equivalent of alleged, attacked plaintiffs. The plaintiffs are seeking an unspecified about €232 million and reserved the right to submit additional claims. amount of compensatory damages. Crédit Agricole CIB totally denies BSF’s allegations and claim. On 2 March 2018, Crédit Agricole CIB and other defendants filed a motion to dismiss the O’ Sullivan I Complaint. Bonds SSA Several regulators have demanded information to Crédit Agricole S.A. Italian Competition Authority and to Crédit Agricole CIB for inquiries relating to activities of different On 5 October 2018, CA Consumer Finance SA (“CACF”) and its banks involved in the secondary trading of Bonds SSA (Supranational, subsisidiary FCA Bank SpA owned at 50% received – together with Sub-Sovereign and Agencies) denominated in American dollars. Through several other banks and certain car manufacturers – a statement of the cooperation with these regulators, Crédit Agricole CIB proceeded objections from the Autorità Garante della Concorrenza e del Mercato to internal inquiries to gather the required information available. On (Italian Competition Authority). It was alleged in this statement of 20 December 2018, the European Commission issued a Statement objections that several banks offering financing solutions for vehicles of Objections to a number of banks including Crédit Agricole S.A. commercialized by certain car manufacturers have restricted and Crédit Agricole CIB within its inquiry on a possible infringement competition as a result of certain exchanges of information, in particular of rules of European Competition law in the secondary trading of within two professional associations. Bonds SSA denominated in American dollars. Crédit Agricole S.A. and In a decision notified on 9 January 2019 the Autorità Garante della Crédit Agricole CIB became aware of these objections and will issue a Concorrenza e del Mercato considered that FCA Bank SpA had response. participated in this alleged infringement and this infringement was also Crédit Agricole CIB is included with other banks in a putative consolidated attributable to CACF. FCA Bank SpA has been fined €178.9 million. FCA class action before the United States District Court for the Southern Bank SpA and CACF appealed against this decision. District of New York. That action was dismissed on 29 August 2018 on the basis that the plaintiffs failed to allege an injury sufficient to give Intercontinental Exchange, Inc. (“ICE”) them standing. However the plaintiffs have been given an opportunity to On 15 January 2019 a class action was filed before a federal court attempt to remedy that defect. The plaintiffs filed an amended complaint in New York (US District Court Southern District of New York) against on 7 November 2018. Crédit Agricole CIB as well as the other defendants the Intercontinental Exchange, Inc. (“ICE”) and a number of banks have filed motions to dismiss the amended complaint. including Crédit Agricole S.A., Crédit Agricole CIB and Crédit Agricole On 7 February 2019, another class action was filed against CACIB and Securities-USA. This action has been filed by plaintiffs who allege that the other defendants named in the class action already pending before they have invested in financial instruments indexed to the USD ICE the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. LIBOR. They accuse the banks of having collusively set the index USD On 11 July 2018, Crédit Agricole S.A. and Crédit Agricole CIB were ICE LIBOR at artificially low levels since February 2014 and made thus notified with other banks of a class action filed in Canada, before the illegal profits. Ontario Superior Court of Justice. Another class action, not notified to On 31 January 2019 a similar action has been filed before the US date, would have been filed before the Federal Court of Canada. It is not District Court Southern District of New York, against a number of banks possible at this stage to predict the outcome of these investigations, including Crédit Agricole S.A., Crédit Agricole CIB and Crédit Agricole proceedings or class actions or the date on which they will end. Securities-USA. On 1 February 2019, these two class actions were consolidated for pre-trial purposes. O’Sullivan and Tavera On 9 November 2017, a group of individuals, (or their families or Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance Nederland B.V. estates), who claimed to have been injured or killed in attacks in The conditions for the review of the interest rates of revolving loans Iraq filed a complaint (“O’Sullivan I”) against several banks including marketed by Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance Nederland BV, a fully Crédit Agricole S.A., and its subsidiary Crédit Agricole Corporate owned subsidiary of Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance SA, and its Investment Bank (Crédit Agricole CIB), in US Federal District Court in subsidiaries are the subject of borrowers’ claims relating to the criteria New York. for revising these rates and possible overpayments of interests. On 29 December 2018, the same group of individuals, together with On 21 January 2019, in 2 individual cases concerning two subsidiaries 57 new plaintiffs, filed a separate action (“O’Sullivan II”) against the of Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance Nederland BV, the Appeals same defendants. Committee of KIFID (the Financial Services Complaints Authority) in the On 21 December 2018, a different group of individuals filed a complaint Netherlands decided that in case the consumers had no or insufficient (“Tavera”) against the same defendants. information on the specific factors that determine the interest rate, the individual interest rate needed to follow the movement of market interest All three complaints allege that Crédit Agricole S.A., Crédit Agricole CIB, rates on consumer loans. and other defendants conspired with Iran and its agents to violate US sanctions and engage in transactions with Iranian entities in violation of Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance Nederland BV and its subsidiaries are analysing the impact of this decision on the concerned portfolios. 466 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 6 CACEIS Germany The Bavarian tax authorities would claim repayment of tax in the amount CACEIS Germany learned from the Bavarian tax authorities that they of €312 million, without prejudice to any potential interests. CACEIS intend to claim repayment of the dividend tax refunded to a number of Germany would strongly challenge this claim, should such claim be its customers in 2010. addressed to it. Home purchase savings plan provision Deposits collected in home purchase savings accounts Customer deposits outstanding, excluding government subsidies, and plans during the savings phase are based on the carrying amount at the end of November 2018 for the financial statements at 31 December 2018 and at the end (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 of November 2017 for the financial statements at 31 December 2017. Home purchase savings plans Under 4 years old 12,412 10,559 Outstanding loans granted to holders of home purchase Between 4 and 10 years old 38,112 35,755 savings accounts and plans Over 10 years old 50,001 50,603 (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Total home purchase savings plans 100,525 96,917 Home purchase savings plans 4 6 Total home purchase savings Home purchase savings accounts 29 44 accounts 11,665 11,560 TOTAL OUTSTANDING LOANS TOTAL DEPOSITS COLLECTED GRANTED UNDER HOME PURCHASE UNDER HOME PURCHASE SAVINGS SAVINGS CONTRACTS 33 50 CONTRACTS 112,190 108,478 Provision for home purchase savings accounts and plans (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Home purchase savings plans Under 4 years old 3 2 Between 4 and 10 years old 20 20 Over 10 years old 222 219 Total home purchase savings plans 245 241 Total home purchase savings accounts TOTAL PROVISIONS FOR HOME PURCHASE SAVINGS CONTRACTS 245 241 Other (in millions of euros) 31/12/2017 01/01/2018 Additions Reversals movements 31/12/2018 Home purchase savings plans 241 241 11 (7) 245 Home purchase savings accounts TOTAL PROVISIONS FOR HOME PURCHASE SAVINGS CONTRACTS 241 241 11 (7) 245 6 Age plan is determined based on the date of the midway point in the The amounts recognised under provisions represent the portion of risk generation of plans to which they belong. borne by Crédit Agricole S.A. and LCL. All of the home purchase savings plans and accounts collected by the Consequently, the ratio between the provision booked and the Regional Banks are recognised at 100% as liabilities in the consolidated outstanding amounts shown on Crédit Agricole S.A. Group’s balance financial statements of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group. sheet is not representative of the level of provisioning for home purchase Half of the amount of outstanding loans related to home purchase savings risk. savings plans and accounts is recognised by Crédit Agricole S.A. Group and the other half by the Regional Banks in the tables above. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 467 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 6 6.18 SUBORDINATED DEBT Deeply subordinated notes are generally fixed-rate then floating-rate beyond a certain duration and include early repayment options at the (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 discretion of Crédit Agricole S.A. (with certain reserves) beyond this same duration. Dated subordinated debt(1) 20,482 22,230 Undated subordinated debt(2) 2,061 2,934 The coupons are non-cumulative and payment of a dividend by Crédit Agricole S.A. entails the obligation to pay the coupon on the Mutual security deposits 161 171 TSS for a period of one year. However, the coupons may not be paid Participating securities and loans 61 86 if Crédit Agricole S.A. experiences a regulatory event, i.e., falls below CARRYING AMOUNT 22,765 25,421 the legal minimum equity ratio as defined by Pillar 1 or Pillar 2, or if the (1) Includes issues of dated subordinated notes “TSR”. competent regulator anticipates such an event in the near future. (2) This item includes issues of deeply subordinated “TSS” securities issued The notional amount and accrued interest are impaired, up to a before the Basel 3 came into effect and issues of undated subordinated “TSDI” maximum of 0.01 of the security’s monetary unit if the issuer’s total securities issued under CRD4/CRR being classified as equity. capital ratio falls below a minimum threshold, either contractual or regulatory, or by decision of the competent regulator. At 31 December 2018, deeply subordinated notes issued before CRD 4/‌CRR came into force totalled €1,763 million, down from €2,416 million at Additional Tier 1 (AT1) TSS issued after CRD 4/CRR came into force 31 December 2017. The Additional Tier 1 deeply subordinated notes (AT1 TSS) issued by The debt instruments issued by Crédit Agricole S.A. and subscribed for Crédit Agricole S.A. are consistent with the new CRD 4/CRR rules. by Crédit Agricole S.A. Group insurance companies were eliminated for The AT1 TSS issued by Crédit Agricole S.A. are either fixed and/or euro contracts. They were eliminated for the portion backing unit-linked floating-rate and undated (unless they contain a contractually defined contracts with financial risk borne by the policyholder. early redemption clause and subject to certain conditions). They are senior to Common Equity Tier 1 Capital (CET1), including Crédit Agricole S.A. Subordinated debt issues shares, but subordinated to all other more senior subordinated debt and The issue of subordinated debt plays a part in regulatory capital rank pari passu with TSS issued before CRD 4/‌CRR came into force. management while contributing to refinancing all of Crédit Agricole S.A.’s AT1 TSS are generally fixed-rate but resettable beyond a certain operations. duration and can include early repayment options subject to certain The Capital Requirements Regulation and Directive (CRD 4/CRR) conditions beyond this same duration. define the conditions under which subordinated instruments qualify as AT1 TSS issued by Crédit Agricole S.A. contain a clause providing for regulatory capital and set out the terms and conditions for progressive temporary partial impairment of the securities in the event the phased-in disqualification of older instruments that do not meet these requirements, Basel 3 Common Equity Tier 1 regulatory ratio of Crédit Agricole Group between 1 January 2014 (effective date of the CRD 4/‌CRR) and falls below 7% or the phased-in Basel 3 Common Equity Tier 1 regulatory 1 January 2022. ratio of Crédit Agricole S.A. falls below 5.125%. They may be impaired All subordinated debt issuance, whether new or old, is likely to be subject up to a maximum of 0.01 of the issue’s monetary unit. to Bail-in in certain circumstances, particularly in the event of resolution Coupons are optional at the discretion of Crédit Agricole S.A. (which of the issuing bank, in accordance with the Order of 20 August 2015 may decide on the suspension of interest payments) or at the containing various provisions adapting French legislation to EU law on competent regulator’s request, and subject to regulatory limits if financial matters, transposing EU Directive of 15 May 2014 establishing distributable amounts are insufficient or the Crédit Agricole Group or a framework for the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and Crédit Agricole S.A. Group fails to meet regulatory requirements for total investment firms (Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive, or BRRD). capital (including capital buffers). Details of the types of subordinated debt issued by Crédit Agricole S.A. Instruments classified as Tier 1 equity instruments (AT1 issued after the and still outstanding are as follows: they comprise undated subordinated entry into force of CRD 4/CRR), recorded in Group equity, are detailed debt (issued before CRD 4/CRR came into force), dated subordinated in Note 6.19. notes “TSR”, deeply subordinated notes “TSS” issued before CRD 4/‌CRR came into force and deeply subordinated notes “TSS” issued after Undated subordinated notes (TSDI) (issued before CRD 4/‌CRR came into force. CRD 4/‌CRR came into force) Undated subordinated notes (TSDI) issued by Crédit Agricole S.A. before Deeply subordinated notes (TSS) CRD 4/CRR came into force are usually fixed-rate and pay interest quarterly, on a perpetual basis. TSS – Volumes issued before CRD 4/CRR came into force Deeply subordinated notes (TSS) issued by Crédit Agricole S.A. They are only redeemable in the event of Crédit Agricole S.A.’s are either fixed or floating-rate and undated (unless they contain a liquidation (judicial or otherwise), unless they contain a contractually contractually defined early redemption clause and subject to certain defined early redemption clause and subject to certain conditions (see conditions). They are senior to Common Equity Tier 1 Capital (CET1), “Early redemption as part of the conditions for all subordinated note including Crédit Agricole S.A. shares, but subordinated (lower-ranking) issues (TSDI, TSR or TSS)” below). to all other more senior subordinated debt (including dated subordinated notes and undated subordinated notes). 468 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 6 Like the dated subordinated notes (“TSR” – see below “Issues of Senior non-preferred debt issues dated subordinated notes (TSR) and contingent capital securities“), they are subordinated securities (principal and interest) in reference The law on transparency, the fight against corruption and the to Article L. 228-97 of the French Commercial Code. In particular, the modernisation of the economy (also referred to as the “Sapin 2 Law”) coupon may be suspended if the General Meeting of Shareholders of was published in the Official Journal on 10 December 2016 and became Crédit Agricole S.A. duly notes that there were no distributable earnings effective on 11 December, 2016. As part of this law, France created a for the relevant financial year. new category of senior debt – senior “non-preferred” debt – meeting the eligibility criteria of the TLAC and MREL ratios (as they are presently It should be noted that TSDI have a contractually defined rank senior defined). This new category of debt is also taken into account in the to Common Equity Tier 1 Capital (CET1), including Crédit Agricole S.A. draft amendment to the Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive (BRRD) shares, TSS (deeply subordinated notes), participating notes granted published on 23 November, 2016, which points to a harmonisation of to Crédit Agricole S.A. and participating securities issued by it; they banks’ creditor ranking. rank pari passu with other TDSI and TSR (see below) of the same rank and subordinate to all other more senior debt (notably preferred and In the course of a resolution process (likely to occur prior to liquidation), it non-preferred senior bonds). will be possible to impair senior non-preferred securities in full or in part, or to convert them into equity as part of the bail-in procedure, ahead of Dated subordinated notes (TSR) and contingent capital other senior debt securities (senior “preferred” debt securities), but only after the full depreciation or the conversion into equity of subordinated securities instruments. The latter include own funds-related instruments of first Dated subordinated notes (TSR) issued by Crédit Agricole S.A. are category (CET1 and Additional Tier 1) and second category instruments usually fixed-rate and pay interest on a quarterly or annual basis (Tier 2). Only if the impairment or conversion of these instruments is with a fixed maturity. They may be redeemed prior to maturity under insufficient will senior-non preferred debt securities be used in the contractually defined conditions and subject to certain conditions. bail-in of a particular institution. TSR are issued either on the French market under French law or on the In a liquidation event, senior non-preferred securities will be redeemed if international markets under UK, State of New York (United States) or there still are funds available, after the repayment of all senior preferred Japanese law. instruments, but ahead of subordinated securities (in particular of dated TSR differ from preferred and non-preferred senior bonds in terms of subordinated notes TSR known as “Tier 2” own funds). their ranking (principal and interest) as contractually defined by the The inaugural issue of these new senior non-preferred debt securities was subordination clause with reference to Article L. 228-97 of the French launched by Crédit Agricole S.A. on 13 December 2016. The outstanding Commercial Code. amount of senior non-preferred securities of Crédit Agricole S.A. and In the case of notes issued by Crédit Agricole S.A., in the event of Crédit Agricole Group thus stood at €13.5 billion at 31 December 2018, liquidation (judicial or otherwise), dated subordinated notes (TSR) will compared to €7.6 billion at 31 December 2017. be repaid after all other secured and unsecured creditors (including creditors of preferred and non-preferred senior bonds), but before either Covered bond-type issues participating loans provided to Crédit Agricole S.A., or any participating notes issued by the Bank, as well as any deeply subordinated notes In order to increase the amount of medium and long-term financing, the (“TSS”, see above “Deeply subordinated notes (TSS)”). Group issues covered bonds through two subsidiaries in France and one subsidiary in Italy: nn Crédit Agricole Home Loan SFH, whose initial issue was launched Early redemption as part of the conditions for all subordinated note issues (TSDI, TSR or TSS) in January 2009. The total amount outstanding, in euro equivalent, was €28.3 billion at 31 December 2018; The above-mentioned TSDI, TSR or TSS may be the subject of: nn Crédit Agricole Public Sector SCF, whose initial issue was launched nn buy-back transactions, either on the market through public takeover in October 2012. The total amount issued and outstanding was bids or exchange offers subject to approval by the competent regulator, €3.5 billion at 31 December 2018; where appropriate, and/or at the initiative of Crédit Agricole S.A., in nn Cariparma: the total amount issued and outstanding at 31 December accordance with the contractual clauses applicable to each issue; nn the exercise of an early redemption option at the initiative of 2018 was €7.5 billion in OBG (covered bonds), including €1.2 billion held at 31 December 2018. 6 Crédit Agricole S.A. (“call option”), under the conditions and subject to approval by the competent regulator, where appropriate, at the times defined by the contractual terms of the issue, in the event that the issuance agreement for the securities contains such a clause. 6.19 EQUITY Ownership structure at 31 December 2018 At 31 December 2018, to the knowledge of Crédit Agricole S.A., the distribution of capital and voting rights is as follows: Number of shares Shareholders at 31/12/2018 % of the share capital % of voting rights SAS Rue La Boétie 1,612,517,290 56.26% 56.34% Treasury shares 4,378,305 0.15% Employees (ESOP) 126,627,820 4.42% 4.42% Public 1,122,913,741 39.17% 39.24% TOTAL 2,866,437,156 100.00% 100.00% The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 469 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 6 At 31 December 2018, Crédit Agricole S.A.’s share capital stood at This agreement is automatically renewed every year. So that the €8,599,311,468 divided into 2,866,437,156 fully paid up ordinary operator can conduct the operations stipulated in the agreement with shares each with a par value of €3. complete independence the agreement has been allocated an amount SAS Rue La Boétie is wholly-owned by the Crédit Agricole Regional of €50 million. Banks. To the Company’s knowledge, no other shareholder owns 5% or more Concerning Crédit Agricole S.A. stock, a liquidity agreement was signed of the share capital or voting rights, either directly or indirectly or with on 25 October 2006 with Crédit Agricole Cheuvreux S.A., purchased by others. Kepler, and renamed Kepler Cheuvreux in 2013. In 2018, Crédit Agricole S.A. carried out a €135.5 million capital increase reserved for Crédit Agricole Group employees and eligible persons. This capital increase resulted in the creation of 13,802,586 new shares at 1 August 2018. Earning per share 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Net income Group share during the period (in millions of euros) 4,400 3,649 Net income attributable to undated deeply subordinated securities (443) (454) Net income attributable to holders of ordinary shares 3,957 3,195 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in circulation during the period 2,853,704,584 2,843,579,170 Adjustment ratio 1.000 1.000 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for calculation of diluted earnings per share 2,853,704,584 2,843,579,170 BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE (in euros) 1.387 1.124 Basic earnings per share from ongoing activities (in euros) 1.388 1.116 Basic earnings per share from discontinued operations (in euros) (0.001) 0.008 DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE (in euros) 1.387 1.124 Diluted earnings per share from ongoing activities (in euros) 1.388 1.116 Diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations (in euros) (0.001) 0.008 Net income attributable to subordinated and deeply subordinated Taking into consideration the change in the average price of Crédit securities corresponds to the issuance costs and interest accrued on Agricole S.A. share, all Crédit Agricole S.A. stock option plans are subordinated and deeply subordinated Additional Tier 1 bond issues. non-dilutive. This amounts to -€443 million at 31 December 2018. In the absence of any dilutive issue by Crédit Agricole S.A., basic earnings per share are identical to diluted earnings per share. Dividends For the 2018 financial year, Crédit Agricole S.A.’s Board of Directors’ Meeting of 13 February 2019 decided to recommend to the General Meeting of Shareholders of 21 May 2019 the payment of a dividend of €0.69 per share in cash, to be paid on 28 May 2019. Proposal in respect of the year (in euros) 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Ordinary dividend 0.69 0.63 0.60 0.60 0.35 Loyalty dividend N/A 0.693 0.660 0.660 0.385 Dividends paid during the reporting period The Board of Directors proposes that the combined General Meeting of Shareholders agree: For the 2017 financial year, the General Meeting of Shareholders of nn to record that the profit for the financial year amounts to 16 May 2018 voted to pay a cash dividend of €0.63 per share plus a €2,740,175,354.78; 10% loyalty bonus for eligible shares. nn to allocate the amount of €6,099,789.00 to the legal reserve to bring it Dividends amounting to €1,802 million are shown in the statement of up to 10% of the share capital, which amounts to €8,599,311,468.00; changes in equity. nn to record that the distributable earnings amounts to €16,573,437,649.54, taking into account retained earnings of Appropriation of net income €13,839,362,083.76; The proposed appropriation of net income is set out in the draft resolutions nn to establish the amount of the regular dividend at €0.69 per share; to be presented by the Board of Directors at Crédit Agricole S.A.’s nn to distribute the dividend paid out of distributable earnings in the Combined General Meeting on Tuesday 21 May 2019. amount of €1,977,841,637.64; Crédit Agricole S.A. parent company posted positive net income of nn to allocate the undistributed balance of €14,595,596,011.90 (1) to €2,740,175,354.78 in the 2018 financial year. retained earnings. (1) This amount will be adjusted where appropriate to reflect the following events: (a) creation of new shares eligible for dividends before the ex-dividend date, (b) change in the number of treasury shares at ex-dividend date. 470 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 6 Undated subordinated and deeply subordinated debt The main issues of undated subordinated and deeply subordinated debt classified in shareholders’ equity Group share are: At 31 December 2018 Amount in Partial Amount in Amount in Issuance Shareholders’ currency at repurchases currency at euros at Interests paid costs net equity Group 31/12/2017 and redemptions 31/12/2018 inception rate Group share of taxes share (in millions (in millions Issue date Currency of units) (in millions of units) of units) (in millions of euros) (in millions of euros) (in millions of euros) (in millions of euros) 23/01/2014 USD 1,750 1,750 1,283 (584) (8) 691 08/04/2014 GBP 500 500 607 (216) (4) 387 08/04/2014 EUR 1,000 1,000 1,000 (306) (6) 688 18/09/2014 USD 1,250 1,250 971 (311) (6) 654 19/01/2016 USD 1,250 1,250 1,150 (260) (8) 882 Crédit Agricole S.A. Issues 5,011 (1,677) (32) 3,302 14/10/2014 EUR (135) (3) (138) 13/01/2015 EUR (128) (3) (131) Insurance Issues (263) (6) (269) Issues subscribed in-house Group share/Non controlling interests effect 32 32 Issues subscribed by Crédit Agricole CIB for currency regulation TOTAL 5,011 (1,908) (38) 3,065 The main issues of undated subordinated and deeply subordinated debt classified in shareholder’s equity – Non controlling interests share (insurance) are: Partial Amount in currency repurchases Amount in currency Amount in euros at 31/12/2017 and redemptions at 31/12/2018 at inception rate Issue date Currency (in millions of units) (in millions of units) (in millions of units) (in millions of euros) 14/10/2014 EUR 745 745 745 13/01/2015 EUR 1,000 1,000 1,000 TOTAL 1,745 Changes relating to undated subordinated and deeply subordinated debt affecting shareholders’ equity Group share are as follows: (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Undated deeply subordinated notes Interest paid accounted as reserves (367) (378) Income tax savings related to interest paid to security holders recognised in net income 131 130 Issuance costs (net of tax) accounted as reserves Undated subordinated notes 6 Interest paid accounted as reserves (76) (76) Income tax savings related to interest paid to security holders recognised in net income 26 26 Issuance costs (net of tax) accounted as reserves The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 471 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 6 6.20 NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS Information on significant non-controlling interests The table below presents information on the consolidated subsidiaries and structured entities with significant non-controlling interests in relation to the total equity of the Group or of the sub-group level or where the total balance sheet of the entities held by the non-controlling interests is significant. 31/12/2018 % of ownership Net income allocated Accumulated % of voting rights interests held to non-controlling noncontrolling Dividends paid to held by non-controlby non-controlinterests during the interests at the end of non-controlling (in millions of euros) ling interests ling interests reporting period the reporting period interests Amundi Group 31% 32% 278 2,069 159 Cariparma Group 23% 23% 99 1,302 39 Agos S.p.A. 39% 39% 126 493 87 Crédit Agricole Egypt S.A.E. 40% 40% 38 116 23 Others(1) 86 2,725 45 TOTAL 627 6,705 353 (1) Of which €1,745 million related to the issuance of Additional Tier 1 undated subordinated bonds realised on 14 October 2014 and 13 January 2015 by Crédit Agricole Assurances, accounted for in equity of non-controlling interests. 31/12/2017 % of ownership Net income allocated Accumulated % of voting rights interests held to non-controlling noncontrolling Dividends paid to held by non-controlby non-controlinterests during the interests at the end of non-controlling (in millions of euros) ling interests ling interests reporting period the reporting period interests Amundi Group 32% 32% 196 1,960 140 Cariparma Group 23% 23% 151 1,397 38 CACEIS Group(1) 22 9 Agos S.p.A 39% 39% 115 536 67 Others(2) 84 2,727 45 TOTAL 568 6,650 298 (1) On 22 December 2017, Crédit Agricole S.A. completed the acquisition of the 15% stake in CACEIS held by Natixis and now wholly owns this group. (2) Of which €1,745 million related to the issuance of Additional Tier 1 undated subordinated bonds realised on 14 October 2014 and 13 January 2015 by Crédit Agricole Assurances, accounted for in equity of non-controlling interests. Individual summary financial information on significant non-controlling interests The table below presents summary information on subsidiaries with significant non-controlling interests for Crédit Agricole S.A. Group on the basis of the IFRS financial statements. 31/12/2018 Net income and other (in millions of euros) Total assets Revenues Net income comprehensive income Amundi Group 20,937 2,510 855 832 Cariparma Group 63,189 1,941 376 262 Agos S.p.A. 16,873 888 323 324 Crédit Agricole Egypt S.A.E. 2,636 183 95 85 TOTAL 103,635 5,523 1,649 1,502 472 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 6 31/12/2017 Net income and other (in millions of euros) Total assets Revenues Net income comprehensive income Amundi Group 18,819 2,257 681 590 Cariparma Group 66,596 1,710 616 609 CACEIS Group 61,573 809 153 289 Agos S.p.A 17,262 893 294 294 TOTAL 164,250 5,669 1,745 1,782 6.21 BREAKDOWN OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES BY CONTRACTUAL MATURITY The breakdown of balance sheet financial assets and liabilities is made according to contractual maturity date. The maturities of derivative instruments held for trading and for hedging correspond to their date of contractual maturity. Equities and other variable-income securities are by nature without maturity; they are classified “Indefinite”. 31/12/2018 > 3 months > 1 year up (in millions of euros) ≤ 3 months up to ≤ 1 year to ≤ 5 years > 5 years Indefinite Total Cash, central banks 66,976 66,976 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 105,247 29,266 38,465 67,065 125,432 365,475 Hedging derivative Instruments 1,177 724 5,340 7,081 14,322 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 8,650 18,593 90,783 131,770 3,824 253,620 Financial assets at amortised cost 191,634 144,010 297,314 204,918 2,325 840,201 Revaluation adjustment on interest rate hedged portfolios 6,375 6,375 TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS BY MATURITY 380,059 192,593 431,902 410,834 131,581 1,546,969 Central banks 949 949 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 100,064 14,080 42,383 71,584 228,111 Hedging derivative Instruments 1,038 539 4,748 5,760 12,085 Financial liabilities at amortised cost 639,242 90,720 121,134 62,504 913,600 Subordinated debt 277 2,147 2,551 15,568 2,222 22,765 Revaluation adjustment on interest rate hedged portfolios 6,612 6,612 TOTAL FINANCIAL LIABILITIES BY MATURITY 748,182 107,486 170,816 155,416 2,222 1,184,122 31/12/2017 (in millions of euros) > 3 months > 1 year up ≤ 3 months up to ≤ 1 year to ≤ 5 years > 5 years Indefinite Total 6 Cash, central banks 50,761 50,761 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 98,957 23,786 38,341 72,923 87,397 321,404 Hedging derivative instruments 1,501 529 6,207 8,198 16,435 Available-for-sale financial assets 13,399 21,965 92,233 144,548 34,913 307,058 Loans and receivables due from credit institutions 91,686 88,991 143,592 69,782 394,051 Loans and receivables due from customers 87,703 37,565 124,641 107,346 2,824 360,079 Value adjustment on interest rate risk hedged portfolios 5,978 5,978 Held-to-maturity financial assets 909 1,611 6,543 11,116 20,179 TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS BY MATURITY 350,894 174,447 411,557 413,913 125,134 1,475,945 Central banks 3,185 3,185 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 90,162 17,051 44,233 76,441 227,887 Hedging derivative instruments 1,198 492 3,920 7,661 13,271 Due to credit institutions 55,616 13,960 38,252 17,762 125,590 Due to customers 479,428 36,163 29,575 5,580 550,746 Debt securities 46,155 24,549 44,337 48,667 163,708 Subordinated debt 2,208 543 5,483 14,064 3,123 25,421 Revaluation adjustment on interest rate hedged portfolios 6,565 6,565 TOTAL FINANCIAL LIABILITIES BY MATURITY 684,517 92,758 165,800 170,175 3,123 1,116,373 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 473 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 7 Note 7 Employee benefits and other compensation 7.1 ANALYSIS OF EMPLOYEE EXPENSES (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Salaries(1) (4,934) (4,720) Contributions to defined-contribution plans (384) (376) Contributions to defined-benefit plans (43) (124) Other social security expenses (1,169) (1,109) Profit-sharing and incentive plans (241) (243) Payroll-related tax (351) (361) TOTAL EMPLOYEE EXPENSES (7,123) (6,933) (1) Regarding deferred variable compensation paid to market professionals, the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group booked a charge for share-based payments of €58 million at 31 December 2018 compared to €56 million at 31 December 2017. 7.2 AVERAGE HEADCOUNT Average headcount 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 France 36,059 36,559 International 36,451 34,749 TOTAL 72,510 71,308 7.3 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS, DEFINED-CONTRIBUTION PLANS “Employers” contribute to a variety of compulsory pension schemes. companies have no liability in this respect other than the contributions Plan assets are managed by independent organisations and the payable. contributing companies have no legal or implied obligation to pay Within the Group, there are several compulsory defined-contribution additional contributions if the funds do not have sufficient assets to cover plans, the main ones being Agirc/Arrco, which are French supplementary all benefits corresponding to services rendered by employees during the retirement plans, and some supplementary plans in place notably within year and during prior years. Consequently, Crédit Agricole S.A. Group UES Crédit Agricole S.A. Analysis of supplementary pension plans in France Number of Number of employees employees covered covered Compulsory supplementary Estimate at Estimate at Business Line Entity pension plans 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Central Support functions UES Crédit Agricole S.A. Agriculture industry plan 1.24% 2,343 2,799 Central Support functions UES Crédit Agricole S.A. “Article 83” Group Executive managers plan 204 198 French retail banking – LCL LCL “Article 83” Group Executive managers plan 314 338 Large customers Crédit Agricole CIB “Article 83” type plan 5,010 4,561 Asset gathering and Insurance CAAS/Pacifica/SIRCA/LA MDF Agriculture industry plan 1.24% 4,107 3,679 Asset gathering and Insurance CAAS/Pacifica/CACI/LA MDF “Article 83” Group Executive managers plan 63 68 CACI/CA Indosuez Wealth (France)/CA Indosuez Wealth Asset gathering and Insurance (Group)/Amundi “Article 83” type plan 3,188 2,959 474 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 7 7.4 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS, DEFINED-BENEFIT PLANS Change in actuarial liability 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Outside (in millions of euros) Eurozone Eurozone All Zones All Zones Actuarial liability at 31/12/N-1 1,591 1,513 3,104 3,100 Translation adjustments 29 29 (110) Cost of service rended during the period 62 34 96 98 Financial cost 19 27 46 46 Employee contributions 16 16 13 Benefit plan changes, withdrawals and settlement (6) 4 (2) (23) Changes in scope 3 3 96 Benefits paid (mandatory) (81) (65) (146) (180) Taxes, administrative expenses, and bonuses Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions(1) (7) (14) (21) 7 Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in financial assumptions(1) 2 (55) (53) 57 ACTUARIAL LIABILITY AT 31/12/N 1,583 1,489 3,072 3,104 (1) Of which actuarial gains/losses related to experience adjustment. Breakdown of net charge recognised in the income statement 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Outside (in millions of euros) Eurozone Eurozone All Zones All Zones Service cost (56) (38) (93) (75) Income/expenses on net interests (9) (4) (13) (14) IMPACT IN PROFIT AND LOSS AT 31/12/N (65) (42) (106) (89) Breakdown of income recognised in OCI that will not be reclassified to profit and loss 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Outside (in millions of euros) Eurozone Eurozone All Zones All Zones Revaluation from net liabilities (from net assets) Total amount of actuarial gains or losses recognised in other comprehensive income that will not be reclassified to profit and loss at 31/12/N-1 427 307 734 731 6 Translation adjustments 7 7 (24) Actuarial gains/(losses) on assets 7 5 12 (59) Actuarial gains/(losses) arising from changes in demographic assumptions(1) (7) (14) (21) 7 Actuarial gains/(losses) arising from changes in financial assumptions(1) 2 (55) (53) 57 Adjustment of assets restriction’s impact 5 5 (1) IMPACT IN OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME AT 31/12/N 2 (52) (50) (20) (1) Of which actuarial gains/losses related to experience adjustment. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 475 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 7 Change in fair value of assets 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Outside (in millions of euros) Eurozone Eurozone All Zones All Zones Fair value of assets at 31/12/N-1 487 1,264 1,751 1,683 Translation adjustments 21 21 (87) Interests on asset (income) 7 24 31 30 Actuarial gains/(losses) (7) (5) (12) 57 Employer contributions 5 59 64 120 Employee contributions 16 16 14 Benefit plan changes, withdrawals and settlement Changes in scope 3 3 24 Taxes, administrative expenses, and bonuses Benefits paid out under the benefit plan (12) (62) (74) (90) FAIR VALUE OF ASSETS AT 31/12/N 483 1,317 1,800 1,751 Change in fair value of reimbursement rights 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Outside (in millions of euros) Eurozone Eurozone All Zones All Zones Fair value of reimbursement rights at 31/12/N-1 341 341 324 Translation adjustments Interests on reimbursement rights (income) 3 3 3 Actuarial gains/(losses) 1 Employer contributions 8 8 38 Employee contributions Benefit plan changes, withdrawals and settlement Changes in scope 3 3 (2) Taxes, administrative costs, and bonuses Benefits paid out under the benefit plan (18) (18) (23) FAIR VALUE OF REIMBURSEMENT RIGHTS AT 31/12/N 337 337 341 Net position 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Outside (in millions of euros) Eurozone Eurozone All Zones All Zones Closing actuarial liability (1,583) (1,489) (3,072) (3,104) Impact of asset restriction (6) (6) Fair value of assets at end of period 483 1,317 1,800 1,751 NET POSITION OF ASSETS/(LIABILITIES) AT END OF PERIOD (1,100) (178) (1,278) (1,353) Defined-benefit plans: main actuarial assumptions 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Outside Outide (in millions of euros) Eurozone Eurozone Eurozone Eurozone Discount rate(1) 1.26% 1.97% 1.21% 1.76% Actual return on plan assets and on reimbursement rights 0.33% 1.66% 1.37% 6.66% Expected salary increase rates(2) 1.37% 1.88% 1.36% 1.88% Rate of change in medical costs 4.59% 10.00% 4.59% 10.00% (1) Discount rates are determined as a function of the average duration of the commitment, that is, the arithmetic mean of durations calculated between the assessment date and the payment date weighted by assumptions of staff turnover. The underlying used is the discount rate by reference to the iBoxx AA. (2) Depending on the employees concerned (managers or non-managers). 476 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 7 Information of plan assets: allocation of assets(1) Eurozone Outside Eurozone All Zones of which of which of which (in millions of euros) % Amount listed % Amount listed % Amount listed Equities 7.3% 60 59 25.9% 340 340 18.7% 400 399 Bonds 45.2% 371 360 47.6% 626 626 46.7% 996 986 Property/Real estate 3.8% 31 11.7% 154 8.7% 185 Others 43.7% 358 14.9% 196 25.9% 554 (1) Of which fair value of reimbursement rights. At 31 December 2018, the sensitivity analysis showed that: Since 1 January 2016, all existing and future deferred variable nn a 50 basis point increase in discount rates would reduce the compensation plans are now cash-settled plans indexed to the commitment by -6.56%; Crédit Agricole S.A. share price. The impact of the revaluation of the nn a 50 basis point decrease in discount rates would increase the commitment on the basis of the Crédit Agricole S.A. share price, which commitment by +7.43%. is not material, was recognised in equity. The benefits expected to be paid in respect of post-employment plans This deferred variable compensation is subject to continued employment for 2018 are as follows: and a performance condition. It is broken down into thirds that are nn benefits paid by the employer or by reimbursement rights funds: payable in March 2019, March 2020 and March 2021. €72 million (compared to €85 million paid in 2017); The expense related to these plans is recognised in compensation nn benefits paid by plan assets: €74 million (compared to €68 million expenses on a straight-line basis over the vesting period to factor in paid in 2017). continued employment, and a liability is recorded in employee expenses, the amount of which is subject to periodical revaluation through profit Crédit Agricole S.A.’s policy on covering employee benefit obligations or loss until the settlement date, depending on the evolution of the reflects local rules on funding post-employment benefits in countries share price of Crédit Agricole S.A. and on vesting conditions (continued with minimum funding requirements. Overall, commitments arising employment and performance). from the Group’s post-employment obligations were 70% covered at 31 December 2018 (including reimbursement rights). 7.7 EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 7.5 OTHER EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Senior management includes all members of the Executive Committee, namely the Chief Executive Officer, Deputy Chief Executive Officer, In France, the Group’s main entities pay long-service awards. The Deputy Chief Executive Officers for the Group’s different divisions, Chief amounts vary according to practices and collective bargaining Executive Officers of the main subsidiaries and the Heads of the Group’s agreements in place. core business activities. The provisions funded by Crédit Agricole S.A. Group for these Compensation and benefits paid to the members of the Executive other employee benefit obligations amounted to €415 million at Committee in 2018 were as follows: 31 December 2018. nn short-term benefits: €26 million for fixed and variable compensation (of which €3.8 million paid in share-indexed instruments), including 7.6 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS social security expenses and benefits in kind; nn post-employment benefits: €3.9 million for end-of-career allowances 7.6.1 Stock option plan and for the supplementary pension plan for Group executive No new plan was implemented in 2018. managers; nn other long-term employee benefits: the amount of long-service 6 awards granted was not material; 7.6.2 Deferred variable compensation settled either nn employment contract termination indemnities: not material; in shares or in cash indexed to the share nn other share-based payment: not applicable. price Total Directors’ fees paid to members of Crédit Agricole S.A.’s Board The deferred variable compensation plans implemented by the Group of Directors in 2018 in consideration for serving as Directors of take two forms: Crédit Agricole S.A. amounted to €972,703. nn equity-settled plans; These amounts included the compensation and benefits paid to nn cash-settled plans indexed to the Crédit Agricole S.A. share price. the Chief Executive Officer and Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole S.A. (1) Of which fair value of reimbursement rights. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 477 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 8 Note 8 Commitments given and received and other guarantees Financing and guarantee commitments and other guarantees include discontinued operations. Commitments given and received (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Commitments given Financing commitments 169,768 151,071 Commitments given to credit institutions 25,799 25,796 Commitments given to customers 143,969 125,275 Confirmed credit lines 109,553 103,476 Documentary credits 5,423 5,129 Other confirmed credit lines 104,130 98,347 Other commitments given to customers 34,416 21,799 Guarantee commitments 85,166 89,694 Credit institutions 8,582 8,074 Confirmed documentary credit lines 4,364 3,803 Other 4,218 4,271 Customers 76,584 81,620 Property guarantees 2,005 2,430 Other customer guarantees 74,579 79,190 Securities commitments 7,045 Securities to be delivered 7,045 Commitments received Financing commitments 94,567 88,270 Commitments received from credit institutions 85,943 82,305 Commitments received from customers 8,624 5,965 Guarantee commitments 294,729 249,880 Commitments received from credit institutions(1) 87,558 81,281 Commitments received from customers 207,171 168,599 Guarantees received from government bodies or similar institutions 24,842 20,056 Other guarantees received 182,329 148,543 Securities commitments 10,369 Securities to be received 10,369 (1) Of which €9.2 billion for the Switch Insurance guarantee set up on 1 July 2016. Financial instruments given and received as collateral (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Carrying amount of financial assets provided as collateral (including transferred assets) Securities and receivables provided as collateral for the refinancing structures (Banque de France, CRH, etc.) 184,640 181,501 Securities lent 11,645 9,534 Security deposits on market transactions 16,367 17,279 Other security deposits Securities sold under repurchase agreements 100,512 93,464 TOTAL CARRYING AMOUNT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS PROVIDED AS COLLATERAL 313,164 301,778 Carrying amount of financial assets received in garantee Other security deposits(1) 3,102 3,102 Fair value of instruments received as reusable and reused collateral Securities borrowed 3 7 Securities bought under repurchase agreements 270,427 244,590 Securities sold short 29,368 22,594 TOTAL FAIR VALUE OF INSTRUMENTS RECEIVED AS REUSABLE AND REUSED COLLATERAL 299,798 267,191 (1) Of which €3.1 billion for the deposits received under the Switch Insurance guarantee, set up on 1 July 2016, amending the previous deposits received since 2 January 2014 in the amount of €8.1 billion. 478 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 9 Receivables pledged as collateral These processes, for which there is no transfer of contractual cash flows, do not form part of the asset transfers mentioned in Note 6.6 At 31 December 2018, Crédit Agricole S.A. deposited €83.9 billion of “Transferred assets not derecognised or derecognised with on-going receivables (mainly on behalf of the Regional Banks) for refinancing involvement” transactions to the Banque de France, compared to €81.3 billion at 31 December 2017, and €22.3 billion of receivables were deposited Guarantees held directly by others subsidiaries. At 31 December 2018, Crédit Agricole S.A. deposited €12.9 billion of Guarantees held and assets received as collateral by Crédit Agricole S.A. receivables for refinancing transactions to the Caisse de Refinancement Group which it is allowed to sell or to use as collateral are mostly held de l’Habitat on behalf of the Regional Banks, compared to €13.7 billion within Crédit Agricole S.A. for €98.6 billion and within Crédit Agricole at 31 December 2017, and €2.1 billion of receivables were deposited CIB for €138 billion. The majority of these are receivables pledged as directly by LCL. collateral by the Regional Banks to Crédit Agricole S.A., the latter acting as the central body with regard to the external refinancing organisations, On 31 December 2018, €3.8 billion receivables of the Regional Banks in order to obtain refinancing. These receivables (property-related, or had been pledged as collateral for the covered bonds issued by European loans to businesses or local authorities) are selected and rated for their Secured Notes Issuer (ESNI), a French securitisation company formed quality and retained on the balance sheet of the Regional Banks. by five banks including Crédit Agricole Group, and €1.4 billion of Crédit Agricole CIB’s receivables were fully transferred as collateral. The majority of these guarantees consist of mortgage liens, collateral or guarantees received, regardless of the quality of the assets guaranteed. At 31 December 2018, €42.5 billion of Regional Banks and LCL They are mainly related to repurchase agreements and securities receivables had been pledged as collateral for the covered bond issues pledged to guarantee brokerage transactions. of Crédit Agricole Home Loan SFH, a financial company wholly owned by Crédit Agricole S.A. Crédit Agricole S.A. Group policy is to sell seized collateral as soon as possible. Crédit Agricole CIB and Crédit Agricole S.A. had no such assets at 31 December 2018. Note 9 Reclassifications of financial instruments Principles applied by Crédit Agricole S.A. Reclassification of financial assets during prior financial years Reclassifications are performed only under exceptional circumstances and following a decision by the Executive Management of the entity Pursuant to the amendment to IAS 39 as published and adopted by the as a result of internal or external changes: significant changes in the European Union on 15 October 2008, reclassifications were carried out entity’s activity. as authorised by this amendment. Information on these and previous reclassifications is shown below. Reclassification performed by Crédit Agricole S.A. Group Reclassification of financial assets in 2018 In 2018, Crédit Agricole S.A. Group did not carry out any reclassification pursuant to paragraph 4.4.1 of IFRS 9. For assets reclassified at 31 December 2017, the table below presents their net carrying amount and their estimated market value: Total reclassified assets Carrying amount Estimated market 6 (in millions of euros) 31/12/2017 value at 31/12/2017 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss reclassified as loans and receivables 78 72 Available-for-sale financial assets reclassified as loans and receivables 132 132 TOTAL RECLASSIFIED ASSETS 210 204 Contribution of assets reclassified to profit and loss since the reclassification date The contribution of the assets transferred to profit and loss at 31 December 2017, since the reclassification date, includes all gains, losses, income and expenses recognised in profit or loss and/or in other comprehensive income. Analysis of the impact of the transferred assets: Assets reclassified before Cumulative impact at 31/21/2017 Actual income and If asset had been retained in its former (in millions of euros) expenses recognised category (change in fair value) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss reclassified as loans and receivables (36) (122) Available-for-sale financial assets reclassified as loans and receivables 21 21 TOTAL RECLASSIFIED ASSETS (15) (101) The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 479 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 10 Note 10 Fair value of financial instruments Fair value is the price that would be received at the sale of an asset or interest rate risk or credit risk when the latter can be revalued based paid to transfer a liability in a standard transaction between market on Credit Default Swap (CDS) spread. Securities bought or sold under participants at the measurement date. repurchase agreements with underlyings quoted in an active market Fair value is defined on the basis of the exit price. are also included in Level 2 of the hierarchy, as are financial assets and liabilities with a demand component for which fair value is measured at The fair values shown below are estimates made on the reporting date unadjusted amortised cost. using observable market data wherever possible. These are subject to change in subsequent periods due to developments in market conditions Level 3 indicates the fair value of financial assets and liabilities with or other factors. unobservable inputs or for which some data can be revalued using internal models based on historical data. This mainly includes market The calculations represent best estimates. They are based on a number data relating to credit risk or early redemption risk. of assumptions. It is assumed that market participants act in their best economic interest. In some cases, market values are close to carrying amounts. This applies primarily to: To the extent that these models contain uncertainties, the fair values nn assets or liabilities at variable rates for which interest rate changes shown may not be achieved upon actual sale or immediate settlement of the financial instruments concerned. do not have a significant influence on the fair value, since the rates on these instruments frequently adjust themselves to the market rates; The fair value hierarchy of financial assets and liabilities is broken down nn short-term assets or liabilities where the redemption value is according to the general observability criteria of the valuation inputs, considered to be close to the market value; pursuant to the principles defined under IFRS 13. nn instruments executed on a regulated market for which the prices are Level 1 applies to the fair value of financial assets and liabilities quoted set by the public authorities; in active markets. nn demand assets and liabilities; Level 2 applies to the fair value of financial assets and liabilities with nn transactions for which there are no reliable observable data. observable inputs. This agreement includes market data relating to 10.1 FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES RECOGNISED AT AMORTISED COST Amounts presented below include accruals and prepayments and are net of impairment. Financial assets recognised at cost and measured at fair value on the balance sheet Quoted prices in active Valuation Valuation markets for based on based on Estimated identical observable unobservable Value at fair value at instruments: data: data: (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Financial assets not measured at fair value on balance sheet Loans and receivables 782,437 804,094 497,697 306,397 Loans and receivables due from credit institutions 412,981 420,599 419,632 967 Current accounts and overnight loans 33,861 34,482 34,381 101 Accounts and long-term loans 371,185 378,149 377,469 680 Pledged securities 1 1 1 Securities bought under repurchase agreements 6,972 6,974 6,974 Subordinated loans 887 895 710 185 Other loans and receivables 75 98 98 Loans and receivables due from customers 369,456 383,495 78,065 305,430 Trade receivables 46,700 45,895 20,015 25,880 Other customer loans 306,140 319,954 45,468 274,486 Pledged securities 131 131 131 Securities bought under repurchase agreements 2,976 2,976 2,976 Subordinated loans 103 102 3 99 Insurance receivables 655 655 14 641 Reinsurance receivables 634 634 53 581 Advances in associates’ current accounts 144 145 7 138 Current accounts in debit 11,973 13,003 9,398 3,605 Debt securities 57,764 58,210 41,161 12,927 4,122 Treasury bills and similar securities 23,214 23,269 20,507 2,712 50 Bonds and other fixed income securities 34,550 34,941 20,654 10,215 4,072 TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS OF WHICH FAIR VALUE IS DISCLOSED 840,201 862,304 41,161 510,624 310,519 480 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 10 Quoted prices in active Valuation Valuation markets for based on based on Estimated identical observable unobservable Value at fair value at instruments: data: data: (in millions of euros) 31/12/2017 31/12/2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Financial assets not measured at fair value on balance sheet Loans and receivables 754,130 776,402 477,833 298,569 Loans and receivables due from credit institutions 394,051 397,722 397,182 540 Current accounts and overnight loans 24,264 24,267 24,254 13 Accounts and long-term loans 354,809 358,471 358,280 191 Pledged securities 10 10 10 Securities bought under repurchase agreements 8,693 8,693 8,693 Subordinated loans 995 997 704 293 Securities not listed on an active market 5,203 5,207 5,174 33 Other loans and receivables 77 77 77 Loans and receivables due from customers 360,079 378,680 80,651 298,029 Trade receivables 40,909 41,126 19,956 21,170 Other customer loans 288,066 305,723 44,152 261,571 Securities bought under repurchase agreements 3,116 3,116 2,957 159 Subordinated loans 104 104 4 100 Securities not listed on an active market 14,428 14,428 296 14,132 Insurance receivables 262 262 4 258 Reinsurance receivables 516 516 42 474 Advances in associates current accounts 128 128 12 116 Current accounts in debit 12,550 13,277 13,228 49 Held-to-maturity financial assets 20,179 22,229 22,209 20 Treasury bills and similar securities 17,082 18,398 18,398 Bonds and other fixed Income securities 3,097 3,831 3,811 20 TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS OF WHICH FAIR VALUE IS DISCLOSED 774,309 798,631 22,209 477,833 298,589 Financial liabilities recognised at amortised cost and measured at fair value on the balance sheet Quoted prices in active Valuation Valuation markets for based on based on Estimated identical observable unobservable Value at fair value at instruments: data: data: 31/12/2018 31/12/2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 6 (in millions of euros) Financial liabilities not measured at fair value on balance sheet Due to credit institutions 131,960 132,329 132,329 Current accounts and overnight loans 25,718 25,760 25,760 Accounts and term deposits 82,514 82,841 82,841 Pledged securities Securities sold under repurchase agreements 23,728 23,728 23,728 Due to customers 597,170 597,664 306,142 291,522 Current accounts in credit 203,494 203,847 203,847 Special savings accounts 288,413 288,413 288,413 Other amounts due to customers 101,776 101,919 101,333 586 Securities sold under repurchase agreements 840 840 840 Insurance liabilities 1,260 1,260 59 1,201 Reinsurance liabilities 334 333 63 270 Cash deposits received from ceding and retroceding companies against technical insurance commitments 1,053 1,052 1,052 Debt securities 184,470 186,668 66,396 120,197 75 Subordinated debt 22,765 22,849 7,165 15,579 105 TOTAL FINANCIAL LIABILITIES OF WHICH FAIR VALUE IS DISCLOSED 936,365 939,510 73,561 574,247 291,702 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 481 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 10 Quoted prices in active Valuation Valuation markets for based on based on Estimated identical observable unobservable Value at fair value at instruments: data: data: (in millions of euros) 31/12/2017 31/12/2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Financial liabilities not measured at fair value on balance sheet Due to credit institutions 125,590 125,778 124,097 1,681 Current accounts and overnight loans 19,786 19,787 19,787 Accounts and term deposits 81,404 81,591 79,910 1,681 Pledged securities Securities sold under repurchase agreements 24,400 24,400 24,400 Due to customers 550,746 551,114 212,573 338,541 Current accounts in credit 182,099 182,457 177,439 5,018 Special savings accounts 275,058 275,059 826 274,233 Other amounts due to customers 89,768 89,777 32,481 57,296 Securities sold under repurchase agreements 1,706 1,706 1,706 Insurance liabilities 853 853 77 776 Reinsurance liabilities 313 313 44 269 Cash deposits received from cedants and retrocessionaires against technical insurance commitments 949 949 949 Debt securities 163,708 165,896 55,361 110,335 200 Subordinated debt 25,421 25,508 23,353 2,046 109 TOTAL FINANCIAL LIABILITIES OF WHICH FAIR VALUE IS DISCLOSED 865,465 868,296 78,714 449,051 340,531 10.2 INFORMATION ABOUT FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS MEASURED AT FAIR VALUE The valuation of counterparty risk (Credit Valuation Adjustment Valuations are based on the following: or CVA) of own’s credit risk (Debit Valuation Adjustment nn prices or inputs obtained from independent sources and/or validated or DVA) and of funding risk (Funding valuation Adjustment) on by the Market Risk department using a series of available sources derivatives operations. such as pricing service vendors, market consensus data and brokers; The value adjustment linked to the counterparts quality (CVA) aims to nn models approved by the quantitative teams in the Market Risk incorporate in derivatives’ valuation the credit risk associated with the department. counterparty (risk of non-payment of sums due in the event of default). The valuation produced for each instrument is a mid-market valuation, This adjustment is calculated on an aggregate basis by counterparty which does not take account of the direction of the trade, the according to the future exposure profile of the transactions after bank’s aggregate exposure, market liquidity or counterparty quality. deducting any collateral. This adjustment is always negative and Adjustments are then made to the market valuations to incorporate reduces the fair value of the financial instruments. those factors, as well as the potential uncertainties inherent in the The value adjustment linked to our institution’s own credit risk (Debt models or inputs used. Value Adjustment – DVA) aims to incorporate the risk borne by our The main types of valuation adjustments are the following: counterparties in the valuation of derivative instruments. This adjustment nn Mark-to-Market adjustments: these adjustments correct any is calculated on an aggregate basis by counterparty according to the potential variance between the mid-market valuation of an instrument future exposure profile of the transactions. This adjustment is always obtained using internal valuation models and the associated inputs positive and reduces the fair value of the financial instruments. and the valuation obtained from external sources or market consensus The CVA/DVA is calculated on the basis of estimated expected data. These adjustments can be positive or negative; losses based on the probability of default and loss given default. The nn bid/ask reserves: these adjustments incorporate the bid/ask methodology used maximises the use of observable market inputs. The spread for a given instrument in order to reflect the price at which the probability of a default is deducted from quoted CDS or proxies from position could be reversed. These adjustments are always negative; quoted CDS when they are considered sufficiently liquid. nn uncertainty reserves: these adjustments constitute a risk premium taken into account by all market participants. These adjustments are Valuation methods always negative: Financial instruments are valued by management information systems –– input uncertainty reserves seek to incorporate in the valuation of and checked by a team that reports to the Risk Management department an instrument any uncertainty that might exist as regards one or and is independent from the market operators. more of the inputs used, –– model uncertainty reserves seek to incorporate in the valuation of an instrument any uncertainty that might exist due to the choice of model used. 482 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 10 In addition, in accordance with IFRS 13 “Fair value measurement”, Debit Valuation Adjustment (DVA) Crédit Agricole S.A. prices in to the fair value calculated for its OTC The Debit Valuation Adjustment (DVA) is a mark-to-market adjustment derivatives (i.e. those traded over the counter) various adjustments that aims to incorporate the market value of the default risk (potential linked to the default risk and credit quality (Credit Valuation Adjustment, losses to which Crédit Agricole S.A. may expose its counterparties in the Debit Valuation Adjustment) and also to future funding costs and benefits event of default or a deterioration in its creditworthiness) in the value of (Funding Valuation Adjustment). perfectly collateralised OTC derivatives. This adjustment is calculated by collateral contract type on the basis of negative future exposure Credit Valuation Adjustment (CVA) profiles of the trading portfolio weighted by default probabilities The CVA (Credit Valuation Adjustment) is a mark-to-market adjustment (Crédit Agricole S.A.) and losses incurred in the event of default. The to incorporate the market value of the default risk (risk of non-payment calculation is intended to take into account the Margin Period of Risk of amounts due in the event of default or deterioration in credit quality) (MPR, the time period between the occurrence Crédit Agricole S.A.’s in the value of OTC derivatives of our counterparties. This adjustment default and the effective liquidation of all positions). The methodology is calculated per counterparty based on the positive future exposure used maximises the use of observable market inputs (use of of the trading portfolio (taking into account any netting or collateral Crédit Agricole S.A. CDS to determine default probabilities). This agreements, where such exist) weighted by the probabilities of default adjustment is always positive and reduces the fair value of the OTC and losses given default. The methodology used maximises the use derivative liabilities held in the portfolio. of observable market inputs (probabilities of default are derived in priority directly from listed CDS, proxies of listed CDS and other Funding Valuation Adjustment (FVA) credit instruments where these are deemed sufficiently liquid). This The Funding Valuation Adjustment (FVA) is a mark-to-market adjustment is always negative and reduces the fair value of the OTC adjustment that aims to incorporate in the fair value of OTC derivatives derivative assets held in the portfolio. the additional future funding costs and benefits based on ALM (Asset & Liability Management) funding costs. This adjustment is calculated on the scope of transactions that are not covered by a CSA (Credit Support Annex) or covered by a non-perfect CSA/Golden and on the basis of future exposition profiles (positive and negative) weighted by the ALM funding spreads. As regards the scope of “clear” derivatives, an FVA adjustment called IMVA (Initial Margin Value Adjustment) is calculated to take into account the future financing costs and gains of the initial margins to be posted with the main derivatives clearing houses until the portfolio matures. 6 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 483 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 10 Breakdown of financial instruments at fair value by valuation model Amounts presented below include accruals and prepayments and are net of impairment. Financial assets measured at fair value Quoted prices in active markets for identical Valuation based on Valuation based on instruments: observable data: unobservable data: (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Financial assets held for trading 225,605 24,636 196,612 4,357 Loans and receivables due from credit institutions 191 191 Loans and receivables due from customers 1,374 1,374 Securities bought under repurchase agreements 107,414 106,447 967 Pledged securities Held for trading securities 22,072 19,394 2,154 524 Treasury bills and similar securities 14,219 12,134 1,640 445 Bonds and other fixed income securities 5,043 4,483 506 54 Mutual funds 33 3 5 25 Equity and other variable income securities 2,777 2,774 3 Derivative instruments 94,554 5,242 87,820 1,492 Other financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss 139,870 93,239 39,423 7,208 Equity instruments at fair value through profit or loss 28,351 19,159 6,190 3,002 Equity and other variable income securities 19,315 16,839 1,468 1,008 Non-consolidated equity investments 9,036 2,320 4,722 1,994 Debt instruments that do not meet the conditions of the “SPPI” test 60,131 36,856 19,073 4,202 Loans and receivables due from credit institutions Loans and receivables due from customers 3,003 2,890 113 Debt securities 57,128 36,856 16,183 4,089 Treasury bills and similar securities 156 73 83 Bonds and other fixed income securities 11,637 1,760 9,126 751 Mutual funds 45,335 35,023 6,974 3,338 Assets backing unit-linked contracts 51,386 37,222 14,160 4 Treasury bills and similar securities 988 975 13 Bonds and other fixed income securities 3,956 1,150 2,806 Equity and other variable income securities 5,161 1,167 3,994 Mutual funds 41,281 33,930 7,347 4 Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 2 2 Loans and receivables due from credit institutions Loans and receivables due from customers Debt securities 2 2 Treasury bills and similar securities Bonds and other fixed income securities 2 2 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 253,620 235,272 17,699 649 Equity instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 3,418 1,988 853 577 Equity and other variable income securities 283 16 233 34 Non-consolidated equity investments(1) 3,135 1,972 620 543 Debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income that may be reclassified to profit and loss 250,202 233,284 16,846 72 Loans and receivables due from credit institutions Loans and receivables due from customers 1 1 Debt securities 250,201 233,284 16,845 72 Treasury bills and similar securities 75,753 75,286 395 72 Bonds and other fixed income securities 174,448 157,998 16,450 Hedging derivative Instruments 14,322 7 14,315 TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS MEASURED AT FAIR VALUE 633,417 353,154 268,049 12,214 Transfers from Level 1: Quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments 75 Transfers from Level 2: Valuation based on observable data 291 801 Transfers from Level 3: Valuation based on unobservable data 8 114 TOTAL TRANSFERS TO EACH LEVEL 299 114 876 (1) SAS Rue La Boétie shares have been included in Non-consolidated equity investments in Level 2 for €47 million. 484 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 10 Level 1 to Level 3 transfers mainly involve Treasury bills. Level 2 to Level 1 transfers mainly involve debt instruments at fair value through comprehensive income that may be reclassified. Level 2 to Level 3 transfers mainly involve repurchase agreements and interest rate swaps. Level 3 to Level 1 transfers mainly involve derivative instruments on foreign exchange and gold transactions. Level 3 to Level 2 transfers mainly involve derivative instruments on unsubordinated debt securities and trading derivatives. Quoted prices in active Valuation based Valuation based markets for identical on observable on unobservable instruments: data: data: (in millions of euros) 31/12/2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Financial assets held for trading 221,089 23,036 195,053 3,000 Loans and recevables due from credit institutions Loans and receivables due from customers 1,600 1,600 Securities bought under repurchase agreements 92,959 92,959 Pledged securities Securities held for trading 20,735 19,668 945 122 Treasury bills and similar securities 12,804 12,033 771 Bonds and other fixed income securities 4,446 4,151 173 122 Equities and other equity variable income securities 3,485 3,484 1 Derivative instruments 105,795 3,368 101,149 1,278 Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 100,315 76,364 19,179 4,772 Loans and receivables due from credit institutions Loans and receivables due from customers 2 2 Assets backing unit-linked contracts 51,600 38,917 12,677 6 Securities designated at fair value through profit or loss 48,713 37,447 6,502 4,764 Treasury bills and similar securities 3,639 3,617 22 Bonds and other fixed income securities 28,004 24,738 3,058 208 Equities and other equity variable income securities 17,070 9,092 3,422 4,556 Available-for-sale financial assets 307,058 269,028 36,192 1,838 Treasury bills and similar securities 74,346 73,803 543 Bonds and other fixed income securities 201,745 174,589 26,875 281 Equities and other equity variable income securities 30,967 20,636 8,774 1,557 Available-for-sale receivables Hedging derivative instruments 16,435 4 16,431 TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS MEASURED AT FAIR VALUE 644,897 368,432 266,855 9,610 Transfers from level 1: Quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments 119 Transfers from level 2: Valuation based on observable data 21 100 Transfers from level 3: Valuation based on unobservable data 8 267 TOTAL TRANSFERS TO EACH LEVEL 29 386 100 6 Level 1 to Level 2 transfers involve available-for-sale securities and bonds. Level 2 to Level 1 transfers mainly involve equities. Level 2 to Level 3 transfers mainly involve interest rate swaps. Level 3 to Level 2 transfers mainly involve bonds. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 485 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 10 Financial liabilities measured at fair value Quoted prices in active Valuation Valuation markets for based on based on identical observable unobservable instruments: data: data: (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Financial liabilities held for trading 193,956 29,801 159,881 4,274 Securities sold short 25,433 24,810 403 220 Securities sold under repurchase agreements 75,917 73,593 2,324 Debt securities 2 2 Due to credit institutions Due to customers Derivative instruments 92,604 4,991 85,883 1,730 Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss 34,155 7,499 18,241 8,415 Hedging derivative Instruments 12,085 11,734 351 TOTAL FINANCIAL LIABILITIES MEASURED AT FAIR VALUE 240,196 37,300 189,856 13,040 Transfers from Level 1: Quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments Transfers from Level 2: Valuation based on observable data 811 Transfers from Level 3: Valuation based on unobservable data 10 381 TOTAL TRANSFERS TO EACH LEVEL 10 381 811 Level 2 to Level 3 transfers mainly concern negotiable debt securities accounted under the fair value and earnings option and interest rate swaps. Level 3 to Level 1 transfers mainly involve derivative instruments on derivative trading instruments. Level 3 to Level 2 transfers mainly concern negotiable debt securities accounted under the fair value and earnings option and derivative trading instruments. 486 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 10 Quoted prices in active Valuation Valuation markets for based on based on identical observable unobservable instruments: data: data: (in millions of euros) 31/12/2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Financial liabilities held for trading 196,444 25,045 169,802 1,597 Securities sold short 22,598 22,372 226 Securities sold under repurchase agreements 67,335 67,335 Debt securities 2 2 Due to customers Due to credit institutions Derivative instruments 106,509 2,671 102,241 1,597 Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss 31,443 6,817 19,078 5,548 Hedging derivative instruments 13,271 13,023 248 TOTAL FINANCIAL LIABILITIES MEASURED AT FAIR VALUE 241,158 31,862 201,903 7,393 Transfers from level 1: Quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments 3 Transfers from level 2: Valuation based on observable data 127 Transfers from level 3: Valuation based on unobservable data 2,171 TOTAL TRANSFERS TO EACH LEVEL 2,171 130 Level 2 to Level 3 transfers mainly concern marketable debt securities accounted under the fair value option. Level 3 to Level 2 transfers mainly concern marketable debt securities accounted under the fair value option. Financial instruments classified in Level 1 Financial instruments classified in Level 2 Level 1 comprises all derivatives quoted in an active market (options, The main financial instruments classified in Level 2 are: futures, etc.), regardless of their underlying (interest rate, exchange rate, precious metals, key stock indices), as well as equities and bonds Liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss quoted in an active market. Financial liabilities designated at fair value are classified in Level 2 when their embedded derivative is deemed to be classified in Level 2. A market is considered as being active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from exchange, brokers, dealers, pricing services or Over-the-counter derivatives regulatory agencies, and those prices represent actual and regularly The main OTC derivatives classified in Level 2 are those valued using occurring market transactions on an arm’s length basis. inputs considered to be observable and where the valuation technique Corporate, government and agency bonds that are valued on the basis does not generate any significant exposure to a model risk. of prices obtained from independent sources, deemed to be enforceable Level 2 therefore mainly includes: and updated regularly, are classified in Level 1. This covers the bulk of nn linear derivative products such as interest rate swaps, currency sovereign, agency and corporate securities held. Issuers whose bonds are not quoted are classified in Level 3. swaps and forward FX. They are valued using simple models widely used in the market, based either on directly observable inputs (foreign exchange rates, interest rates), or inputs derived from observable market prices (currency swaps); nn non-linear vanilla instruments such as caps, floors, swaptions, 6 currency options, equity options and credit default swaps, including digital options. They are valued using simple models widely used in the market, based either on directly observable inputs (foreign exchange rates, interest rates, share prices) or inputs that can be derived from observable market prices (volatilities); The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 487 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 10 nn simple exotic single-underlying instruments such as cancellable The aggregate of these principles is mapped for observability according swaps, currency baskets of major currencies. They are valued using to the three levels indicating for each product, currency and maturity the models that are sometimes slightly more complex but still widely used classification used. Level 3 mainly comprises: in the market. The inputs are mainly observable inputs and market nn interest rate exposures or very long-dated currency swaps or covering prices, obtained notably from brokers and/or market consensus data, emerging currencies; which can be used to corroborate internal valuations; nn equity exposures, mainly through products traded on shallow option nn securities listed on a market deemed inactive and for which markets or indexed to volatility and long-dated; independant valuation data are available. nn exposures to non-linear long-dated products (interest rate or currency) on key currencies/indices; Financial instruments classified in Level 3 nn non-linear exposures to emerging market currencies; Financial instruments classified in Level 3 are those which do not meet nn complex derivatives: complex derivatives are classified in Level 3 as the conditions for classification in Level 1 or 2. They are therefore mainly their valuation requires the use of unobservable inputs. financial instruments with a high model risk or those whose valuation The main exposures involved are: requires substantial use of unobservable inputs. nn products whose underlying is the difference between two interest The initial margin on all new transactions classified in Level 3 is rates, such as options, binary options or exotic products. These reserved at the date of initial recognition. It is reintegrated in the profit products are based on a correlation between the two rates, which is or loss account either spread over the period during which the inputs considered to be unobservable due to reduced liquidity. The valuation are considered to be unobservable or in full on the date when the inputs of these exposures is nonetheless adjusted at the month-end on the become observable. basis of correlation levels derived from market consensus data; Level 3 therefore mainly comprises: nn products whose underlying is the forward volatility of an index Securities (Euribor, CMS spread). These products are deemed unobservable as there is significant model risk and their thin liquidity prevents regular Level 3 securities mainly include: accurate estimates of inputs; nn unlisted shares or bonds for which no independent valuation is nn securitisation swaps generating an exposure to the prepayment rate. available; The prepayment rate is determined on the basis of historical data nn ABSs and CLOs for which there are indicative independent quotes but on similar portfolios. The assumptions and inputs used are checked which are not necessarily executable; regularly on the basis of actual prepayments; nn ABSs, CLOs and super senior and mezzanine CDO tranches where it nn hybrid long-term interest rate/FX products, such as Power Reverse cannot be demonstrated that the market is active. Dual Currency notes, or products whose underlying is a basket of Liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss currencies. The correlation parameters between interest rates and currencies as well as between the two interest rates are determined Financial liabilities designated at fair value are classified in Level 3 when using an internal methodology based on historical data. Results are their embedded derivative is deemed to be classified in Level 3. cross-checked against market consensus data to ensure that the Over-the-counter derivatives overall method is coherent; Unobservable income includes complex financial instruments that are nn multiple-underlying products generating an exposure to correlations, significantly exposed to model risk or that involve parameters that are regardless of the underlyings concerned (interest rates, credit, FX, considered unobservable. inflation); nn CDOs based on corporate credit baskets. These are no longer significant; nn certain portfolios of complex equity derivatives. 488 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 10 At 31 December 2018 Carrying amount (in millions of euros) Instrument Main product types Main unobservable Unobservable classes Assets Liabilities comprising Level 3 Valuation technique used inputs data interval Interest rate 1,277 1,649 Long-dated cancellable products Interest rate options Forward volatility derivatives (cancellable zero coupon swaps) valuation model Options on interest rate CMS correlations 0%/100% differentials Securitisation swaps Prepayment modelling and Prepayment rate 0%/50% discounted future cash flows Long-dated hybrid interest rate/ Interest rate/FX hybrid product Interest rate/interest 50%/50% exchange rate products (PRDC) valuation model rate correlation Interest rate/FX -50%/50% correlation Multiple-underlying products Valuation models for instruments FX/equity correlation -50%/75% (dual range, etc.) with multiple underlyings FX/FX correlation -20%/50% Interest rate/equity -25%/75% correlation Interest rate/interest -10%/100% rate correlation Interest rate/FX -10%/100% correlation Credit 10 15 CDOs indexed to corporate credit Correlation projection techniques Default correlations 50%/90% derivatives baskets and expected cash flow modelling 6 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 489 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 10 Net change in financial instruments measured at fair value according to level 3 Financial assets measured at fair value according to Level 3 Held for trading financial assets Held for trading securities Securities Loans and bought Treasury Bonds and receivables under bills and other fixed Held for due from repurchase similar income Mutual trading Derivative (in millions of euros) Total customers agreements securities securities funds securities instruments Opening balance (01/01/2018) 9,644 1,571 122 122 1,272 Gains or losses during the period(1) 364 49 1 (2) (1) (64) Recognised in profit or loss 190 (6) 1 (2) (1) (64) Recognised in other comprehensive income 174 55 Purchases 3,754 617 445 8 28 481 717 Sales (3,287) (1,614) (1) (1) Issues 20 Settlements (506) (46) (46) (453) Reclassifications 1,484 1,368 Changes associated with scope during the period (13) Transfers 754 350 (31) (31) 20 Transfers to Level 3 876 350 105 Transfers from Level 3 (122) (31) (31) (85) CLOSING BALANCE (31/12/2018) 12,214 1,374 967 445 54 25 524 1,492 (1) This balance includes the gains and losses of the period made on assets reported on the balance sheet at the closing date, for the following amounts: Gains/ losses for the period from level 3 assets held at the end of the period 237 Recognised in profit or loss 181 Recognised in other comprehensive income 56 490 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 10 Financial assets at fair value through Other financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss other comprehensive income Equity instruments Equity instruments at fair value through Debt instruments that do not meet at fair value through Financial assets designated at profit or loss the conditions of the “SPPI” test other comprehensive fair value through profit or loss income that will not be reclassified to Loans Debt securities Bonds profit and loss Debt securities Equity and Bonds and Equities Bonds and other Nonreceiand other other and other NonTreasury and other variable consolidated vables fixed fixed variable consolidated bills and fixed income equity due from income Mutual Debt income Mutual income equity similar income Debt securities investments customers securities funds securities securities funds securities investments securities securities securities 1,426 813 94 438 3,280 3,718 4 2 63 522 37 37 94 126 9 (15) 52 37 (4) (4) 122 94 125 9 (15) 52 37 (4) 1 (4) 122 131 481 3 459 754 1,213 4 107 (132) (274) (24) (130) (748) (878) (2) (19) (304) (39) (39) 18 2 (1) (1) (6) (550) 543 123 13 (6) (22) 2 2 26 287 31 (1) 72 72 26 293 31 (1) 72 72 (6) 1,008 1,994 113 751 3,338 4,089 4 34 543 72 72 6 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 491 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 10 Financial liabilities measured at fair value according to Level 3 Financial liabilities held for trading Securities sold under Financial liabilities Hedging Securities repurchase Debt Due to credit Due to Derivative designated at fair value derivative (in millions of euros) Total sold short agreements securities institutions customers Instruments through profit or loss instruments Opening balance (01/01/2018) 7,393 1,597 5,548 248 Gains or losses during the period(1) 34 (135) 168 1 Recognised in profit or loss 34 (135) 168 1 Recognised in other comprehensive income Purchases 3,128 220 2,324 456 128 Sales (32) (2) (30) Issues 2,706 2,695 11 Settlements (609) (115) (487) (7) Reclassifications Changes associated with scope during the period Transfers 420 (71) 491 Transfers to Level 3 811 127 684 Transfers from Level 3 (391) (198) (193) CLOSING BALANCE (31/12/2018) 13,040 220 2,324 1,730 8,415 351 (1) This balance includes the gains and losses of the period made on liabilities reported on the balance sheet at the closing date, for the following amounts: Gains/ losses for the period from level 3 assets held at the end of the period 35 Recognised in profit or loss 35 Recognised in other comprehensive income The fair value (and change in fair value) on these products alone is not, nn equity/interest rate correlation; however, representative. These products are essentially hedged by nn FX/FX correlation. other, simpler products that are individually measured based on inputs considered to be observable. The valuations (and their changes) of these Prepayment rate hedging instruments, mostly symmetrical to valuations of products The prepayment rate is the rate of early repayment on securitisation measured based on unobservable inputs, do not themselves appear in portfolios, whether voluntary or involuntary (default). Exposure to this the table above. risk factor may stem from two types of source: direct exposure to these asset classes, or certain “securitisation” swaps, i.e. where the Sensitivity analysis for financial instruments variations in their nominal amounts are adjusted automatically to the measured using the level 3 valuation model nominal amount of the underlying portfolio, with no mark-to-market payment. The prepayment rate plays a significant part in their valuation. The use of unobservable inputs introduces uncertainty, which we have assessed below using a sensitivity calculation on instruments valued Calculation of impact using these inputs. With respect to correlation Scope of interest rate derivatives The results presented below have been obtained by applying the As regards interest rate derivatives, two key inputs are considered following distinct risk shocks: to be unobservable and of such a type that they result in the classification nn correlations between successive indices in the same currency (i.e. of the associated products in level 3: correlation and prepayment rates CMS correlations): (i.e. early redemption). nn cross assets correlations (e.g.: Equity/FX or IR/ Equity) and between two interest-rate curves in different currencies. Correlation The result of the stress test is the sum of the absolute values obtained. Many products are sensitive to a correlation parameter. However, this parameter is not unique and there are many different types of For each type of correlation we considered absolute values by currency, correlation, including: maturity and portfolio, thus making a conservative assumption. For the CMS correlations, we considered the various underlyings independently nn forward correlation between two successive indices in the same (e.g. 1y10y, 2y10y). currency, e.g. 2-year CMS/10-year CMS; nn interest rate/interest rate correlation (different indices), e.g. Libor 3M As at 31 December 2018, the sensitivity to the parameters used in USD/Libor 3M EUR; interest rate derivative models was therefore +/€12 million. nn interest rate/FX correlation (or Quanto), e.g. USD/JPY – USD; The quantity expressed is a sensitivity for a normalised market variation assumption that is not intended to measure the impact of extreme nn equity/equity correlation; variations. nn equity/FX correlation; 492 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 11 With respect to the prepayment rate The pre-payment rate is not an observable market parameter and Direct exposure to assets comprising a pre-payment risk concerns the valuation model used for the securitisation swaps is particularly securitisations such as RMBS and CLO and mezzanine CDO tranches. conservative. The valuation used is defined as the lower of the valuation These exposures are marginal. They can be taken into account through obtained using a very fast pre-payment rate and using a very slow sensitivity to a 1 bp change in credit spreads. This sensitivity being pre-payment rate. A “normal” variation in the pre-payment rate will very low (<€50 thousand/bp), exposure to pre-payment rate is thus therefore have no material impact on mark-to-market, no Day One thus considered to be negligible. being used for these products. 10.3 ESTIMATED IMPACT OF INCLUSION OF THE MARGIN AT INCEPTION The 1st day margin on market transactions falling within Level 3 of fair (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 value is reserved for the balance sheet and recognised in profit or loss Deferred margin at 1 January 67 69 as time passes or when unobservable parameters become observable Margin generated by new transactions again. during the period 26 20 Recognised in net income during the period Amortisation and cancelled/reimbursed/ matured transactions (32) (22) Profit-sharing and incentive plans Effects of inputs or products reclassified as observable during the period DEFERRED MARGIN AT THE END OF THE PERIOD 61 67 Note 11 Scope of consolidation at 31 December 2018 11.1 INFORMATION ON SUBSIDIARIES The payment of CA Egypt dividends is subject to a currency translation restriction on the Egyptian pound imposed by the Banque Centrale d’Égypte. 11.1.1 Restrictions on entities Crédit Agricole S.A. Group is subject to the following restrictions: 11.1.2 Support for structured entities under group control Regulatory constraints Crédit Agricole CIB has contractual arrangements with some The subsidiaries of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group are subject to prudential consolidated structured entities that equate to commitments to provide regulation and regulatory capital requirements in their host countries. financial support. The minimum equity capital (solvency ratio), leverage ratio and liquidity To meet its funding needs, Crédit Agricole CIB uses structured debt ratio requirements limit the capacity of these entities to pay dividends issuance vehicles to raise cash on financial markets. Securities or to transfer assets to Crédit Agricole S.A. Group. issued by these entities are fully underwritten by Crédit Agricole CIB. At 31 December 2018, the outstanding volume of these issues was Legal constraints €27 billion compared to €24 billion at 31 December 2017. The subsidiaries of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group are subject to legal provisions concerning the distribution of capital and distributable As part of its third-party securitisation business, Crédit Agricole CIB 6 provides liquidity lines to its ABCP conduits (see Note 1.1 for more earnings. These requirements limit the ability of the subsidiaries to detail). At 31 December 2018, these liquidity lines totalled €35 billion distribute dividends. In the majority of cases, these are less restrictive compared to €32 billion at 31 December 2017. than the regulatory limitations mentioned above. Crédit Agricole S.A. provided no other financial support for any structured entities consolidated at 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017. Restriction on assets backing unit-linked contracts for the insurance business 11.1.3 Securitisation transactions and dedicated Assets backing unit-linked contracts of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group funds are held for the benefit of policyholders. Assets of the insurance subsidiaries of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group are mainly held for satisfying Various Group entities conduct securitisation operations on their own their obligation towards their policyholders. Assets transfers to other account as part of collateralised refinancing transactions. Depending on entities are possible following the legal conditions. However, in case of the circumstances, these transactions can be wholly or partially placed a transfer, a part of the profit due to the transfer must be intended for with investors, sold under repurchase agreements or kept on the issuer’s the policyholders. balance sheet as liquid securities reserves that can be used to manage refinancing. Following the IAS 39 decision tree, these transactions are Other constraints considered to form part of deconsolidating or non-deconsolidating transactions: for non-deconsolidating transactions, the assets are Certain subsidiaries of Crédit Agricole S.A., namely Crédit Agricole CIB retained on the consolidated balance sheet of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group. Algérie, Crédit Agricole Ukraine and Crédit Agricole Serbie, are required to obtain prior approval for the payment of their dividends from their respective prudential authorities (Banque d’Algérie, Banque Nationale d’Ukraine and Banque Nationale de Serbie). The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 493 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 10 11.2 SCOPE OF CONSOLIDATION Country of % control % interest Country of % control % interest Crédit Agricole incorporation Crédit Agricole incorporation S.A. Group Principal if different S.A. Group Principal if different Scope of place of from the principal 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ Scope of place of from the principal 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ consolidation (1) (a) business place of business (b) 2018 2017 2018 2017 consolidation (1) (a) business place of business (b) 2018 2017 2018 2017 SAVINGS MANAGEMENT Amundi Banking and financial institutions Intermédiation United London Branch n E2 Kingdom B 100.0 68.4 ABC-CA Fund Management CO  China A 33.3 33.3 22.8 22.8 Amundi Investment Fund Management AMUNDI n France S 68.6 68.6 68.4 68.5 Private Limited United Company n Hungary S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 AMUNDI (UK) Ltd. n Kingdom S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 Amundi Ireland Ltd n D1 Ireland S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 AMUNDI ASSET Amundi Ireland Ltd United MANAGEMENT n France S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 London Branch n D1 Kingdom B 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 AMUNDI ASSET Amundi Ireland Ltd MANAGEMENT Singapore Branch n D1 Singapour B 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 BELGIUM n Belgium B 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 AMUNDI Issuance n France S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 AMUNDI ASSET MANAGEMENT AMUNDI Japan n Japan S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 DUBAI (OFF United Arab AMUNDI Japan SHORE) BRANCH n D1 Emirates B 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 Holding n Japan S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 AMUNDI ASSET AMUNDI MANAGEMENT Luxembourg S.A. n S4 Luxembourg S 100.0 68.5 HONG KONG BRANCH n Hong Kong B 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 Amundi Luxembourg SA n D1 Luxembourg S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 AMUNDI ASSET MANAGEMENT United AMUNDI Malaysia LONDON BRANCH n Kingdom B 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 Sdn Bhd n Malaysia S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 AMUNDI ASSET Amundi Pioneer MANAGEMENT Asset Management NEDERLAND n Netherlands B 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 Inc n United States S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 Amundi Asset Amundi Pioneer Management Asset Management S.A.I SA n Romania S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 USA Inc n United States S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 Amundi Pioneer Amundi Austria n S4 Austria S 100.0 68.5 Distributor Inc n United States S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 Amundi Austria Amundi Pioneer GmbH n D1 Austria S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 Institutional Asset Amundi Czech Management Inc n United States S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 Republic Asset Management AMUNDI Polska n Poland S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 Bratislava Branch n D1 Slovakia B 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 AMUNDI Private Amundi Czech Equity Funds n France S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 Republic Asset AMUNDI Real Management Sofia Estate Italia SGR Branch n D1 Bulgaria B 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 S.p.A. n Italy S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 Amundi Czech AMUNDI SGR Republic Asset Czech S.p.A. n Italy S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 Management, A.S. n Republic S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 AMUNDI Singapore Amundi Czech Ltd. n Singapour S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 Republic, Investicni Czech AMUNDI Smith Spolecnost, A.S. n Republic S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 Breeden n S4 United States S 100.0 68.5 Amundi AMUNDI Suisse n Switzerland S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 Deutschland GmbH n Germany S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 AMUNDI Tenue de AMUNDI Finance n France S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 Comptes n France S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 AMUNDI Finance AMUNDI USA Inc n United States S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 Emissions n France S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 AMUNDI Ventures n France S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 AMUNDI GLOBAL SERVICING n Luxembourg S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 Banca Leonardo n E3 Italy S 94.2 92.0 AMUNDI Hellas BFT INVESTMENT MFMC S.A. n Greece S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 MANAGERS n France S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 AMUNDI Hong CA Indosuez Kong Ltd. n Hong Kong S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 (Suisse) S.A. Hong AMUNDI Iberia Kong Branch n Hong Kong Switzerland B 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 S.G.I.I.C S.A. n Spain S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 CA Indosuez (Suisse) S.A. AMUNDI Immobilier n France S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 Singapore Branch n Singapour Switzerland B 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 AMUNDI India CA Indosuez Holding n France S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 (Suisse) S.A. AMUNDI Switzerland Branch n Switzerland B 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 Intermédiation n France S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 CA Indosuez Amundi (Switzerland) S.A. n Switzerland S 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 Intermédiation Asia CA Indosuez PTE Ltd n E2 Singapour S 100.0 68.4 Finanziaria S.A. n Switzerland S 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 Amundi CA Indosuez Intermédiation Gestion n France S 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 Dublin Branch n E2 Ireland B 100.0 68.4 (1) Consolidation Method: n Full  Equity Accounted l Parent 494 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 10 Country of % control % interest Country of % control % interest Crédit Agricole incorporation Crédit Agricole incorporation S.A. Group Principal if different S.A. Group Principal if different Scope of place of from the principal 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ Scope of place of from the principal 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ consolidation (1) (a) business place of business (b) 2018 2017 2018 2017 consolidation (1) (a) business place of business (b) 2018 2017 2018 2017 CA Indosuez Wealth TOBAM HOLDING (Europe) n Luxembourg S 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 COMPANY  France A 25.6 25.6 17.5 17.5 CA Indosuez Wealth Vanderbilt Capital (Europe) Belgium Advisors LLC n United States S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 Branch n Belgium Luxembourg B 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 WAFA Gestion  Morocco A 34.0 34.0 23.3 23.3 CA Indosuez Wealth Investment companies (Europe) Italy Branch n Italy Luxembourg B 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 CA Indosuez Wealth (Brazil) S.A. DTVM n Brazil S 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 CA Indosuez Wealth (Europe) Spain CA Indosuez Wealth Branch n Spain Luxembourg B 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 (Group) n France S 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 CA Indosuez Wealth CFM Indosuez (France) n France S 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 Conseil en Investissement n E1 France S 70.1 67.4 CFM Indosuez Wealth n Monaco S 70.1 70.1 67.4 67.4 CFM Indosuez Conseil en CPR AM n France S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 Investissement, Étoile Gestion n France S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 Succursale de Noumea n E1 France B 70.1 67.4 Fund Channel  Luxembourg JV 50.0 50.0 34.2 34.3 CFM Indosuez Fund Channel Gestion n E1 Monaco S 70.1 66.1 Singapore Branch  Singapour Luxembourg JV 50.0 50.0 34.3 34.3 Insurance KBI Fund Managers Limited n Ireland S 87.5 87.5 68.4 68.5 ASSUR&ME n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 KBI Global Investors CA Assicurazioni n Italy S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 (North America) CACI DANNI n Italy Ireland B 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Limited n Ireland S 87.5 87.5 68.4 68.5 CACI LIFE LIMITED n Ireland S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 KBI Global Investors Limited n Ireland S 87.5 87.5 68.4 68.5 CACI NON LIFE LIMITED n Ireland S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 LCL Emissions n France S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 CACI NON VIE n France Ireland B 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 NH-AMUNDI ASSET MANAGEMENT  South Korea A 30.0 30.0 20.5 20.5 CACI Reinsurance Ltd. n Ireland S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Pioneer Global Investments ( CACI VIE n France Ireland B 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Australia ) Pty CACI VITA n Italy Ireland B 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Limited n S1 Australia S 100.0 68.5 CALIE Europe Pioneer Global Succursale France n France Luxembourg B 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Investments ( Taiwan) LTD n Taiwan S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 CALIE Europe Succursale Pologne n Poland Luxembourg B 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Pioneer Global Investments LTD n Ireland S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 Crédit Agricole Assurances (CAA) n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Pioneer Global Investments LTD Crédit Agricole Buenos Aires Creditor Insurance Branch n Argentina B 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 (CACI) n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Pioneer Global Crédit Agricole Life n D4 Greece S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Investments LTD Crédit Agricole Life Jelling Branch n Denmark B 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 Insurance Company Pioneer Global Japan Ltd. n Japan S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 6 Investments LTD United Crédit Agricole Life London Branch n Kingdom B 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 Insurance Europe n Luxembourg S 100.0 100.0 99.9 99.9 Pioneer Global Crédit Agricole Vita Investments LTD S.p.A. n Italy S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Madrid Branch n Spain B 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 Finaref Risques Pioneer Global Divers n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Investments LTD Mexico city Branch n Mexico B 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 Finaref Vie n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Pioneer Global GNB SEGUROS n Portugal S 75.0 50.0 75.0 50.0 Investments LTD Médicale de France n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Paris Branch n France B 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 Pacifica n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Pioneer Global Investments LTD Predica n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Santiago Branch n Chile B 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 Predica – Pioneer Investment Czech Prévoyance Company A.S. n S4 Republic S 100.0 68.5 Dialogue du Crédit Agricole n Spain B 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Pioneer Investment Management Sgr Space Holding p.A. n S4 Italy S 100.0 68.5 (Ireland) Limited n Ireland S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Société Générale Space Lux n Luxembourg S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Gestion (S2G) n France S 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 Spirica n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 State Bank of India UCITS Fund Management  India A 37.0 37.0 25.3 25.3 ACACIA n France CSE 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 TOBAM  France A 4.1 4.1 13.7 13.7 ACAJOU n France CSE 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 (1) Consolidation Method: n Full  Equity Accounted l Parent The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 495 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 10 Country of % control % interest Country of % control % interest Crédit Agricole incorporation Crédit Agricole incorporation S.A. Group Principal if different S.A. Group Principal if different Scope of place of from the principal 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ Scope of place of from the principal 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ consolidation (1) (a) business place of business (b) 2018 2017 2018 2017 consolidation (1) (a) business place of business (b) 2018 2017 2018 2017 AGRICOLE RIVAGE CAA PRIVATE DETTE n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 EQUITY 2018 – AM DESE FIII COMPARTIMENT DS3IMDI n E3 France CSE 100.0 100.0 FRANCE INVESTISSEMENT n E3 France CSE 100.0 100.0 AMUNDI GRD 24 FCP n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 CAA SECONDAIRE IV n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 AMUNDI PE Solution Alpha n E1 France CSE 100.0 68.4 CA-EDRAM OPPORTUNITES ARTEMID n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 FCP 3DEC n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 BFT opportunité n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 CAREPTA R 2016 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 BFT VALUE PREM CEDAR n France CSE 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 OP CD n E3 France CSE 100.0 100.0 Chorial Allocation n France CSE 99.7 99.7 68.2 68.2 CA VITA INFRASTRUCTURE CNP ACP 10 FCP  France SJV 56.9 50.2 50.2 50.2 CHOICE FIPS c.I.A. n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 CNP ACP OBLIG  France SJV 45.4 50.2 50.2 50.2 CA VITA PRIVATE COMPARTIMENT DEBT CHOICE FIPS DS3 – IMMOBILIER Cl. A n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 VAUGIRARD n E3 France CSE 100.0 100.0 CA VITA PRIVATE COMPARTIMENT EQUITY CHOICE n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 DS3 – VAUGIRARD n E3 France CSE 100.0 100.0 CAA 2013 CORSAIR 1.52% COMPARTIMENT 25/10/38 n Luxembourg CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 5 A5 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 CORSAIR 1.5255% CAA 2013 FCPR B1 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 25/04/35 n Ireland CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 CAA 2013 FCPR C1 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 CORSAIRE CAA 2013 FCPR D1 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 FINANCE IRELAND 0.83% 25-10-38 n Ireland CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 CAA 2013-2 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 CORSAIRE CAA 2013-3 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 FINANCE IRELAND CAA 2014 1.24% 25-10-38 n Ireland CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 COMPARTIMENT 1 CORSAIRE PART A1 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 FINANCE CAA 2014 IRELANDE 0.7% INVESTISSMENT 25-10-38 n Ireland CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 PART A3 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 EFFITHERMIE FPCI n France CSE 89.1 89.1 89.1 89.1 CAA 2015 FCPR CAA 2013 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 COMPARTIMENT 1 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 FCPR CAA COMP CAA 2015 TER PART A3 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 COMPARTIMENT 2 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 FCPR CAA CAA 2016 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 COMPART BIS CAA PART A2 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 INFRASTRUCTURE n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 FCPR CAA CAA COMPARTIMENT 1 INFRASTRUCTURE PART A1 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 2017 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 FCPR CAA France CAA croissance 2 A n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 INFRASTRUCTURE FCPR PREDICA 2018 – 2007 A n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 COMPARTIMENT 1 n E3 France CSE 100.0 100.0 FCPR PREDICA CAA PR FI II C1 A1 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 2007 C2 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 CAA PRIV.FINANC. FCPR PREDICA COMP.1 A1 FIC n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 2008 A1 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 CAA PRIV.FINANC. FCPR PREDICA COMP.2 A2 FIC n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 2008 A2 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 CAA PRIVATE FCPR PREDICA EQUITY 2017 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 2008 A3 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 CAA PRIVATE FCPR PREDICA EQUITY 2017 BIS n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SECONDAIRE I A1 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 CAA PRIVATE FCPR PREDICA EQUITY 2017 SECONDAIRE I A2 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 FRANCE FCPR PREDICA INVESTISSEMENT n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SECONDAIRES II A n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 CAA PRIVATE FCPR PREDICA EQUITY 2017 SECONDAIRES II B n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 MEZZANINE n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 FCPR Roosevelt CAA PRIVATE Investissements n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 EQUITY 2017 TER n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 FCPR UI CAP AGRO n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 CAA PRIVATE EQUITY 2018 – FCPR UI CAP COMPARTIMENT 1 n E3 France CSE 100.0 100.0 SANTE A n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 FCT BRIDGE 2016-1 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 (1) Consolidation Method: n Full  Equity Accounted l Parent 496 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 10 Country of % control % interest Country of % control % interest Crédit Agricole incorporation Crédit Agricole incorporation S.A. Group Principal if different S.A. Group Principal if different Scope of place of from the principal 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ Scope of place of from the principal 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ consolidation (1) (a) business place of business (b) 2018 2017 2018 2017 consolidation (1) (a) business place of business (b) 2018 2017 2018 2017 FCT CAA – PREDICA 2010 A1 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Compartment PREDICA 2010 A2 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 2017-1 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 FCT CAREPTA – PREDICA 2010 A3 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 COMPARTIMENT PREDICA 2014-1 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SECONDAIRES III n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 FCT CAREPTA – Predicant A1 FCP n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 COMPARTIMENT 2014-2 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Predicant A2 FCP n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 FCT CAREPTA – Predicant A3 FCP n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 COMPARTIMENT Prediquant RE-2016-1 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Eurocroissance A2 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 FCT CAREPTA – RE Prediquant 2015 –1 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 opportunité n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 FCT CAREPTA PREDIQUANT 2-2016 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 PREMIUM n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 FCT MID CAP 2 PREDIQUANT 05/12/22 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 STRATEGIES n S2 France CSE 100.0 100.0 FEDERIS CORE EU PREMIUM GR CR 19 MM n France CSE 43.6 43.6 43.6 43.6 0% 28 n Ireland CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Federval n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 PREMIUM GREEN FPCI Cogeneration 0.508% 25-10-38 n Ireland CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 France I n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 PREMIUM GREEN 0.63% 25-10-38 n Ireland CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Genavent n S1 France CSE 52.3 35.8 PREMIUM GREEN GRD 44 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 1.24% 25/04/35 n Ireland CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 GRD 44 N°3 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 PREMIUM GREEN GRD 44 N2 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 1.531% 25-04-35 n Ireland CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 GRD 54 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 PREMIUM GREEN 1.55% 25-07-40 n Ireland CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 GRD02 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 PREMIUM GREEN GRD03 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 4.52%06-21 EMTN n Ireland CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 GRD04 n S2 France CSE 100.0 100.0 PREMIUM GREEN GRD05 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 4.54%06-13.06.21 n Ireland CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 GRD07 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 PREMIUM GREEN 4.5575%21 EMTN n Ireland CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 GRD08 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 PREMIUM GREEN GRD09 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 4.56%06-21 n Ireland CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 GRD10 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 PREMIUM GREEN GRD11 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 4.7% EMTN 08/08/21 n Ireland CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 GRD12 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 PREMIUM GREEN GRD13 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 4.72%12-250927 n Ireland CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 GRD14 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 PREMIUM GREEN GRD16 n S2 France CSE 100.0 100.0 PLC 1.095% 25-10-38 n Ireland CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 GRD17 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 PREMIUM GREEN GRD18 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 PLC 4.30%2021 n Ireland CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 GRD19 GRD20 n n France France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 PREMIUM GREEN TV 06/22 n Ireland CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 6 PREMIUM GREEN GRD21 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 TV 07/22 n Ireland CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 GRD23 n S2 France CSE 100.0 100.0 PREMIUM GREEN IAA CROISSANCE TV 07-22 n Ireland CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 INTERNATIONALE n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 PREMIUM GREEN Londres Croissance TV 22 n Ireland CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 C16 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 PREMIUM GREEN LRP – CPT TV 26/07/22 n Ireland CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 JANVIER 2013 0.30 PREMIUM GREEN 13-21 11/01A n Luxembourg CSE 100.0 84.2 100.0 84.2 TV2027 n Ireland CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 OBJECTIF LONG PREMIUM GREEN TERME FCP n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 TV23/05/2022 Peg – Portfolio EMTN n Ireland CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Eonia Garanti n France CSE 97.2 97.2 66.5 66.6 PREMIUM Predica 2005 GREEN4.33%06FCPR A n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 29/10/21 n Ireland CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Predica 2006 PurpleProtAsset FCPR A n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 1,36% 25/10/2038 n Luxembourg CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Predica 2006-2007 PurpleProtAsset FCPR n France CSE 100.0 93.8 100.0 93.8 1.093% 20/10/2038 n Luxembourg CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 (1) Consolidation Method: n Full  Equity Accounted l Parent The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 497 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 10 Country of % control % interest Country of % control % interest Crédit Agricole incorporation Crédit Agricole incorporation S.A. Group Principal if different S.A. Group Principal if different Scope of place of from the principal 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ Scope of place of from the principal 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ consolidation (1) (a) business place of business (b) 2018 2017 2018 2017 consolidation (1) (a) business place of business (b) 2018 2017 2018 2017 RED CEDAR n France CSE 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 BFT FRAN FUT-C SI.3D n E1 France CSE 48.1 48.1 UI CAP SANTÉ 2 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 BFT STATERE P (C) n E1 France CSE 48.0 48.0 Unit-linked funds (Fonds UC) BNP PAR.CRED. 61 fonds UC dont le ERSC n France CSE 67.3 66.1 67.3 66.1 taux de détention est supérieur ou ≥ ≥ ≥ ≥ CA MASTER égal à 95% n France CSE 95% 95% 95% 95% EUROPE n France CSE 47.3 47.1 47.3 47.1 A FD EQ E CON CAPITOP MON. C AE(C) n E1 Luxembourg CSE 54.3 54.3 3DEC n S2 France CSE 45.6 45.6 A FD EQ E FOC CPR CONSO AE (C) n E1 Luxembourg CSE 61.3 61.3 ACTIONNAIRE FCP P n France CSE 52.0 51.0 52.0 51.0 AF EQUI.GLOB. AHE CAP n Luxembourg CSE 52.2 91.5 52.2 91.5 CPR CROIS.REA.-P n France CSE 38.5 28.7 38.5 28.7 AF INDEX EQ CPR FOCUS JAPAN AE CAP n Luxembourg CSE 20.7 41.8 20.7 41.8 INF.-P-3D n E1 France CSE 63.3 63.3 AF INDEX EQ USA CPR OBLIG 12 A4E n Luxembourg CSE 91.1 84.1 91.1 84.1 M.P 3D n France CSE 89.1 65.8 89.1 65.8 AM AC FR ISR CPR REFL. PC 3D n France CSE 62.7 50.0 62.7 50.0 RESP.0-100 P FCP AM.AC. 3DEC n France CSE 85.6 55.3 85.6 55.3 MINER.-P-3D n France CSE 49.5 44.1 49.5 44.1 CPR RENAI. AMU-AB RET JAP.-P-3D n France CSE 59.2 59.4 59.2 59.4 MS-EEUR n E1 Luxembourg CSE 59.4 59.4 CPR SILVER AGE AMUN TRESO CT P 3DEC n France CSE 50.2 45.5 50.2 45.5 PC 3D n France CSE 64.7 63.1 64.7 63.1 DNA 0% 12-211220 n S1 Luxembourg CSE 89.0 89.0 AMUN.ACT. DNA 0% 21/12/20 REST.P-C n France CSE 52.7 52.3 52.7 52.3 EMTN n Luxembourg CSE 71.1 70.7 71.1 70.7 AMUN.TRES.EONIA DNA 0% 23/07/18 ISR E FCP 3DEC n France CSE 61.3 90.9 61.3 89.6 EMTN INDX n S2 Luxembourg CSE 78.6 78.6 AMUNDI ACTIONS DNA 0% 27/06/18 FRANCE C 3DEC n France CSE 68.2 78.0 68.2 78.0 INDX n S2 Luxembourg CSE 82.1 82.1 AMUNDI AFD AV DNA 0%12-240418 DURABL P1 FCP INDX n S1 Luxembourg CSE 79.7 79.7 3DEC n France CSE 78.7 75.3 78.7 75.3 ECOFI MULTI AMUNDI EQ E IN OPPORTUN.FCP AHEC n Luxembourg CSE 29.5 45.5 29.5 45.5 3DEC n France CSE 83.7 81.4 83.7 81.4 AMUNDI GBL ENMIUM FCP 3DEC n S1 France CSE 100.0 100.0 MACRO MULTI ASSET P n France CSE 68.3 71.0 68.3 71.0 EXAN.PLEI.FD P n E1 France CSE 61.6 61.6 AMUNDI HORIZON EXPANSIA VIE n S2 France CSE 100.0 100.0 3D n France CSE 65.9 66.0 65.9 66.0 FONDS AV ECHUS AMUNDI KBI FIA A n S2 France CSE 99.9 99.9 ACTION PC n E3 France CSE 87.2 87.2 FONDS AV ECHUS AMUNDI KBI FIA C n S2 France CSE 99.4 99.4 ACTIONS C n France CSE 85.8 85.3 50.8 49.6 FONDS AV ECHUS AMUNDI OBLIG FIA D n S2 France CSE 99.9 99.9 EURO C n France CSE 47.7 46.1 47.7 46.1 IND.CAP AMUNDI EMERG.-C-3D n France CSE 80.6 88.8 80.6 88.8 PATRIMOINE C INDO ALLOC 3DEC n France CSE 84.2 83.7 84.2 83.7 MANDAT C n E1 France CSE 93.7 93.7 AMUNDI INDOS.EURO.PAT. PULSACTIONS n France CSE 57.6 57.8 57.6 57.8 PD 3D n France CSE 44.3 45.0 44.3 45.0 AMUNDI VALEURS INVEST RESP DURAB n France CSE 70.7 63.1 70.7 63.1 S3 3D n France CSE 69.8 64.4 69.8 64.4 AMUNDIOBLIG­ LCL AC.DEV. MONDEP n E1 France CSE 50.3 50.3 DU.EURO n France CSE 69.5 57.8 69.5 57.8 ANTINEA FCP n France CSE 52.5 65.8 52.5 65.8 LCL ARAMIS PATRIM AC.EMERGENTS 3D n France CSE 54.6 51.5 54.6 51.5 D 3D n S4 France CSE 43.1 43.1 LCL ACT RES NATUREL n France CSE 38.9 59.6 38.9 59.6 ARC FLEXIBOND-D n France CSE 52.8 55.5 52.8 55.5 LCL ACT.E-U ATOUT EUROPE C ISR 3D n France CSE 54.7 43.2 54.7 43.2 FCP 3DEC n France CSE 82.1 81.9 82.1 81.9 LCL ACT. ATOUT FRANCE C IMMOBI.3D n France CSE 49.2 47.8 49.2 47.8 FCP 3DEC n France CSE 42.1 42.1 42.1 42.1 LCL ACT.USA ATOUT MONDE C ISR 3D n France CSE 53.2 52.1 53.2 52.1 FCP 3DEC n S4 France CSE 88.6 88.6 LCL ACTIONS ATOUT VERT EURO C n France CSE 81.9 82.0 81.9 82.0 HORIZON FCP 3 DEC n France CSE 35.3 35.6 35.3 35.6 LCL ACTIONS MONDE FCP 3 DEC n France CSE 42.4 41.9 42.4 41.9 AXA EUR.SM.CAP E 3D n France CSE 71.1 70.1 71.1 70.1 (1) Consolidation Method: n Full  Equity Accounted l Parent 498 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 10 Country of % control % interest Country of % control % interest Crédit Agricole incorporation Crédit Agricole incorporation S.A. Group Principal if different S.A. Group Principal if different Scope of place of from the principal 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ Scope of place of from the principal 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ consolidation (1) (a) business place of business (b) 2018 2017 2018 2017 consolidation (1) (a) business place of business (b) 2018 2017 2018 2017 LCL AUTOCALL SOLIDARITE VIE 17 n France CSE 90.3 90.3 90.3 90.3 INITIATIS SANTE n France CSE 84.6 86.1 84.6 86.1 LCL BDP MONETAR E3; TRIALIS 6 ANS n S4 France CSE 68.3 68.3 BC n S2 France CSE TRIANANCE 6 ANS n France CSE 61.8 61.8 61.8 61.8 LCL D.CAPT. TRIANANCE 6 JU.10 3D n S1 France CSE 86.6 86.6 ANS 5 C n E3 France CSE 79.2 79.2 LCL DBL HOR AV TRIANANCE 6 NOV15 n S1 France CSE 100.0 100.0 ANS N 4 n France CSE 74.6 73.4 74.6 73.4 LCL DEVELOPPEM. VENDOME INV.FCP PME C n France CSE 69.5 71.3 69.5 71.3 3DEC n France CSE 90.3 90.4 90.3 90.4 LCL FDS ECH. Real estate collective investment fund (OPCI) MONE.3D n S4 France CSE 82.8 82.8 Nexus 1 n Italy CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 LCL FLEX 30 n France CSE 51.1 63.5 51.1 63.5 OPCI Camp Invest n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 LCL INVEST.EQ C n France CSE 92.2 91.9 92.2 91.9 OPCI ECO CAMPUS LCL INVEST. SPPICAV n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 PRUD.3D n France CSE 91.4 90.8 91.4 90.8 LCL LATITUDE OPCI Immanens n France CSE 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 VIE17 C n S2 France CSE 96.9 96.9 OPCI Immo LCL MGEST 60 Emissions n France CSE 100.0 100.0 68.4 68.5 3DEC n France CSE 84.9 84.6 84.9 84.6 OPCI Iris Invest LCL MGEST 2010 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 FL.0-100 n France CSE 80.0 80.7 80.0 80.7 OPCI MASSY LCL MONÉTAIRE E1; BUREAUX n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 C SI n S4 France CSE OPCI Messidor n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 LCL OPTIM II VIE 17 n France CSE 94.7 94.4 94.7 94.4 Predica OPCI LCL OPTIM VIE Bureau n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 T 17 C n S2 France CSE 94.7 94.7 Predica OPCI LCL PHOENIX VIE Commerces n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 2016 n S1 France CSE 93.7 93.7 Predica OPCI LCL PREMIUM VIE Habitation n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 2015 n France CSE 94.7 94.8 94.7 94.8 Non-trading real estate investment company (SCI) LCL T.H. AV(04/14) B IMMOBILIER n E1 France S 100.0 100.0 C n S2 France CSE 99.9 99.9 DS Campus n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 LCL TEMPO 6 ANS AV n S1 France CSE 99.6 99.6 FREY RETAIL VILLEBON  E1 France JV 47.5 47.5 LCL TRIP HORIZ SEP16 n S2 France CSE 78.1 78.1 HDP BUREAUX n France S 95.0 95.0 95.0 95.0 LCL TRIPLE HORIZ HDP HOTEL n France S 95.0 95.0 95.0 95.0 AV JANV 14 C 3D n S2 France CSE 100.0 100.0 HDP LA HALLE LCL TRIPLE BOCA n France S 95.0 95.0 95.0 95.0 HORIZON AV (09 IMEFA 177 n France CSE 100.0 99.0 100.0 99.0 2014) n S1 France CSE 100.0 100.0 IMEFA 178 n France CSE 100.0 99.0 100.0 99.0 LCL TRIPLE HORIZON AV (JANV. IMEFA 179 n France CSE 100.0 99.0 100.0 99.0 2015 n S2 France CSE 99.9 99.9 Issy Pont n France CSE 75.0 75.0 75.0 75.0 LCL V.RDM RUE DU BAC (SCI)  E1 France JV 50.0 50.0 8 AV(FEV.10) FCP3DEC LCL VOCATION n S2 France CSE 100.0 100.0 SCI 1 TERRASSE BELLINI  E1 France JV 33.3 33.3 6 RENDEMENT NOV SCI BMEDIC 12 3D n France CSE 80.0 80.1 80.0 80.1 HABITATION n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 OBJECTIF SCI CAMPUS PRUDENCE FCP n France CSE 81.3 100.0 81.3 100.0 MEDICIS ST DENIS n France S 70.0 70.0 70.0 70.0 OPALIA VIE 2 FCP SCI CAMPUS 3DEC n S1 France CSE 100.0 100.0 RIMBAUD ST DENIS n France S 70.0 70.0 70.0 70.0 OPALIA VIE 3 3DEC n S2 France CSE 99.7 99.7 SCI CARGO OPCIMMO LCL PROPERTY SPPICAV 5DEC n France CSE 94.2 93.6 94.2 93.6 HOLDING  France A 28.0 29.9 28.0 29.9 OPCIMMO PREM SCI CARPE DIEM  E1 France JV 50.0 50.0 SPPICAV 5DEC n France CSE 93.5 93.1 93.5 93.1 SCI PREFERENCE EUROMARSEILLE 1  E1 France JV 50.0 50.0 RENDEMENT EXCLUSIF 3D n S2 France CSE 100.0 100.0 SCI EUROMARSEILLE 2  E1 France JV 50.0 50.0 PREFERENCE RENDEMENT FCP SCI FÉDÉRALE 3DEC n S2 France CSE 100.0 100.0 PEREIRE VICTOIRE n France S 99.0 99.0 99.0 99.0 SELECTANCE 2017 SCI FEDERALE 3DEC n S1 France CSE 100.0 100.0 VILLIERS n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SOLIDARITE SCI FEDERLOG n France S 99.9 99.9 99.9 99.9 AMUNDI P n France CSE 62.3 56.1 62.3 56.1 SCI FEDERLONDRES n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 (1) Consolidation Method: n Full  Equity Accounted l Parent The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 499 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 10 Country of % control % interest Country of % control % interest Crédit Agricole incorporation Crédit Agricole incorporation S.A. Group Principal if different S.A. Group Principal if different Scope of place of from the principal 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ Scope of place of from the principal 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ consolidation (1) (a) business place of business (b) 2018 2017 2018 2017 consolidation (1) (a) business place of business (b) 2018 2017 2018 2017 SCI FEDERPIERRE n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 076 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI FONDIS  E1 France A 25.0 25.0 SCI IMEFA 077 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI GRENIER SCI IMEFA 078 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 VELLEF n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 079 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI HEART OF LA DEFENSE  E1 France A 33.3 33.3 SCI IMEFA 080 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI Holding Dahlia n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 081 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI ILOT 13  E1 France JV 50.0 50.0 SCI IMEFA 082 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 001 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 083 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 002 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 084 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 003 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 085 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 004 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 089 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 005 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 091 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 006 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 092 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 008 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 096 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 009 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 100 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 010 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 101 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 011 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 102 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 012 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 103 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 013 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 104 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 016 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 105 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 017 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 107 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 018 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 108 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 020 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 109 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 022 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 110 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 025 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 112 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 032 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 113 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 033 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 115 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 034 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 116 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 035 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 117 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 036 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 118 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 037 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 120 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 038 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 121 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 039 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 122 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 042 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 123 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 043 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 126 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 044 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 128 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 047 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 129 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 048 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 131 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 051 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 132 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 052 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 140 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 054 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 148 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 057 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 149 n France S 100.0 99.0 100.0 99.0 SCI IMEFA 058 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 150 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 060 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 155 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 061 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 156 n France S 90.0 90.0 90.0 90.0 SCI IMEFA 062 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 157 n France S 90.0 90.0 90.0 90.0 SCI IMEFA 063 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 158 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 064 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 159 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 067 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 164 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 068 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 169 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 069 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 170 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 072 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 171 n France CSE 100.0 99.0 100.0 99.0 SCI IMEFA 073 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 172 n France CSE 100.0 99.0 100.0 99.0 SCI IMEFA 074 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 173 n France S 100.0 99.0 100.0 99.0 (1) Consolidation Method: n Full  Equity Accounted l Parent 500 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 10 Country of % control % interest Country of % control % interest Crédit Agricole incorporation Crédit Agricole incorporation S.A. Group Principal if different S.A. Group Principal if different Scope of place of from the principal 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ Scope of place of from the principal 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ consolidation (1) (a) business place of business (b) 2018 2017 2018 2017 consolidation (1) (a) business place of business (b) 2018 2017 2018 2017 SCI IMEFA 174 n France S 100.0 99.0 100.0 99.0 Via Vita n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SCI IMEFA 175 n France S 100.0 99.0 100.0 99.0 FRENCH RETAIL BANKING SCI IMEFA 176 n France S 100.0 99.0 100.0 99.0 Banking and financial institutions SCI LE VILLAGE Banque Thémis n S2 France S 100.0 95.1 VICTOR HUGO n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Interfimo n France S 99.0 99.0 94.6 94.1 SCI MEDI BUREAUX n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 LCL n France S 95.6 95.1 95.6 95.1 SCI PACIFICA HUGO n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 LCL succursale de SCI PORTE DES Monaco n Monaco France B 95.6 95.1 95.6 95.1 LILAS – FRERES Tourism – property development FLAVIEN n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Angle Neuf n E1 France S 100.0 95.6 SCI VALHUBERT n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Other SCI VAUGIRARD 36-44 n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 C.L. Verwaltungs und Beteiligungs­ SCI WAGRAM gesellschaft GmbH n Germany S 100.0 100.0 95.6 95.1 22/30  E1 France JV 50.0 50.0 Crédit Lyonnais SCI WASHINGTON  E1 France A 34.0 34.0 Développement TOUR MERLE (SCI)  E1 France JV 50.0 50.0 Économique (CLDE) n France S 100.0 100.0 95.6 95.1 Other INTERNATIONAL RETAIL BANKING ALTAREA  France A 24.7 24.7 24.7 24.7 Banking and financial institutions AMUNDI IT Arc Broker n Poland S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Services n France S 99.6 99.6 69.5 69.5 CASSA DI ARCAPARK SAS  E1 France JV 50.0 50.0 RISPARMIO DI CESENA S.P.A. n S4 Italy S 95.3 73.1 Azqore n E2 Switzerland S 80.0 78.2 CASSA DI Azqore SA RISPARMIO DI Singapore Branch n E2 Singapour Switzerland B 100.0 97.8 RIMINI S.P.A. n S4 Italy S 95.4 73.2 CA Indosuez CASSA DI Wealth (Asset RISPARMIO DI SAN Management) n Luxembourg S 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 MINIATO S.P.A. n S4 Italy S 95.6 73.3 CACI Gestion n S1 France S 99.0 99.0 CREDIT AGRICOLE Crédit Agricole BANK n Ukraine S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Assurances Crédit Agricole Solutions n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Bank Polska S.A. n Poland S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 EUROPEAN Crédit Agricole MOTORWAY Banka Srbija a.d. INVESTMENTS 1 n Luxembourg S 60.0 60.0 60.0 60.0 Novi Sad n Serbia S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 FONCIÈRE Crédit Agricole HYPERSUD  France JV 51.4 51.4 51.4 51.4 Cariparma n Italy S 76.9 76.7 76.9 76.7 FREY  France A 19.2 17.9 19.2 17.9 Crédit Agricole HOLDING Carispezia S.p.A. n Italy S 80.0 80.0 61.5 61.4 EUROMARSEILLE n E1 France S 100.0 100.0 Crédit Agricole Icade  France A 18.4 18.5 18.4 18.5 Egypt S.A.E. n Egypt S 60.5 60.5 60.2 60.2 INFRA FOCH Crédit Agricole TOPCO  France A 49.0 36.9 49.0 36.9 Friuladria S.p.A. n Italy S 81.3 81.3 62.5 62.4 IRIS HOLDING Crédit Agricole FRANCE KORIAN  n E1 France France S A 80.1 80.1 23.2 23.0 23.2 23.0 Group Solutions Crédit Agricole Leasing Italia n n Italy Italy CSE 100.0 100.0 75.2 75.0 S 100.0 100.0 80.4 80.2 6 PATRIMOINE ET COMMERCE  France A 20.3 19.9 20.3 19.9 Crédit Agricole Polska S.A. n Poland S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 PREDICA ENERGIES DURABLES n E1 France S 100.0 100.0 Credit Agricole Romania n Romania S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 PREDIPARK n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Credit Agricole RAMSAY – Service sp z o.o. n Poland S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 GENERALE DE SANTE  France A 38.4 38.4 38.4 38.4 Crédit du Maroc n Morocco S 78.7 78.7 78.7 78.7 SA RESICO n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Lukas Finanse S.A. n Poland S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SAS CRISTAL  E1 France A 46.0 46.0 Other SAS PARHOLDING  E1 France A 50.0 50.0 Crédit du Maroc Succursale de D4; SAS PREDI-RUNGIS n E1 France S 85.0 85.0 France n S1 France Morocco B 78.7 78.7 SH PREDICA IUB Holding n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 ENERGIES DURABLES SAS n E1 France S 99.7 99.7 SPECIALISED FINANCIAL SERVICES Banking and financial institutions (1) Consolidation Method: n Full  Equity Accounted l Parent The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 501 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 10 Country of % control % interest Country of % control % interest Crédit Agricole incorporation Crédit Agricole incorporation S.A. Group Principal if different S.A. Group Principal if different Scope of place of from the principal 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ Scope of place of from the principal 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ consolidation (1) (a) business place of business (b) 2018 2017 2018 2017 consolidation (1) (a) business place of business (b) 2018 2017 2018 2017 Agos n Italy S 61.0 61.0 61.0 61.0 FCA Dealer services España, S.A.  Spain JV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 Alsolia n D2 France A 100.0 20.0 100.0 20.0 FCA Dealer Antera Incasso B.V. n S1 Netherlands S 100.0 100.0 Services Portugal Crealfi n France S 51.0 51.0 51.0 51.0 S.A.  Portugal JV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 Credibom n Portugal S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 FCA Dealer United Services UK Ltd  Kingdom JV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 Crediet Maatschappij De FCA GROUP BANK Ijssel B.V. n Netherlands S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 POLSKA S.A.  Poland JV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 Crédit Agricole FCA Insurance Consumer Finance n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Hellas S.A.  Greece JV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 Crédit Agricole FCA Leasing France  France JV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 Consumer Finance FCA Leasing Polska  Poland JV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 Nederland n Netherlands S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 FCA Leasing GmbH  Austria JV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 Crédit LIFT n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 FERRARI Creditplus Bank AG n Germany S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 FINANCIAL De Kredietdesk B.V. n Netherlands S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SERVICES GMBH  Germany JV 50.0 50.0 25.5 25.0 DE NEDERLANDSE FERRARI VOORSCHOTBANK FINANCIAL BV n Netherlands S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SERVICES GMBH, United UK Branch  E2 Kingdom JV 50.0 25.5 EFL Services n Poland S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 FGA Capital EUROFACTOR Danmark A/S, GmbH n Germany S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Finland Branch  Finland JV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 Eurofactor Italia Financierings Data S.p.A. n Italy S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Netwerk B.V.  Netherlands JV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 EUROFACTOR Finaref Assurances NEDERLAND n Netherlands Germany B 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 S.A.S. n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 EUROFACTOR Finata Bank N.V. n S4 Netherlands S 100.0 100.0 POLSKA S.A. n Poland S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Finata ZuidEurofactor SA – NV Nederland B.V. n Netherlands S 98.1 98.1 98.1 98.1 (Benelux) n Belgium B 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 D4; Eurofactor S.A. FORSO Denmark  S2 Denmark JV 50.0 50.0 (Portugal) n Portugal S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 D4; Eurofintus Forso Finance OY  S2 Finland JV 50.0 50.0 Financieringen B.V. n Netherlands S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 D4; FCA Automotive United Forso Nordic A.B.  S2 Sweden JV 50.0 50.0 Services UK Ltd  Kingdom JV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 D4; FCA Bank  Italy JV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 Forso Norge  S2 Norway JV 50.0 50.0 FCA Bank Gmbh, GAC – Sofinco Auto Hellenic Branch  Greece JV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 Finance Co.  China A 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 FCA BANK SPA, GSA Ltd n Mauritius S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 IRISH BRANCH  Ireland JV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 IDM Finance B.V. n Netherlands S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 FCA Bank Germany GmbH  Germany JV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 IDM Financieringen B.V. n Netherlands S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 FCA Bank GmbH  Austria JV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 IDM lease FCA Capital maatschappij B.V. n Netherlands S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Belgium S.A.  Belgium JV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 Iebe Lease B.V. n Netherlands S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 FCA Capital Danmark A/S  Denmark JV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 INTERBANK NV n Netherlands S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 FCA Capital España INTERMEDIAIRE EFC S.A.  Spain JV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 VOORSCHOTBANK FCA Capital France BV n Netherlands S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 S.A.  France JV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 Krediet '78 B.V. n Netherlands S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 FCA Capital Leasys  Italy JV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 Hellas S.A.  Greece JV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 LEASYS France FCA Capital IFIC  Portugal JV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 S.A.S  France JV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 FCA Capital LEASYS Nederland  E2 Netherlands JV 50.0 50.0 Nederland B.V.  Netherlands JV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 LEASYS SPA FCA Capital Norge Belgian Branch  E2 Belgium JV 50.0 50.0 AS  Norway JV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 LEASYS SPA FCA Capital Re GERMAN BRANCH  Germany JV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 Limited  Ireland JV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 LEASYS SPA FCA Capital Suisse SUCURSAL S.A.  Switzerland JV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 ESPANA  Spain JV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 FCA Capital Sverige  Sweden JV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 United FCA DEALER Leasys UK Ltd  D1 Kingdom JV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 SERVICES ESPANA Mahuko SA, Morocco Financieringen B.V. n Netherlands S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Branch  Morocco Spain JV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 (1) Consolidation Method: n Full  Equity Accounted l Parent 502 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 10 Country of % control % interest Country of % control % interest Crédit Agricole incorporation Crédit Agricole incorporation S.A. Group Principal if different S.A. Group Principal if different Scope of place of from the principal 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ Scope of place of from the principal 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ consolidation (1) (a) business place of business (b) 2018 2017 2018 2017 consolidation (1) (a) business place of business (b) 2018 2017 2018 2017 Menafinance  France JV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 FCT GINGKO PERSONAL LOANS Money Care B.V. n Netherlands S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 2016-1 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 NL Findio B.V n Netherlands S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 FCT GINGKO RIBANK NV n Netherlands S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 PLOANS 2015-1 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SMART PREPAID  S2 France A 49.0 49.0 FCT GINGKO SALES FIN 2014-1 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Sofinco Participations n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 FCT GINGKO SALES FINANCE 2015-1 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Ste Européenne de Développement FCT GINKGO d'Assurances n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 MASTER REVOLVING LOANS n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Ste Européenne de Développement FCT GINKGO SALES d'Assurances n D3 Morocco B 100.0 100.0 FINANCE 2017-1 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Ste Européenne de GAC – SOFINCO Développement du 2014-01  China SA 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 Financement n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Green FCT Lease n S1 France CSE 100.0 100.0 Themis Courtage  Morocco A 49.0 49.0 49.0 49.0 MATSUBA BV n Netherlands CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Ucafleet  France A 35.0 35.0 35.0 35.0 NIXES SEVEN SRL  Netherlands SJV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 VoordeelBank B.V. n Netherlands S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 NIXES SIX (LTD)  Italy SJV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 Wafasalaf  Morocco A 49.0 49.0 49.0 49.0 OCHIBA 2015 B.V n Netherlands CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 WINRENT  E3 Italy JV 50.0 50.0 RETAIL CONSUMER Lease financing companies CP GERMANY 2016 UG n Germany CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Auxifip n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SUNRISE SPV Carefleet S.A. n Poland S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 20 SRL n Italy CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Crédit Agricole SUNRISE SPV Leasing & Factoring n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 30 SRL n Italy CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Crédit Agricole SUNRISE SPV Leasing & 40 SRL n E2 Italy CSE 100.0 100.0 Factoring, Sucursal en Espana n Spain France B 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SUNRISE SPV 50 SRL n E2 Italy CSE 100.0 100.0 Crédit du Maroc Leasing et SUNRISE SRL n Italy CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Factoring n Morocco S 100.0 100.0 85.8 85.8 THETIS FINANCE Europejski Fundusz 2015-1 n Portugal CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Leasingowy (E.F.L.) n Poland S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 CORPORATE AND INVESTMENT BANKING Finamur n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Banking and financial institutions Lixxbail n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Banco Crédit Lixxcourtage n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Agricole Brasil S.A. n Brazil S 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 Lixxcredit n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 CACEIS (Canada) D4; Ltd. n S2 Canada S 100.0 100.0 Unifergie n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 D4; Investment companies CACEIS (USA) Inc. n S2 United States S 100.0 100.0 Insurance CACEIS Bank n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 ARES Reinsurance CACEIS Bank S.A., 6 Ltd. n Ireland S 100.0 100.0 61.0 61.0 Germany Branch n Germany B 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Other CACEIS Bank, A-BEST ELEVEN UG  Germany SJV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 Belgium Branch n Belgium B 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 A-BEST FIFTEEN  Italy SJV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 CACEIS Bank, Ireland Branch n Ireland B 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 A-BEST FOUR  S1 Italy SJV 50.0 50.0 CACEIS Bank, Italy A-BEST FOURTEEN  Italy SJV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 Branch n Italy B 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 A-BEST NINE SRL  Italy SJV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 CACEIS Bank, A-BEST Ten SRL  Italy SJV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 Luxembourg Branch n Luxembourg B 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 A-BEST THIRTEEN  Spain SJV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 CACEIS Bank, A-BEST TWELVE  Italy SJV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 Netherlands Branch n Netherlands B 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 EFL Finance S.A. n Poland S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 CACEIS Bank, EFL Lease Abs Switzerland Branch n Switzerland B 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 2017-1 Designated CACEIS Bank, UK United Activity Company n Ireland CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Branch n Kingdom B 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 ERASMUS CACEIS Belgium n Belgium S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 FINANCE  Ireland SJV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 CACEIS Corporate FAST THREE SRL  Italy SJV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 Trust n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 FCT GINGKO CACEIS Fund CLOANS 2013-1 n S1 France CSE 100.0 100.0 Administration n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 FCT GINGKO DEBT CACEIS Ireland CONSO 2015-1 n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Limited n Ireland S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 (1) Consolidation Method: n Full  Equity Accounted l Parent The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 503 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 10 Country of % control % interest Country of % control % interest Crédit Agricole incorporation Crédit Agricole incorporation S.A. Group Principal if different S.A. Group Principal if different Scope of place of from the principal 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ Scope of place of from the principal 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ consolidation (1) (a) business place of business (b) 2018 2017 2018 2017 consolidation (1) (a) business place of business (b) 2018 2017 2018 2017 CACEIS S.A. n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Credit Agricole Securities (Asia) CACEIS Switzerland Limited Hong Kong n Hong Kong S 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 S.A. n Switzerland S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Credit Agricole Crédit Agricole CIB Securities (Asia) (Belgique) n Belgium France B 97.8 97.8 97.8 97.8 Limited Seoul Crédit Agricole CIB United Arab Branch n South Korea B 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 (ABU DHABI) n Emirates France B 97.8 97.8 97.8 97.8 Crédit Agricole Crédit Agricole CIB Securities (USA) Inc n United States S 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 (Allemagne) n Germany France B 97.8 97.8 97.8 97.8 Crédit Agricole Crédit Agricole CIB Securities Asia BV (Canada) n Canada France B 97.8 97.8 97.8 97.8 (Tokyo) n Japan Netherlands B 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 Crédit Agricole CIB Investment companies (Corée du Sud) n South Korea France B 97.8 97.8 97.8 97.8 CLTR n S3 France S 100.0 97.8 Crédit Agricole CIB United Arab (Dubai DIFC) n Emirates France B 97.8 97.8 97.8 97.8 Compagnie Française de l’Asie Crédit Agricole CIB United Arab (CFA) n France S 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 (Dubai) n Emirates France B 97.8 97.8 97.8 97.8 Crédit Agricole CIB Crédit Agricole CIB Air Finance S.A. n France S 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 (Espagne) n Spain France B 97.8 97.8 97.8 97.8 Crédit Agricole CIB United Crédit Agricole CIB Holdings Ltd. n Kingdom S 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 (Etats-Unis) n United States France B 97.8 97.8 97.8 97.8 Crédit Agricole Crédit Agricole CIB Global Partners Inc. n United States S 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 (Finlande) n Finland France B 97.8 97.8 97.8 97.8 Crédit Agricole Crédit Agricole CIB Securities Asia BV n Netherlands S 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 (Hong Kong) n Hong Kong France B 97.8 97.8 97.8 97.8 Doumer Finance Crédit Agricole CIB S.A.S. n France S 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 (Inde) n India France B 97.8 97.8 97.8 97.8 Fininvest n France S 98.3 98.3 96.1 96.1 Crédit Agricole CIB (Italie) n Italy France B 97.8 97.8 97.8 97.8 Fletirec n France S 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 Crédit Agricole CIB I.P.F.O. n France S 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 (Japon) n Japan France B 97.8 97.8 97.8 97.8 Igasus LLC n S3 United States S 100.0 97.8 Crédit Agricole CIB Insurance (Luxembourg) n Luxembourg France B 97.8 97.8 97.8 97.8 CAIRS Assurance Crédit Agricole CIB S.A. n France S 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 (Miami) n United States France B 97.8 97.8 97.8 97.8 Other Crédit Agricole CIB United (Royaume-Uni) n Kingdom France B 97.8 97.8 97.8 97.8 Atlantic Asset Securitization LLC n United States CSE 100.0 100.0 Crédit Agricole CIB (Singapour) n Singapour France B 97.8 97.8 97.8 97.8 Benelpart n Belgium S 100.0 100.0 95.3 95.3 Crédit Agricole CIB Calixis Finance n France CSE 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 (Suède) n Sweden France B 97.8 97.8 97.8 97.8 Calliope SRL n Italy CSE 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 Crédit Agricole CIB Clifap n France S 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 (Taipei) n Taiwan France B 97.8 97.8 97.8 97.8 Crédit Agricole Crédit Agricole CIB America Services Algérie Bank Spa n Algeria S 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 Inc. n United States S 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 Crédit Agricole Crédit Agricole Asia CIB AO n Russia S 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 Shipfinance Ltd. n Hong Kong S 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 Crédit Agricole CIB Crédit Agricole CIB Australia Ltd. n Australia S 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 Finance (Guernsey) Crédit Agricole CIB Ltd. n Guernsey CSE 99.9 99.9 97.7 97.7 China Ltd. n China S 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 Crédit Agricole CIB Crédit Agricole CIB Financial Prod. China Ltd. Chinese (Guernsey) Ltd. n Guernsey CSE 99.9 99.9 97.7 97.7 Branch n China B 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 Crédit Agricole CIB Crédit Agricole Financial Solutions n France CSE 99.9 99.7 97.7 97.5 CIB S.A. n France S 97.8 97.8 97.8 97.8 Crédit Agricole CIB Crédit Agricole CIB Global Banking n France S 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 Services Private Crédit Agricole CIB Ltd. n India S 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 Pension Limited United Ester Finance Partnership n Kingdom CSE 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 Titrisation n France S 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 Crédit Agricole CIB UBAF  France JV 47.0 47.0 46.0 46.0 Transactions n E1 France S 100.0 97.8 UBAF (Corée du Crédit Agricole Sud)  South Korea France JV 47.0 47.0 46.0 46.0 Leasing (USA) Corp. n United States S 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 UBAF (Japon)  Japan France JV 47.0 47.0 46.0 46.0 DGAD International SARL n Luxembourg S 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 UBAF (Singapour)  Singapour France JV 47.0 47.0 46.0 46.0 Elipso Finance S.r.l  Italy SJV 50.0 50.0 48.9 48.9 Stockbrokers ESNI (compartiment Crédit Agricole CIB) n France CSE 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 (1) Consolidation Method: n Full  Equity Accounted l Parent 504 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 10 Country of % control % interest Country of % control % interest Crédit Agricole incorporation Crédit Agricole incorporation S.A. Group Principal if different S.A. Group Principal if different Scope of place of from the principal 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ Scope of place of from the principal 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ consolidation (1) (a) business place of business (b) 2018 2017 2018 2017 consolidation (1) (a) business place of business (b) 2018 2017 2018 2017 Eucalyptus FCT n France CSE 100.0 100.0 CORPORATE CENTRE FIC-FIDC n Brazil CSE 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 Crédit Agricole S.A. Financière des Crédit Agricole S.A. l France 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Scarabées n Belgium S 100.0 100.0 96.5 96.5 Succursale Crédit United Financière Lumis n France S 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 Agricole S.A. n Kingdom France B 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Fundo A De Banking and financial institutions Investimento Caisse régionale Multimercado n Brazil CSE 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 de Crédit Agricole Héphaïstos EUR mutuel de la Corse n France S 99.9 99.9 99.9 99.9 FCC n France CSE 100.0 100.0 CL Développement Héphaïstos GBP de la Corse n France S 99.9 99.9 99.9 99.9 FCT n France CSE 100.0 100.0 Crédit Agricole Héphaïstos Home Loan SFH n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Multidevises FCT n France CSE 100.0 100.0 Foncaris n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Héphaïstos USD Investment companies FCT n France CSE 100.0 100.0 Crédit Agricole Indosuez Holding Capital SCA II n Luxembourg CSE 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 Investissement Indosuez et Finance (CACIF) n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Management Delfinances n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Luxembourg II n Luxembourg CSE 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 Sodica n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Investor Service House S.A. n Luxembourg S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Other Island Refinancing CA Grands Crus n France S 77.9 77.9 77.9 77.9 SRL n Italy CSE 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 Cariou Holding n France S 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 ItalAsset Finance Crédit Agricole SRL n Italy CSE 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 Agriculture n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 La Fayette Asset Crédit Agricole Securitization LLC n United States CSE 100.0 100.0 Immobilier  France JV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 La Route Avance n E2 France CSE 100.0 Crédit Agricole Lafina n Belgium S 100.0 100.0 95.6 95.6 Payment Services n France CSE 50.2 50.2 50.2 50.2 LMA SA n France CSE 100.0 100.0 Crédit Agricole Public Sector SCF n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Merisma n France CSE 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 Crédit Agricole Molinier Finances n France S 100.0 100.0 95.0 95.0 Régions Pacific EUR FCC n France CSE 100.0 100.0 Développement n France S 81.7 81.7 81.7 81.7 Pacific IT FCT n France CSE 100.0 100.0 ESNI (compartiment Crédit Agricole S.A.) n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Pacific USD FCT n France CSE 100.0 100.0 FCT Crédit Agricole Partinvest S.A. n Luxembourg S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Habitat 2015 Placements Compartiment et réalisations Corse n France CSE 100.0 100.0 99.9 99.9 immobilières (SNC) n France S 100.0 100.0 95.3 95.3 FCT Crédit Agricole Sagrantino Italy Habitat 2017 SRL n Italy CSE 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 Compartiment Corse n France CSE 100.0 100.0 99.9 99.9 Shark FCC n France CSE 100.0 100.0 FCT Crédit Agricole SNGI SNGI Belgium n n France Belgium S S 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 100.0 100.0 97.8 97.8 Habitat 2018 Compartiment Corse n E2 France CSE 100.0 99.9 6 Sococlabecq n Belgium S 100.0 100.0 95.6 95.6 FIRECA n France S 51.0 51.0 51.0 51.0 Sofipac n Belgium S 98.6 98.6 93.9 93.9 IDIA n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 TCB n France S 98.7 98.7 95.3 95.3 IDIA Triple P FCC n France CSE 100.0 100.0 DEVELOPPEMENT n E1 France S 100.0 100.0 TSUBAKI OFF (FCT) n France CSE 100.0 100.0 IDIA TSUBAKI ON (FCT) n France CSE 100.0 100.0 PARTICIPATIONS n E1 France S 100.0 100.0 Vulcain EUR FCT n France CSE 100.0 100.0 S.A.S. Evergreen Montrouge n France CSE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Vulcain MultiDevises FCT n France CSE 100.0 100.0 SCI D2 CAM  France JV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 Vulcain USD FCT n France CSE 100.0 100.0 SCI Quentyvel n France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 SILCA n France CSE 100.0 100.0 97.9 97.9 SNC Kalliste Assur n France S 100.0 100.0 99.9 99.9 Uni-medias n D1 France S 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 (1) Consolidation Method: n Full  Equity Accounted l Parent The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 505 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 10 Country of % control % interest Crédit Agricole incorporation S.A. Group Principal if different Scope of place of from the principal 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ 31/12/ consolidation (1) (a) business place of business (b) 2018 2017 2018 2017 Tourism – property development Crédit Agricole Immobilier Promotion  France JV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 Crédit Agricole Immobilier Services  France JV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 SNC Eole  S3 France JV 50.0 50.0 SO.GI.CO  France JV 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 (a) Scope changes Inclusions (E) into the scope of consolidation: E1: Breach of threshold E2: Creation E3: Acquisition (including controlling interests) Exclusions (S) from the scope of consolidation: S1: Discontinuation of business (including dissolution and liquidation) S2: Sale to non-Group companies or deconsolidation following loss of control S3: Deconsolidated due to non-materiality S4: Merger or takeover S5: Transfer of all assets and liabilities Other (D): D1: Change of company name D2: Change in consolidation method D3: First time listed in the Note on scope of consolidation D4: IFRS 5 entities (b) Nature of control S: Subsidiary B: Branch CSE: Consolidated structured entity JV: Joint Venture SJV: Structured joint venture JO: Joint operation A: Associate SA: Structured associate (1) Consolidation Method: n Full  Equity Accounted l Parent 506 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 12 Note 12 Investments in non-consolidated companies and structured entities 12.1 INFORMATION ON SUBSIDIARIES 12.1.2 Material non-consolidated equity investments This line item amounted to €12,170 million at 31 December 2018, compared Material equity investments accounting for a fraction of capital greater with €12,277 million at 31 December 2017. At 31 December 2018, the than or equal to 10% and not included in the scope of consolidation are main investment in non-consolidated companies where percentage presented in a table available online on the Crédit Agricole S.A. website of control is greater than 20% and which have significant value on at the time of publication of the Registration Document. the balance sheet is Crédit Logement (shares A and B). The Group’s investment represents 32.49% of Crédit Logement’s capital and amounts to €522 million but does not confer any significant influence over this entity, which is jointly held by various French banks and companies. 12.1.1 Non-consolidated controlled entities Information relating to conventional entities under exclusive control, under joint control and subject to significant influence, and to controlled structured entities not included in the scope of consolidation are available on the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group website at the time of publication of the Registration Document. 12.2 NON-CONSOLIDATED STRUCTURED ENTITIES IFRS 12 defines a structured entity as an entity that has been designed Their value and returns are correlated to these commitments. so that voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who controls the entity, such as when any voting rights relate to the Structured finance administrative tasks only and the relevant activities are directed by Lastly, Crédit Agricole S.A. Group, via its subsidiaries in the Large means of contractual arrangements. customers business line, is involved in special purpose asset acquisition entities. These entities may take the form of asset financing companies Information on the nature and extent of interests or lease financing companies. In structured entities, the financing is held secured by the asset. The Group’s involvement is often limited to the At 31 December 2018, Crédit Agricole S.A. Group entities had interests financing or to financing commitments. in certain non-consolidated structured entities, the main characteristics of which are presented below on the basis of their type of activity: Sponsored entities Crédit Agricole S.A. Group sponsors structured entities in the following Securitisation instances: Crédit Agricole S.A. Group, mainly through its subsidiaries in the Large nn Crédit Agricole S.A. Group is involved in establishing the entity and customers business line, is tasked with structuring securitisation that involvement, which is remunerated, is deemed essential for vehicles through the purchase of trade or financial receivables. The ensuring the proper completion of transactions; vehicles fund such purchases by issuing multiple tranches of debt and nn structuring takes place at the request of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group equity investments, with repayment being linked to the performance of and it is the main user thereof; the assets in such vehicles. It invests in and provides liquidity facilities nn Crédit Agricole S.A. Group transfers its own assets to the structured 6 to the securitisation vehicles it has sponsored on behalf of customers. entity; nn Crédit Agricole S.A. Group is the manager; Asset management nn the name of a subsidiary or of the parent company of Crédit Agricole Crédit Agricole S.A. Group, through its subsidiaries in the Asset S.A. Group is linked to the name of the structured entity or of the gathering business line, structures and manages entities on behalf of financial instruments issued by it. customers wishing to invest in specific assets in order to obtain the Gross revenues from sponsored entities mainly comprise interest income best possible return having regard to the chosen level of risk. Crédit and expenses in securitisation and investment funds, in which Crédit Agricole S.A. Group entities may thus either be required to hold interests Agricole Assurances and Crédit Agricole CIB do not hold any interests in such entities in order to ensure a successful launch or to guarantee at the reporting date. For Crédit Agricole Assurances they amount to the performance of such structures. -€2 million and for Crédit Agricole CIB €4 million at 31 December 2018. Investment funds Information on the risks related to interests Entities in the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group Asset gathering business line invest in companies established to meet investor demand in connection Financial support for structured entities with treasury management and with the investment of insurance In 2018, Crédit Agricole S.A. did not provide financial support to any premiums received from insurance company customers, in accordance non-consolidated structured entities. with the regulatory provisions in the French Insurance Code. Insurance company investments cover commitments to policyholders over the life At 31 December 2018, Crédit Agricole S.A. did not intend to provide of insurance policies. financial support to any non-consolidated structured entities. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 507 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 12 Risks associated with interests in non-consolidated structured entities At 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017, the Group’s implication in non-consolidated structured entities is disclosed in the following tables, for each group of significant sponsored structured entities: 31/12/2018 Securitisation Asset management Maximum loss Maximum loss Guarantees Guarantees Maximum received and Maximum received and Carrying exposure other credit Net Carrying exposure other credit Net (in millions of euros) amount to losses enhancements exposure amount to losses enhancements exposure Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 66 66 66 2,101 2,101 2,101 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income Financial assets at amortised cost 16,537 16,540 152 16,388 Total Assets recognised relating to non-consolidated structured entities 16,603 16,606 152 16,454 2,101 2,101 2,101 Equity instruments Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 43 43 833 833 833 Liabilities 173 Total Liabilities recognised relating to non-consolidated structured entities 215 43 833 833 833 Commitments given 5,484 5,484 20,098 302 19,827 Financing commitments 5,387 5,387 Guarantee commitments 20,129 302 19,827 Other 97 97 Provisions for execution risks – commitments given (31) Total Commitments (net of provision) to non-consolidated structured entities 5,484 5,484 20,098 302 19,827 TOTAL BALANCE SHEET RELATING TO NON-CONSOLIDATED STRUCTURED ENTITIES 16,423 94,702 (1) Non-sponsored structured entities generate no specific risk related to the nature of the entity. Information concerning these exposures is set out in Note 3.1 “Credit risk” and Note “ 3.2 “Market risk”. These are investment funds in which the Group is not a manager, and structured financing entities in which the Group has only granted a loan. 508 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 12 31/12/2018 Investments funds (1) Structured finance(1) Maximum loss Maximum loss Guarantees Guarantees Maximum received and Maximum received and Carrying exposure other credit Carrying exposure other credit amount to losses enhancements Net exposure amount to losses enhancements Net exposure 33,254 33,254 33,151 35 35 35 1 1 1 12 12 12 2,346 2,346 2,346 33,254 33,254 33,152 2,393 2,393 2,393 1,055 15 15 4 4 569 1,055 15 15 573 4 1,920 1,920 1,445 1,445 1,258 1,258 187 187 1,920 1,920 1,920 1,920 1,445 1,445 297,806 2,349 6 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 509 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 13 31/12/2017 Asset Investment Structured Securisation management Funds(1) finance(1) MaxiMaxiMaximum mum mum Maximum loss loss loss loss Guarantees Maxireceived MaxiMaxiMaximum and other mum mum mum expocredit expoexpoexpoCarrying sure to enhanceNet Carrying sure to Carrying sure to Carrying sure to (in millions of euros) amount losses ments exposure amount losses amount losses amount losses Financial assets held for trading 238 238 238 705 705 390 390 50 50 Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 813 813 30,580 30,580 Available-for-sale financial assets 212 212 22 190 665 665 4,813 4,813 741 741 Loans and receivables 20,580 20,438 20,438 49 49 2,593 2,593 Held to maturity financial assets Total assets recognised relating to non-consolidated stuctured entities 21,030 20,888 22 20,866 2,183 2,183 35,832 35,832 3,385 3,385 Equity instruments issued 11 Fiancial liabilities held for trading 133 1,416 589 18 Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss Liabilities 856 180 565 Total liabilities recognises designated relating to non-consolidated structured entities 1,000 1,416 769 583 Commitments given Financing commitments 10,357 10,357 625 Guarantee commitments 21,322 417 Others 3 3 Provisions for execution risks – commitments given (20) Total commitments (net of provision) to non-consolidated structured entities 10,360 10,360 21,302 1,043 TOTAL BALANCE SHEET RELATING TO NON-CONSOLIDATED STRUCTURED ENTITIES 21,914 86,014 311,250 2,674 (1) Non-sponsored structured entities generate no specific risk related to the nature of the entity. Information concerning these exposures is set out in Note 3.1 Credit risk and Note 3.2 Market risk . These are investment funds in which the Group is not a manager, and structured financing entities in which the Group has only granted a loan. Maximum exposure to loss risk The maximum exposure to loss risk on financial instruments corresponds to the value recognised on the balance sheet, with the exception of option sale derivatives and credit default swaps for which the exposure corresponds to assets for the notional amount and to liabilities for the notional amount less the mark-to-market. The maximum exposure to loss risk on commitments given corresponds to the notional amount and the provision for commitments given in the amount recognised on the balance sheet. Note 13 Events subsequent to 31 December 2018 No significant events took place after the balance sheet date. 510 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (For the year ended 31 December 2018) This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report includes information specifically required by European regulations or French law, such as information about the appointment of Statutory Auditors. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, OPINION In compliance with the engagement entrusted to us by your General Meeting of Shareholders, we have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Crédit Agricole S.A. for the year ended 31 December 2018. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities and of the financial position of the Group at 31 December 2018 and of the results of its operations for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union. The audit opinion expressed above is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee. BASIS FOR OPINION Audit framework We conducted our audit in accordance with professional standards applicable in France. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Our responsibilities under these standards are further described in the “Responsibilities of the Statutory Auditors relating to the audit of the consolidated financial statements” section of our report. Independence We conducted our audit engagement in compliance with the independence rules applicable to us, for the period from 1 January 2018 to the date of our report, and, in particular, we did not provide any non audit services prohibited by article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 or the French Code of Ethics (Code de déontologie) for Statutory Auditors. EMPHASIS OF MATTER Without qualifying our opinion, we draw your attention to the change in accounting policy concerning the application as from 1 January 2018 of the new IFRS 9 “Financial instruments” presented in Note 1.1 “Applicable standards and comparability” and the paragraph “Accounting rules and procedures” as well as in the other notes to the consolidated financial statements presenting quantified data related to the impact of this change. 6 JUSTIFICATION OF ASSESSMENTS – KEY AUDIT MATTERS In accordance with the requirements of articles L. 823-9 and R. 823-7 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) relating to the justification of our assessments, we inform you of the key audit matters relating to the risks of material misstatement that, in our professional judgement, were the most significant in our audit of the consolidated financial statements, as well as how we addressed those risks. These matters were addressed as part of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and therefore contributed to the opinion we formed as expressed above. We do not provide a separate opinion on specific items of the consolidated financial statements. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 511 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements Credit risk and estimate of expected losses on performing, underperforming and non-performing loans in the context of the first-time application of IFRS 9 Description of risk How our audit addressed this risk In accordance with IFRS 9, since 1 January 2018 the Crédit Agricole S.A. We examined the procedures implemented by the Risk Management Group recognises value adjustments in respect of expected credit losses department to categorise loans (Bucket 1, 2 or 3) and measure the amount (ECL) on loans that are performing (Bucket 1), underperforming (Bucket 2) of recorded ECL, in order to assess whether the estimates used were based or non-performing (Bucket 3). on IFRS 9-compliant methods, and were appropriately documented and Given the significant judgement exercised by management in determining described in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. such value adjustments and the changes resulting from the implementation We tested the key controls implemented by the main entities for the of the new standard (adaptation of the operational mechanism for calculating annual portfolio reviews, the updating of credit ratings, the identification ECL, new information systems, inputs, new control framework, etc.), we of underperforming or non-performing loans and the measurement of deemed the estimation of ECL and the information provided in the notes impairment. We also familiarised ourselves with the main findings of the to the consolidated financial statements, both at the date of the first-time primary Group entities’ specialised committees in charge of monitoring application of the new standard and at 31 December 2018, to be a key audit underperforming and non-performing loans. matter for the following main entities and risk segments: Regarding impairment in Buckets 1 and 2, we: nn Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance: impairment of loans in Buckets 1, 2 nn asked experts to assess the methods and measurements for the various and 3; ECL inputs and calculation models; nn retail banking: impairment of loans in Buckets 1 and 2 of LCL and Bucket 3 nn examined the methodology used to identify significant increases in credit of Cariparma; risk (SICR); nn Crédit Agricole CIB: ECL of performing and underperforming (Buckets nn tested the controls for the transfer of the data used to calculate ECL or 1 and 2) and non-performing (Bucket 3) loans for financing granted the reconciliations between the bases used to calculate ECL and the to companies in the maritime and energy sectors, due to an uncertain accounting data; economic environment, the complexity of identifying exposures where nn carried out independent ECL calculations on the basis of samples, there is a risk of non recovery and the degree of judgement needed to compared the calculated amount with the recognised amount and estimate recovery flows. examined the adjustments made by management where applicable; nn also assessed the analyses carried out by management on Crédit Agricole The impact of the first-time application of the new standard CIB’s corporate bank’s exposures with a deteriorated outlook. IFRS 9 in relation to impairment losses was recognised in equity at Regarding individually calculated value adjustments in Bucket 3, we: 1 January 2018 in the amount of €1,260 million. nn analysed the reasons given for the impacts of the first-time application of At 31 December 2018, value adjustments for expected losses on all IFRS 9 on the loans in Bucket 3; nn examined the estimates used for Crédit Agricole CIB’s impaired significant eligible financial assets amounted to €11 billion of which: counterparties and, on the basis of a sample of credit files, examined the nn €3 billion of value adjustments pertaining to performing and factors underlying the main assumptions used to assess the expected underperforming assets (€1.2 billion in Bucket 1 and €1.8 billion recovery flows, in particular with regard to valuing collateral. in Bucket 2); Lastly, we examined the disclosures regarding credit risk hedging provided nn €8 billion of value adjustments pertaining to non-performing loans in the notes to the consolidated financial statements, including with respect to the impacts of the first-time application of IFRS 9. (Bucket 3). See the notes on the effects of the application IFRS 9 at 1 January 2018 and Note 3.1 to the consolidated financial statements. 512 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements Goodwill Description of risk How our audit addressed this risk Goodwill is tested for impairment whenever there are indications of We gained an understanding of the procedures implemented by the Group impairment and otherwise at least once a year. These tests are based on to identify indications of impairment and to assess the need for impairment a comparison between the carrying amount of each Cash Generating Unit of goodwill. (CGU) and its value in use. Value in use is determined by discounting the We included valuation experts in the audit team to examine the assumptions estimated future cash flows of the CGU, as set out in the four-year financial used to determine the discount rates and the perpetual growth rates used as forecasts and extended to 2023. well as the models used for calculating discounted cash flows. The percentage of capital allocation is determined by taking into account any We tested the calculations and the main assumptions (percentage of capital specific requirements set by the regulator (in particular for Pillar 2). allocation, discount rate, perpetual growth rate, etc.) compared with external We deemed the measurement of goodwill to be a key audit matter as sources. impairment tests necessarily require management to make decisions We examined the financial forecasts prepared by the management of each concerning the key assumptions to use, in particular for determining entity concerned and used in the model to: economic scenarios, financial forecasts and discount rates. nn verify their consistency with those that have been approved by the Given the difference between the value in use and the carrying amount, past competent bodies (Board of Directors) of the entities or sub groups and performance and their sensitivity to the assumptions used by management, that any restatements made were justified; we paid particular attention to the tests conducted on the French retail nn assess the main underlying assumptions, including for the extension of banking – LCL and International retail banking – Italy CGUs. forecasts beyond the four-year period that was submitted to the entities’ At 31 December 2018, the goodwill recognised in the balance sheet competent bodies. totalled a net amount of €15.5 billion, including €4.8 billion relating These assumptions were assessed in particular in view of the financial to French retail banking and €1.7 billion relating to international retail forecasts and the actual performance of prior periods; nn conduct sensitivity tests to some of the assumptions (level of capital banking. allocated, discount rate, cost of risk). See Note 6.15 to the consolidated financial statements. We also examined the disclosures provided in the notes to the consolidated financial statements on the results of these impairment tests and the level of sensitivity to the various measurement inputs. Legal, tax and compliance risks Description of risk How our audit addressed this risk The Group is subject to judicial proceedings or arbitration and a number The risk of a significant outflow of funds concerns a limited number of of investigations and requests for regulatory information from different matters that we monitor on a regular basis. regulators. These concern in particular the Euribor/Libor and SSA Bonds We gained an understanding of the procedure for measuring the risks and, matters with authorities from various countries (USA, UK, Switzerland) where applicable, the provisions associated with these matters, through and the European Union. They also concern ongoing actions by the Italian quarterly exchanges with management and in particular the Legal, Tax and competition authority and the Dutch credit mediator (KIFID) for the consumer Compliance departments of the Group and its main subsidiaries. finance business line. Our work consisted primarily in: A number of tax investigations are also ongoing in France and some of the nn examining the assumptions used to determine provisions based on countries in which the Group operates (including Germany). available information (documentation prepared by the Legal department Deciding whether or not to recognise a provision and the amount of that or legal counsel of Crédit Agricole S.A. and Group entities, correspondence provision requires the use of judgement, given that it is difficult to assess from regulators and minutes of Legal Risks Committee meetings); the outcome of disputes or the final tax impacts of certain structural nn gaining an understanding of the analyses and findings of the Bank’s legal transactions. counsel and their responses to our requests for confirmation; Given its sensitivity to these assumptions, thus constituting a significant risk of material misstatement in the financial statements, we deemed the nn as regards tax risks in particular, examining, with guidance from our specialists, the Company’s responses submitted to the relevant 6 measurement of provisions for legal, compliance and tax risks to be a key authorities, as well as the risk estimates carried out by the bank; audit matter. nn assessing, accordingly, the level of provisioning at 31 December 2018. The various ongoing investigations, requests for information and Lastly, we examined the related disclosures provided in the notes to the the actions of certain authorities as well as the most important tax consolidated financial statements. inspections at 31 December 2018 are described in Notes 1.2 and 6.17 to the consolidated financial statements. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 513 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements Measurement of certain Crédit Agricole CIB financial assets and liabilities classified in level 3 of the fair value hierarchy Description of risk How our audit addressed this risk Within the Large Customers business line of the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group, We gained an understanding of the processes and controls put in place by Crédit Agricole CIB originates structures, sells and trades derivative financial Crédit Agricole CIB to identify, measure and recognise derivative financial instruments, for corporates and financial institutions. Moreover, the issue of instruments and structured issues classified in level 3. debt instruments, some of which are structured, to the Group’s international We examined key controls such as the independant verification of and domestic customers contributes to the management of the bank’s measurement inputs and the internal approval of valuation models and mediumand long-term refinancing. inputs by the Risk Management and Permanent Control department. We also nn Derivative financial instruments are held for trading purposes and examined the system governing the recognition of valuation adjustments and measured at fair value through profit or loss on the balance sheet. the accounting categorisation of financial products. nn Structured issues are recognised in financial liabilities subject to the fair With the support of audit team experts, we carried out independent value through profit or loss option. valuations, analysed those performed by the bank, and examined the These instruments are classified in level 3 when their measurement assumptions, inputs, methodologies and models used at 31 December 2018. requires the use of significant unobservable market inputs. We deemed the We also assessed the main valuation adjustments recognised, as well as the measurement of such instruments to be a key audit matter, as it requires justification provided by management for the main differences observed in judgement from management, in particular as regards: margin calls and losses and/or gains in the event of the disposal of financial nn the categorisation of financial instruments according to the fair value products. hierarchy; nn the determination of inputs unsubstantiated by observable market data; nn the use of internal and non standard valuation models; nn the estimate of valuation adjustments designed to reflect uncertainties related to the models, the inputs used and counterparty and liquidity risks; and the analysis of any valuation differences with counterparties noted in connection with margin calls or the disposal of instruments. Crédit Agricole CIB’s level 3 derivative financial instruments and structured issues are recorded in the balance sheet of the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group under financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss. At 31 December 2018, derivative financial instruments recorded in the balance sheet of the Crédit Agricole Group amounted to €1.5 billion in assets and €1.7 billion in liabilities. Structured issues were recorded in the amount of €8.4 billion in financial liabilities subject to the fair value through profit or loss option. See Notes 6.2 and 10.2 to the consolidated financial statements of Crédit Agricole S.A. 514 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements Specific technical reserves and liability adequacy tests in relation to insurance policies Description of risk How our audit addressed this risk Within the Insurance business line of the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group, For the main specific reserves mentioned below, we included actuaries in insurance liabilities are recognised as technical reserves in compliance with our audit teams, for the purpose of: French consolidation standards and the applicable regulations, as permitted nn examining the compliance of the Group’s methodology for measuring under IFRS 4. these reserves with the applicable regulations; These technical reserves include certain specific reserves required under nn gaining an understanding of the control environment relating to the the French Insurance Code (Code des assurances), the determination of management or valuation of losses, the design of forecast models or which necessitates a particular degree of judgement. This concerns the stochastic models and the determination of the main assumptions input in following reserves in particular: the model (asset yield, modelling of fees, redemption rate, mortality tables, nn in an environment of ongoing low interest rates, the overall management projected period of independent living and probability of occurrence of a expenses reserve established for each homogeneous class of life state of dependency, discount rate, etc.); insurance policies where the management fees charged to policyholders nn reconciling the main data used for calculating these reserves with the do not cover management expenses; management data; nn the reserve for growing risks of dependence, established where the nn analysing certain models or data in the light of market practice, the present value of the insurer’s commitments in terms of health or disability economic environment and historical data; cover is higher than the projected contributions of policyholders; nn examining the key controls of the information systems supporting the nn reserves for late claims relating to non-life insurance policies for which processing of technical data and accounting entries; losses have occurred but have not yet been declared or valued. nn recalculating certain reserves. For the life insurance technical reserves, the Group conducts an annual liability adequacy test to ensure that insurance liabilities are adequate to meet estimated future cash flows after projected management fees. Considering the sensitivity of the above specific reserves and of the liability adequacy test to the different underlying assumptions used (asset yield forecasts, policyholder behaviour, insurer’s financial policy, period of independent living or probability of occurrence of a state of dependency, statistical models and expert assessments used for valuing late claims, discount rate, etc.), we deemed specific technical reserves and liability adequacy tests to be a key audit matter. Net insurance technical reserves amounted to €322.8 billion at 31 December 2018. See Notes 1.2, 4.6, 5.3 and 6.16 to the consolidated financial statements. 6 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 515 6 Consolidated Financial Statements Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements SPECIFIC VERIFICATIONS As required by legal and regulatory provisions and in accordance with professional standards applicable in France, we have also verified the information pertaining to the Group presented in the Board of Directors’ management report. We have no matters to report as to its fair presentation and its consistency with the consolidated financial statements. We attest that the information pertaining to the Group presented in Board of Directors’ management report includes the consolidated non-financial information statement required under article L. 225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code. However, in accordance with article L. 823-10 of the French Commercial Code, we have not verified the fair presentation and consistency with the consolidated financial statements of the information given in that statement, which will be the subject of a report by an independent third party. REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS Appointment of the Statutory Auditors We were appointed Statutory Auditors of Crédit Agricole S.A. by the General Meetings of Shareholders held on 19 May 2004 for PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit and in 1985 for Ernst & Young et Autres. At 31 December 2018, PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit and Ernst & Young et Autres were in the fifteenth and the thirty-fourth consecutive year of their engagement, respectively. RESPONSIBILITIES OF MANAGEMENT AND THOSE CHARGED WITH GOVERNANCE FOR THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Management is responsible for preparing consolidated financial statements giving a true and fair view in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and for implementing the internal control procedures it deems necessary for the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free of material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern, and using the going concern basis of accounting, unless it expects to liquidate the Company or to cease operations. The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the financial reporting process and the effectiveness of internal control and risk management systems, as well as, where applicable, any internal audit systems, relating to accounting and financial reporting procedures. The consolidated financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE STATUTORY AUDITORS RELATING TO THE AUDIT OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Objective and audit approach Our role is to issue a report on the consolidated financial statements. Our objective is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free of material misstatement. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with professional standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions taken by users on the basis of these consolidated financial statements. As specified in article L. 823-10-1 of the French Commercial Code, our audit does not include assurance on the viability or quality of the Company’s management. As part of an audit conducted in accordance with professional standards applicable in France, the Statutory Auditors exercise professional judgement throughout the audit. They also: nn identify and assess the risks of material misstatement in the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures in response to those risks, and obtain audit evidence considered to be sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for their opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control; nn obtain an understanding of the internal control procedures relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the internal control; nn evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management and the related disclosures in the notes to the consolidated financial statements; 516 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Consolidated Financial Statements Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements nn assess the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. This assessment is based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of the audit report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern. If the Statutory Auditors conclude that a material uncertainty exists, they are required to draw attention in the audit report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are not provided or are inadequate, to issue a qualified opinion or a disclaimer of opinion; nn evaluate the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements and assess whether these statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation; nn obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. The Statutory Auditors are responsible for the management, supervision and performance of the audit of the consolidated financial statements and for the opinion expressed thereon. Report to the Audit Committee We submit a report to the Audit Committee which includes, in particular, a description of the scope of the audit and the audit programme implemented, as well as the results of our audit. We also report any significant deficiencies in internal control that we have identified regarding the accounting and financial reporting procedures. Our report to the Audit Committee includes the risks of material misstatement that, in our professional judgement, were the most significant for the audit of the consolidated financial statements and which constitute the key audit matters that we are required to describe in this report. We also provide the Audit Committee with the declaration provided for in article 6 of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014, confirming our independence within the meaning of the rules applicable in France, as defined in particular in articles L. 822-10 to L. 822-14 of the French Commercial Code and in the French Code of Ethics for Statutory Auditors. Where appropriate, we discuss any risks to our independence and the related safeguard measures with the Audit Committee. Neuilly-sur-Seine and Paris-La Défense, 25 March 2019 The Statutory Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit ERNST & YOUNG ET AUTRES Anik Chaumartin Olivier Durand 6 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 517 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7 Parent company financial Notes to the parent company statements at 31 December 2018 520 financial statements 523 Balance sheet at 31 December 2018 520 Off-balance sheet at 31 December 2018 521 Statutory Auditors’ report Income statement at 31 December 2018 522 on the financial statements 560 518 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Parent Company Financial Statements KEY FIGURES NET INCOME €2,740 m Revenues €2,908 m TOTAL ASSETS €583,234 m Crédit Agricole internal transactions (assets) €314,865 m Financial investments 7 €64,597 m Equity (excluding FGBR) €50,159 m The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 519 7 Parent Company Financial Statements Parent company financial statements PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTSAT 31 DECEMBER 2018 Approved by the Board of Directors of Crédit Agricole S.A. on 13 February 2019 and submitted for the approval of the Ordinary General Meeting of 21 May 2019 BALANCE SHEET AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 ASSETS (in millions of euros) Notes 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Money market and interbank items 147,976 137,626 Cash, due from central banks 8,306 1,659 Treasury bills and similar securities 5 14,863 15,834 Loans and receivables due from credit institutions 3 124,807 120,133 Crédit Agricole internal transactions 3 314,865 301,090 Loans and receivables due from customers 4 3,997 4,070 Portfolio securities 32,775 31,346 Bonds and other fixed-income securities 5 32,768 31,325 Equities and other variable income securities 5 7 21 Fixed assets 64,728 63,560 Equity investments and other long term equity investments 6-7 878 885 Investments in subsidiaries and affiliates 6-7 63,719 62,538 Intangible assets 7 18 24 Property, plant and equipment 7 113 113 Due from shareholders – unpaid capital Treasury shares 8 41 27 Accruals, prepayments and sundry assets 18,852 17,900 Other assets 9 5,828 5,087 Accruals and deferred income 9 13,024 12,813 TOTAL ASSETS 583,234 555,619 520 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Parent Company Financial Statements Parent company financial statements LIABILITIES AND EQUITY (in millions of euros) Notes 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Money market and interbank items 90,959 91,821 Due to central banks 7 3 Due to credit institutions 11 90,952 91,818 Crédit Agricole internal transactions 11 34,798 36,667 Due to customers 12 249,555 237,100 Debt instruments 13 108,489 89,031 Accruals, deferred income and sundry liabilities 20,773 20,925 Other liabilities 14 7,382 7,382 Accruals and deferred income 14 13,391 13,543 Provisions and subordinated debt 27,349 29,869 Provisions 15-16-17 2,302 1,334 Subordinated debt 19 25,047 28,535 Fund for General Banking Risk (FGBR) 18 1,152 1,112 Equity (excluding FGBR) 20 50,159 49,094 Share capital 8,599 8,538 Share premiums 12,375 12,206 Reserves 12,591 12,686 Revaluation adjustments Regulated provisions and investment subsidies 15 15 Retained earnings 13,839 14,085 Net income/(loss) for the financial year 2,740 1,564 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 583,234 555,619 OFF-BALANCE SHEET AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 (in millions of euros) Notes 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 COMMITMENTS GIVEN 22,515 20,751 Financing commitments 27 5,115 4,652 Guarantee commitments 27 17,369 16,088 Commitments on securities 27 31 11 COMMITMENTS RECEIVED 73,112 72,324 Financing commitments 27 60,820 61,214 Guarantee commitments 27 12,272 11,110 Commitments on securities 27 20 7 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 521 7 Parent Company Financial Statements Parent company financial statements INCOME STATEMENT AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 (in millions of euros) Notes 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Interest and similar income 28 10,113 11,164 Interest and similar expenses 28 (11,411) (12,118) Income from variable income securities 29 3,860 1,593 Fee and commission (income) 30 903 942 Fee and commission (expenses) 30 (648) (680) Net gains (losses) on trading book 31 (105) 443 Net gains (losses) on short term investment portfolios and similar 32 175 139 Other banking income 33 192 16 Other banking expenses 33 (171) (42) Revenues 2,908 1,457 Operating expenses 34 (737) (753) Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of property, plant & equipment and intangible assets (10) (9) Gross operating income 2,161 695 Cost of risk 35 (9) 14 Operating income 2,152 709 Net gains (losses) on fixed assets 36 (10) 634 Pre-tax income on ordinary activities 2,142 1,343 Net extraordinary items Income tax charge 37 638 255 Net allocation to FGBR and regulated provisions (40) (34) NET INCOME FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2,740 1,564 522 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Parent Company Financial Statements Notes to the parent company financial statements NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DETAILED SUMMARY OF THE NOTES Note 1 Legal and financial background and significant Note 9 Accruals, prepayments and sundry assets 544 events during the financial year 524 Note 10 Impairment losses deducted from assets 544 1.1 Legal and financial background 524 1.2 Crédit Agricole internal financial mechanisms 524 Note 11 Due to credit institutions – Analysis by residual maturity545 1.3 Significant events in 2018 526 Note 12 Due to customers 545 Note 2 Accounting policies and principles 527 12.1 Due to customers – Analysis by residual maturity 545 2.1 Loans and financing commitments 527 12.2 Due to customers – Analysis by geographic area 545 2.2 Securities portfolio 529 12.3 Due to customers – Analysis by customer type 546 2.3 Fixed assets 531 2.4 Amounts due to customers and credit institutions 531 Note 13 Debt securities 546 2.5 Debt securities 532 13.1 Debt securities – Analysis by residual maturity 546 2.6 Provisions 532 13.2 Bonds (by currency of issuance) 546 2.7 Fund for General Banking Risk (FGBR) 532 Note 14 Accruals, deferred income and sundry liabilities 547 2.8 Transactions on forward financial instruments and options532 Note 15 Provisions547 2.9 Foreign currency transactions 533 Note 16 Home purchase savings schemes 549 2.10 Consolidation of foreign branches 533 Note 17 Employment-related commitments: post2.11 Off-balance sheet commitments 533 employment benefits, defined‑benefit plans 550 2.12 Employee profit-sharing and incentive plans 533 Note 18 Fund for General Banking Risk (FGBR) 550 2.13 Post-employment benefits 534 2.14 Stock options and share subscriptions offered Note 19 Subordinated debt – Analysis by residual maturity 551 to employees under the Employee Savings Plan 534 Note 20 Changes in equity (before appropriation) 551 2.15 Extraordinary income and expenses 534 Note 21 Composition of capital 552 2.16 Income tax charge 534 Note 22 Transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates Note 3 Loans and receivables due from credit institutions – and equity investments 552 Analysis by residual maturity 535 Note 23 Foreign currency denominated transactions 552 Note 4 Loans and receivables due from customers 535 4.1 Loans and receivables due from customers – Note 24 Foreign exchange transactions, foreign currency Analysis by residual maturity 535 loans and borrowings 552 4.2 Loans and receivables due from customers – Note 25 Transactions involving forward financial Analysis by geographic area 536 instruments553 4.3 Loans and receivables due from customers 25.1 Transactions on forward financial instruments – – Doubtful loans and impairment losses by Notional outstanding by residual maturity 554 geographic area 536 25.2 Forward financial instruments – Fair value 555 4.4 Loans and receivables due from customers – Analysis by customer type 536 Note 26 Information on counterparty risk on derivative products555 Note 5 Trading, short term investment, long term investment and medium term portfolio securities 537 Note 27 Commitments and guarantees given and received 556 5.1 Trading, short term investment, long term Note 28 Net interest and similar income 556 investment and medium term portfolio securities (excluding treasury bills) – Breakdown by major Note 29 Income from securities 556 category of counterparty 537 Note 30 Net fee and commission income 557 5.2 Breakdown of listed and unlisted fixed Note 31 Net gains (losses) on trading book 557 and variable income securities 538 5.3 Treasury bills, bonds and other fixed income Note 32 Gains (losses) on short term investment securities – Analysis by residual maturity 538 portfolio and similar 557 5.4 Treasury bills, bonds and other fixed income Note 33 Other banking income and expenses 558 securities – Analysis by geographic area 538 Note 34 Operating expenses 558 Note 6 Equity investments and subsidiaries  6.1 Estimated values of equity investments 539 542 Note 35 Cost of risk558 7 Note 7 Movements in fixed assets 543 Note 36 Net gains (losses) on fixed assets 559 7.1 Financial investments 543 Note 37 Income tax charge 559 7.2 Intangible assets and property, Note 38 Presence in non-cooperative states and territories 559 plant and equipment 543 Note 8 Treasury shares544 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 523 7 Parent Company Financial Statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Note 1 Note 1 Legal and financial background and significant events during the financial year 1.1 LEGAL AND FINANCIAL BACKGROUND Crédit Agricole S.A. is a French Public Limited Company (Société control over them and has right of supervision in accordance with Anonyme) with a share capital of €8,599,311 thousand (i.e. the French Monetary and Financial Code. By virtue of its duties as a 2,866,437,156 shares with a par value of €3 each). corporate centre, as confirmed by the Banking Act, it is responsible At 31 December 2018, the share capital of Crédit Agricole S.A. broke for ensuring the cohesion and proper functioning of the network, as down as follows: well as each Regional Bank’s compliance with operating standards. It guarantees their liquidity and solvency. Moreover, in 1988, the Regional nn 56.26% owned by SAS Rue La Boétie; Banks granted a guarantee to third-party creditors of Crédit Agricole nn 43.59% free float (including employees). S.A. on a joint and several basis up to the aggregate amount of their In addition, Crédit Agricole S.A. had 4,378,305 treasury shares own funds. This guarantee may be exercised in the event of an asset at 31 December 2018, i.e. 0.15% of its capital, compared with shortfall at Crédit Agricole S.A. identified in the course of its bankruptcy 2,146,133 treasury shares at 31 December 2017. or dissolution. Crédit Agricole S.A. coordinates the activities of the Regional Banks, is responsible for exercising administrative, technical and financial 1.2 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE INTERNAL FINANCIAL MECHANISMS Affiliation with the Crédit Agricole network also means being part of Agricole S.A. and are determined by using replacement models and a system of financial relationships that operates as described below: applying market rates. Furthermore, 50% of new loans written since 1 January 2004 and Regional Banks’ current accounts falling within the field of application of financial relations between Crédit Each Regional Bank holds a current account with Crédit Agricole S.A., Agricole S.A. and the Regional Banks may be refinanced in the form of which records the financial movements resulting from internal financial advances negotiated at market rates with Crédit Agricole S.A. transactions within the Group. This account, which may be in credit or Hence, there are currently two types of advances: advances governed debit, is presented in the balance sheet under “Crédit Agricole internal by financial rules from before 1 January 2004 and those governed by transactions – Current Accounts”. the new rules. Crédit Agricole S.A. may also make additional financing available to the Special savings accounts Regional Banks at market rates. Funds held in special savings accounts (popular savings passbook accounts (Livret d’épargne populaire), sustainable development Transfer of Regional Banks’ liquidity surpluses passbook accounts (Livret de développement durable), home purchase The Regional Banks may use their monetary deposits (demand deposits, savings schemes and accounts, popular savings plans, youth passbook non-centralised time deposits and negotiable certificates of deposit) to accounts (Livrets Jeunes) and passbook savings accounts (Livret A)) are finance lending to their customers. Surpluses must be transferred to collected by the Regional Banks on behalf of Crédit Agricole S.A. These Crédit Agricole S.A. where they are booked as current or time accounts, funds are required to be transferred to the latter. Crédit Agricole S.A. under “Crédit Agricole internal transactions”. recognises them on its balance sheet as “Due to customers”. Investment of Regional Banks’ surplus capital Term deposits and advances with Crédit Agricole S.A. The Regional Banks also collect savings funds (passbook accounts, Available surplus capital may be invested with Crédit Agricole S.A. in the bonds, certain time accounts, warrants and related accounts, etc.) form of three to ten-year instruments with the same characteristics of on behalf of Crédit Agricole S.A. These funds are transferred to Crédit interbank money market transactions in all respects. Agricole S.A., and are recognised as such on its balance sheet. Special savings accounts and time deposits and advances are used by Foreign currency transactions Crédit Agricole S.A. to make “advances” (loans) to the Regional Banks, with a view to funding their medium and long term loans. Crédit Agricole S.A. represents the Regional Banks with respect to the Bank of France and centralises their foreign currency transactions. A series of four internal financial reforms has been implemented. These reforms have permitted the transfer back to the Regional Banks, in the form of mirror advances (with maturities and interest rates precisely Medium and long term notes issued matching those of the savings funds received) of first 15%, 25%, then by Crédit Agricole S.A. 33% and, finally, since 31 December 2001, 50% of the savings funds, These are placed mainly on the market or by the Regional Banks with which they are now free to use at their discretion. their customers. They are booked by Crédit Agricole S.A. under liabilities Since 1 January 2004, the financial margins generated by the either as “Debt instrument” or as “Provisions and subordinated debt”, centralised management of funds collected (and not transferred back depending on the type of securities issued. via mirror advances) are split between the Regional Banks and Crédit 524 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Parent Company Financial Statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Note 1 Coverage of liquidity and solvency Risks no creditor must suffer losses in connection with a resolution procedure that are greater than those it would suffer if the entity had been liquidated Under the legal internal financial solidarity mechanism enshrined in in a normal insolvency procedure (the “No Creditor Worse Off than on Article L. 511-31 of the French Monetary and Financial Code, Crédit Liquidation” – NCWOL – principle, set forth in Article L. 613-57-1 of Agricole S.A. as corporate centre, must take all measures necessary the French Monetary and Financial Code, and Article 73 of the BRRD to ensure the liquidity and solvency of each affiliated credit institution, directive). Because this principle must be respected, Crédit Agricole as well as the network as a whole. As a result, each member of the S.A. considers that the existence of the guarantee granted in 1988 by network and each affiliated institution benefits from this internal the Regional Banks in favour of the creditors of Crédit Agricole S.A., will financial solidarity mechanism. have to be taken into account by the Single Resolution Board, although The general provisions of the French Monetary and Financial Code are it is not possible to determine how this will be done. transposed into internal provisions setting out the operational measures required for this internal financial solidarity mechanism. Specific guarantees provided by the Regional Banks In the framework of the IPO of Crédit Agricole S.A. in 2001, CNCA (now to Crédit Agricole S.A. (Switch) Crédit Agricole S.A.) signed an agreement with the Regional Banks Following the simplification of the Group’s structure, which resulted in aiming to govern internal relations within Crédit Agricole Group. The the sale of the CCI/CCA interests held by Crédit Agricole S.A. to Sacam agreement notably provided for the creation of a Fund for Bank Liquidity Mutualisation – a company wholly owned by the Regional Banks – and Solvency Risks (FRBLS) designed to enable Crédit Agricole S.A. to Crédit Agricole S.A. no longer holds any of the Regional Banks’ share fulfil its role as corporate centre by providing assistance to any affiliated capital (except for four Regional Banks for which Crédit Agricole S.A. members that may experience difficulties. The main provisions of this retained a small number of CCAs for legal reasons). The transaction was agreement are set out in Chapter III of the Registration document filed thus accompanied by the signing of two amendments to the Framework by Crédit Agricole S.A. with the Commission des opérations de bourse Agreement governing the Switch Guarantee on 17 February 2016 on 22 October 2001 under number R.01-453. (amendment No. 2) and 21 July 2016 (amendment No. 3) respectively, Moreover, European legislation relating to the resolution of banking resulting notably in the end of the guarantee on the CCIs/CCAs. crises adopted in 2014 (the BRRD directive and the regulation The modified mechanism took effect on 1 July 2016 and now limits establishing a Single Resolution Mechanism transposed into French transfers to the Regional Banks to the prudential requirements relating law by Ordinance 2015-1024 of 20 August 2015) introduced a number to Crédit Agricole S.A.’s shares in Crédit Agricole Assurances (CAA) of significant changes to the regulations applicable to credit institutions. within the bounds of a contractual ceiling: we now talk of Switch The new framework, which includes measures to prevent and to resolve Insurance. banking crises, is intended to preserve financial stability, to ensure the The effectiveness of the mechanism is secured by security deposits paid continuity of activities, services and operations of institutions whose by the Regional Banks to Crédit Agricole S.A. These security deposits failure could significantly impact the economy, to protect depositors and are calibrated to show the capital savings generated by Crédit Agricole to avoid or limit, as much as possible, the use of public financial support. S.A., and are remunerated at a fixed-rate based on conditions prevailing In this context, the Single Resolution Board, the European Resolution for long term liquidity. Authority, was granted extensive powers to take all necessary measures in connection with the resolution of all or part of a credit institution or The Insurance Switch guarantees protect Crédit Agricole S.A. the group to which it belongs. from a decline in the overall equity-accounted value of these equity investments, subject to payment by the Regional Banks of compensation This resolution framework does not affect the legal internal financial from the security deposit. Likewise, if the equity-accounted value later solidarity mechanism enshrined in Article L. 511-31 of the French recovers, Crédit Agricole S.A. may return previously paid compensation Monetary and Financial Code, which applies to the Crédit Agricole in accordance with a claw-back provision. Network, as defined in Article R. 512-18 of the same Code. Crédit Agricole S.A. considers that, in practice, this mechanism should be Guarantees are recognised as off-balance sheet commitments in the implemented prior to any resolution procedure. same way as first demand guarantees given. Their compensation is recognised in stages in the interest margin under Revenues. In the event The application of the resolution procedure to Crédit Agricole Group of a call on guarantees, or following an improvement in fortunes, where would thus mean that the legal internal solidarity mechanism had failed applicable, the compensation payment or redemption proceeds are to cope with the bankruptcy of one or more Group affiliates, and hence recognised under Cost of risk. of the network as a whole. By its very nature it also limits the occurrence of the conditions for implementing the guarantee of the obligations of It should be noted that the Insurance Switch guarantees are triggered Crédit Agricole S.A. granted in 1988 to its third-party creditors by the on a half-yearly basis and are assessed on the basis of half-yearly Regional Banks on a joint and several basis, and up to the aggregate changes in the equity-accounted value of the CAA equity investments. amount of their own funds. It should be recalled that this guarantee may At each quarterly closing, the Regional Banks are required to estimate if be exercised in the event of an asset shortfall at Crédit Agricole S.A. there is a risk that compensation will be payable and to fund provisions identified in the course of its bankruptcy or dissolution. accordingly: in the case of a claw-back, no income can be recognised In connection with the institution of a resolution procedure, the Single given the uncertainty. At each half-yearly close, and if the conditions have been met, the Regional Banks recognise the effects of triggering 7 Resolution Board (SRB) should respect the fundamental principle that the guarantees (calling or clawback). The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 525 7 Parent Company Financial Statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Note 1 1.3 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS IN 2018 Euro Secured Notes Issuer (ESNI) Green Bond issue On 9 April 2018, Crédit Agricole S.A. renewed its involvement in the On 5 December 2018, Crédit Agricole S.A. carried out its first ever green securitisation vehicle with ESNI compartments, set up in 2014 by bond issue for €1 billion at an annual rate of 0.75% with a maturity of leading banks to ensure the refinancing of private loans. As part of five years. this, Crédit Agricole S.A., borrowed cash and subscribed €2 billion to The assets underpinning this issuance will necessarily make it possible the ESNI issue. to fund projects that support the energy and environmental transition in the following sectors: renewable energy, green real estate, energy LCL capital increase efficiency, clean transport, management of waste and water, sustainable In accordance with an ECB decision taken on 19 December 2017, LCL agriculture and forest management. is obliged to comply with a new Pillar 2 minimum CET1 capital ratio requirement of 9.5% with effect from 30 June 2018. Tax litigation on Emporiki securities To satisfy this requirement, on 15 June 2018 LCL performed a capital On 17 May 2018, Crédit Agricole S.A. benefited from a favourable increase of €950 million, through the issue of 36,651,200 new shares decision by the Versailles Administrative Court of Appeal, which found with a unit price of €25.92, subscribed in their entirety by Crédit Agricole that the securities issued as part of the July 2012 capital increase were S.A., thus increasing its stake to 95.56%. short term investment securities since it has been proven that there existed, at the date of this transaction, an intention to sell the issued Cariparma capital increase securities, resulting in non-compliance with the accounting criteria of utility and long term holding and justifying the recognition of said In order to satisfy the new capital requirements, on 19 June 2018 securities as equity securities. Consequently, the provision made for Cariparma carried out a capital increase, to which Crédit Agricole S.A. 100% of the issue value of the securities was tax deductible. subscribed €127 million, taking its interest to 76.90%. This enforceable decision was the subject of an appeal by the tax authorities to the Council of State on 18 July 2018. The tax income Removal of loyalty dividends corresponding to the deduction of the provision with default interest The removal of the loyalty dividend was approved by the Special Meeting is recognised at 31 December 2018 for a total amount of €954 million of eligible shareholders on 4 April 2018 and later by the non-eligible and gives rise to a provision for liabilities in the same amount due to the shareholders at the Extraordinary General Meeting held on 16 May 2018. non-definitive nature of the decision by the Court of Appeal. As a reminder, this loyalty dividend applied to shares held and Furthermore, a claim was filed by Crédit Agricole S.A. on 6 March 2018, registered for more than two calendar years as at the reporting date following the upholding by the tax authorities of the adjustment relating of the financial year to which the dividend related and that continued to the securities issued as part of the January 2013 capital increase, to be held on the date of payment of the dividend. Since 24 May 2018, despite the favourable opinion by the National Tax Commission given eligible shareholders have received, as a compensatory measure, one on 13 January 2017, which stated that the tax adjustment should new ordinary share for every 26 eligible shares held in registered form be abandoned. This claim was rejected by the tax authorities on for more than two years at 31 December 2017 and still held on the date 7 August 2018. Thus, on 4 October 2018, Crédit Agricole S.A. filed a of payment of the dividend relating to the 2017 financial year. request to the Administrative Court of Montreuil. This transaction resulted in the creation of 6,530,044 new ordinary shares (representing a capital increase of approximately 0.23%), of 2008-2009 foreign tax credit which the delivery and admission for trading on Euronext Paris took The dispute with the tax authorities involved the tax rates used in 2008 place on 24 May 2018. and 2009 on foreign tax credits. These new shares, which bear dividend rights from 1 January 2018, will In fact, on these dates, the Group was loss-making and foreign tax be immediately fungible with the ordinary shares making up the share credits were taxed at a reduced rate, namely 15% and 19%. However, capital of Crédit Agricole S.A. the tax authorities challenged the use of these reduced rates and asked Following this transaction, the share capital stands at €8,557,903,710, that these tax credits be taxed at the standard rate of 33.33%. With divided into 2,852,634,570 ordinary shares with a par value each of respect to this dispute, a third-party account receivable, fully written €3, fully paid-up. down, had been funded for €65 million. On 27 April 2018, following the withdrawal of the tax authorities from Capital increase reserved for employees proceedings before the Council of State, Crédit Agricole S.A. received The Crédit Agricole S.A. capital increase reserved for employees the sum of €84.7 million corresponding to the refund of the tax claimed was carried out on 1 August 2018. Some 19,000 Crédit Agricole plus the payment of default interest. Group employees, in France and 14 other countries, subscribed for €135.5 million. Regional Banks surcharge The proposed investment scheme was a standard offer with a At end-2017, two new corporate income tax levies were established by subscription including a 20% rebate on the share price. The new shares the State for financial year 2017, the first on companies with revenues of were issued and delivered to employees on 1 August 2018. between €1 and €3 billion and the second on companies with revenues This capital increase created 13,802,586 new shares, thereby bringing over €3 billion. the total number of shares comprising the share capital of Crédit To this end, Crédit Agricole S.A. incurred a net surcharge after booking Agricole S.A. to 2,866,437,156. of reimbursements of the 3% levy of €102.7 million. 526 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Parent Company Financial Statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Note 2 In groups having opted for tax consolidation, the revenues to be used In line with the principle of solidarity that drives the Group, it was decided by the head of the tax group (Crédit Agricole S.A.) had to be the sum of together with the Regional Banks that they would partly contribute, revenues of all entities within the tax consolidation group. exceptionally and only with respect to the 2018 financial year, to the tax All the Regional Banks with the exception of two had revenues under surcharge borne by Crédit Agricole S.A. in 2017. these thresholds so they didn’t have to contribute to the tax surcharge, Accordingly, an amendment to the tax consolidation agreement whereas the consolidated group’s tax base consisted of the taxable between the Regional Banks and Crédit Agricole S.A. was signed by all income of all the Regional Banks. stakeholders in September 2018. This surcharge totalled €51 million for all the Regional Banks. Note 2 Accounting policies and principles Crédit Agricole S.A. prepares its financial statements in accordance with 1 January 2015, combines in a single regulation, on the basis of the accounting principles applicable to banks in France. established law, all accounting standards applicable to credit institutions. The presentation of the financial statements of Crédit Agricole Changes in accounting policies and the presentation of the financial S.A. complies with the provisions of ANC Regulation 2014-07 of statements compared with the previous financial year relate to the 26 November 2014, which, for financial years beginning on or after following: Date of first-time Date published by the application: financial Applicable within Regulations French government years from Crédit Agricole S.A. ANC Regulation No. 2017-01 on the General Chart of Accounts regarding the accounting treatment of mergers. 30 December 2017 1 January 2018 Yes ANC Regulation No. 2018-01 on changes in accounting policies and estimates and the correction of errors. 20 April 2018 1 January 2018 Yes At 1 January 2018, there was a change in accounting policy although This alignment in principle remains consistent with the application of without any guidance from the ANC. existing rules under French GAAP: This relates to a new model of funding credit risk provisions nn the principle of prudence, defined in Article L. 123-20 of the French for performing loans, aimed at transposing the new credit risk Commercial Code and appearing in Article 121-4 of Regulation provisioning model in line with the IFRS 9 approach of estimating 2014-03 (General Chart of Accounts) provides a basis, by definition, expected losses. for funding provisions, including on the basis of expected losses; The scope of this new provisioning model mainly applies to outstanding nn Article 1121-3 of Regulation 2014-07 on provisions for liabilities amounts centralised at the CDC. (item 7) allows the funding of provisions on the basis of “past or current events”, any outstanding amounts that have seen a significant As part of the IFRS 9 project, the Group decided in principle to bring increase in their credit risk or that pose a risk; the rules it applies to determine impairment for credit risk in the French nn Article 323-6 of Regulation 2014-03 (General Chart of Accounts) on GAAP parent company financial statements into line with those used in the IFRS consolidated financial statements. the measurement of liabilities allows “future events” to be considered when estimating provisions (equivalent to the forward-looking component); nn lastly, Regulation 2018-01 amending Regulation 2014-03 allows the Company to change accounting policy. The impact of this alignment will be recognised in opening equity. 2.1 LOANS AND FINANCING COMMITMENTS Loans and receivables to credit institutions, Crédit Agricole Group Subordinated loans and repurchase agreements (represented by entities and customers are governed by Articles 2211-1 to 2251-13 certificates or securities) are included under the various categories of (Part 2 “Accounting Treatment of Credit Risk” of Book II “Special loans and receivables according to counterparty type (interbank, Crédit Transactions”) of ANC Regulation 2014-07 of 26 November 2014. Agricole, customers). They are presented according to their residual maturity or their nature: nn demand and time deposits for credit institutions; Loans are recognised on the balance sheet at face value. Pursuant to Article 2131-1 of ANC Regulation 2014-07 of 26 November 2014, 7 nn current accounts, time loans and advances for Crédit Agricole internal the fees and commissions received and the marginal transaction costs transactions; borne are deferred over the effective term of the loan and are thus included nn trade receivables, other facilities and ordinary accounts for customers. in the outstanding amount of the relevant loan. In accordance with regulations, the customers category also includes Accrued interest on loans is recognised on the balance sheet under transactions with financial customers. accrued interest and taken to profit or loss. Financing commitments recognised off-balance sheet represent irrevocable commitments to cash advances and guarantee commitments that have not resulted in fund movements. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 527 7 Parent Company Financial Statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Note 2 The application of ANC Regulation 2014-07 of 26 November 2014 led regularly resumed for amounts corresponding to the original contractual Crédit Agricole S.A. to recognise loans with a risk of non-payment in schedule. In this case, the outstanding amount is reclassified under accordance with the rules set out in the following paragraphs. performing loans. The use of external and/or internal ratings systems helps assess the level of credit risk. Impairment resulting from credit risk on doubtful Loans and financing commitments are split into those deemed loans performing and those deemed doubtful. Once a loan is doubtful, the likely loss is recognised by Crédit Agricole S.A. by means of impairment losses deducted from the asset on the Performing loans balance sheet. This impairment represents the difference between the So long as loans are not classified as doubtful, they are classified as carrying amount of the loan and the estimated future flows discounted performing and remain as initially classified. at the effective interest rate, having regard to the financial position of the counterparty, its economic outlook as well as any guarantees net of the cost of realising them. Provisions for credit risk on performing loans Probable losses in respect of off-balance sheet commitments are Moreover, without waiting for loans to become doubtful and from initial covered by provisions recognised as liabilities. recognition of financial instruments, Crédit Agricole S.A. also recognises, Loans and receivables provided by Crédit Agricole S.A. to the Regional on the liabilities side of its balance sheet, expected credit losses for the Banks do not represent a direct risk for Crédit Agricole S.A. with respect coming twelve months (loans classified as performing) and/or over the to the corresponding customer loans made by the Regional Banks. life of the financial instrument whenever the credit quality of the loan They do, however, represent a potential indirect risk with respect to has significantly impaired (loans classified as impaired). the financial strength of the Regional Banks. Crédit Agricole S.A. has Increases and reversals of provisions for credit risk on performing loans not made any provisions for such loans and receivables to the Regional are recognised under cost of risk. Banks. These provisions are determined as part of a specific monitoring process and are based on estimates reflecting changes in the level of credit risk Accounting treatment of impairments on the date of initial recognition and the reporting date. Impairment losses and reversals for non-recovery of doubtful loans are recognised under cost of risk. Doubtful loans In accordance with Article 2231-3 of ANC Regulation 2014-07, the These are loans of all types, including collateralised, with an identified Group elected to recognise the increase in the carrying amount resulting credit risk corresponding to one or more of the following situations: from the reversal of impairment due to the passage of time under cost nn there are one or more non-payments for at least three months; of risk. nn a counterparty’s position is such that quite apart from any non-payment, an identified risk can be assumed to exist; Write-offs nn the credit institution and its counterparty are involved in litigation. Decisions as to when to write off are taken on the basis of expert In the case of overdrafts, the age of the non-payment is calculated from opinion. Crédit Agricole S.A. determines this in conjunction with its Risk the moment the debtor exceeded an authorised limit of which s/he was Management department, having regard to its business knowledge. made aware by the institution or s/he was notified that his/her overdraft Loans that become irrecoverable are written off and the corresponding exceeds a limit set by the institution as part of its internal control system impairment reversed. or that s/he drew down sums without an overdraft facility. Subject to conditions, instead of the aforementioned criteria, the Country risks institution can start calculating the age of the non-payment when the institution has asked the debtor to repay the overdraft in part of in full. Country risks (or risks on international commitments) consist of the total Crédit Agricole S.A. makes a distinction between doubtful loans and amount of unimpaired loans, both on and off-balance sheet, carried by irrecoverable loans: an institution directly or via hive-off vehicles, involving private or public debtors residing in the countries identified by the French Regulatory and nn doubtful loans: Resolution Supervisory Authority (ACPR), or where settlement thereof All doubtful loans that do not fall into the irrecoverable loans category depends on the position of public or private debtors residing in those are classified as doubtful loans; countries. nn irrecoverable loans: These are loans for which the prospects of recovery are highly Restructured loans impaired and that are likely to be written off over time. These are loans to counterparties in financial difficulty, such that the Interest continues to accrue on doubtful loans but no longer accrues credit institution alters their initial characteristics (term, interest rate, once the loan is classified as irrecoverable. etc.) to allow the counterparties to honour the repayment schedule. Classification as doubtful loans may be abandoned when the identified They consist of loans classified as doubtful and performing loans at the credit risk has been permanently lifted and when payments have date they are restructured. 528 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Parent Company Financial Statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Note 2 Restructured loans do not include loans whose characteristics have The discount recognised when a loan is restructured is accounted for been renegotiated on a commercial basis with counterparties not under cost of risk. showing any insolvency problems. Loans restructured due to the debtor’s financial position are rated The reduction of future flows granted to a counterparty, or the postponing in accordance with Basel rules and are impaired on the basis of the of these flows as part of the restructuring, results in the recognition of a estimated credit risk. If, following reclassification under performing discount. It represents future loss of cash flow discounted at the original loans, the debtor does not meet the agreed payments, the restructured effective rate. loan is immediately reclassified under doubtful loans. It is equal to the difference between: Crédit Agricole S.A. had no restructured loans at 31 December 2018. nn the face value of the loan; and nn the sum of theoretical future cash flows from the restructured loan, discounted at the original effective interest rate (defined at the date of the financing commitment). 2.2 SECURITIES PORTFOLIO The rules on recognition of securities transactions are defined by Trading securities are recognised on the date they are purchased in the Articles 2311-1 to 2391-1 (Part 3 “Recognition of Securities Transactions” amount of their purchase price, excluding transaction expenses and of Book II “Special Transactions”) and Articles 2211-1 to 2251-13 (Part 2 including accrued interest. “Accounting Treatment of Credit Risk” of Book II “Special Transactions”) Liabilities relating to securities sold short are recognised on the liabilities of ANC Regulation 2014-07 of 26 November 2014 for the determination side of the institution’s balance sheet for the selling price excluding of credit risk and the impairment of fixed-income securities. transaction expenses. These securities are presented in the financial statements according to At each reporting date, securities are measured at the most recent their asset class: treasury bills (treasury bonds and similar securities), market price. The overall amount of differences resulting from price bonds and other fixed-income securities (negotiable debt securities changes is recorded in the income statement under “Net gains (losses) and interbank market instruments), equities and other variable income on trading book”. securities. They are classified in portfolios defined by regulation (trading, short 2.2.2 Short term investment securities term investment, long term investment, medium term portfolio, equity investments and other long term equity investments), depending on the This category consists of securities that do not fall into any other initial intention for holding the securities as identified in the accounting category. IT system at the time they were acquired. The securities are recorded at purchase price, including transaction expenses. 2.2.1 Trading securities Crédit Agricole S.A.’s portfolio of short term investment securities consists mostly of bonds denominated in euros and foreign currencies These are securities that are originally: and mutual investment funds. nn bought with the intention of selling them in the near future, or sold with the intention of repurchasing them in the near future; Bonds and other fixed-income securities nn or held by the institution as a result of its market-making activity. The classification of these securities as trading securities depends on the These securities are recognised at purchase price including interest effective turnover of the securities and on a significant trading volume then accrued. The difference between the purchase price and the taking into account market opportunities. redemption value is staggered over the residual maturity of the security on an actuarial basis. These securities must be tradable on an active market and market prices thus available must represent real transactions regularly undertaken in Income is recorded in the income statement under “Interest and similar the market on an arm’s length basis. income from bonds and other fixed-income securities”. Trading securities also include: Equities and other variable income securities nn securities bought or sold as part of specialised management of the trading portfolio, including forward financial instruments, securities Equities are recognised in the balance sheet at their purchase value or other financial instruments that are managed collectively and on including acquisition costs. The associated dividends are recorded as which there is an indication of recent short term profit taking; income under “Income from variable income securities”. nn securities on which there is a commitment to sell as part of an Income from mutual investment funds is recognised when received under the same heading. arbitrage transaction on an organised exchange for financial instruments or similar market. At each reporting date, short term investment securities are measured 7 Except as provided in accordance with Articles 2381-1 to 2381-5 at the lesser of acquisition cost and market value. If the current value of (Part 3 “Recognition of Securities Transactions” of Book II “Special a holding or a homogeneous set of securities (calculated from market Transactions”) of ANC Regulation 2014-07 of 26 November 2014, prices at the reporting date, for example) is lower than its carrying trading securities may not be reclassified into another accounting amount, an impairment loss is recorded for the unrealised loss without category. They continue to be presented and measured as trading being offset against any gains recognised on other categories of securities until they are removed from the balance sheet after being securities. Gains from hedging within the meaning of Article 2514-1 sold, fully redeemed or written off. of ANC Regulation 2014-07 of 26 November 2014, in the form of purchases or sales of forward financial instruments, are factored in for the purposes of calculating impairment losses. Potential gains are not recorded. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 529 7 Parent Company Financial Statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Note 2 Impairment intended to take into account counterparty risk and Medium term portfolio securities are recorded at purchase price, recognised under cost of risk is booked on fixed-income securities as including transaction expenses. follows: They are recognised at the end of the reporting period at the lower of nn in the case of listed securities, impairment is based on market value, historical cost or value in use, which is determined on the basis of the which intrinsically reflects credit risk. However, if Crédit Agricole S.A. issuer’s general outlook and the estimated residual maturity. has specific information on the issuer’s financial position that is not For listed companies, value in use is generally the average market price reflected in the market value, a specific impairment loss is recorded; over a sufficiently long period of time, depending on the estimated time nn in the case of unlisted securities, impairment is recorded in the horizon for holding the securities, to mitigate the impact of substantial same way as on loans and receivables due from customers based fluctuations in market prices. on identified probable losses (see Note 2.1 Loans and financing Impairment losses are booked for any unrealised losses calculated for commitments – Impairment resulting from identified credit risk). each holding and are not offset against any unrealised gains. They are Sales of securities are deemed to take place on a first-in, first-out basis. recorded under “Net gains (losses) on short term investment portfolios Impairment losses and reversals and disposal gains or losses on short and similar” along with impairment losses and reversals on these term investment securities are recorded under “Net gains (losses) on securities. short term investment portfolios and similar” in the income statement. Unrealised gains are not recognised. 2.2.3 Long term investment securities 2.2.5 Investments in subsidiaries and affiliates, Long term investment securities are fixed-income securities with a fixed equity investments and other long term maturity date that have been acquired or transferred to this category equity investments with the manifest intention of holding them until maturity. nn Investments in subsidiaries and affiliates are investments in This category only includes securities for which Crédit Agricole S.A. has companies that are under exclusive control and that are or are liable the necessary financial ability to continue holding them until maturity to be fully consolidated into a consolidated unit; and that are not subject to any legal or other restriction that could nn equity investments are investments (other than investments in interfere with its intention to hold them until maturity. subsidiaries and affiliates), of which the long term ownership is Long term investment securities are recognised at their purchase price, judged beneficial to the institution, in particular because it allows it including acquisition costs and accrued interest. to exercise influence or control over the issuer; The difference between the purchase price and the redemption price is nn other long term equity investments consist of securities held with staggered over the residual maturity of the security. the intention of promoting long term business relations by creating Impairment is not booked for long term investment securities if their a special relationship with the issuer, but with no influence on the market value falls below cost. On the other hand, if the impairment issuer’s management due to the small percentage of voting rights arises from a risk relating specifically to the issuer of the security, held. impairment is recorded under “Cost of risk”, in accordance with Part 2 These securities are recognised at purchase price, including transaction “Accounting Treatment of Credit Risk” of Book II “Special Transactions” expenses. of ANC Regulation 2014-07 of 26 November 2014. At the reporting date, the value of these securities is measured In the case of the sale or reclassification to another category of long term individually, based on value in use, and they are recorded on the balance investment securities representing a material amount, the institution sheet at the lesser of their historical cost or value in use. is no longer authorised, during the current financial year and the two This represents what the institution would be prepared to pay to acquire subsequent financial years, to classify securities previously bought or them having regard to its reasons for holding them. to be bought as long term investment securities, in accordance with Value in use may be estimated on the basis of various factors such Article 2341-2 of ANC Regulation 2014-07 of 26 November 2014. as the issuer’s profitability and prospective profitability, its equity, the economic environment, the average market price in the preceding 2.2.4 Medium term portfolio securities months or the mathematical value of the security. In accordance with Articles 2351-2 to 2352-6 (Part 3 “Recognition When value in use of securities is lower than historical cost, impairment of Securities Transactions” of Book II “Special Transactions”) of losses are booked for these unrealised losses and are not offset against ANC Regulation 2014-07 of 26 November 2014, these securities are any unrealised gains. “investments made on a normal basis, with the sole aim of securing Impairment losses and reversals and disposal gains or losses on these a gain in the medium term, with no intention of investing in the securities are recorded under “Net gains (losses) on fixed assets”. issuer’s business on a long term basis or taking an active part in its management”. 2.2.6 Market price Securities can only be included in this category if the activity is carried out to a significant extent and on an ongoing basis within a structured The market price at which the various categories of securities are framework and gives the institution a recurring return mainly in the form measured is determined as follows: of gains on disposals. nn securities traded on an active market are measured at the latest price; Crédit Agricole S.A. meets these conditions and some of its securities nn if the market on which the security is traded is not or no longer can be classified in this category. considered active or if the security is unlisted, Crédit Agricole S.A. determines the likely value at which the security concerned would 530 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Parent Company Financial Statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Note 2 be traded using valuation techniques. Firstly, these techniques take 2.2.9 Reclassification of securities into account recent transactions carried out in normal competition conditions. If required, Crédit Agricole S.A. uses valuation techniques In accordance with Articles 2381-1 to 2381-5 (Part 3 “Recognition commonly used by market participants to price these securities, of Securities Transactions” of Book II “Special Transactions”) of ANC when it has been demonstrated that these techniques provide reliable Regulation 2014-07 of 26 November 2014, the following securities estimates of prices obtained in actual market transactions. reclassifications are allowed: nn from “trading portfolio” to “long term investment portfolio” or 2.2.7 Recording dates “short term investment portfolio” in the case of exceptional market conditions or, for fixed-income securities that are no longer tradable Crédit Agricole S.A. records securities classified as long term investment in an active market and if the entity has the intention and ability to securities on the settlement date. Other securities, regardless of type or hold the securities for the foreseeable future or until maturity; classification, are recognised on the trading date. nn from “short term investment portfolio” to “long term investment portfolio” in the case of exceptional market conditions or for fixed2.2.8 Securities sold / bought under repurchase income securities that are no longer tradable in an active market. agreements Securities sold under repurchase agreements are kept on the balance 2.2.10 Treasury shares buy-back sheet. The amount received, representing the liability to the buyer, is Treasury shares bought back by Crédit Agricole S.A., including shares recorded as a liability. and stock options held to cover stock option plans, are recognised as Securities bought under repurchase agreements are not recorded on the assets under a specific balance sheet heading. balance sheet, but the amount paid, representing the receivable from They may, where necessary, be impaired where the current value the seller, is recorded as an asset on the balance sheet. is below the purchase price, except for transactions connected with Securities sold under repurchase agreements are subject to the employee free share allocation plans and stock option and share accounting treatment applying to the portfolio from which they originate. subscription plans as per ANC Regulation 2014-03 of 5 June 2014. 2.3 FIXED ASSETS Crédit Agricole S.A. applies ANC Regulation 2014-03 of 5 June 2014 Proprietary software is measured at cost less accumulated amortisation relating to the depreciation, amortisation and impairment of assets. and impairment losses since completion. Crédit Agricole S.A. applies component accounting for all of its property, Intangible assets other than software, patents and licences are not plant and equipment. In accordance with the provisions thereof, the amortised. They may be subject to impairment. depreciable amount takes account of the potential residual value of fixed Fixed assets are depreciated over their estimated useful lives. assets. The following components and depreciation periods have been adopted ANC Regulation 2015-06 changes the way in which technical merger by Crédit Agricole S.A. following the application of the measures on losses are recognised on the balance sheet and monitored in the component accounting for fixed assets. These depreciation periods parent company financial statements. Losses are no longer required to must be adjusted according to the type of asset and its location: be comprehensively and systematically recognised under “Goodwill”; they must be recognised in the balance sheet under the asset headings Component Depreciation period to which they are allocated in “Other property, plant & equipment, Land Not depreciable intangible assets and financial assets, etc.” Losses are amortised, Structural works 30 to 80 years impaired and written off in the same way as the underlying asset. Non-structural works 8 to 40 years The acquisition cost of fixed assets includes the purchase price plus Plant and equipment 5 to 25 years any incidental expenses, namely expenses directly or indirectly incurred Fixtures and fittings 5 to 15 years in connection with bringing the asset into service or “into inventory”. Computer equipment 4 to 7 years (declining or straight-line) Land is recorded at acquisition cost. Special equipment 4 to 5 years (declining or straight-line) Property and equipment are measured at acquisition cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses since the time they Based on available information, Crédit Agricole S.A. has concluded were placed in service. that impairment testing would not lead to any change in the existing Purchased software is measured at acquisition cost less accumulated depreciable base. amortisation and impairment losses since acquisition. 2.4 AMOUNTS DUE TO CUSTOMERS AND CREDIT INSTITUTIONS 7 Amounts due to credit institutions, Crédit Agricole entities and nn special savings accounts and other amounts due to customers customers are presented in the financial statements according to their (notably including financial customers). residual maturity or their nature: Repurchase agreements (represented by certificates or securities) are nn demand and time deposits for credit institutions; included under these various headings, according to counterparty type. nn current accounts, time loans and advances for Crédit Agricole internal Accrued interest on these deposits is recognised under accrued interest transactions; and taken to profit or loss. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 531 7 Parent Company Financial Statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Note 2 2.5 DEBT SECURITIES Debt securities are presented according to their form: interest-bearing Redemption premiums can be amortised in two ways: notes, interbank market instruments, negotiable debt securities and nn based on accrued interest on a prorata basis for bonds issued before bonds, excluding subordinated securities, which are classified in 1 January 1993, or for those with a redemption premium of less than liabilities under “Subordinated debt”. 10% of the issue price; or Interest accrued but not yet due is recognised under accrued interest nn on an actuarial basis for debt issued after 1 January 1993 with a and taken to profit or loss. redemption premium of more than 10% of the issue price. Issue or redemption premiums on bonds are amortised over the Crédit Agricole also amortises borrowing expenses in its parent maturity period of each bond. The corresponding charge is recorded company’s financial statements. under “Interest and similar expenses on bonds and other fixed-income Fee and commission expenses on financial services paid to the Regional securities”. Banks are recognised as expenses under “Fee and commission expenses”. 2.6 PROVISIONS Crédit Agricole S.A. applies ANC Regulation 2014-03 of 5 June 2014 for in home purchase savings schemes. These obligations are: i) to pay a the recognition and measurement of provisions. fixed interest rate on the savings contract determined at inception for an Provisions include provisions relating to financing commitments, undefined period of time; and ii) to grant a loan to home purchase savings retirement and early retirement liabilities, litigation and various risks. plan and account savers at a rate fixed at inception of the contract. The provision is calculated for each generation of home purchase savings The provisions also include country risks. All these risks are reviewed scheme and for all home purchase savings accounts, with no netting of quarterly. obligations between generations. Provisions are set aside for country risks following an analysis of the The amount of these obligations is calculated taking account notably of: types of transactions, the term of commitments, their form (receivables, nn saver behaviour, as well as an estimate of the amount and term of the securities, market products) as well as country quality. loans that will be granted in the future. These estimates are based on Crédit Agricole S.A. partially hedges provisions on these foreign historical observations over a long period; currency-denominated receivables by buying foreign currency to limit nn the yield curve for market rates and reasonably foreseeable trends. the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates on provision levels. This provision is calculated in accordance with Part 6 “Regulated The provision for home purchase savings scheme imbalance risk is Savings” of Book II “Special Transactions” of ANC Regulation 2014-07 designed to cover obligations in the event of unfavourable movements of 26 November 2014. 2.7 FUND FOR GENERAL BANKING RISK (FGBR) In accordance with Fourth European Directive and CRBF Regulation discretion of its management, to meet any charges or risks relating to 90-02 of 23 February 1990 as amended relating to capital, funds for banking operations but whose incidence is not certain. general banking risks are constituted by Crédit Agricole S.A., at the Provisions are released to cover any incidence of these risks during a given financial year. 2.8 TRANSACTIONS ON FORWARD FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND OPTIONS Hedging and market transactions on forward interest rate, foreign (category “c” Article 2522-1 of ANC Regulation 2014-07) are recorded exchange or equity instruments are recorded in accordance with the prorata temporis under “Interest and similar income (expenses) – Net provisions of Part 5 “Forward Financial Instruments” of Book II “Special gains (losses) on macro-hedging transactions”. Unrealised gains and Transactions” of ANC Regulation 2014-07 of 26 November 2014. losses are not recorded. Commitments relating to these transactions are recorded off-balance sheet at the par value of the contracts: this amount represents the Market transactions volume of pending transactions. Market transactions include: Gains or losses relating to these transactions are recorded on the basis nn isolated open positions (category “a” Article 2522-1 of ANC of the type of instrument and the strategy used: Regulation 2014-07); nn specialised management of a trading portfolio (category “d” Hedging transactions Article 2522 of ANC Regulation 2014-07). Gains or losses realised on hedging transactions (category “b” They are measured in reference to their market value on the reporting Article 2522-1 of ANC Regulation 2014-07) are recorded on the income date. statement symmetrically with the recognition of income and expenses If there is an active market, the instrument is stated at the available on the hedged item and under the same accounting heading. market price. In the absence of an active market, fair value is determined Income and expenses relating to forward financial instruments used for using internal valuation techniques and models. hedging and managing Crédit Agricole S.A.’s overall interest rate risk 532 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Parent Company Financial Statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Note 2 Instruments (derivatives classified in categories “a” and “d” Article 2522-1 of the nn for isolated open positions traded on organised or similar exchanges, aforementioned regulation). all realised and unrealised gains and losses are recognised; The CVA makes it possible to calculate counterparty losses expected nn for isolated open positions traded over the counter, only unrealised by Crédit Agricole S.A. losses are recognised, via a provision. Realised gains and losses are The CVA is calculated on the basis of an estimate of expected losses taken to profit or loss when the transaction is settled; based on the probability of default and loss given default. The nn as part of a trading portfolio, all realised and unrealised gains and methodology used maximises the use of observable market inputs. losses are recognised. It is based: nn primarily on market parameters such as registered and listed CDS (or Counterparty risk on derivative instruments Single Name CDS) or index-based CDS; In accordance with ANC Regulation 2014-07 of 26 November 2014, nn in the absence of registered CDS on the counterparty, an approximation Crédit Agricole S.A. makes a Credit Valuation Adjustment (CVA) to the based on a basket of Single Name CDS of counterparties with the market value of its derivative assets to reflect counterparty risk. For same rating operating in the same sector and located in the same this reason, Credit Valuation Adjustments are only made to derivatives area. recognised as isolated open positions and as part of a trading portfolio In certain circumstances, historical default data may also be used. 2.9 FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSACTIONS Monetary receivables and liabilities and forward foreign exchange At each reporting date, forward foreign exchange transactions are contracts included in off-balance sheet commitments denominated measured at the relevant forward exchange rate. Recognised gains or in foreign currencies are translated using the exchange rate at the losses are recorded on the income statement under “Net gains (losses) reporting date or at the next earlier date. on trading book – Net gains (losses) on foreign exchange transactions Income received and expenses paid are recorded at the exchange rate and similar financial instruments”. on the transaction date. Accrued income and expenses not yet due are Pursuant to the implementation of Part 7 “Recognition of Foreign translated at the closing rate. Currency Transactions” of Book II “Special Transactions” of ANC Capital funds allocated to branches, fixed assets in offices abroad Regulation 2014-07 of 26 November 2014, Crédit Agricole S.A. has and long term investment securities and equity investments bought instituted multi-currency accounting to enable it to monitor its foreign in foreign currencies against euros are translated into euros at the exchange position and to measure its exposure to this risk. transaction date. A provision may be booked if there is a permanent deterioration in exchange rates affecting Crédit Agricole S.A.’s foreign equity investments. 2.10 CONSOLIDATION OF FOREIGN BRANCHES Branches keep separate accounts that comply with the accounting rules The rules for translation into euros are as follows: in force in the countries in which they are based. nn balance sheet items are translated at the closing rate; At each reporting date, the branches’ balance sheets and income nn income and expenses paid and received are recorded at the exchange statements are adjusted according to French accounting rules, rate on the transaction date, whereas accrued income and expenses translated into euros and integrated with the accounts of their head are translated at the closing rate. office after the elimination of intra-group transactions. Gains or losses resulting from this translation are recorded on the balance sheet under “Accruals, prepayments and sundry assets” or “Accruals, deferred income and sundry liabilities”. 2.11 OFF-BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS Off-balance sheet items mainly reflect the unused portion of financing Reported off-balance sheet items do not mention commitments commitments and guarantee commitments given and received. on forward financial instruments or foreign exchange transactions. A charge is booked to provisions for commitments given if there is a Similarly, they do not include commitments received concerning treasury probability that calling in the commitment will result in a loss for Crédit bonds, similar securities and other securities pledged as collateral. Agricole S.A. However, these items are detailed in Notes 24, 25 and 26 to the financial statements. 7 2.12 EMPLOYEE PROFIT-SHARING AND INCENTIVE PLANS Employee profit-sharing is recognised in the income statement in the The cost of employee profit-sharing and incentive plans is included in financial year in which the employees’ rights are earned. “Employee expenses”. Incentive plans are covered by the 21 June 2011 agreement. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 533 7 Parent Company Financial Statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Note 2 2.13 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS 2.13.1 Retirement, early-retirement and Crédit Agricole S.A. elected to immediately recognise the actuarial gains end-of-career allowance commitments – and losses in profit or loss, and accordingly the amount of the provision defined-benefit schemes is equal to: nn the present value of the obligation to provide the defined benefits Since 1 January 2013, Crédit Agricole S.A. has applied ANC at the reporting date, calculated in accordance with the actuarial recommendation 2013-02 of 7 November 2013 relating to the method advised by the regulation; measurement and recognition of retirement and similar benefit nn less, where applicable, the fair value of plan assets. These may be obligations, such recommendation having then been repealed and represented by an eligible insurance policy. In the event that the incorporated in section 4 of chapter II of part III of ANC Regulation obligation is fully covered by such a policy, the fair value thereof 2014-03 of 5 June 2014. is deemed to be the value of the corresponding obligation i.e. the In accordance with this regulation, Crédit Agricole S.A. sets aside amount of the corresponding actuarial liability. provisions to cover its retirement and similar benefit obligations falling within the category of defined-benefit schemes. 2.13.2 Retirement plans – defined-contribution These commitments are stated based on a set of actuarial, financial and schemes demographic assumptions, and in accordance with the Projected Unit Employers contribute to a variety of compulsory pension schemes. Plan Credit method. Under this method, for each year of service, a charge is assets are managed by independent organisations and the contributing booked in an amount corresponding to the employee’s vested benefits companies have no legal or implied obligation to pay additional for the period. The charge is calculated based on the discounted future contributions if the funds do not have sufficient assets to cover all benefit. benefits corresponding to services rendered by employees during the Crédit Agricole S.A. has opted for method 2 which allows in particular year and during prior years. for the recognition of gains or losses arising from changes to definedConsequently, Crédit Agricole S.A. has no liabilities in this respect other benefit schemes when the curtailment or settlement occurs. than its on-going contributions. The regulation also allows for the recognition of actuarial gains and The amount of contributions under the terms of these pension schemes losses using the “corridor method” or any other method that results in is shown under “Employee expenses”. faster recognition in profit or loss. 2.14 STOCK OPTIONS AND SHARE SUBSCRIPTIONS OFFERED TO EMPLOYEES UNDER THE EMPLOYEE SAVINGS PLAN Stock option plans Share subscriptions under the Employee Stock option plans granted to certain categories of employees are Savings Plans recorded when exercised. Exercise gives rise to either an issue of Share subscriptions offered to employees under the Employee Savings shares, recorded in accordance with requirements relating to capital Scheme, with a maximum discount of 20%, do not have a vesting period increases, or the transfer to employees of treasury shares, previously but are subject to a five-year lock-up period. These share subscriptions purchased by Crédit Agricole S.A. and recognised in accordance with are recognised in accordance with requirements relating to capital the terms set out in the “Treasury shares buyback” section. increases. 2.15 EXTRAORDINARY INCOME AND EXPENSES These comprise income and expenses that are extraordinary in nature and relate to transactions that do not form part of Crédit Agricole S.A.’s ordinary activities. 2.16 INCOME TAX CHARGE In general, only the current tax liability is recognised in the parent Crédit Agricole S.A. has had a tax consolidation mechanism in place since company’s financial statements. 1990. At 31 December 2018, 1,270 entities had signed tax consolidation The tax charge appearing in the income statement is the corporate agreements with Crédit Agricole S.A. Under these agreements, each income tax due in respect of the financial year. It includes the effect of company that is part of the tax consolidation mechanism recognises the 3.3% additional social contribution on profits. in its financial statements the tax that it would have had to pay in the absence of tax consolidation. When tax credits on income from loans and securities portfolios are effectively used to pay corporate income tax due for the financial year, Given that the legislative intent when introducing the tax credit for they are recognised under the same heading as the income with which competitiveness and employment (Crédit d’Impôt pour la Compétitivité they are associated. The corresponding tax charge continues to be et l’Emploi – CICE) was to reduce employee expenses, Crédit Agricole recognised under “Income tax charge” in the income statement. S.A. chose to recognise the CICE (Article 244 quater C of the French General Tax Code) as a reduction in employee expenses and not as a reduction in tax. 534 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Parent Company Financial Statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Note 3 to Note 4 Note 3 Loans and receivables due from credit institutions – Analysis by residual maturity 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 > 3 months > 1 year Total Accrued (in millions of euros) ≤ 3 months ≤ 1 year ≤ 5 years > 5 years principal interest Total Total Credit institutions Loans and receivables: • demand 4,341 4,341 1 4,342 1,629 • time 8,809 14,845 74,721 7,471 105,846 245 106,091 106,172 Pledged securities Securities bought under repurchase agreements Subordinated loans 41 45 14,264 14,350 24 14,374 12,335 Total 13,150 14,886 74,766 21,735 124,537 270 124,807 120,136 Impairment (3) Net carrying amount 124,807 120,133 Crédit Agricole internal transactions Current accounts 1,967 1,967 4 1,971 1,782 Time deposits and advances 43,844 84,941 110,853 70,864 310,502 249 310,751 296,484 Securities bought under repurchase agreements 23 1,569 150 1,742 4 1,746 2,467 Subordinated loans 396 396 1 397 357 Total 45,834 86,510 111,003 71,260 314,607 258 314,865 301,090 Impairment Net carrying amount 314,865 301,090 TOTAL 439,672 421,223 Note 4 Loans and receivables due from customers 4.1 LOANS AND RECEIVABLES DUE FROM CUSTOMERS – ANALYSIS BY RESIDUAL MATURITY 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 > 3 months > 1 year Total Accrued (in millions of euros) ≤ 3 months ≤ 1 year ≤ 5 years > 5 years principal interest Total Total Trade receivables Other customer loans 1,316 709 1,393 505 3,923 5 3,928 3,703 Pledged securities Current accounts in debit 69 69 1 70 368 Impairment (1) (1) NET CARRYING AMOUNT 3,997 4,070 7 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 535 7 Parent Company Financial Statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Note 4 4.2 LOANS AND RECEIVABLES DUE FROM CUSTOMERS – ANALYSIS BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 France (including overseas departments and territories) 2,035 2,250 Other European Union countries 1,939 1,809 Other European countries 11 North America 7 7 Central and South America Africa and Middle East Asia and Oceania (excl. Japan) Japan Non-allocated and international organisations Total principal 3,992 4,066 Accrued interest 6 5 Impairment (1) (1) NET CARRYING AMOUNT 3,997 4,070 4.3 LOANS AND RECEIVABLES DUE FROM CUSTOMERS – DOUBTFUL LOANS AND IMPAIRMENT LOSSES BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Impairment Impairment Gross O/w O/w irreco­ Impairment of irreco­ O/w O/w irreco­ Impairment of irreco­ outsdoubtful verable of doubtful verable Gross doubtful verable of doubtful verable (in millions of euros) tanding loans loans loans loans outstanding loans loans loans loans France (including overseas departments and territories) 2,039 1 1 (1) (1) 2,255 1 1 (1) (1) Other European Union countries 1,940 1,809 Other European countries 11 North America 8 7 Central and South America Africa and Middle East Asia and Oceania (excl. Japan) Japan Non-allocated and international organisations TOTAL 3,998 1 1 (1) (1) 4,071 1 1 (1) (1) 4.4 LOANS AND RECEIVABLES DUE FROM CUSTOMERS – ANALYSIS BY CUSTOMER TYPE 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Impairment Impairment Gross O/w O/w irreco­ Impairment of irreco­ O/w O/w irreco­ Impairment of irreco­ outsdoubtful verable of doubtful verable Gross doubtful verable of doubtful verable (in millions of euros) tanding loans loans loans loans outstanding loans loans loans loans Individual customers Farmers Other small businesses Financial institutions 2,617 2,505 Corporates 1,381 1 1 (1) (1) 1,563 1 1 (1) (1) Local authorities 3 Other customers TOTAL 3,998 1 1 (1) (1) 4,071 1 1 (1) (1) 536 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Parent Company Financial Statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Note 5 Note 5 Trading, short term investment, long term investment and medium term portfolio securities 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Short term Medium term Long term Trading investment portfolio Investment (in millions of euros) securities securities securities securities Total Total Treasury bills and similar securities 6,821 7,923 14,744 15,703 o/w residual net premium 218 597 815 940 o/w residual net discount (8) (43) (51) (61) Accrued interest 51 70 121 133 Impairment (2) (2) (2) Net carrying amount 6,872 7,991 14,863 15,834 Bonds and other fixed-income securities(1): Issued by public bodies 1,679 1,254 2,933 2,784 Other issuers 15,222 14,449 29,671 28,360 o/w residual net premium 63 115 178 245 o/w residual net discount (13) (31) (44) (40) Accrued interest 123 47 170 188 Impairment (6) (6) (7) Net carrying amount 17,018 15,750 32,768 31,325 Equities and other variable income securities (including treasury shares) 3 4 7 24 Accrued interest Impairment (3) Net carrying amount 3 4 7 21 TOTAL 3 23,894 23,741 47,638 47,180 Estimated values 3 24,416 23,818 48,237 48,632 (1) Of which €3,957 million of subordinated debt (excluding accrued interest) at 31 December 2018, compared with €5,908 million at 31 December 2017. 5.1 TRADING, SHORT TERM INVESTMENT, LONG TERM INVESTMENT AND MEDIUM TERM PORTFOLIO SECURITIES (EXCLUDING TREASURY BILLS) – BREAKDOWN BY MAJOR CATEGORY OF COUNTERPARTY (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Government and central banks (including central governments) 1,792 1,669 Credit institutions 18,034 17,652 Financial institutions 4,723 2,884 Local authorities 1,140 1,115 Corporates, insurance companies and other customers 6,922 7,848 Other and non-allocated Total principal 32,611 31,168 Accrued interest 170 188 Impairment (6) (10) NET CARRYING AMOUNT 32,775 31,346 7 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 537 7 Parent Company Financial Statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Note 5 5.2 BREAKDOWN OF LISTED AND UNLISTED FIXED AND VARIABLE INCOME SECURITIES 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Bonds and Treasury Equities and Bonds and Treasury Equities and other fixed bills and other variable other fixed bills and other variable income similar income income similar income (in millions of euros) securities securities securities Total securities securities securities Total Fixed-income and variable income securities 32,604 14,744 7 47,355 31,144 15,703 24 46,871 o/w listed securities 25,164 14,744 39,908 23,011 15,703 38,714 o/w unlisted securities(1) 7,440 7 7,447 8,133 24 8,157 Accrued interest 170 121 291 188 133 321 Impairment (6) (2) (8) (7) (2) (3) (12) NET CARRYING AMOUNT 32,768 14,863 7 47,638 31,325 15,834 21 47,180 (1) UCITS break down as follows: no foreign UCITS comprising capitalisation UCITS. Breakdown of UCITS by type at 31 December 2018 (in millions of euros) Inventory value Net asset value Money market funds 3 Bond funds Equity funds 4 5 Other funds TOTAL 7 5 5.3 TREASURY BILLS, BONDS AND OTHER FIXED INCOME SECURITIES – ANALYSIS BY RESIDUAL MATURITY 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 > 3 months > 1 year Total Accrued (in millions of euros) ≤ 3 months ≤ 1 year ≤ 5 years > 5 years principal interest Total Total Bonds and other fixed-income securities Gross amount 1,333 5,985 12,465 12,821 32,604 170 32,774 31,332 Impairment (6) (7) NET CARRYING AMOUNT 1,333 5,985 12,465 12,821 32,604 170 32,768 31,325 Treasury bills and similar securities Gross amount 2,634 2,820 2,977 6,313 14,744 121 14,865 15,836 Impairment (2) (2) NET CARRYING AMOUNT 2,634 2,820 2,977 6,313 14,744 121 14,863 15,834 5.4 TREASURY BILLS, BONDS AND OTHER FIXED INCOME SECURITIES – ANALYSIS BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 (in millions of euros) Gross outstanding O/w doubtful loans Gross outstanding O/w doubtful loans France (including overseas departments and territories) 27,771 25,367 Other European Union countries 15,713 17,893 Other European countries 1,553 1,774 North America 1,653 1,488 Central and South America Africa and Middle East 129 30 Asia and Oceania (excl. Japan) 294 295 Japan 235 Total principal 47,348 46,847 Accrued interest 291 321 Impairment (8) (9) NET CARRYING AMOUNT 47,631 47,159 538 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Parent Company Financial Statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Note 6 Note 6 Equity investments and subsidiaries (in millions of original currency) (in millions of euros) (in millions of euros) Financial information Carrying amounts Loans and Amount of Revenues of securities receivables guarantees or gross Dividends Percentage owned granted and other revenues Net income received Equity other of share by the commit(ex VAT) for last by the Share than share Capital Company ments for the financial Company Cur­ capital Capital owned (in %) Gross Net and not yet given by the year year ended during the Company Address rency 31/12/2018 31/12/2018 31/12/2018 amount value paid back Company ended(2) 31/12/2018 year Investments whose carrying amount exceeds 1% of Crédit Agricole S.A.’s share capital 1) Investments in banking related parties (more than 50% owned) Banco Bisel Corrientes 832, 1° Piso Rosario, Provincia De Santa Fe, Argentina ARS N.A. N.A. 99 237 N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. Cariparma Via Universita No. 1 43121 Parma, Italy EUR 961 4,365(1) 77 5,469 4,518 812 1,372(1) 211(1) 85 Crédit Agricole Brace Ribnikara 4-6, Srbija 21000 Novi Sad, Republic Of Serbia RSD 10,191 326(1) 100 264 68 151 127 47(1) 3(1) Crédit du Maroc 48-58 boulevard Mohamed V, Casablanca, Morocco MAD 1,088 2,967(1) 79 377 377 163 42 251(1) 28(1) 5 EFL SA Pl. Orlat Lwowskich 1, 53 605 Wroclaw, Poland PLN 674 219(1) 100 347 212 933 922 189(1) 23(1) 17 PJSC Crédit 42/4 Pushkinska Agricole Ukraine Street, Kiev 01004, Ukraine UAH 1,222 933(1) 100 360 100 34 3 125(1) 35(1) 13 Crédit Agricole Pl. Orlat Lwowskich Polska SA 1, 53 605 Wroclaw, Poland PLN 1 786(1) 100 658 529 80 20(1) 7(1) Crédit Agricole 12, place des Corporate and États-Unis, CS 70052, Investment Bank 92547 Montrouge Cedex EUR 7,852 3,398(1) 97 19,053 19,053 22,244 111 4,587(1) 2,613(1) 1,203 Amundi Group 91-93, boulevard Pasteur, Immeuble Cotentin, 75015 Paris EUR 504 4,087(1) 68 4,231 4,231 1,603 3,035 151(1) 137(1) 344 Crédit Agricole 12, place des Leasing & États-Unis, CS 30002, Factoring 92548 Montrouge Cedex EUR 195 278(1) 100 839 839 17,568 2,599 183(1) 60(1) 135 Crédit Agricole Rue du Bois-Sauvage, Consumer 91038 Évry Cedex Finance EUR 554 3,444(1) 100 7,607 7,607 10,967 4,145 927(1) 295(1) Crédit Lyonnais 18, rue de la République, 69002 Lyon EUR 2,798 2,046(1) 95 11,847 10,003 27,232 301 3,279(1) 453(1) Crédit Agricole 12, place des Home Loan SFH États-Unis, 92127 Foncaris Montrouge Cedex 12, place des EUR 550 3(1) 100 550 550 4(1) 7 États-Unis, 92127 Montrouge Cedex EUR 225 128(1) 100 320 320 309 27(1) 6(1) 9 Caisse régionale 1, avenue Napoleon III, Corse BP 308, 20193 Ajaccio EUR 99 (4)(1) 100 99 99 943 4 76 12(1) (1) Data for 2017. (2) Refers to revenues for subsidiaries other than Regionals Banks. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 539 7 Parent Company Financial Statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Note 6 (in millions of original currency) (in millions of euros) (in millions of euros) Financial information Carrying amounts Loans and Amount of Revenues of securities receivables guarantees or gross Dividends Percentage owned granted and other revenues Net income received Equity other of share by the commit(ex VAT) for last by the Share than share Capital Company ments for the financial Company Cur­ capital Capital owned (in %) Gross Net and not yet given by the year year ended during the Company Address rency 31/12/2018 31/12/2018 31/12/2018 amount value paid back Company ended(2) 31/12/2018 year 2) Investments in banking asociates (10% to 50% owned) Banco Espirito Avenida de Libertade Santo 195, 1250 Lisbonne, Portugal EUR N.A. N.A. 12 684 N.A. N.A. Crédit Agricole P/O Box 364, 11835 Egypt SAE New Cairo, Egypt EGP 1,243 2,190(1) 47 258 258 26 289 95(1) 26 Crédit Logement 50, boulevard Sébastopol, 75003 Paris EUR 1,260 490(1) 16 208 208 239 121(1) 43 Caisse de 35, rue La Boétie, Refinancement 75008 Paris de l’habitat EUR 540 23(1) 27 152 152 3) Investments in other subsidiaries and affiliates (more than 50% owned) Crédit Agricole 50-56, rue de Assurances la Procession, 75015 Paris EUR 1,490 8,095(1) 100 10,516 10,516 805 30(1) 730(1) 1,781 Crédit Agricole 100, boulevard du Capital Montparnasse, Investissement & 75014 Paris Finance EUR 688 387(1) 100 1,146 1,146 44(1) 42(1) 20 Crédit Agricole 12, place des Immobilier États-Unis, 92545 Montrouge Cedex EUR 125 90(1) 50 91 91 113 39(1) 4(1) 5 Delfinances 12, place des États-Unis, 92127 Montrouge Cedex EUR 151 73(1) 100 171 171 (5)(1) Evergreen 12, place des Montrouge États-Unis, 92127 Montrouge Cedex EUR 475 (178)(1) 100 475 475 14 1 68(1) (14)(1) IUB HOLDING 12, place des États-Unis, 92127 Montrouge Cedex EUR 37 7 100 112 39 (5) CACEIS 1-3, place Valhubert, 75013 Paris EUR 654 844(1) 100 1,771 1,771 304 2,702 (12)(1) (15)(1) 145 4) Other investments (< 50% owned) Deposit resolution 65, rue de la Victoire, guarantee fund 75009 Paris EUR 2 150 150 Investments whose carrying amount is under 1% of Crédit Agricole S.A.’s share capital EUR 711 593 26 TOTAL SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATES 68,703 64,076 83,996 14,299 3,857 Fundable advances and accrued interest EUR 521 521 CARRYING AMOUNT 69,224 64,597 83,996 14,299 3,857 (1) Data for 2017. (2) Refers to revenues for subsidiaries other than Regionals Banks. 540 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Parent Company Financial Statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Note 6 DETERMINING THE VALUE IN USE OF SUBSIDIARIES AND EQUITY INVESTMENTS At the end of the financial year, these assets are each valued on an nn the European Central Bank should continue to pursue a very individual basis according to their value in use and are shown in the accommodating monetary policy, even if a gradual tightening is balance sheet at the lower of their historical cost or value in use. implemented: short term rates could leave their current negative This represents what the institution would be prepared to pay to acquire territory by the end of 2019, but their continued increase will be them having regard to its reasons for holding them. The estimation of very gradual; long term core rates should move relatively parallel the value in use may be based on various factors such as the profitability to key rates, resulting in a curve with a constant slope that is fairly and profitability prospects of the issuing company, its shareholders’ shallow; therefore an overall scenario that is rather favourable to equity, economic conditions or the average stock market price in recent retail banking activities in the euro zone, however in a moderate and months or the mathematical value of the security. gradual manner; The determination of value in use of the equity investments and nn the monetary normalisation of the FED could continue – less strongly subsidiaries was calculated by discounting the estimated future cash than in 2018 – and the US economy would slow down after the period flows of the subsidiary calculated from activities forecasts over a period of strong growth triggered by the fiscal easing initiated in 2017; in the over four years (2019-2022) developed for Group managing purposes, medium term, American and European growth rates might differ a extrapolated over a fifth year in order to converge towards the trend of little, but with a capacity for defence through a monetary policy that infinite growth. is more clearly reconstituted in the United States; nn economic developments in emerging countries are expected to The economic scenario on which the projected financial trajectories remain broadly positive, although contrasted by varying degrees of are based is that of a slight downturn in economic growth in the main vulnerability to monetary developments in the developed world and areas, accompanied by inflation that remains measured and a financial trade conflicts: Chinese slowdown, Indian acceleration, temporary environment that remained volatile given the elements of uncertainty negative shock in Turkey, slight Brazilian recovery, etc. prevailing at the time the scenario was prepared, but without a systemic shock. Central banks are gradually moving towards a less accommodating monetary policy, aware that the United States is ahead of schedule in this respect. Therefore: nn in the Euro zone, after a very dynamic 2017, the scenario incorporates a gradual convergence of the growth trajectory towards the level of long term potential; at distinct absolute levels, this is also the scenario envisaged for both France and Italy individually; real and core inflation would remain moderate; As of 31 December 2018, perpetual growth rates, discount rates and capital allocated rates as a proportion of risk-weighted assets were distributed by business lines as shown in the table below: 31/12/2018 (Crédit Agricole S.A. business lines) Perpetual growth rates Discount rate Capital allocated French retail banking – LCL 2.0% 7.8% 9.75% International retail banking – Italy 2.0% 9.6% 9.75% International retail banking – other 7.0% 17.0% 9.5% Specialised financial services 2.0% 7.8% to 8.3% 9.6% to 9.7% 9.7% 80% of the solvency margin Asset gathering 2.0% 7.8% to 8.7% (Insurance) Large customers 2.0% 8.3% to 9.7% 9.7% The increase by the European Central Bank (ECB) of regulatory The discount rates determined at 31 December 2018 for all business prudential requirements under Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 with effect from lines reflect the continued low long term interest rates in Europe and 2016 led Crédit Agricole S.A. to progressively raise the level of capital more particularly in France. Equity risk premiums increased slightly. allocated to equity investments and subsidiaries as a percentage of riskweighted assets for certain entities. Last year, this allocation was 9.5% These changes are reflected in a slight increase in the discount rates used compared to the end of 2017, a slightly more marked increase 7 of RWA for all equity investments and subsidiaries. The French High for the “International retail banking – Italy” equity investments and Committee for Financial Stability has decided to implement a countersubsidiaries (+0.5%). cyclical cushion of 0.25% of weighted assets corresponding to French The perpetual growth rates at 31 December 2018 were unchanged from exposures, applicable as from 1 July 2019. As a precautionary measure, those used at 31 December 2017. we have taken into account the impact of this cushion, as well as the very marginal impact of the existing cushions in some foreign countries for the allocation of equity capital to investments and subsidiaries from the beginning of 2019. This ultimately results in the adoption, for the various equity investments and subsidiaries, of a CET1 equity allocation of between 9.50% and 9.75% of weighted assets. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 541 7 Parent Company Financial Statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Note 6 6.1 ESTIMATED VALUES OF EQUITY INVESTMENTS 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 (in millions of euros) Carrying amount Estimated value Carrying amount Estimated value Investments in subsidiaries and affiliates Unlisted securities 62,276 77,949 61,058 77,230 Listed securities 4,867 12,396 4,867 9,997 Advances available for consolidation 512 512 513 513 Accrued interest Impairment (3,936) (3,900) NET CARRYING AMOUNT 63,719 90,857 62,538 87,740 Equity investments and other long term equity investments Equity investments Unlisted securities 1,384 1,061 1,352 1,053 Listed securities Advances available for consolidation 9 9 8 8 Accrued interest Impairment (691) (691) Subtotal equity investments 702 1,070 669 1,061 Other long term equity investments Unlisted securities 151 153 191 191 Listed securities 25 42 25 35 Advances available for consolidation Accrued interest Impairment Subtotal other long term equity investments 176 195 216 226 NET CARRYING AMOUNT 878 1,265 885 1,287 TOTAL EQUITY INVESTMENTS 64,597 92,122 63,423 89,027 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 (In millions of euros) Carrying amount Estimated value Carrying amount Estimated value Total gross amounts Unlisted securities 63,811 62,601 Listed securities 4,892 4,892 TOTAL 68,703 67,493 Estimated values include advances available for consolidation and accrued interest. They are determined on the basis of the value-in-use of securities; this is not necessarily the market value. 542 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Parent Company Financial Statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Note 7 Note 7 Movements in fixed assets 7.1 FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS Decreases (disposals Increases and Other (in millions of euros) 01/01/2018 (acquisitions) redemptions) movemenst(1) 31/12/2018 Investments in subsidiaries and affiliates Gross amount 65,925 1,241 (23) 67,143 Advances available for consolidation 513 4 (5) 512 Accrued interest Impairment (3,900) (447) 411 (3,936) NET CARRYING AMOUNT 62,538 798 383 63,719 Equity investments and other long term equity investments Equity investments Gross amount 1,352 50 (18) 1,384 Advances available for consolidation 8 1 9 Accrued interest Impairment (691) (691) Subtotal equity investments 669 51 (18) 702 Other long term equity investments Gross amount 216 49 (89) 176 Advances available for consolidation Accrued interest Impairment Subtotal other long term equity investments 216 49 (89) 176 NET CARRYING AMOUNT 885 100 (18) (89) 878 TOTAL 63,423 898 365 (89) 64,597 (1) “Other movements” namely include the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on the value of fixed assets accounted for in foreign currencies. 7.2 INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Decreases (disposals Increases and Other (in millions of euros) 01/01/2018 (acquisitions) redemptions) movements(1) 31/12/2018 Property, plant and equipment Gross amount 147 10 157 Amortisation and impairment (34) (10) (44) Technical merger losses on property, plant and equipment Gross amount Amortisation and impairment Net carrying amount Intangible assets 113 113 7 Gross amount 96 3 99 Amortisation and impairment (72) (9) (81) Technical merger losses on intangible losses Gross amount Amortisation and impairment Net carrying amount 24 (6) 18 TOTAL 137 (6) 131 (1) “Other movements” namely include the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on the value of fixed assets accounted for in foreign currencies. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 543 7 Parent Company Financial Statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Note 8 to Note 10 Note 8 Treasury shares 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Short term Trading investment (in millions of euros) securities securities Fixed assets Total Total Number 4,075,000 303,305 4,378,305 2,146,133 Carrying amounts 38 3 41 27 Market values 38 3 41 29 Par value per share: €3. Note 9 Accruals, prepayments and sundry assets (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Other assets(1) Financial options bought 8 5 Inventory accounts and miscellaneous Miscellaneous debtors(2) 5,819 5,081 Collective management of Livret de développement durable (LDD) savings account securities Settlement accounts 1 1 Net carrying amount 5,828 5,087 Accruals and deferred income Items in course of transmission 5,333 4,414 Adjustment and suspense accounts 3,002 3,489 Unrealised losses and deferred losses on financial instruments Prepaid expenses 1,311 1,504 Accrued income on commitments on forward financial instruments 2,831 2,900 Other accrued income 90 96 Deferred charges 379 409 Other accrual prepayments and sundry assets 78 1 Net carrying amount 13,024 12,813 TOTAL 18,852 17,900 (1) Amounts including accrued interest. (2) Including €39.69 million in respect of the contribution to the Single Resolution Fund in the form of a security deposit. The Resolution Fund may use the security deposit to provide funding, at any time and without condition. Note 10 Impairment losses deducted from assets Balance at Depreciation Reversals and Other Balance at (in millions of euros) 01/01/2018 charges utilisations Accretion movements 31/12/2018 Interbank and similar items 5 (3) 2 Loans and receivables due from customers 1 1 Securities transactions 10 7 (11) 6 Fixed assets 4,592 447 (411) 4,628 Other assets 65 (1) (2) 62 TOTAL 4,673 454 (426) (2) 4,699 544 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Parent Company Financial Statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Note 11 to Note 12 Note 11 Due to credit institutions – Analysis by residual maturity 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 > 3 months > 1 year Total Accrued (in millions of euros) ≤ 3 months ≤ 1 year ≤ 5 years > 5 years principal interest Total Total Credit institutions Accounts and borrowings: • demand 9,989 9,989 3 9,992 10,151 • time 15,217 8,767 28,855 27,731 80,570 365 80,935 80,810 Pledged securities Securities sold under repurchase agreements 25 25 25 857 Carrying amount 25,206 8,792 28,855 27,731 90,584 368 90,952 91,818 Crédit Agricole internal transactions Current accounts 11,358 11,358 1 11,359 10,186 Time deposits and advances 530 1,472 12,592 7,033 21,627 215 21,842 24,169 Securities sold under repurchase agreements 22 1,425 150 1,597 1,597 2,312 Carrying amount 11,910 2,897 12,742 7,033 34,582 216 34,798 36,667 TOTAL 37,116 11,689 41,597 34,764 125,166 584 125,750 128,485 Note 12 Due to customers 12.1 DUE TO CUSTOMERS – ANALYSIS BY RESIDUAL MATURITY 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 > 3 months > 1 year Total Accrued (in millions of euros) ≤ 3 months ≤ 1 year ≤ 5 years > 5 years principal interest Total Total Current accounts in credit 1,135 1,135 1,135 1,108 Special savings accounts: 202,514 27,120 10,593 1,868 242,095 242,095 231,434 • demand 141,417 141,417 141,417 133,468 • time 61,097 27,120 10,593 1,868 100,678 100,678 97,966 Other amounts due to customers: 823 2,288 2,380 155 5,646 454 6,100 4,265 • demand 226 226 226 245 • time 597 2,288 2,380 155 5,420 454 5,874 4,020 Pledged securities 225 225 225 293 CARRYING AMOUNT 204,697 29,408 12,973 2,023 249,101 454 249,555 237,100 12.2 DUE TO CUSTOMERS – ANALYSIS BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 France (including overseas departments and territories) 246,180 234,186 Other European Union countries Other European countries 2,921 2,412 7 North America Central and South America Africa and Middle East Asia et Oceania (excl. Japan) Japan Non-allocated and international organisations Total principal 249,101 236,598 Accrued interest 454 502 CARRYING AMOUNT 249,555 237,100 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 545 7 Parent Company Financial Statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Note 13 12.3 DUE TO CUSTOMERS – ANALYSIS BY CUSTOMER TYPE (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Individual customers 208,074 199,527 Farmers 14,850 14,634 Other small businesses 13,750 12,810 Financial institutions 3,179 986 Corporates 3,191 2,918 Local authorities 1,200 1,226 Other customers 4,857 4,497 Total principal 249,101 236,598 Accrued interest 454 502 CARRYING AMOUNT 249,555 237,100 Note 13 Debt securities 13.1 DEBT SECURITIES – ANALYSIS BY RESIDUAL MATURITY 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 > 3 months > 1 year Total Accrued (in millions of euros) ≤ 3 months ≤ 1 year ≤ 5 years > 5 years principal interest Total Total Interest bearing notes Money-market instruments 125 795 5,551 1,985 8,456 204 8,660 9,263 Negotiable debt instruments(1) 8,727 10,311 30 19,068 3 19,071 4,854 Bonds 2,598 4,927 38,241 20,243 66,009 1,087 67,096 74,914 Other debt instruments 6,654 6,927 13,581 81 13,662 CARRYING AMOUNT 11,450 16,033 50,446 29,185 107,114 1,375 108,489 89,031 (1) Of which €7,043 million issued abroad. 13.2 BONDS (BY CURRENCY OF ISSUANCE) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Residual maturity Residual maturity Residual maturity Outstanding Outstanding (in millions of euros) ≤ 1 year > 1 year ≤ 5 years > 5 years amount amount Euro 4,076 31,919 17,719 53,714 55,892 Fixed-rate 3,223 27,733 14,532 45,488 45,462 Floating-rate 853 4,186 3,187 8,226 10,430 Other European Union currencies 288 288 293 Fixed-rate 277 277 282 Floating-rate 11 11 11 Dollar 1,527 2,748 1,091 5,366 9,985 Fixed-rate 1,091 1,963 1,091 4,145 7,716 Floating-rate 436 785 1,221 2,269 Yen 1,922 2,017 656 4,595 5,298 Fixed-rate 791 2,017 656 3,464 4,257 Floating-rate 1,131 1,131 1,041 Other currencies 1,269 777 2,046 2,394 Fixed-rate 1,269 777 2,046 2,394 Floating-rate Total principal 7,525 38,241 20,243 66,009 73,862 Fixed-rate 5,105 33,259 17,056 55,420 60,111 Floating-rate 2,420 4,982 3,187 10,589 13,751 Accrued interest 1,087 1,052 CARRYING AMOUNT 7,525 38,241 20,243 67,096 74,914 546 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Parent Company Financial Statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Note 14 to Note 15 Note 14 Accruals, deferred income and sundry liabilities (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Other liabilities(1) Counterparty transactions (trading securities) Liabilities relating to stock lending transactions Financial options sold Settlement and negotiation accounts Sundry creditors 7,349 7,366 Payments on securities in process 33 16 Carrying amount 7,382 7,382 Accruals and deferred income Items in course of transmission 6,512 5,787 Adjustment and suspense accounts 3,288 3,947 Unrealised gains and deferred gains on financial instruments Unearned income 972 1,242 Accrued expenses on commitments on forward financial instruments 2,000 2,002 Other accrued expenses 569 549 Other accruals and deferred income 50 16 Carrying amount 13,391 13,543 TOTAL 20,773 20,925 (1) Amounts including accrued interest. Note 15 Provisions Reversals, Balance at Depreciation Reversals, amounts Other Balance at (in millions of euros) 01/01/2018 charges amounts used not used movements 31/12/2018 Provisions for employee retirement and similar benefits 339 (7) (5) 327 Provisions for other employment-related commitments 13 (2) (1) 10 Provisions for financing commitment execution risks(6) 69 (6) (4) 59 Provisions for tax disputes(1) 148 1,095 (13) (80) 1,150 Provisions for other litigation 36 36 Provisions for country risk Provisions for credit risks(5)(6) 5 7 12 Provisions for restructuring Provisions for tax(2) 405 18 (25) 398 Provisions on equity investments(3) Provisions for operational risks Provisions for home purchase savings scheme imbalance risks 174 9 (6) 177 Other provisions(4) 150 34 (26) (22) (3) 133 CARRYING AMOUNT (1) Provisions for already notified tax adjustments. 1,334 1,161 (48) (140) (5) 2,302 7 (2) Mainly comprises tax liabilities due to subsidiaries under the tax consolidation mechanism. (3) Including joint ventures, EIGs, property risks of equity instruments. (4) Including provisions for economic interest group investment risks. (5) These provisions are prepared on a collective basis primarily on the basis of estimates drawn from CRR / CRD4 models. (6) The transposition of the new provisioning model in line with the IFRS 9 approach resulted in the recognition of a €7.6 million provision under “Other movements”. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 547 7 Parent Company Financial Statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Note 15 TAX AUDITS Crédit Agricole S.A. tax audit The Supreme Court did not rule on the merits of the case and Crédit Agricole has brought the case before the Paris Court of Appeal. After an audit of accounts for the 2014 and 2015 financial years, Crédit Agricole S.A. has been the subject of adjustments as part of a proposed The Paris Court of Appeal issued a decree on 21 December 2017. correction received at the end of December 2018. Crédit Agricole S.A. It confirmed the decision of the Autorité de la concurrence dated is challenging most of the proposed adjustments in a robust manner. A 20 September 2010 but reduced from €82,940,000 to €76,560,000 provision has been recognised to cover the estimated risk. the sanction on Crédit Agricole. LCL’s sanction remains unchanged, at an amount of €20,930,000. Crédit Agricole S.A. earlier underwent a tax audit covering the 2013 financial year. On conclusion of the audit the tax authorities issued a As well as the other banks parties to this procedure, LCL and Crédit tax adjustment rejecting a tax deduction that was made, following the Agricole filed an appeal with the Supreme Court. loss on the disposal of Emporiki Bank securities issued from a capital increase on 28 January 2013, four days prior to the sale of Emporiki Euribor/Libor and other indexes Bank to Alpha Bank. The tax authorities dispute the fact that the Crédit Agricole S.A. and its subsidiary Crédit Agricole CIB, in their securities of this subsidiary were treated as investment securities. capacity as contributors to a number of interbank rates, have received The assessment notice dated 15 March 2017 relating to this adjustment, requests for information from a number of authorities as part of for the amount of €312 million, resulted in a payment, and concurrently, investigations into: (i) the calculation of the Libor (London Interbank a receivable of the same amount was recorded on 31 December 2017. Offered Rates) in a number of currencies, the Euribor (Euro Interbank As part of this dispute, on 13 January 2017, the National Tax Commission Offered Rate) and certain other market indices; and (ii) transactions decided that the tax adjustment should be withdrawn. The tax authorities connected with these rates and indices. These demands covered maintained it nonetheless, and on 4 October 2018 an appeal was lodged several periods from 2005 to 2012. with the Administrative Court. As part of its cooperation with the authorities, Crédit Agricole S.A. and its subsidiary Crédit Agricole CIB carried out investigations in order CIE case (Cheque Image Exchange) to gather the information requested by the various authorities and in In March 2008, LCL and Crédit Agricole S.A. and ten other banks were particular the American authorities – the DOJ (Department of Justice) served notice of grievances on behalf of the Conseil de la concurrence and CFTC (Commodity Future Trading Commission) – with which they i.e. the French Competition Council (now the Autorité de la concurrence). are in discussions. It is currently not possible to know the outcome of these discussions, nor the date when they will be concluded. They are accused of colluding to implement and apply interchange fees for cashing cheques, since the passage of the Cheque Image Exchange Furthermore, Crédit Agricole CIB is currently under investigation opened system, i.e. between 2002 and 2007. In the opinion of the Autorité de la by the Attorney General of the State of Florida on both the Libor and concurrence, these fees constitute anti-competitive price agreements the Euribor. in the meaning of Articles 81 paragraph 1 of the treaty establishing the Following its investigation and an unsuccessful settlement procedure, European Community and Article L. 420-1 of the French Commercial on 21 May 2014, the European Commission sent a notification of Code, and allegedly caused damage to the economy. grievances to Crédit Agricole S.A. and to Crédit Agricole CIB pertaining In their defense, the banks categorically refuted the anticompetitiveness to agreements or concerted practices for the purpose and/or effect of of the fees and contested the legality of the proceedings. preventing, restricting or distorting competition in derivatives related to the Euribor. In a decision published on 20 September 2010, the Autorité de la concurrence stated that the Cheque Image Exchange fee (CEIC) was In a decision dated 7 December 2016, the European Commission jointly anti-competitive by its very aim and that it artificially increased the costs fined Crédit Agricole S.A. and Crédit Agricole CIB €114,654,000 for borne by remitting banks, which resulted in an unfavourable impact on participating in a cartel in euro interest rate derivatives. Crédit Agricole the prices of banking services. Concerning one of the fees for related S.A. and Crédit Agricole CIB are challenging this decision and have services, the fee for cancellation of wrongly cleared transactions asked the European Court of Justice to overturn it. (AOCT), the Autorité de la concurrence called on the banks to revise Additionally, the Swiss competition authority, COMCO, is conducting their amount within six months of the notification of the decision. an investigation into the market for interest rate derivatives, including The accused banks were sanctioned for an overall amount of the Euribor, with regard to Crédit Agricole S.A. and several Swiss €384.92 million. and international banks. Moreover, in June 2016 the South Korean competition authority (KFTC) decided to close the investigation launched LCL and Crédit Agricole were respectively sentenced to pay €20.7 million in September 2015 into Crédit Agricole CIB and the Libor index on and €82.1 million for the CEIC and €0.2 million and €0.8 million for the various currencies, Euribor and Tibor indices. The investigation into AOCT. certain foreign exchange derivatives (ABS-NDF) has been closed by All of the banks appealed the decision to the Paris Court of Appeal. the KFTC according to a decision notified to Crédit Agricole CIB on By a decree of 23 February 2012, the Court overruled the decision, 20 December 2018. stating that the Autorité de la concurrence had not proven the existence Concerning the two class actions in the United States of America in of competition restrictions establishing the agreement as having an which Crédit Agricole S.A. and Crédit Agricole CIB have been named anti-competitive purpose. since 2012 and 2013 along with other financial institutions, both as The Autorité de la concurrence filed an appeal with the Supreme Court defendants in one (“Sullivan” for the Euribor) and only Crédit Agricole on 23 March 2012. S.A. as defendant for the other (“Lieberman” for Libor), the “Lieberman” On 14 April 2015, the French Supreme Court (Cour de cassation) class action is at the preliminary stage that consists in the examination overruled the Paris Court of Appeal’s decision dated 23 February 2012 of its admissibility; proceedings are still suspended before the US District and remanded the case to the Paris Court of Appeal with a change in Court of New York State. Concerning the “Sullivan” class action, Crédit the composition of the Court on the sole ground that the Paris Court Agricole S.A. and Crédit Agricole CIB introduced a motion to dismiss the of Appeal declared the UFC-Que Choisir and ADUMPE’s interventions applicants’ claim. The US District Court of New York State upheld the in the proceedings devoid of purpose without having considered their motion to dismiss regarding Crédit Agricole S.A. and Crédit Agricole CIB arguments. in first instance. This decision is subject to appeal. 548 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Parent Company Financial Statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Note 16 Since 1 July 2016, Crédit Agricole S.A. and Crédit Agricole CIB, together Bonds SSA with other banks, are also party to a new class action suit in the United States (“Frontpoint”) relating to the SIBOR (Singapore Interbank Offered Several regulators have demanded information to Crédit Agricole S.A. Rate) and SOR (Singapore Swap Offer Rate) indices. After having granted and to Crédit Agricole CIB for inquiries relating to activities of different a first motion to dismiss filed by Crédit Agricole SA and Crédit Agricole banks involved in the secondary trading of Bonds SSA (Supranational, CIB, the New York Federal District Court, ruling on a new request by the Sub-Sovereign and Agencies) denominated in American dollars. plaintiffs, excluded Crédit Agricole SA from the Frontpoint case on the Through the cooperation with these regulators, Crédit Agricole CIB grounds that it had not contributed to the relevant indexes. The Court proceeded to internal inquiries to gather the required information considered, however, taking into account recent developments in case available. On 20 December 2018, the European Commission issued law, that its jurisdiction could apply to Crédit Agricole CIB, as well as to a Statement of Objections to a number of banks including Crédit all the banks that are members of the SIBOR index panel. The allegations Agricole S.A. and Crédit Agricole CIB within its inquiry on a possible contained in the complaint regarding the SIBOR/USD index and the infringement of rules of European Competition law in the secondary SOR index were also rejected by the court, therefore the index SIBOR/ trading of Bonds SSA denominated in American dollars. Crédit Agricole Singapore dollar alone is still taken into account. On 26 December, the S.A. and Crédit Agricole CIB became aware of these objections and will plaintiffs filed a new complaint aimed at reintroducing into the scope issue a response. of the Frontpoint case the alleged manipulations of the SIBOR and SOR Crédit Agricole CIB is included with other banks in a putative consolidated indexes that affected the transactions in US dollars. Crédit Agricole class action before the United States District Court for the Southern CIB, alongside the other defendants, will oppose the terms of this new District of New York. That action was dismissed on 29 August 2018 on complaint and has also filed a new motion to dismiss to contest the the basis that the plaintiffs failed to allege an injury sufficient to give jurisdiction maintained against it them standing. However the plaintiffs have been given an opportunity to These class actions are civil actions in which the plaintiffs claim that attempt to remedy that defect. The plaintiffs filed an amended complaint they are victims of the methods used to set the Euribor, Libor, SIBOR and on 7 November 2018. Crédit Agricole CIB as well as the other defendants SOR rates, and seek repayment of the sums they allege were unlawfully have filed motions to dismiss the amended complaint. received, as well as damages and reimbursement of costs and fees On 7 February 2019, another class action was filed against CACIB and paid. the other defendants named in the class action already pending before the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. On 11 July 2018, Crédit Agricole S.A. and Crédit Agricole CIB were notified with other banks of a class action filed in Canada, before the Ontario Superior Court of Justice. Another class action, not notified to date, would have been filed before the Federal Court of Canada. It is not possible at this stage to predict the outcome of these investigations, proceedings or class actions or the date on which they will end. Note 16 Home purchase savings schemes CUSTOMER ASSETS IN HOME PURCHASE PROVISION FOR HOME PURCHASE SAVINGS ACCOUNTS AND SCHEMES SAVINGS ACCOUNTS AND SCHEMES DURING THE SAVINGS PHASE (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Home purchase savings schemes Home purchase savings schemes Under 4 years old Under 4 years old 11,256 9,547 Between 4 and 10 years old Between 4 and 10 years old 35,293 33,055 Over 10 years old 177 174 Over 10 years old(1) 45,628 46,074 Total home purchase savings schemes 177 174 Total home purchase savings schemes 92,177 88,676 Total home purchase savings accounts Total home purchase savings accounts 10,351 10,226 TOTAL PROVISIONS FOR HOME TOTAL CUSTOMER ASSETS UNDER PURCHASE SAVINGS CONTRACTS 177 174 HOME PURCHASE SAVINGS CONTRACTS 102,528 (1) Home purchase savings schemes include interest accrued but not yet 98,902 7 at 31 December 2018 unlike at 31 December 2017. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 549 7 Parent Company Financial Statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Note 17 to Note 18 CHANGES IN PROVISIONS Depreciation (in millions of euros) 01/01/2018 charges Reversals 31/12/2018 Home purchase savings schemes 174 3 177 Home purchase savings accounts TOTAL PROVISIONS FOR HOME PURCHASE SAVINGS CONTRACTS 174 3 177 Note 17 Employment-related commitments: post-employment benefits, defined‑benefit plans CHANGE IN ACTUARIAL LIABILITY CHANGES IN FAIR VALUE OF PLAN ASSETS (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Actuarial liability at 31/12/N-1 338 319 Fair value of assets / reimbursement Current service cost 16 16 rights at 31/12/N-1 309 293 Financial cost 3 3 Expected return on assets Employee contributions Actuarial gains/(losses)(1) 4 4 Benefit plan changes, withdrawals Employer contributions 7 34 and settlement 4 Employee contributions Changes in scope (4) 1 Benefit plan changes, withdrawals Severance payments and settlement Benefits paid (mandatory) (17) (23) Changes in scope 2 1 Actuarial (gains)/losses (13) 22 Severance payments Benefits paid out under the benefit plan (17) (22) ACTUARIAL LIABILITY AT 31/12/N(1) 327 338 (1) The actuarial liability excludes commitments for long-service awards. FAIR VALUE OF ASSETS / REIMBURSEMENT RIGHTS AT 31/12/N 305 309 (1) Interest on reimbursement rights. BREAKDOWN OF CHARGE RECOGNISED IN THE INCOME STATEMENT NET POSITION (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Current service cost 16 17 Actuarial liability at 31/12/N (327) (338) Financial cost 3 3 Impact of asset restriction Expected return on assets Fair value of assets at end of period 305 309 Past service cost 4 Net actuarial (gains)/losses (17) 21 NET POSITION (LIABILITIES) / ASSETS AT 31/12/N (22) (29) (Gains) / losses on plan withdrawals and settlements (Gains) / losses due to changes in asset restrictions (3) NET CHARGE RECOGNISED IN INCOME STATEMENT 6 38 Note 18 Fund for General Banking Risk (FGBR) (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Fund for general banking risk 1,152 1,112 CARRYING AMOUNT 1,152 1,112 550 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Parent Company Financial Statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Note 19 to Note 20 Note 19 Subordinated debt – Analysis by residual maturity 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 > 3 months > 1 year Total Accrued (in millions of euros) ≤ 3 months ≤ 1 year ≤ 5 years > 5 years principal interest Total Total Fixed-term subordinated debt 2,098 2,278 13,411 17,787 193 17,980 20,744 Euro 2,098 1,861 9,725 13,684 148 13,832 17,517 Other European Union currencies 417 417 1 418 426 Swiss Franc 107 107 1 108 103 Dollar 2,399 2,399 38 2,437 2,121 Yen 1,180 1,180 5 1,185 577 Other currencies Participating securities and loans Other subordinated term loans Undated subordinated debt(1) 7,025 7,025 42 7,067 7,791 Euro 1,614 1,614 9 1,623 2,345 Other European Union currencies 888 888 13 901 1,098 Swiss Franc Dollar 4,523 4,523 20 4,543 4,348 Yen Other currencies Investment of own funds of Local Banks Mutual security deposits CARRYING AMOUNT 2,098 2,278 20,436 24,812 235 25,047 28,535 (1) Residual maturity of undated subordinated debt classified by default in > 5 years. Note 20 Changes in equity (before appropriation) CHANGES IN EQUITY Equity Share premiums, Regulated other reserves Translation / provisions and Share Legal Statutory and retained revaluation investment Net Total (in millions of euros) capital reserve reserve earnings adjustments subsidies income equity Balance at 31/12/2016 8,538 792 436 25,647 17 13,819 49,249 Dividends paid in respect of 2016 (1,717) (1,717) Change in share capital Change in share premiums and reserves 62 (62) Appropriation of 2016 parent company net income 13,819 (13,819) Retained earnings Net income/(loss) for 2017 1,564 1,564 Other variations (2) (2) Balance at 31/12/2017 8,538 854 436 37,687 15 1,564 49,094 Dividends paid in respect of 2017 (1,802) (1,802) 7 Change in share capital 61 (95) (34) Change in share premiums and reserves Appropriation of 2017 parent company net income 170 170 Retained earnings 1,564 (1,564) Net income/(loss) for 2018 2,740 2,740 Other variations (9) (9) BALANCE AT 31/12/2018 8,599 854 341 37,610 15 2,740 50,159 The amount of dividends paid by Crédit Agricole S.A. in 2018 amounted to -€1,802.16 million, after the neutralisation of dividends on treasury shares in the amount of €1 million. €19.59 million capital increase following the removal of the loyalty dividend on 24 May 2018. €41.41 million capital increase reserved for employees on 1 August 2018. The transposition of the new provisioning model in line with IFRS 9 resulted in the recognition of €7.6 million under “Other variations” in opening equity. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 551 7 Parent Company Financial Statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Note 21 to Note 24 Note 21 Composition of capital (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Equity 50,159 49,094 Fund for general banking risk 1,152 1,112 Subordinated debt and participating securities 25,047 28,535 Mutual security deposits TOTAL CAPITAL 76,358 78,741 Note 22 Transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates and equity investments (in millions of euros) Balance 31/12/2018 Balance 31/12/2017 Loans and receivables 422,758 399,531 Credit and other financial institutions 415,080 391,681 Customers 1,658 1,735 Bonds and other fixed-income securities 6,020 6,115 Liabilities 148,899 141,450 Credit and other financial institutions 146,177 140,794 Customers 2,722 656 Debt securities and subordinated debt Commitments given 13,521 12,154 Financing commitments given to credit institutions 497 552 Financing commitments given to customers Guarantees given to credit institutions 5,614 3,805 Guarantees given to customers 7,410 7,797 Securities acquired with repurchase options Other commitments given Note 23 Foreign currency denominated transactions ANALYSIS OF THE BALANCE SHEET BY CURRENCY 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 (in millions of euros) Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Euro 548,882 531,930 520,385 506,501 Other European Union currencies 2,883 2,689 2,879 2,586 Swiss Franc 7,407 4,724 7,393 4,278 Dollar 13,236 18,427 14,497 18,983 Yen 492 8,244 532 5,907 Other currencies 1,180 1,026 1,018 954 Gross amount 574,080 567,040 546,704 539,209 Loans and receivables, accrued interest, accruals, prepayments, deferred income and sundry assets and liabilities 13,853 16,194 13,587 16,410 Impairment (4,699) (4,672) TOTAL 583,234 583,234 555,619 555,619 Note 24 Foreign exchange transactions, foreign currency loans and borrowings 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 (in millions of euros) To be received To be delivered To be received To be delivered Spot foreign exchange transactions 60 60 64 64 • Foreign currencies 29 40 35 33 • Euros 31 20 29 31 Forward currency transactions 16,292 15,944 16,329 16,430 • Foreign currencies 14,219 3,281 11,076 6,389 • Euros 2,073 12,663 5,253 10,041 Foreign currency denominated loans and borrowings 33 36 25 37 TOTAL 16,385 16,040 16,418 16,531 552 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Parent Company Financial Statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Note 25 Note 25 Transactions involving forward financial instruments 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Hedging Non-hedging (in millions of euros) transactions transactions Total Total Futures and forwards 558,386 260,393 818,779 843,829 Exchange-traded(1) Interest rate futures Currency futures Equity and stock index futures Other futures Over-the-counter(1) 558,386 260,393 818,779 843,829 Interest rate swaps 551,685 260,256 811,941 842,743 Other interest rate forwards Currency forwards 5,002 137 5,139 155 FRAs Equity and stock index forwards 1,699 1,699 931 Other forwards Options 1,130 1,130 815 Exchange-traded Interest rate futures • Bought • Sold Equity and stock index futures • Bought • Sold Currency futures • Bought • Sold Over-the-counter 1,130 1,130 815 Interest rate swap options • Bought • Sold Interest rate forwards • Bought 1,130 1,130 815 • Sold Currency forwards • Bought • Sold Equity and stock index forwards • Bought • Sold Other options • Bought • Sold Credit derivatives Credit derivative contracts 7 • Bought • Sold TOTAL 559,516 260,393 819,909 844,644 (1) The amounts shown in respect of futures and forwards correspond to aggregate long and short positions (interest rate swaps and interest rate swap options), or to aggregate purchases and sales of contracts (other contracts). The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 553 7 Parent Company Financial Statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Note 25 25.1 TRANSACTIONS ON FORWARD FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS – NOTIONAL OUTSTANDING BY RESIDUAL MATURITY o/w exchange traded Total 31/12/2018 o/w over-the-counter and equivalent > 1 year > 1 year > 1 year (in millions of euros) ≤ 1 year ≤ 5 years > 5 years ≤ 1 year ≤ 5 years > 5 years ≤ 1 year ≤ 5 years > 5 years Futures Currency options Interest rate options Currency futures 3,294 1,845 3,294 1,845 FRAs Interest rate swaps 348,160 263,418 200,363 348,160 263,418 200,363 Caps, Floors, Collars 100 1,030 100 1,030 Interest rate forwards Equity and equity index forwards 431 342 926 431 342 926 Equity and equity index options Equity, equity index and precious metal derivatives Credit derivatives Subtotal 351,985 266,635 201,289 351,985 266,635 201,289 Currency swaps 4,513 10,241 11,520 4,513 10,241 11,520 Forward currency transactions 5,961 5,961 Subtotal 10,474 10,241 11,520 10,474 10,241 11,520 TOTAL 362,459 276,876 212,809 362,459 276,876 212,809 o/w exchange traded Total 31/12/2017 o/w over-the-counter and equivalent > 1 year > 1 year > 1 year (in millions of euros) ≤ 1 year ≤ 5 years > 5 years ≤ 1 year ≤ 5 years > 5 years ≤ 1 year ≤ 5 years > 5 years Futures Currency options Interest rate options Currency futures 155 155 FRAs Interest rate swaps 412,813 211,727 218,203 412,813 211,727 218,203 Caps, floors, collars 215 600 215 600 Interest rate forwards Equity and index forwards 76 434 421 76 434 421 Equity and index options Equity, equity index and precious metal derivatives Credit derivatives Subtotal 413,259 212,761 218,624 413,259 212,761 218,624 Currency swaps 2,299 13,085 10,297 2,299 13,085 10,297 Forward currency transactions 7,053 25 7,053 25 Subtotal 9,352 13,110 10,297 9,352 13,110 10,297 TOTAL 422,611 225,871 228,921 422,611 225,871 228,921 554 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Parent Company Financial Statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Note 26 25.2 FORWARD FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS – FAIR VALUE 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Fair value Notional Fair value Notional outstanding outstanding (in millions of euros) Positive at Negative at at Positive at Negative at at Futures Currency options Interest rate options Currency futures 5,139 155 FRAs Interest rate swaps 13,958 11,381 811,941 15,550 12,989 842,743 Caps, Floors, Collars 17 14 1,130 29 28 815 Interest rate forwards Equity and index forwards 121 71 1,699 457 119 931 Equity and index options Equity, equity index and precious metal derivatives Credit derivatives Subtotal 14,096 11,466 819,909 16,036 13,136 844,644 Currency swaps 166 68 26,274 197 131 25,681 Forward currency transactions 1 8 5,961 12 16 7,078 Subtotal 167 76 32,235 209 147 32,759 TOTAL 14,263 11,542 852,144 16,245 13,283 877,403 Note 26 Information on counterparty risk on derivative products 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Total Total Potential counterparty Potential counterparty (in millions of euros) Market value credit risk(1) risk Market value credit risk(1) risk Risk regarding OECD governments, central Banks and similar organisations Risk regarding OECD financial institutions and similar organisations 14,263 2,150 16,413 16,246 2,701 18,947 Risk on other counterparties Total before impact of netting contracts 14,263 2,150 16,413 16,246 2,701 18,947 Risk on: • Interest rate, exchange rate and commodities contracts 14,142 2,063 16,205 15,789 2,661 18,450 • Equity and index derivative contracts 121 87 208 457 40 496 Total before impact of netting contracts 14,263 2,150 16,413 16,246 2,701 18,947 Impact of netting and collateralisation contracts TOTAL AFTER IMPACT OF NETTING AND COLLATERALISATION CONTRACTS 14,263 2,150 16,463 16,246 2,701 18,947 (1) Calculated under CRR/CRD4 regulatory standards. 7 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 555 7 Parent Company Financial Statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Note 27 to Note 29 Note 27 Commitments and guarantees Note 28 Net interest and similar income given and received (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Interbank transactions 2,020 1,909 Commitments given Crédit Agricole internal transactions 2,864 3,620 Financing commitments 5,115 4,652 Customer transactions(1) 256 369 Commitments given to credit institutions 5,115 4,588 Bonds and other fixed-income securities 1,433 2,083 Commitments given to customers 64 Net gains on macro-hedging transactions 932 506 • Confirmed credit lines Debt securities 2,522 2,547 Documentary credits Other interest income 86 130 Other confirmed credit lines Interest and similar income 10,113 11,164 • Other commitments given Interbank transactions (1,667) (1,779) to customers 64 Crédit Agricole internal transactions (1,117) (1,099) Guarantee commitments 17,369 16,088 Customer transactions (4,029) (4,109) Credit institutions 5,968 5,245 Net losses on macro-hedging • Confirmed documentary credit lines transactions • Other 5,968 5,245 Bonds and other fixed-income securities (703) (1,771) Customers 11,401 10,843 Debt securities (3,889) (3,351) • Property guarantees Other interest expense (6) (9) • Other customer guarantees 11,401 10,843 Interest and similar expenses (11,411) (12,118) Commitments on securities 31 11 NET INTEREST AND SIMILAR INCOME (1,298) (954) Securities acquired with repurchase (1) This item includes a +€59 million impact for liabilities deemed extinguished options following fresh legal analysis, and that should have been derecognised prior Other commitments to be given 31 11 to the 2018 financial year. Commitments received Financing commitments 60,820 61,214 Commitments received from credit Note 29 Income from securities institutions 60,820 61,214 Commitments received from customers (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Guarantee commitments 12,272 11,110 Investments in subsidiaries and affiliates, Commitments received from credit equity investments and other long term institutions 12,270 11,108 equity investments 3,860 1,592 Commitments received from customers 2 2 Short term investment securities • Guarantees received from government and medium term portfolio securities 1 bodies or similar institutions Other securities transactions • Other guarantees received 2 2 TOTAL INCOME FROM VARIABLE Commitments on securities 20 INCOME SECURITIES 3,860 1,593 Securities sold with repurchase options Other commitments received 20 556 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Parent Company Financial Statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Note 30 to Note 32 Note 30 Net fee and commission income 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 (in millions of euros) Income Expense Net Income Expense Net Interbank transactions 104 (19) 85 89 (18) 71 Crédit Agricole internal transactions 757 (507) 250 814 (546) 268 Customer transactions (1) (1) Securities transactions Foreign exchange transactions Forward financial instruments and other off-balance sheet transactions Financial services 42 (122) (80) 39 (115) (76) Provisions for fee and commission risks TOTAL NET FEE AND COMMISSION INCOME 903 (648) 255 942 (680) 262 Note 31 Net gains (losses) on trading Note 32 Gains (losses) on short term book investment portfolio and similar (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Net gains (losses) on trading securities (9) 5 Short term investment securities Net gains (losses) on foreign exchange Impairment losses (7) (39) transactions and similar financial Reversal of impairment losses 11 55 instruments (100) 413 Net impairment losses/reversals 4 16 Net gains (losses) on other forward financial instruments 4 25 Gains on disposals 177 124 Losses on disposals (6) (1) NET GAINS (LOSSES) ON TRADING Net gains (losses) on disposals 171 123 BOOK (105) 443 Net gains (losses) on short term investment securities 175 139 Medium term portfolio securities Impairment losses Reversal of impairment losses Net impairment losses/reversals Gains on disposals Losses on disposals Net gains (losses) on disposals Net gains (losses) on medium term portfolio securities GAINS (LOSSES) ON SHORT TERM INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO AND SIMILAR 175 139 7 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 557 7 Parent Company Financial Statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Note 33 to Note 35 Note 33 Other banking income HEADCOUNT BY CATEGORY and expenses (Average number of active employees in proportion to activity) (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Employee categories 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Other income 173 4 Managers 1,623 1,940 Share of joint ventures Non-managers 170 227 Charge-backs and expense TOTAL 1,793 2,167 reclassifications 19 12 Of which: France 1,776 2,148 Reversal of provisions Foreign 17 19 Other banking income 192 16 Of which: Detached employees 149 152 Sundry expenses (141) (32) Share of joint ventures (7) (7) Charge-backs and expense Note 35 Cost of risk reclassifications (3) Additions to provisions (23) (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Other banking expenses (171) (42) Addition to provisions TOTAL OTHER BANKING INCOME and impairment losses (12) (34) AND EXPENSES(1) 21 (26) Impairment of doubtful loans (1) (1) Other banking income and expenses includes a +€32 million net impact for Others addition to provisions liabilities deemed extinguished following fresh legal analysis, and that should and impairment losses (12) (33) have been derecognised prior to the 2018 financial year. Reversal of provisions and impairment losses 10 331 Reversal of impairment of doubtful loans 3 151 Note 34 Operating expenses Other reversals of provisions and impairment losses 7 180 (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Change in provisions Employee expenses(1) and impairment losses (2) 297 Wages and salaries (169) (213) Losses on non-impaired irrecoverable loans Social security costs (92) (132) Losses on impaired irrecoverable loans (5) (172) O/w contributions to definedcontribution post-employment Discounts on restructured loans benefit plans (32) (35) Recoveries on loans written off 2 4 Profit-sharing and incentive plans (17) (22) Other losses (4) (115) Payroll-related tax (31) (38) Other gains Total employee expenses (309) (405) COST OF RISK (9) 14 Charge-backs and reclassification of employee expenses 29 37 Net employee expenses (280) (368) Administrative expenses(2) Taxes other than on income or payroll-related (47) (29) External services, other administrative expenses and regulatory contributions(3) (476) (441) Total administrative costs (523) (470) Charge-backs and reclassification of administrative costs 66 85 Net administrative expenses (457) (385) OPERATING EXPENSES (737) (753) (1) At 31 December 2018, the compensation of members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee paid by Crédit Agricole S.A. amounted to €28.2 million, €3.9 million of which in post-employment benefits. (2) Information on fees paid to Statutory Auditors is indicated in the notes to the consolidated financial statements of Crédit Agricole S.A. Group. (3) Of which €68.9 million in respect of the contribution to the Single Resolution Fund. 558 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Parent Company Financial Statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Note 36 to Note 38 Note 36 Net gains (losses) on fixed assets Note 37 Income tax charge (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 (in millions of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Financial investments Income tax charge(1) 1,625 260 Impairment losses (447) (227) Net provisions for taxes under the tax Long term investment securities consolidation scheme (987) (5) Investments in subsidiaries and affiliates, NET BALANCE 638 255 equity investments and other long term (1) The tax gain mainly consists of the taxes that Crédit Agricole S.A., as head of equity investments (447) (227) the tax consolidation group, collected from the subsidiaries included in the tax Reversal of impairment losses 410 438 consolidation scheme. Long term investment securities Investments in subsidiaries and affiliates, equity investments and other long term Note 38 Presence in non-cooperative equity investments 410 438 Net impairment losses/reversals (37) 211 states and territories Long term investment securities At 31 December 2018, Crédit Agricole S.A. had no direct or indirect Investments in subsidiaries and affiliates, presence in non-cooperative states or territories within the meaning of equity investments and other long term Article 238-0-A of the French General Tax Code. equity investments (37) 211 Gains on disposals 16 457 Long term investment securities 1 Investments in subsidiaries and affiliates, equity investments and other long term equity investments 15 457 Losses on disposals (34) Long term investment securities Investments in subsidiaries and affiliates, equity investments and other long term equity investments (34) Losses on receivables from equity investments Net gains (losses) on disposals 16 423 Long term investment securities 1 Investments in subsidiaries and affiliates, equity investments and other long term equity investments 15 423 Net gains (losses) (21) 634 Property, plant & equipment and intangible assets Gains on disposals 11 Losses on disposals Net gains (losses) 11 NET GAINS (LOSSES) ON FIXED ASSETS (10) 634 7 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 559 7 Parent Company Financial Statements Statutory Auditors’ report on the financial statements STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (For the year ended 31 December 2018) This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report includes information specifically required by European regulations or French law, such as information about the appointment of Statutory Auditors. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, OPINION In compliance with the engagement entrusted to us by your General Meeting of Shareholders, we have audited the accompanying financial statements of Crédit Agricole S.A. for the year ended 31 December 2018. In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities and of the financial position of the Company at 31 December 2018 and of the results of its operations for the year then ended in accordance with French accounting principles. The audit opinion expressed above is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee. BASIS FOR OPINION Audit framework We conducted our audit in accordance with professional standards applicable in France. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Our responsibilities under these standards are further described in the “Responsibilities of the Statutory Auditors relating to the audit of the financial statements” section of our report. Independence We conducted our audit engagement in compliance with the independence rules applicable to us, for the period from 1 January 2018 to the date of our report, and, in particular, we did not provide any non-audit services prohibited by article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 or the French Code of Ethics (Code de déontologie) for Statutory Auditors. EMPHASIS OF MATTER Without qualifying our opinion, we draw your attention to the changes in accounting policy presented in Note 2 “Accounting rules and procedures” to the financial statements with respect to: nn new ANC regulations or amendments to existing ANC regulations; nn the new credit risk provisioning model for performing loans, designed to transpose the new credit risk provisioning model introduced by IFRS 9 for expected credit losses in the financial statements as from 1 January 2018. JUSTIFICATION OF ASSESSMENTS – KEY AUDIT MATTERS In accordance with the requirements of articles L. 823-9 and R. 823-7 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) relating to the justification of our assessments, we inform you of the key audit matters relating to the risks of material misstatement that, in our professional judgement, were the most significant in our audit of the financial statements, as well as how we addressed those risks. These matters were addressed as part of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and therefore contributed to the opinion we formed as expressed above. We do not provide a separate opinion on specific items of the financial statements. 560 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Parent Company Financial Statements Statutory Auditors’ report on the financial statements Risks concerning the measurement of equity investments and subsidiaries whose valuation requires judgement Description of risk How our audit addressed this risk Equity investments and subsidiaries are carried at cost and may be impaired We gained an understanding of the procedures implemented to determine the based on their value in use, corresponding to the price that the Company value in use and related impairments of equity investments and subsidiaries would be willing to pay to acquire them in line with its ownership objectives. whose valuations require judgement. The value in use is determined by different aspects, among which We included valuation experts in the audit team to examine the assumptions profitability and the profitability outlook of the company concerned. In this used to determine the discount rates and the perpetual growth rates used as case, the value is determined by discounting the estimated future cash flows well as the models used for calculating discounted cash flows. generated by the CGU, as set out in the four-year financial forecasts and We tested the calculations and the main assumptions (percentage of capital extended to 2023. allocation, discount rate, perpetual growth rate, etc.) compared with external The percentage of capital allocation is determined by taking into account any sources. specific requirements set by the regulator (in particular for Pillar 2). We examined the financial forecasts prepared by the management of each We deemed the measurement of equity investments and subsidiaries, whose entity concerned and used in the model to: valuation requires judgement, to be a key audit matter. Determining the • check their consistency with those that have been approved by the value in use necessarily requires management to make decisions as to the competent bodies (Board of Directors) of the entities or sub-groups and key assumptions to use, in particular for determining economic scenarios, that any restatements made were justified; financial forecasts and discount rates. • assess the main underlying assumptions, including in relation to the We paid particular attention to the determination of the values in use of extension of forecasts beyond the four-year period which was submitted LCL and Cariparma, given their sensitivity to the assumptions used by to the entities’ competent bodies. management. These assumptions were assessed in particular in view of the financial Equity investments and subsidiaries recorded in the balance sheet forecasts and the actual performance of prior periods; amounted to a net value of €64.1 billion, including €4.6 billion in • conduct sensitivity tests to some of the assumptions (level of capital impairment at 31 December 2018. allocated, discount rate, cost of risk). We also examined the disclosures provided in the notes to the financial The carrying amount of LCL totalled €10 billion and that of Cariparma statements on the value in use of equity investments and subsidiaries whose €4.5 billion. valuations require judgement. See Notes 2.2 and 6 to the financial statements. Legal, compliance and tax risks Description of risk How our audit addressed this risk Crédit Agricole S.A. is subject to a number of investigations and requests for The risk of a significant outflow of funds concerns a limited number of regulatory information from different regulators. These concern in particular matters that we monitor on a regular basis. the Euribor/Libor and SSA Bonds matters with authorities from various We gained an understanding of the procedure for measuring the risks countries (USA, UK, Switzerland) and the European Union. and, where applicable, the provisions associated with these matters, A number of tax investigations and legal disputes are also ongoing. through quarterly exchanges with management and in particular the Legal, Deciding whether or not to recognise a provision and the amount of that Compliance and Tax departments. provision requires the use of judgement, given that it is difficult to assess Our work consisted primarily in: the outcome of ongoing disputes or the final tax impacts of certain structural • examining the assumptions used to determine provisions based on transactions. available information (documentation prepared by the Legal department Given its sensitivity to these assumptions, thus constituting a significant or legal counsel of Crédit Agricole S.A., correspondence from regulators risk of material misstatement in the financial statements, we deemed the and minutes of Legal Risks Committee meetings); measurement of provisions for legal, compliance and tax risks to be a key • gaining an understanding of the analyses or findings of the bank’s legal audit matter. counsel and their responses to our requests for confirmation; The various ongoing investigations, requests for information (Euribor/ • as regards tax risks in particular, examining, with guidance from Libor, SSA Bonds and other indices), tax inspections or litigation at our specialists, the Company’s responses submitted to the relevant 31 December 2018, are presented in Notes 1.3 and 15 to the financial authorities, as well as the risk estimates carried out by the bank; statements. • assessing, accordingly, the level of provisioning at 31 December 2018. Lastly, we examined the related disclosures provided in the notes to the financial statements. 7 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 561 7 Parent Company Financial Statements Statutory Auditors’ report on the financial statements SPECIFIC VERIFICATIONS In accordance with professional standards applicable in France, we have also performed the specific verifications required by French legal and regulatory provisions. Information given in the management report and in the other documents provided to the shareholders with respect to the Company’s financial position and the financial statements We have no matters to report as to the fair presentation and the consistency with the financial statements of the information given in the Board of Directors’ management report and in the other documents provided to the shareholders with respect to the Company’s financial position and the financial statements, with the exception of the following matter. Concerning the fair presentation and the consistency with the financial statements of the disclosures provided in relation to the payment terms referred to in article D. 441-4 of the French Commercial Code, we have the following matter to report: as indicated in the management report, these disclosures do not include banking and related transactions as the Company considers that such disclosures are not within the scope of disclosures to be provided. Report on corporate governance We attest that the Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance sets out the information required by articles L. 225-37-3 and L. 225-37-4 of the French Commercial Code. Concerning the information given in accordance with the requirements of article L. 225-37-3 of the French Commercial Code relating to remuneration and benefits received by corporate officers and any other commitments made in their favour, we have verified its consistency with the financial statements or with the underlying information used to prepare these financial statements, and, where applicable, with the information obtained by your Company from companies controlling it or controlled by it. Based on this work, we attest to the accuracy and fair presentation of this information. Concerning the information given in accordance with the requirements of article L. 225-37-5 of the French Commercial Code relating to those items your Company has deemed liable to have an impact in the event of a takeover bid or exchange offer, we have verified its consistency with the underlying documents that were disclosed to us. Based on this work, we have no matters to report with regard to this information. Other information In accordance with French law, we have verified that the required information concerning the acquisition of investments and controlling interests and the identity of shareholders and holders of the voting rights has been properly disclosed in the management report. REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS Appointment of the Statutory Auditors We were appointed Statutory Auditors of Crédit Agricole S.A. by the General Meetings of Shareholders held on 19 May 2004 for PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit and in 1985 for ERNST & YOUNG et Autres. At 31 December 2018, PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit and Ernst & Young et Autres were in the fifteenth and the thirty-fourth consecutive year of their engagement, respectively. RESPONSIBILITIES OF MANAGEMENT AND THOSE CHARGED WITH GOVERNANCE FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Management is responsible for preparing financial statements giving a true and fair view in accordance with French accounting principles, and for implementing the internal control procedures it deems necessary for the preparation of financial statements that are free of material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern, and using the going concern basis of accounting, unless it expects to liquidate the Company or to cease operations. The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the financial reporting process and the effectiveness of internal control and risk management systems, as well as, where applicable, any internal audit systems, relating to accounting and financial reporting procedures. The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors. 562 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. Parent Company Financial Statements Statutory Auditors’ report on the financial statements RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE STATUTORY AUDITORS RELATING TO THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Objective and audit approach Our role is to issue a report on the financial statements. Our objective is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free of material misstatement. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with professional standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions taken by users on the basis of these financial statements. As specified in article L. 823-10-1 of the French Commercial Code, our audit does not include assurance on the viability or quality of the Company’s management. As part of an audit conducted in accordance with professional standards applicable in France, the Statutory Auditors exercise professional judgement throughout the audit. They also: nn identify and assess the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures in response to those risks, and obtain audit evidence considered to be sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for their opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control; nn obtain an understanding of the internal control procedures relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the internal control; nn evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management and the related disclosures in the notes to the financial statements; nn assess the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. This assessment is based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of the audit report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern. If the Statutory Auditors conclude that a material uncertainty exists, they are required to draw attention in the audit report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are not provided or are inadequate, to issue a qualified opinion or a disclaimer of opinion; nn evaluate the overall presentation of the financial statements and assess whether these statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. Report to the Audit Committee We submit a report to the Audit Committee which includes, in particular, a description of the scope of the audit and the audit programme implemented, as well as the results of our audit. We also report any significant deficiencies in internal control that we have identified regarding the accounting and financial reporting procedures Our report to the Audit Committee includes the risks of material misstatement that, in our professional judgement, were the most significant for the audit of the financial statements and which constitute the key audit matters that we are required to describe in this report. We also provide the Audit Committee with the declaration provided for in article 6 of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014, confirming our independence within the meaning of the rules applicable in France, as defined in particular in articles L. 822-10 to L. 822-14 of the French Commercial Code and in the French Code of Ethics for Statutory Auditors. Where appropriate, we discuss any risks to our independence and the related safeguard measures with the Audit Committee. Neuilly-sur-Seine and Paris-La Défense, 25 March 2019 The Statutory Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit ERNST & YOUNG et Autres Anik Chaumartin Olivier Durand 7 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 563 GENERAL INFORMATION 8 Articles of Association 566 Statutory Auditors’ report on related party agreements Information on the Company 579 and commitments 591 Acquisitions made by Crédit Agricole S.A. over the past three financial years 579 Person responsible New products and services 579 for the registration document 598 Material contracts 579 Responsibility statement 598 Material changes 580 Statutory Auditors 599 Publicly available documents 580 General Meeting of Shareholders of 21 May 2019 580 Glossary600 Information on inactive bank accounts 581 Information on accounts payables and receivables 581 Cross-reference table 605 Crédit Agricole S.A. Group entities in France and abroad 581 Transactions with related parties 590 564 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. General Information GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS IN METZ TUESDAY 21 MAY, AT 10:00 AM ADMISSION STARTING FROM 8:30 AM Centre des Congrès Robert Schuman 112 rue aux Arènes 57000 METZ Agenda and draft resolutions available in the notice of meeting and on the website: www.credit-agricole.com/en/finance/finance/individual-shareholders/annual-general-meeting 8 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 565 8 General Information Articles of Association − version to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting of 21 May 2019 ADDED TEXT DELETED TEXT ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION − VERSION TO BE APPROVED BY THE EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING OF 21 MAY 2019 The Board of Directors decided to submit to the next extraordinary general meeting, an update and an harmonisation of the articles of association, which concluded to several changes. These changes are formalised below: proposals of added texts are in blue and proposals of deleted texts are in grey. All of these changes will be proposed to the shareholders’ vote at an extraordinary general meeting to be held on 21 May 2019. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. Registered office: A French company (“société anonyme”) with a share capital of 12, place des États-Unis – 92127 Montrouge Cedex – €8,599,311,468 Tel. : (33) 1 43 23 52 02 Registered with the Nanterre Trade and Company Registry under number 784 608 416 ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION Article 1 – Form Crédit Agricole S.A. grants facilities to the Regional Banks to permit the funding of their medium and long-term loans. It ensures that the Crédit Agricole S.A. (the “Company”) is a French company (“société transformation risks pertaining to the Company, its subsidiaries and anonyme”) with a Board of Directors (“Conseil d’administration”) the Regional Banks are assumed. It implements the mechanisms governed by ordinary corporate law, notably Book II of the French for guaranteeing transactions by the Caisses Régionales de Crédit Commercial Code. Agricole Mutuel. In its own name and on behalf of the companies in Crédit Agricole S.A. is also subject to the provisions of the Monetary and the Crédit Agricole Group, Crédit Agricole S.A. negotiates and enters Finance Code, in particular Articles L. 512-47 et seq., and those provisions into domestic and international agreements which may affect the of former Book V of the Rural Code which have not been repealed, and credit of the Group. It executes all nation-wide agreements with Act No. 88-50 of 18 January 1988 concerning the Reorganisation of the the State. Caisse Nationale de Crédit Agricole as a Mutual Company. 2. In France and abroad, Crédit Agricole S.A. performs all types of Prior to the Extraordinary General Meeting of 29 November 2001, the banking, financial, credit, investment or securities transactions and Company was called “Caisse Nationale de Crédit Agricole”, abbreviated related services under the Monetary and Finance Code, guaranty, “C.N.C.A.” arbitrage, brokerage and commission transactions, whether for its The Company was born of the transformation of the Caisse Nationale own account or for the account of others, without infringing on the de Crédit Agricole, an “Établissement Public Industriel et Commercial”, remit of the Caisses Régionales de Crédit Agricole Mutuel. following the merger of the Mutual Guarantee Fund of the Caisses 3. In accordance with the provisions of the Monetary and Finance Régionales de Crédit Agricole Mutuel (the Regional Banks); it continues Code, as the Central Organ of Crédit Agricole Mutuel, Crédit Agricole to hold all of the rights, obligations, guarantees and security interests S.A. ensures the cohesion of the Crédit Agricole Mutuel network, of those legal entities prior to their transformation; it exercises all rights the proper operation of the credit institutions that are a part thereof, relating to mortgages granted in favour of the State. and compliance by such institutions with the applicable laws and regulations by exercising administrative, technical and financial Article 2 – Name supervision thereof; it guarantees the liquidity and solvency of the entire network and all institutions affiliated therewith. The name of the Company is: Crédit Agricole S.A. And, as a general matter, Crédit Agricole S.A. engages in all types of In all deeds and documents of the Company that are intended for third commercial, financial, personal and real property transactions and parties, the corporate name shall be immediately preceded or followed provides all services directly or indirectly related to its purpose, provided by the words “Société Anonyme” or the initials “S.A.”, “régie par le that they are in furtherance thereof. livre deuxième du Code de commerce et par les dispositions du Code monétaire et financier” (“governed by Book II of the French Commercial Article 4 – Registered office Code and the provisions of the Monetary and Finance Code”) and by the amount of the share capital. The registered office of the Company is situated at 12, place des ÉtatsUnis, 92127 Montrouge Cedex. Article 3 – Object Article 5 – Duration Crédit Agricole S.A. has for object to facilitate and promote the activities and development of the Caisses Régionales de Crédit Agricole Mutuel The Company, born out of the transformation described in the last and the Crédit Agricole Group. In furtherance of this purpose: paragraph of Article 1 of these Articles of Association, shall terminate on 31 December 2086 unless extended or dissolved in advance by the 1. Crédit Agricole S.A. operates as a central financial institution Shareholders at an Extraordinary General Meeting. and ensures that the Group acts as a single financial unit in its dealings with third parties with the object of optimising the financial management of funds and, in return, the allocation of the financial Article 6 – Share capital resources so collected. The share capital of the Company is €8,599,311,468 divided into Crédit Agricole S.A. collects and manages the excess deposits and 2,866,437,156 Ordinary shares with a par value of €3, all of them paid savings of the Regional Banks, as well as savings collected by such up in full. Banks on its behalf. 566 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. General Information Articles of Association − version to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting of 21 May 2019 ADDED TEXT DELETED TEXT In accordance with the applicable laws and regulations, non-voting the legal reserve, the characteristics of the Preferred Shares shall be Preferred Shares with the rights defined by these Articles of Association adjusted automatically. More specifically, the new dividend rights and may be created and issued pursuant to Articles L. 228-11 et seq. of the the new Adjusted Issue Price of the Preferred Shares of a given class French Commercial Code. shall be the same as the dividend rights and Adjusted Issue Price, as Several classes of Preferred Shares may be created with different the case may be, of the given class, in effect before the beginning of the characteristics, with respect, inter alia, to (i) their Issue Date; (ii) their transaction multiplied by the ratio obtained by dividing (i) the number of Issue Price; and (iii) their Rate. Consequently, the corporate body that Preferred Shares in the given class included in the share capital before shall decide to issue Preferred Shares shall amend this Article 6, “Share the transaction by (ii) the number of Preferred Shares in the given class capital”, accordingly, in order to specify the designation (A,B,C, etc.) and included in the share capital after the transaction. No adjustment shall the characteristics of the class issued in this manner, and in particular, be made in the event of an increase in the nominal value by capitalisation those characteristics referred to in items (i) to (iii) above. of any share premiums and/or of the legal reserve. For purposes of these Articles of Association: Article 7 – Changes in the share capital: capital nn “Ordinary Shares” means the Ordinary Shares of the Company; increases, reductions and redemptions nn “Preferred Shares” means the non-voting Preferred Shares, regardless of class, that may be issued by the Company and their attached rights, as defined in these Articles of Association; A. Capital increases nn “Shares” means Ordinary Shares and Preferred Shares collectively; 1. The share capital may be increased by any method and in any nn “Meeting” means any General Meeting or Special Meeting; manner authorised by law. nn “General Meeting” means the General Meeting of Ordinary 2. The Extraordinary General Meeting shall have exclusive authority to Shareholders in which Preferred Shareholders may participate; decide whether to increase the share capital or to authorise such a decision, pursuant to the applicable laws and regulations and nn “Extraordinary General Meeting” means the General Meeting subject to the provisions pertaining to payment of the dividend in convened to vote on extraordinary business; shares provided in paragraph 9 of Article 31 30, “Determination, nn “Ordinary General Meeting” means the General Meeting allocation and distribution of profit” of the Articles of Association. convened to vote on ordinary business;. 3. Pursuant to the applicable laws and regulations, holders of Ordinary nn “Special Meeting” means the Special Meeting of holders of a given shares have a pre-emptive right to subscribe for shares and class of Preferred Shares; securities granting rights to shares in the Company, in proportion to nn “Issue Date” means, for a given class of Preferred Shares, the date the quantity of Ordinary shares that they own. of issue of the Preferred Shares of the relevant class; The Preferred Shares do not have pre-emptive rights to subscribe nn “Issue Price” means, for a given class of Preferred Shares, the to any subsequent issue of Shares and securities granting a right to Issue Price per Preferred Share in the relevant class, or its par value shares in accordance with the option provided in Article L. 228-11, plus any share premium; paragraph 5 of the French Commercial Code. nn “Adjusted Issue Price” means, for a given class of Preferred 4. The holders of Preferred Shares shall not benefit from capital Shares, the Issue Price, less any amount that may be paid and/or increases resulting from a bonus issue of new Shares or by an the value of any asset, as determined by an expert appointed by increase in the nominal amount of Ordinary Shares outstanding the Board of Directors (or, failing which, by an order of the Presiding resulting from the capitalisation of reserves (other than the legal Judge of the Paris Commercial Court ruling in summary proceedings reserve) or earnings, or the bonus issue of securities granting in accordance with Article 1843-4 of the French Civil Code), due rights to Shares as part of a bonus issue for Ordinary Shareholders. for each outstanding Preferred Share in the given class following a However, in the event of a capital increase by means of a bonus capital reduction not due to losses; issue of new Shares or by an increase in the nominal amount of nn the “Rate” means the Rate set by the relevant corporate body at outstanding Ordinary Shares through capitalisation of any share the time of the issue of Preferred Shares and used as a basis for premiums or of the legal reserve, the Ordinary Shareholders and determining the Preferred Dividend, it being specified that this shall the Preferred Shareholders shall be entitled to subscribe to the equal the average of the 10-year Constant Maturity Treasury (CMT) capital increase in proportion to their rights to the Notional Capital (yield on a 10-year government bond) (or any other index that may (as defined in Article 31, “Determination, allocation and distribution be substituted for the 10-year CMT) over the three business days of profit” of the Articles of Association) and, with respect to the preceding the date of the decision to issue the shares, plus a margin Preferred Shares, up to a maximum of the positive difference of no more than 12%. between their Adjusted Issue Price and their par value (i.e., the total In the event of a stock split or reverse split applying to Ordinary Shares, amount of increases in the nominal value of the Preferred Shares, the split or reverse split shall also apply to the Preferred Shares or the total nominal amount of any new Preferred Shares issued by under the same conditions and their characteristics shall be adjusted capitalisation of any share premiums and/or of the legal reserve automatically. More specifically, the new dividend rights and the new shall not exceed the product of (i) the positive difference between Adjusted Issue Price of the Preferred Shares belonging to a given class their Adjusted Issue Price and their par value multiplied by (ii) the shall be the same as the dividend rights and Adjusted Issue Price, as number of Preferred Shares outstanding calculated at the date on the case may be, of the given class, in effect before the beginning of the which the relevant capital increase was effected). If the capital transaction multiplied by the ratio obtained by dividing (i) the number of increase is effected by a bonus issue of new Shares, the new Shares Preferred Shares in the given class included in the share capital before awarded for no consideration shall be of the same class as the the transaction by (ii) the number of Preferred Shares in the given class Shares that entitled the holder to the award of bonus shares. included in the share capital after the transaction. 5. 4. In-kind contributions must be approved by the Extraordinary In the event of a bonus issue of Preferred Shares to the holders of General Meeting, pursuant to the applicable laws and regulations. Preferred Shares by the capitalisation of any share premiums and/or of 8 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 567 8 General Information Articles of Association − version to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting of 21 May 2019 ADDED TEXT DELETED TEXT B. Capital reductions formation, and the address of the holders of securities which provide 1. Capital reductions are decided or authorised by the Extraordinary a present or future right to vote at its General Meetings and Special General Meeting, which may delegate to the Board of Directors Meetings, as well as the number of securities held by each and the all powers for purposes of carrying out capital reductions. This restrictions, if any, which may apply to the said securities. excludes capital reductions following a Preferred Share buyback Based on the list provided by the central custodian, and subject to the effected under the terms of Article 32 of the Articles of Association, same terms and conditions, the Company shall have the right to request, “Repurchases of Preferred Shares by the Company”, paragraph B, either from said central custodian or directly from the persons on the “Option to repurchase Preferred Shares at the Company’s initiative”, list who the Company feels may be acting as intermediaries on behalf of which may be decided by the Board of Directors. third party, the information regarding said securities holders set forth in 2. Any capital reduction due to losses is allocated to the share capital the preceding paragraph. among the different shares in proportion to the percentage of share If they are intermediaries, said persons must disclose the identity of the capital they represent. holders of said securities. The information should be provided directly Losses shall first be charged against the following accounts, in to the financial intermediary that maintains the account and said entity the following order: 1) retained earnings, 2) distributable reserves, must then transmit the information to the Company or to the central 3) other reserves, 4) statutory reserves, 5) any share premiums, custodian. 6) the legal reserve, and 7) equity. For registered securities, the Company shall also have the right at any 3. The Company may carry out capital reductions for reasons other time to request that the intermediary that has registered on behalf of than losses under the conditions stipulated by laws and regulations, third parties disclose the identity of the holders of said securities and the to be allocated among Ordinary Shares and Preferred Shares in the number of securities held by each of them. proportions that it shall determine. For so long as the Company feels that certain holders of securities (whether registered or bearer), the identity of which has been provided C. Redemption of the share capital to it, are holding said securities on behalf of third parties, it shall have The share capital may be redeemed in accordance with Articles the right to request said holders to disclose the identity of the owners L. 225-198 et seq. of the French Commercial Code. of the securities as set forth above and the number of securities held by each of them. Article 8 – Form of shares After the information set forth above has been requested, the Company The shares may be in registered or bearer form, at the holders’ election, shall have the right to request any legal entity which holds more than subject to applicable statutory and regulatory provisions. one-fortieth of the share capital or voting rights of the Company to disclose to the Company the identity of the persons who directly or They shall be registered in shareholders’ accounts on the terms and indirectly hold more than one-third of the share capital or voting rights conditions provided for by law. They may be transferred between from (which are exercised at the legal entity’s general meetings) of the said accounts to account. legal entity. If a person who has been the subject of a request in accordance with Article 9 – Declarations regarding reaching the provisions of the present Article 9.B fails to disclose the requested thresholds and shareholder identification information within the legally required period or discloses incomplete A. Declarations regarding reaching thresholds or incorrect information regarding its capacity or the holders of the securities, or the number of securities held by each of them, the shares Without prejudice to the ownership threshold disclosures provided by law or securities which give rise to present or future rights to the Company’s and applicable to Ordinary Shares and Preferred Shares, any person or share capital which said person has registered, shall immediately lose legal entity, acting solely or with others, who directly or indirectly comes their voting rights at any General Meeting or Special Meeting until into possession of a number of Ordinary shares representing 1% of the complete information has been provided. Dividend payments shall also share capital or voting rights must inform the Company, by recorded be suspended until that date. delivery with advice of delivery, at its registered office, within five days of the date on which the shares enabling such person to reach or breach In addition, in the event that the registered person deliberately said threshold were registered, of the total number of Ordinary shares misconstrues the above provisions, the court which has territorial and the number of voting rights it owns, as well as the total number of jurisdiction over the Company’s registered office may, at the request of securities which may grant rights to the Company’s equity in the future, the Company or of one or more Shareholders holding at least 5% of the any voting rights which may be attached thereto, and the total number share capital, revoke in whole or in part the voting rights regarding which of Preferred Shares it owns. the information was requested and, possibly, the corresponding dividend payment of the shares, for a period which may not exceed five years. The said declaration must be renewed as set forth above each time that the number of shares or voting rights attains a multiple of a 1% threshold (through either a purchase or sale of shares) of the total shares or voting Article 10 – Voting rights – Indivisibility of the rights. shares – Rights and obligations attached to the If a Shareholder has not issued the required declarations as set forth shares above, he shall lose his right to vote on the Ordinary shares exceeding the A. Voting rights level which should have been reported, as provided for by law, if one or The voting rights attached to the Company’s shares are proportional more holders of Ordinary shares representing at least 2% of the shares to the share capital that they represent and each share entitles its or voting rights so request during a General Meeting. holder to one vote. The Company’s shares (including any that might be freely allocated as part of a capital increase via a capitalisation of B. Shareholder identification reserves, profits or issue premiums) do not carry double voting rights In accordance with applicable laws and regulations, and in order to in accordance with the last sub-paragraph of article L. 225-123 of the identify the holders of bearer securities, the Company shall have the French Commercial Code. right to request at any time, at its expense, that the central custodian of its securities account provide the name, nationality, year of birth or 568 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. General Information Articles of Association − version to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting of 21 May 2019 ADDED TEXT DELETED TEXT B. Indivisibility of the shares nn one director representing the professional agricultural organisations, The shares are indivisible with regard to the Company. shall be appointed in accordance with the provisions of Article L. 512-49 of the Monetary and Finance Code; and Voting rights attached to the Ordinary each shares are exercised by the nn two directors shall be elected by the staff in accordance with Articles beneficial owner at Ordinary General Meetings and by the legal owner at L. 225-27 to L. 225-34 of the French Commercial Code. Extraordinary General Meetings. The following individuals may also attend Board Meetings in an advisory Voting rights attached to the Preferred Shares are exercised by the legal capacity: owner at Special Meetings of holders of the relevant class of Preferred nn non-voting Board Members appointed in accordance with Article 12 Shares. of these Articles of Association; and The joint owners of indivisible shares are represented at General nn one member of the Works Council designated thereby. Meetings or Special Meetings, as the case may be, by one of them or by a single representative. In the event of a dispute, their representative In the event that one of the positions held by the directors elected by shall be appointed by the Court at the request of the first joint owner to the staff or by the director who represents the professional agricultural refer this matter to the Court. organisations becomes vacant, the Board of Directors whose Board Members are elected by the General Meeting may validly convene the The right to the award of new shares following the capitalisation of Board of Directors deliberate. reserves, profits or any share premiums belongs to the legal owner, subject to the rights of the beneficial owner. The age limit for directors is 65. When a director reaches the age of 65, he will be deemed to have resigned at the end of the next Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders. C. Rights and obligations attached to the shares 1. Ownership of a share automatically entails compliance with the 2. Directors elected by the General Meeting of Articles of Association and, subject to the stipulations contained in Shareholders Article 29, “Special Meetings” herein, with resolutions duly adopted by General Meetings. Directors elected by the General Meeting of Shareholders shall be natural persons or legal entities. 2. Each Ordinary share gives the holder the same right of ownership in the Company’s assets and profits, as defined in Article 34 31 The term of office of directors is three years. However, a director appointed “Dissolution – Liquidation” and Article 31 30 “Determination, to replace another director whose term of office has not yet expired shall allocation and distribution of profit” herein. remain in office only for the balance of his predecessor’s term. Each Ordinary share gives the holder the right to attend General Directors who are natural persons may not be elected to more than four Meetings and to vote therein, under the conditions set forth by law consecutive terms of office. However, if a director is appointed to replace and by the Articles of Association. Each Ordinary share shall give the an outgoing director whose term of office has not yet expired, the director holder the right to cast one vote at General Meetings. An Ordinary appointed for the remainder of the outgoing director’s term may seek a Share does not give the holder the right to attend Special Meetings fifth term, for a period not exceeding four consecutive terms of office. or to vote therein. He will be deemed to have resigned at the end of the next Ordinary General 3. Each Preferred Share of the same class gives the holder the same Meeting following the twelfth anniversary of his first appointment. rights to the Company’s assets and profits, as defined in Article 34 A director’s duties shall terminate at the end of the Ordinary General “Dissolution-Liquidation” and Article 31 “Determination, allocation Meeting called to consider the accounts for the previous financial year and distribution of profit” herein. that is held during the year in which such director’s term expires. Preferred Shares do not give their holders the right to vote at General With the exception of the directors elected by the staff and the director Meetings. who represents the professional agricultural organisations, one third of Each Preferred Share of a given class gives the holder the right the seats renewal of the directors elected by the General Meeting of to attend General Meetings and to attend and to vote in Special Shareholders (or the nearest whole number, with the last group adjusted Meetings of the holders of the relevant class of Preferred Shares, as necessary) shall turn over each year at the Ordinary General Meeting under the conditions stipulated by law and by the Articles of of Shareholders so that all seats turn over every three years shall be Association. Preferred Shares of a given class do not give the holder carried out in such a way as to ensure, to the extent possible, a gradual the right to attend or to vote in Special Meetings of holders of other and balanced expiry of terms of office. classes of Preferred Shares. If the number of elected directors is increased, lots shall be drawn (if 4. 3. Whenever it is necessary to hold several shares to exercise a necessary and prior to the first Ordinary General Meeting following given right, such as in the case of an exchange, consolidation the date on which said directors assume their seats) to determine the or allocation of shares, or as a result of an increase or reduction order in which said seats will turn over. The partial term of the directors of the share capital regardless of whether this is due to selected by the drawing of lots shall be disregarded when determining accumulated losses, or in the case of a merger or other corporate whether they have reached the four-term limit. transaction, the holders of individual shares, or those who do not own the required number of shares, may exercise such rights 3. Director representing the professional agricultural only if they personally arrange for the consolidation of the shares organisations and purchase or sell the required number of shares or fractional The term of office of the director representing the professional agricultural shares, where necessary. organisations is three years. He may be re-appointed or removed at any time by the authority that appointed him. Article 11 – Board of Directors 1. The Company shall be governed by a Board of Directors nn composed of between 3 and 21 members, of which: at least three and no more than 18 directors shall be elected by 8 the General Meeting in accordance with the provisions of Article L. 225-18 of the French Commercial Code; The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 569 8 General Information Articles of Association − version to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting of 21 May 2019 ADDED TEXT DELETED TEXT 4. Directors elected by the staff Article 13 – Directors’ shares The status and procedures for the election of the directors elected by the Each director must own at least one Ordinary share. If, on the date of his staff are set out in L. 225-27 et seq. of the French Commercial Code in appointment or during his term of office, a director does not own or no the following provisions: longer owns at least one Ordinary share and fails to correct this situation The term of office of the two directors elected by the staff is three years. within three months, he will be deemed to have resigned. Their duties terminate on the third anniversary of the date of their election and the Company shall take all steps necessary to hold a new election Article 14 – Deliberations of the Board of Directors within the three-month period prior to the expiration of the term of said directors. 1. The Board of Directors shall meet as often as the interests of the Company so require, upon notice by its Chairman, by any person They may not be elected to more than four consecutive terms. authorised for that purpose by the Board of Directors, or by at least One of the directors is elected by the managerial staff, whilst the other is one-third of its members to address a specific agenda if the last elected by the other employees of the Company. meeting was held more than two months previously. In the event that the seat of a director elected by the staff falls vacant If necessary, the Chief Executive Officer may request the Chairman as a result of his death, resignation, removal or the termination of his to call a meeting of the Board of Directors to address a specific employment contract, his successor shall take office immediately. agenda. If there is no successor able to carry out the director’s duties, a new Meetings may be held at the registered office or at any other place election shall be held within three months. specified in the notice of the meeting. The first ballot of the election of directors by the staff shall be conducted Generally, notice of a meeting shall be given at least three days in accordance with the following procedures: in advance by letter or by any other means. However, if all of the The lists of voters, indicating their respective surnames, given names, directors so agree, notice may be given orally and need not be in dates and places of birth and domiciles, are prepared by the Chief advance. Executive Officer and posted at least five weeks prior to the election Notices of meetings shall set forth the principal items of business date. One list of voters is prepared for each of the two groups. Within on the agenda. fifteen days after the lists are posted, any voter may submit a request 2. The physical presence of at least one half of the directors is required to the Chief Executive Officer either that another voter who was omitted for deliberations to be valid. be registered, or that another voter who was erroneously registered be At the Chairman’s request, employees in positions of responsibility removed from the list. Within the same time period, any person whose in the Group may attend Board Meetings. name was omitted may also submit a request for registration. A majority of the votes of the directors present or represented is The candidates must belong to the group whose votes they are seeking. required for a resolution to pass. Each director has one vote and is In each group of voters, each announcement of a candidacy must specify not authorised to represent more than one of his fellow directors. not only the name of the candidate, but also the name of any successor. The Chairman shall have the casting vote in the event of a tie. The Chief Executive Officer closes and posts the lists of candidates at The directors and any individuals requested to attend the Board least three weeks prior to the election date. of Directors’ Meetings must exercise discretion with respect to In the absence of a candidate for a given group, the seat of the director the Board’s deliberations and any confidential information and representing such group shall remain vacant for the entire term for which documents described as such by the Chairman of the Board of it would have been filled. Directors. Results are recorded in minutes which shall be posted no later than three days after voting is closed. The Company shall keep a copy of the minutes Article 15 – Powers of the Board of Directors in its records. The Board of Directors determines and ensures compliance with the The organisation of elections and their requirements are determined by business focus of the Company. the Chief Executive Officer and shall be posted no less than five weeks Except for the powers expressly reserved to the General Meeting prior to the date of the election. of Shareholders and within the limits established by the Company’s Voting procedures are determined by Articles L. 225-28 et seq. of the purpose, the Board of Directors is responsible for all issues related to French Commercial Code. Any voter may vote either in person at the the Company’s operations and business and deliberates on such issues. locations provided for that purpose, or by mail. In its relations with third parties, the Company may be bound by the If no candidate for a given group obtains a majority of the votes cast on acts of the Board of Directors which fall outside the Company’s object the first ballot, a second ballot shall be held within fifteen days. unless the Company can prove that the said third party knew that the act was ultra vires or that it could not have been unaware, in light of the Article 12 – Non-voting directors circumstances, that the act was ultra vires. The publication of the Articles of Association shall not constitute proof thereof. Upon recommendation from the Chairman, the Board of Directors may The Board of Directors may conduct any inspections or audits that it appoint one or more non-voting directors. deems necessary. Each director shall receive the information necessary Non-voting directors shall be notified of and participate at meetings of to accomplish the Board’s duties; management shall furnish to any the Board of Directors in an advisory capacity. director those documents that the said director deems necessary or They are appointed for a term of three years and may not be reappointed appropriate. for more than four terms. They may be dismissed by the Board at any The Board may decide to set up various committees to examine issues time. raised by itself or its Chairman and render an opinion. In consideration of services rendered, they may be remunerated as The Board shall be responsible for determining the composition and determined by the Board of Directors. powers of committees which do their work under its authority. 570 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. General Information Articles of Association − version to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting of 21 May 2019 ADDED TEXT DELETED TEXT Article 16 – Chairmanship of the Board of Directors Article 18 – General provision on age limits In accordance with Article L. 512-49 of the Monetary and Finance Code, Any officer or director who reaches the age limit set by the Articles of the Board of Directors shall elect a Chairman from among its members Association or the law shall be deemed to have resigned at the close of who are directors of a Caisse Régionale de Crédit Agricole Mutuel and the Annual Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders that follows said shall fix his term of office, which may not exceed his term of office as anniversary date. a director. The Board of Directors shall elect one or more Vice-Chairmen whose Article 19 – Directors’ remuneration term shall also be established by the Board, but which may not exceed The General Meeting may elect to pay directors’ fees. The Board of his (their) term of office as a director. Directors shall allocate any such fees as it deems fit. The Chairman of the Board of Directors represents the Board of Directors. He organises and directs the activities thereof and reports to the General Article 20 – Statutory Auditors Meeting on its activities. Audits of the accounts shall be exercised in accordance with the law by He is responsible for the proper operation of the Company’s entities, and, two Statutory Auditors appointed by the Ordinary General Meeting of in particular, insures that directors are able to fulfil their duties. Shareholders; the Meeting shall also appoint two alternate Statutory As an exception to the provisions of the last paragraph of Article 11-1, the Auditors. age limit for serving as Chairman of the Board of Directors is 67. Subject The term of office of the Statutory Auditors shall be six financial years. to this age limit, and as an exception to the provisions of Article 11-2, paragraph 3 of the Articles of Association, a serving Chairman may seek Statutory Auditors whose term of office expires may be re-appointed in a fifth consecutive term of office. compliance with the provisions relating to the term of offices and the turnover of Statutory Auditors. Article 17 – General management The Statutory Auditors may act jointly or separately, but must submit a joint report on the Company’s accounts. They must submit their shall A. Chief Executive Officer report to the Annual Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders. In accordance with Article L. 512-49 of the Monetary and Finance Code, the Board of Directors appoints the Chief Executive Officer of the Article 21 – Shareholders’ General Meetings Company and, it may also terminate his appointment. Collective resolutions shall be adopted at General Meetings which are The Chief Executive Officer shall enjoy the broadest powers to act in all either ordinary or extraordinary depending on the decisions they are cases on behalf of the Company. He may exercise his authority within called upon to take. the limits of the Company’s object and subject to that authority expressly reserved to General Meetings and to the Board of Directors. Holders of Preferred Shares are entitled to attend General Meetings but do not have the right to vote therein. He represents the Company in its relations with third parties. All of the Shareholders in a single class convene in Special Meetings to The Company shall be bound by those actions of the Chief Executive vote on any modification to the rights attached in that class. Officer which are ultra vires unless the Company can prove that the said third party knew that the act was ultra vires or that it could not Subject to the provisions of Article 29, “Special Meetings” hereunder, have been unaware, in light of the circumstances, that the act was ultra decisions adopted at General Meetings are binding on all Shareholders. vires. Publication of the Articles of Association shall not constitute proof thereof. Article 22 – Notice and venue of Shareholders’ Provisions of the Articles of Association and decisions of the Board of General Meetings Directors that limit the Chief Executive Officer’s powers are not binding General Meetings of Shareholders shall be convened and shall deliberate on third parties. in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations. He shall attend the meetings of the Board of Directors. General Meetings of Shareholders may be held at the registered office or He shall appoint all employees and fix their compensation, in accordance at any other place specified in the notice of the meeting. with the provisions of the Monetary and Finance Code. He may delegate part of his authority to as many individuals as he deems Article 23 – Agenda and minutes of General advisable. Meetings The person calling the General Meeting shall draft the agenda for the B. Deputy Chief Executive Officers General Meeting in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations. Upon recommendation of the Chief Executive Officer, the Board of Minutes must be drawn up and copies or extracts of the deliberations Directors may appoints one or more persons responsible for assisting the shall be issued and certified in accordance with the law. Chief Executive Officer who shall have the title “Deputy Chief Executive Officer” (“Directeur général délégué”). Article 24 – Access to General Meetings – Proxies There may not be more than five Deputy Chief Executive Officers. A. Access to General Meetings – Proxies With the consent of the Chief Executive Officer, the Board of Directors shall determine the scope and term of the authority granted to the Deputy Any Shareholder, regardless of the number of shares he/she owns, has Chief Executive Officers. the right to attend General Meetings, either in person or by proxy, subject to the conditions laid down by law and in these Articles of Association, by Deputy Chief Executive Officers shall have the same authority as the providing proof of identity and ownership of the shares, provided that the Chief Executive Officer with respect to third parties. In the event that the Chief Executive Officer ceases or is unable to shares have been registered, either in his/her name or in the name of the intermediary registered on his/her behalf, by 12 midnight Paris time, on 8 perform his duties, the Deputy Chief Executive Officers shall continue the second business day before the General Meeting: to perform their duties until the appointment of a new Chief Executive nn holders of registered shares must register their shares in the Officer, unless the Board of Directors decides otherwise. registered share accounts kept in the Company’s registers; The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 571 8 General Information Articles of Association − version to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting of 21 May 2019 ADDED TEXT DELETED TEXT nn holders of bearer shares must deposit their shares in the bearer legal and regulatory provisions in force. The Board of Directors shall share accounts held by the authorised intermediary. This entry or determine the terms governing participation and voting, ensuring that the filing is evidenced by a certificate of share ownership delivered by procedures and technologies used meet the technical criteria required the intermediary or electronically, as applicable. to ensure that the General Meeting’s deliberations are continuously and If an Ordinary a Shareholder cannot attend the General Meeting in person simultaneously relayed and that the votes are accurately recorded. or by proxy, he/she may participate in one of the following two ways: Provided that they comply with the relevant deadlines, Shareholders who nn cast a vote remotely; use the electronic voting form provided on the website set up by the or entity in charge of the General Meeting’s formalities shall be counted as being present or represented at the General Meeting. The electronic nn forward a proxy to the Company without naming a proxy holder, form may be completed and signed directly online using any procedure, in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations. including a username and password combination that has been approved by the Board of Directors and complies with the requirements set out in B. Access to Special Meetings – Proxies the first sentence of the second sub-paragraph of Article 1316-4 1367 Any holder of Preferred Shares belonging to a given class, regardless of the French Civil Code. of the number of Preferred Shares he/she owns, has the right to attend A proxy or vote issued before the General Meeting using such electronic Special Meetings of Preferred Shareholders of the class in question, means and the subsequent acknowledgement of receipt thereof shall either in person or by proxy, subject to the conditions laid down by law be deemed to be irrevocable and enforceable against all parties, it and in these Articles of Association, by providing proof of identity and being understood that if the ownership of shares is transferred before ownership of the Shares, provided that the Shares have been registered, 12 midnight CET on the second business day before the General Meeting, either in his/her name or in the name of the intermediary registered on the Company shall invalidate or make the necessary changes to the proxy his/her behalf, by 12 midnight Paris time, on the second business day or vote issued before that time and date, as appropriate. before the Special Meeting: nn holders of registered Preferred Shares must register their Shares in Article 25 – Attendance list – Officers of the General the registered share accounts kept in the Company’s registers; Meeting nn holders of bearer Shares must deposit their shares in the bearer share accounts held by the authorised intermediary. This entry is evidenced 1. An attendance list setting out the information required by law is kept by a certificate of share ownership delivered by the intermediary or for each General Meeting of Shareholders. electronically, as applicable. This list, which must be duly initialled by all Shareholders present If a holder of Preferred Shares cannot attend a Special Meeting in person or their proxies, and to which are attached all proxy forms given to or by proxy, he/she may participate in one of the following two ways: each of the proxies and any ballots cast remotely, shall be certified as accurate by the officers of the General Meeting. nn cast a vote remotely; 2. The Chairman of the Board, or in his absence a Vice-Chairman or or a director expressly authorised for that purpose by the Board of nn forward a proxy to the Company without naming a proxy holder; Directors, shall chair General Meetings of Shareholders. in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations. If a General Meeting of Shareholders is convened at the request of one or more Statutory Auditors, one of the Statutory Auditors shall C. B. Provisions applicable to all General Meetings chair the General Meeting. If the Shareholder has requested an admission card or a certificate of Whenever the person entitled or designated to chair is absent, the share ownership, or has cast his/her vote remotely or sent a proxy, he/ General Meeting of Shareholders shall elect its Chairman. she may no longer choose to take part in the General Meeting in another The officers of the General Meeting appoint a secretary who needs manner. However, he/she may sell all or part of his/her shares at any not be a Shareholder. time. The officers of the General Meeting are in charge of verifying, If ownership is transferred before 12 midnight CET on the second certifying and signing the attendance list, ensuring that the debate business day before the General Meeting, the Company shall invalidate is conducted in good order, resolving problems which may arise or make the necessary changes to the remote vote, the proxy, the during the General Meeting, checking the ballots cast and verifying admission card or the certificate of share ownership, as appropriate. that they are not void, and ensuring that minutes of the General To that end, the authorised intermediary, acting as account holder, Meeting are drawn up. shall notify the Company or its agent of such a transfer and forward the necessary information to it. Article 26 – Quorum – Voting – Number of votes The authorised intermediary shall not issue a notification of transfer of at General Meetings ownership taking place after 12 midnight CET on the second business The quorum at General Meetings is calculated on the basis of the total day before the General Meeting, nor shall the Company take such a number of Ordinary Shares and the quorum at Special Meetings is transfer into consideration. calculated on the basis of the total number of Preferred Shares in the Shareholders in the Company who are not domiciled in France may relevant class shares, less those shares not entitled to vote in accordance be registered in an account and represented at General Meetings by with the provisions of the law or of the Articles of Association. any intermediary that has been registered on their behalf and given In the case of remote voting, only ballots received by the Company prior a general power of attorney to manage the shares. When opening its to the General Meeting within the time periods and under the conditions account, however, the intermediary must have declared its status, as an prescribed by the applicable laws and regulations shall be counted. intermediary holding shares on behalf of third parties, to the Company or the financial intermediary acting as account holder, in accordance with In the event of a proxy vote without naming a proxy holder, the Chairman the applicable and regulatory provisions. shall add a vote in favour of the resolutions presented or approved by the Board of Directors and a vote against all other resolutions. Following a decision by the Board of Directors published in the notice convening the meeting, Shareholders may participate in General Meetings Except in the special cases provided for by law, each Shareholder at a by videoconferencing, or by any other means of telecommunication or General Meeting shall have the right to cast as many votes as Ordinary remote transmission, including the internet, in accordance with the Shares he holds for which all capital calls have been met and each 572 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. General Information Articles of Association − version to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting of 21 May 2019 ADDED TEXT DELETED TEXT Shareholder at a Special Meeting of a given class shall have the right In order to pass, resolutions require a two-thirds majority of the to cast as many votes as Preferred Shares shares he holds for which all votes of the holders of Ordinary shares present, represented or capital calls have been met. voting remotely. The Company shall have the right to request from an intermediary 3. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, and as permitted by registered on behalf of a Shareholder who is not domiciled in France, but law, an Extraordinary General Meeting which approves a capital which has a general power of attorney to manage the securities of that increase through the capitalisation of reserves, profits or share Shareholder, to provide a list of Shareholders which it represents and premiums shall be subject to the same quorum and majority voting whose votes will be exercised at a General Meeting. requirements as an Ordinary General Meeting. The votes or proxies exercised by an intermediary which has not disclosed that it is acting in that capacity in accordance with applicable laws and Article 29 – Special Meetings regulations or the Articles of Association, or which has not disclosed the 1. All holders of Preferred Shares of the same class are convened in identity of the securities holders, shall not be counted. Special Meetings. Holders of Ordinary Shares do not have the right to attend Special Article 27 – Ordinary General Meetings Meetings and have no voting rights therein. 1. All decisions which do not amend the Articles of Association are In accordance with the law, the deliberations of Special Meetings taken by the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders. convened following the first notice shall be valid only if the holders of The Ordinary General Meeting must meet at least once a year Preferred Shares belonging to the class for which the Special Meeting within the period prescribed by the applicable laws and regulations is to be held and present or represented hold, in the aggregate, to consider and vote on the accounts for the prior financial year. at least one-third, or, following the second notice, one-fifth of all Preferred Shares with voting rights at Special Meetings, and if it Its powers include the following: is proposed that the rights attached to those shares be amended. –– to approve, modify or reject the accounts submitted to it; If this last quorum is not met, the second Special Meeting may be –– to decide on the distribution and allocation of profit in accordance postponed to a date not later than two months after the date for with the Articles of Association; which it was scheduled. –– to discharge or refuse to discharge directors; In order to pass, resolutions require a two-thirds majority of the –– to appoint and dismiss directors; votes of the Preferred Shareholders present or represented. –– to approve or reject temporary appointments of directors by the 2. Collective resolutions falling under the authority of Ordinary General Board of Directors; Meetings or Extraordinary General Meetings are not subject to –– to authorise the purchase of Ordinary shares or Preferred approval by Special Meetings. Shares under share buyback programmes established under the However, in accordance with the provisions of Article L. 225-99 conditions stipulated by Articles L. 225-209 et seq. of the French of the French Commercial Code, any collective resolutions falling Commercial Code (or equivalent regulations applicable as of the under the authority of Ordinary General Meetings and amending date of the relevant transaction); individual rights attached to one or more classes of Preferred Shares –– to appoint the Statutory Auditors; under the Articles of Association shall be final only after they have –– to consider and vote on the special report of the Statutory been approved by the Special Meeting of Preferred Shareholders Auditors concerning transactions subject to prior authorisation for each relevant class of Preferred Shares, voting no later than on by the Board of Directors. the date of the General Meeting. Furthermore, in accordance with the provisions of Article L. 228-17 of the French Commercial Code, 2. The deliberations of the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders any proposed merger or demerger of the Company under which the convened following the first notice shall be valid only if the Ordinary Preferred Shares would not be exchangeable for shares entitling the Shareholders present, represented or voting remotely at the General individual holders to equivalent rights shall be subject to approval by Meeting hold, in the aggregate, at least one fifth of all voting Ordinary a Special Meeting of such Shareholders. shares. 3. In addition to the aforesaid statutory provisions, the following shall There is no quorum requirement for the General Meeting following be subject to approval by Special Meetings of the relevant class of the second notice. Preferred Shareholders: In order to pass, resolutions require a majority of the votes of the –– any issue of Shares giving the holders access to securities Ordinary Shareholders present, represented or voting remotely. granting a right of priority payment in the event of a Distribution Article 28 – Extraordinary General Meetings (as defined in paragraph 3, Article 31 “Determination, allocation and distribution of profit” herein) and/or liquidation dividend over 1. The Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders shall have the Preferred Shares of the relevant class and/or appropriation exclusive authority to amend any of the provisions of the Articles of losses below the proportional share that such securities of Association. However, it shall not increase the obligations of the represent in the share capital in the event of a capital reduction Shareholders other than through transactions, duly authorised and for reasons not due to losses; and carried out, which are the result of an exchange or consolidation of –– any proposal to reincorporate the Company in another legal form. shares. For information, it is duly noted that decisions including but not 2. The deliberations of the Extraordinary General Meeting of limited to the following shall not be subject to approval by Special Shareholders convened following the first notice shall be valid only Meetings of holders of existing Preferred Shares: if the holders of Ordinary shares present, represented or voting –– issues of Ordinary Shares, or issues of a new class of Preferred remotely at the General Meeting hold, in the aggregate, at least Shares with characteristics identical to those of the Preferred one fourth of all voting Ordinary shares, or one fifth of all voting shares following the second notice. If this last quorum is not met, the Shares already issued except for the Issue Price, Issue Date and/ or Rate and the consequences of these characteristics for the 8 second Extraordinary General Meeting may be postponed to a date voting rights of Preferred Shares belonging to a given class; and not later than two months after the date for which it was scheduled. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 573 8 General Information Articles of Association − version to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting of 21 May 2019 ADDED TEXT DELETED TEXT –– Share buybacks and/or cancellations under the terms of dividend (including in the form of an interim dividend) shall be paid (i) buybacks of Preferred Shares by the Company pursuant to to the Ordinary Shareholders. Article 32 “Repurchases of Preferred Shares by the Company”, For purposes of the foregoing paragraph, a “Prudential Event” paragraph B “Option to repurchase Preferred Shares at the means any one of the following two situations: Company’s initiative” herein; (ii) Share buyback programmes (i) the Company’s capital adequacy ratio on a consolidated basis is carried out under the terms and conditions provided by Articles below the minimum percentage required by applicable banking L. 225-209 et seq. of the French Commercial Code; and (iii) a regulations; public offer to buy Ordinary Shares or any class of Preferred (ii) the Company has received written notification from the SGCB Shares. that its financial position will, in the near future, cause its capital adequacy ratio to fall below the minimum percentage cited in Article 30 29 – Financial year paragraph (i). The financial year shall begin on 1 January and end on 31 December 4. Any distribution, regardless of form, approved by the Ordinary of each year. General Meeting or Extraordinary General Meeting, or, if in the form of an interim dividend, by the Board of Directors, that is charged Article 31 30 – Determination, allocation against any of the equity accounts (profits, including profits based and distribution of profit on an interim balance sheet in the case of an interim dividend; retained earnings; reserves; share premiums; or other accounts) (a 1. Five per cent of the profit for a financial year less any accumulated “Distribution”) shall be allocated as follows: losses shall be posted to the legal reserve until the reserve reaches (i) first, to the Preferred Shareholders, up to the amount of the one-tenth of the share capital. Preferred Dividend (as defined in this Article, in paragraph 5.A 2. The balance, increased by retained earnings, if any, shall constitute below); and the distributable profit which the Ordinary General Meeting of (ii) the balance, to the Ordinary Shareholders. Shareholders shall: Consequently, no Distribution shall be paid to the Ordinary –– allocate to one or more ordinary or extraordinary, optional reserve Shareholders in respect of a given financial year if the Preferred accounts, with or without a specific purpose; Dividend payable to the Preferred Shareholders for such year has –– distribute to the Ordinary Shareholders and to the Preferred not been distributed and paid in full. Shareholders as a dividend. A Distribution is allocated to the financial period in respect of which The Ordinary General Meeting may also decide to distribute amounts it is paid, except in the case of interim dividends. An interim dividend from reserves distributable by the Shareholders. paid before the General Meeting convened to vote on the financial Any Distribution (as defined in paragraph 3 hereinafter) shall be statements for Year “n” is allocated to Year “n+1”. These rules for effected under the terms and conditions set out in paragraphs 2 allocating Distributions apply to all Distributions, whether paid out to 8 below. to Ordinary Shareholders or to Preferred Shareholders in the form 3. The Ordinary General Meeting or, in the case of an interim dividend, of a Preferred Dividend. the Board of Directors, may, for a given financial period, decide to 5. If the Preferred Dividend in respect of a given year is not distributed, pay or not to pay a dividend to the Ordinary Shareholders and the the undistributed amount of the Preferred Dividend shall not Preferred Dividend (as defined in paragraph 5.A of this Article) to be carried forward and the Company shall have no obligation to the Preferred Shareholders, in order to comply with the Company’s distribute this amount to the Preferred Shareholders. prudential requirements, inter alia. 5.A. In the event of a Distribution under the terms and conditions It is hereby specified that in order to pay the Preferred Dividend to set out in paragraphs 3 and 4 of this article, the amount of the the Preferred Shareholders, the Ordinary General Meeting must also dividend (the “Preferred Dividend”) payable per Preferred Share have decided to make a Distribution, regardless of the amount, to of a given class in respect of each financial year to which it is the Ordinary Shareholders. Preferred Shareholders shall, however, allocated (other than the first year in which a Preferred Dividend have a right of priority under the terms set out in paragraph 4 of is payable to Preferred Shareholders, in the amount determined this Article. under the conditions set out in paragraph 5.B below), shall be For purposes of this paragraph 3, any payment made to Ordinary calculated by multiplying: Shareholders under a Share buyback shall be deemed to be a (i) the Rate applicable to the relevant class; by Distribution to Ordinary Shareholders and therefore give rise to the (ii) the ratio obtained by dividing the Outstanding Amount (as payment of the full amount of the Preferred Dividend to the Preferred defined in paragraph 5.C) in the given class by the number of Shareholders (even if no dividend is paid to Ordinary Shareholders), Preferred Shares in the given class outstanding as of the date it being specified that the following shall not be deemed to be a of the decision to distribute the Dividend. Distribution to Ordinary Shareholders: (i) purchases of Shares under For purposes of this calculation, the Outstanding Amount shall the terms of Share buyback programmes carried out under the be determined after taking into account the Reduction of the conditions stipulated by Articles L. 225-209 et seq. of the French Outstanding Amount or the Restitution of the Outstanding Amount Commercial Code (or any equivalent regulations applicable as of arising, respectively, from the Net Loss or the Profit (as defined the date of the relevant transaction), unless such purchases are in paragraph 5.C herein) for the year immediately preceding the effected by means of a public offer to buy shares; and (ii) public year in which the Preferred Dividend is payable. offers to buy shares that are tendered to all Ordinary Shareholders and Preferred Shareholders in proportion to their ownership of the It is hereby specified that, in the event that a Preferred Dividend is share capital. In the event of a share buyback that is deemed to be paid before the date of a Reduction of the Outstanding Amount or a Distribution, the Preferred Dividend shall be payable on the Date a Restitution of the Outstanding Amount, the Preferred Dividend on which the relevant event occurred, which shall then be deemed shall be deemed to have been determined on a provisional basis to be a “Payment Date” as defined in paragraph 8 of this Article. (based on the Outstanding Amount calculated on the basis of the last available certified annual consolidated financial statements). Should there arise a Prudential Event affecting the Company, no The Preferred Dividend shall be recalculated immediately Preferred Dividend shall be paid to the Preferred Shareholders following completion of the Reduction of the Outstanding Amount (including in the case covered by the foregoing paragraph) and no 574 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. General Information Articles of Association − version to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting of 21 May 2019 ADDED TEXT DELETED TEXT or the Restitution of the Outstanding Amount. In the event that the shareholders’ equity – Group share, excluding consolidated equity Preferred Dividend recalculated in this manner is higher than the instruments of the Company to which the Preferred Shares are Dividend already paid, an additional dividend shall be paid to the subordinated, as reflected in the Company’s certified annual Preferred Shareholders on the next date on which a Distribution consolidated financial statements, and (ii) the amount of the is paid to the Ordinary Shareholders. Conversely, in the event that Notional Capital as reflected in the Company’s certified annual the Preferred Dividend recalculated in this manner is lower than consolidated financial statements. the dividend already paid, the Preferred Shareholders shall not be If, following a Reduction of the Outstanding Amount, positive required to refund any amounts, notwithstanding any statutory or consolidated net income – Group share, as reflected in the regulatory provisions to the contrary. Company’s certified annual consolidated financial statements, is 5.B. In the event that the Initial Meeting decides to distribute a Preferred recognised (a “Profit”), the Outstanding Amount applicable to the Dividend, the resulting Preferred Dividend payable per Preferred given class of Preferred Shares shall be increased by an amount Share shall be calculated by applying to the amount obtained by (the “Restitution of the Outstanding Amount”) calculated by multiplying (i) by (ii) as defined in paragraph 5.A above, the ratio multiplying (i) the Profit and (ii) the Percentage of Preferred Shares obtained by dividing (a) the number of days elapsed between the in the Notional Capital of the given class determined on the date period from the Date of Issue (inclusive) and the Payment Date of publication of the certified consolidated financial statements (exclusive) by (b) 365; reflecting the Profit in question. where “Initial Meeting” means the first General Meeting held The Restitution of the Outstanding Amount shall be deemed to after the end of the financial year during which the Preferred have been carried out on the date of publication of the certified Shares are issued and that has approved a Distribution to the consolidated financial statements reflecting the Profit in question Ordinary Shareholders and/or convened to vote on the Company’s after a Reduction of the Outstanding Amount. financial statements for the financial year in which the Preferred Notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of calculating the Shares are issued. Preferred Dividend payable in respect of a given financial year, By exception to the first subparagraph of paragraph 5.B above, the Restitution of the Outstanding Amount, barring prior approval in the event of a distribution of one or more interim dividend(s) to by the SGCB, shall not be taken into account, as indicated above, the Ordinary Shareholders before the Initial Meeting, a sum equal unless a Preferred Dividend (regardless of the amount thereof) to the product of (i) multiplied by (ii) as defined in paragraph 5.A was distributed in respect of the previous two financial years. above shall be paid to the Preferred Shareholders on the date In any event, the Outstanding Amount for a given class of Preferred on which the first interim dividend was paid to the Ordinary Shares shall be no greater than the product of the outstanding Shareholders. If this sum is less than the amount indicated in number of Preferred Shares in the given class multiplied by the paragraph 5.B of this Article as calculated on the date of the Adjusted Issue Price for the given class. Initial Meeting and if the Initial Meeting is the Meeting convened The “Percentage of Preferred Shares in the Notional to vote on the Company’s financial statements for the financial Capital” means, for a given class of Preferred Shares, the ratio year in which the Preferred Shares are issued and duly noting obtained by dividing the Notional Capital of the Preferred Shares the payment of one or more interim dividend(s) to the Preferred in the given class by the Notional Capital. Shareholders and Ordinary Shareholders, an additional amount Where: equal to the difference, if positive, between the amount indicated in paragraph 5.B of this Article paid to the Preferred Shareholders “Notional Capital” means the share capital composed of and the amount of the first interim dividend already paid to the Ordinary Shares and Preferred Shares, plus the amount of any Ordinary Shareholders shall be paid to the Preferred Shareholders. share premiums and of the legal reserve, based on the Company’s The said additional amount shall be paid on the day after the date accounts at a given date. of the Initial Meeting. “Notional Capital of the Preferred Shares” means, for a 5.C. For purposes of these Articles of Association, the “Outstanding given class of Preferred Shares, at a given date: Amount” means the product obtained by multiplying the (i) the product of the number of Preferred Shares in the given outstanding number of Preferred Shares in a given class by class initially issued multiplied by their Issue Price; the Adjusted Issue Price for the given class, (i) less the amount (ii) plus, for each new issue of Preferred Shares of the same of each Reduction of the Outstanding Amount (as defined class or any increase in the par value of the Preferred below) applicable to the given class, (ii) plus the amount of Shares effected since their issue, the increase in the each Restitution of the Outstanding Amount (as defined below) nominal amount of the share capital and any increase applicable to the given class, in each instance from the Date of in any corresponding share premiums of any kind; for Issue of the Preferred Shares in the given class. information, it is duly noted that any issues of Preferred If consolidated net income – Group share is negative (the “Loss”) Shares or increases in the par value of Preferred Shares as reflected in the Company’s certified annual consolidated by the capitalisation of any share premiums and/or of the financial statements after taking the Exempt Amount into account legal reserve shall have no impact on the Notional Capital (the “Net Loss”), the Outstanding Amount applicable to the given of the Preferred Shares, as the increase in the share capital class of Preferred Shares shall be reduced by an amount (the is offset by a reduction in any share premiums of any kind “Reduction of the Outstanding Amount”) calculated by and/or in the legal reserve; multiplying (i) the Net Loss and (ii) the Percentage of the Preferred (iii) plus a share of any increase in the legal reserve effected Shares in the Notional Capital of the given class (as defined since the issuance of the Preferred Shares in proportion to below) determined on the date of publication of the certified the Percentage of the Preferred Shares in Notional Capital consolidated financial statements reflecting the Loss in question. of the given class determined immediately before the given The Reduction of the Outstanding Amount shall be deemed to increase in the legal reserve; have been carried out on the date of publication of the certified consolidated financial statements reflecting the Loss in question. (iv) less the sum of any reductions in the Notional Capital to be 8 allocated to the Preferred Shares in the given class since For purposes of the foregoing paragraph, “Exempt Amount” the issuance of the Preferred Shares in the given class, that means the difference between (i) the amount of consolidated is, the sum of the following amounts: The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 575 8 General Information Articles of Association − version to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting of 21 May 2019 ADDED TEXT DELETED TEXT (A) an amount equal to the share of capital reductions due to B. Option to repurchase Preferred Shares at the Company’s losses, which is to be allocated to the Preferred Shares in initiative the given class; (B) an amount equal to the product (x) of any reduction in the 1.1. Exercise of the Preferred Share buyback option amount of any share premiums and/or of the legal reserve 1. The Board of Directors may, with the right to further delegate such effected as part of a capital reduction due to losses or a loss powers, pursuant to the applicable laws and regulations, buy back which is allocated to such accounts, and (y) the Percentage Preferred Shares, subject to prior approval by the SGCB, under the of Preferred Shares in the Notional Capital in the given class terms and conditions set out in this Article in paragraph 1.2, “Cases determined immediately before the given capital reduction in which the Company may exercise its option to buy back Preferred due to losses or the allocation of the given loss; and Shares”. (C) for capital reductions for a reason other than losses, an 2. Any buyback notice under the terms of this Article 32.B is irrevocable, amount equal to: it being specified that a buyback notice may be contingent upon (x) the amount paid, and/or the value of any asset, as there being no objection from the Company’s creditors. determined by an expert appointed by the Board of 3. If the buyback applies to only part of the Preferred Shares, the Directors (failing which, by an order of the Presiding Preferred Shares will be repurchased from the holders of Preferred Judge of the Paris Commercial Court ruling in summary Shares of a given class on a proportional basis. In the event that the proceedings under the terms of Article 1843-4 of the number of Preferred Shares to be repurchased proportionately is not French Civil Code), owing to Preferred Shareholders of a whole number, the number of Preferred Shares effectively bought the given class and charged against the share capital, back from the holder shall be the next lower whole number. any share premiums and/or the legal reserve, and 4. All Preferred Shares bought back in this manner shall be cancelled (y) in the event of a cancellation of Preferred Shares that as of the buyback date. does not give rise to any payment or allocation of assets 5. The reports of the Board of Directors and of the Statutory Auditors to Preferred Shareholders upon cancellation (in case of stipulated in Article R. 228-19 of the French Commercial Code shall cancellation of Preferred Shares held in treasury, inter be made available to the Shareholders at the Company’s registered alia), the product of the number of cancelled Preferred office no later than fifteen days following the Board Meeting that Shares in the given class multiplied by their Adjusted carried out the buyback. These reports shall also be brought to the Issue Price as of the cancellation date. attention of the Shareholders at the next General Meeting. 6. Preferred Shares shall be entitled to the dividend on the first day of the financial year in which they are issued. No Preferred Dividend 1.2. Cases in which the Company may exercise its option shall be payable during the said year, except in the event that an to buy back Preferred Shares interim dividend in respect of the following year is paid to the Ordinary Shareholders. Under the conditions set out in paragraph 1.1 “Exercise of the Preferred Share buyback option” of this Article, the Board of Directors may, with 7. The Preferred Dividend is payable on the date on which Distributions the right to further delegate such powers pursuant to the applicable laws are made or are deemed (in accordance with the second and regulations, subject to prior approval by the SGCB, repurchase the subparagraph of paragraph 3 above) to be made to the Ordinary Preferred Shares in the following cases: Shareholders (the “Payment Date”). (i) subject to providing written notice to the Preferred Shareholders 8. The Ordinary General Meeting may offer each Ordinary Shareholder of the given class in writing or by a notice published in a daily and each Preferred Shareholder, up to the limits and under the business and financial news publication with a wide circulation conditions that it shall determine, the option of receiving all or part of in Paris at least 30 calendar days and no more than 60 calendar the dividend payment, including payment of any Preferred Dividend days in advance, the Board of Directors may arrange to repurchase, or interim dividend, either in cash or in Shares to be issued, where at any time after the tenth anniversary of the Date on which the the Shares awarded in this case are of the same class as the Shares given Preferred Shares were issued, all or part of the relevant that entitled the holder to the dividend, that is, in the form of either Preferred Shares at the Buyback Amount (as defined in this Ordinary Shares or Preferred Shares of the same class. Article in paragraph 1.3, “Determination of the Buyback Amount in the event that the Company exercises its option to buy back the Article 32 – Repurchases of Preferred Shares Preferred Shares”) on the date stated in the notice, provided that by the Company (i) a Preferred Dividend has been distributed in respect of the last A. Share buyback programme and public buyback offer two financial years before the buyback, unless the SGCB waives this condition for the Company, and (ii) the Outstanding Amount Having regard to Preferred Shares, and subject to prior approval by the applicable to the given class of Preferred Shares is no less than the General Meeting, the Board of Directors may, with the authority to further product of the Adjusted Issue Price of the given class multiplied by delegate such power pursuant to the applicable laws and regulations, the number of outstanding Preferred Shares of the given class; and subject to prior approval by the Secretary General of the French Banking Commission (or any supervisory authority that may come to (ii) if an issue, conversion, merger or demerger is subject to approval replace it) (the “SGCB”) buy back Preferred Shares and/or Ordinary by a Special Meeting of Preferred Shareholders belonging to a given Shares and, if applicable, cancel such Shares, in the proportions that class, and if such Special Meeting does not approve such an issue, it shall determine, under the terms of (i) a Share buyback programme exchange, merger or demerger under the quorum and majority carried out under the terms and conditions stipulated by Articles requirements provided by these Articles of Association, and subject L. 225-209 et seq. of the French Commercial Code (or any equivalent to providing notice to the Preferred Shareholders of the given class regulations applicable as of the date of the relevant transaction) or in writing or by means of a notice published in a daily business and (ii) any public buyback offer. financial news publication with a wide circulation in Paris at least 30 calendar days and no more than 60 calendar days in advance, the Board of Directors may arrange to repurchase all (and not just part) of the Preferred Shares in the said class at the Buyback Amount (as defined in this Article in paragraph 1.3, “Determination of the Buyback Amount in the event that the Company exercises its 576 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. General Information Articles of Association − version to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting of 21 May 2019 ADDED TEXT DELETED TEXT option to buy back the Preferred Shares”) on the date stated in the (a) first, notice; -the Payment Date (inclusive) of the Preferred Dividend paid in (iii) if, due to a change in French law or regulations, or due to a change respect of Year “n-1” or, if no Preferred Dividend was paid in in the official application or interpretation thereof that may come respect of that year, the anniversary date of the issue in Year into effect after the Date of Issue of the Preferred Shares, the “n-1” (inclusive), if: proceeds from the issue of the Preferred Shares ceases to fully (x) the Ordinary General Meeting convened to vote on qualify as Core Capital (as defined in this Article, in paragraph 1.3, the appropriation of net income for Year “n-1” has not “Determination of the Buyback Amount in the event that the yet been held and a preferred dividend has not been Company exercises its option to buy back the Preferred Shares”) approved for Year “n”, or and subject to providing notice to the Preferred Shareholders of the (y) the Ordinary General Meeting convened to vote on the given class in writing or by a notice published in a daily business appropriation of net income for Year “n-1” has been held and financial news publication with a wide circulation in Paris at and a Preferred Dividend has been approved for Year “n” least 30 calendar days and no more than 60 calendar days in and such Dividend has not yet been paid and will not advance, the Board of Directors may arrange to repurchase all have been paid as of the buyback date, or (and not just part) of the portion of the Preferred Shares (where -the Payment Date (inclusive) of the Preferred Dividend in respect each class of Preferred Shares shall receive equal treatment based of Year “n” or, if no Preferred Dividend is paid in respect of that on its pro rate share of the Percentage of Preferred Shares in the year, the anniversary date of the issue in Year “n” (inclusive), if: Notional Capital applicable thereto) that cease to fully qualify as Core Capital (as defined in this Article, in paragraph 1.3, (x) a Preferred Dividend has been approved for Year “n” “Determination of the Buyback Amount in the event that the and such Dividend has been paid or will be paid as of Company exercises its option to buy back the Preferred Shares”), the buyback date, or as of a date stated in the notice which shall not be earlier than the (y) the Ordinary General Meeting convened to vote on the date on which the proceeds from the issue of the Preferred Shares allocation of net income for Year “n-1” has been held cease to fully qualify as Core Capital (as defined in this Article, in and a Preferred Dividend was not approved for Year “n”, paragraph 1.3, “Determination of the Buyback Amount in the event (b) second, the buyback date (exclusive), which is deemed to occur that the Company exercises its option to buy back the Preferred during Year “n” for purposes of this paragraph. Shares”); As an exception to the foregoing, if the last Preferred Dividend (iv) if, due to illegality or to a change in French laws or regulations paid in respect of Year “n-1” or Year “n” was paid when an interim or in the official application or interpretation thereof that may dividend was paid, the Calculation Period shall be: come into effect after the Date of Issue of Preferred Shares of a (a) the period between the date of the Ordinary General Meeting given class, and that may result in an unfavourable change in the convened to vote on the financial statements for the year in financial condition of the holders of these Preferred Shares, the respect of which an interim dividend was paid, if the meeting is Board of Directors may, in order to protect the legitimate interests held before the buyback date, and the buyback date; or of the Company and of the holders of such Preferred Shares, and (b) zero, if the Ordinary General Meeting convened to vote on the subject to providing notice to the Preferred Shareholders of the financial statements for the year in respect of which an interim given class in writing or by a notice published in a daily business dividend was paid, is held after the buyback date. and financial news publication with a wide circulation in Paris at least 30 calendar days and no more than 60 calendar days Article 33 – Conversion of Preferred Shares in advance, arrange to repurchase all (and not just part) of the relevant Preferred Shares at the Buyback Amount (as defined 1. The Board of Directors may, with the right to further delegate such in this Article, in paragraph 1.3, “Determination of the Buyback powers pursuant to the applicable laws and regulations, in the Amount in the event that the Company exercises its option to buy cases and under the conditions set out in paragraph 2 of this Article, back the Preferred Shares”), as of a date stated in the notice which convert all (and not just part) of the Preferred Shares of a given shall not be earlier than the effective date of the illegality, of the class into Ordinary Shares, using a conversion ratio (calculated to change in French laws or regulations, or in the official application three decimal points; the fourth decimal point is rounded to the next or interpretation thereof, as the case may be. nearest decimal point and 0.0005 is rounded to the next highest one-thousandth, that is, to 0.001) (the “Conversion Ratio”), 1.3 Determination of the Buyback Amount in the event determined for the Ordinary Shares, on the basis of the Value of that the Company exercises its option to buy back an Ordinary Share (as defined in paragraph 8 of this Article) and the Preferred Shares for the Preferred Shares, on the basis of the Buyback Amount (as defined in paragraph 1.3, “Determination of the Buyback Amount For purposes of this Article 32.B, in the event that the Company exercises its option to buy back the nn “Core Capital” means tier one capital (i) as defined in Article 2 of Preferred Shares” of Article 32, “Repurchases of Preferred Shares CRBF (Comité de la réglementation bancaire et financière) Regulation by the Company” of the Articles of Association). 90-02 of 23 February 1990, as amended; or (ii) funds qualified as 2. The conversion procedure shall be implemented only if the following such by the SGCB, without any upper limit; two events occur: nn “Buyback Amount” means, for each Preferred Share of a given –– in the case of a merger or demerger requiring approval by a class: Special Meeting of a given class of Preferred Shareholders, if the (i) the Adjusted Issue Price applicable to that class, Special Meeting does not approve the merger or demerger under (ii) plus an amount calculated by multiplying (a) the ratio obtained the quorum and majority requirements stipulated herein; and by dividing the Outstanding Amount applicable to the given –– if the Company has filed for prior SGCB approval of the proposed class by the number of Preferred Shares of the given class outstanding as of the buyback date, by (b) the Rate and (c) the transaction and not secured such approval in time to carry out the buyback of the given class of Preferred Shares in accordance 8 ratio obtained by dividing the number of days elapsed during the with subparagraph (ii) of paragraph 1.2, “Cases in which the Calculation Period by 365 days; Company may exercise its option to buy back Preferred Shares” nn “Calculation Period” means the period between: and Article 32 “Repurchases of Preferred Shares by the The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 577 8 General Information Articles of Association − version to be approved by the extraordinary general meeting of 21 May 2019 ADDED TEXT DELETED TEXT Company”, and inasmuch as the terms and conditions set forth Article 34 31 – Dissolution – Liquidation below are met as of the conversion date: 1. The Company shall be in liquidation as from the time that it is (i) the Extraordinary General Meeting has approved or dissolved, for any reason whatsoever. Its legal personality shall authorised the conversion, and subsist for purposes of such liquidation and until completion thereof. (ii) approval for the conversion has been secured from the The shares may continue to be traded until liquidation has been SGCB. completed. 3. When carrying out the conversion procedure, the Company shall Dissolution of the Company shall be effective as against third parties undertake to identify a reasonable way, under then-prevailing only as from the date on which the notice of dissolution is published market conditions, to enable those Preferred Shareholders who wish in the Paris Trade and Company Registry. to do so to reclassify the Ordinary Shares to which the conversion of their Preferred Shares will entitle them. At the end of the life of the Company or if it is dissolved in advance by an Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders, said Meeting 4. The holders of the Preferred Shares in the given class shall be shall fix the rules governing liquidation. Voting in accordance notified of the decision to convert their Shares in writing or by a with the quorum and majority voting requirements applicable to notice published in a daily business and financial news publication Ordinary General Meetings, it shall appoint one or more liquidators with a wide circulation in Paris at least 30 calendar days and no whose powers it shall determine, and who shall carry out their more than 60 calendar days before the effective date of conversion. responsibilities in accordance with the law. Upon appointment of 5. If the total number of Ordinary Shares to be received by a Preferred the liquidators, the functions of the directors, the Chairman, the Shareholder obtained by applying the Conversion Ratio to the Chief Executive Officer and the Deputy Chief Executive Officers shall number of Preferred Shares held by the Shareholder is not a whole cease. number, such Shareholder shall receive the next lowest number of Throughout the duration of liquidation, the General Meeting and Ordinary Shares; in this case, the Shareholder shall receive a sum the Special Meetings of Shareholders shall continue to exercise the equal to the fractional Value of the fractional Ordinary Share. same powers as they it did during the life of the Company. 6. Any notice of conversion under the terms of these provisions shall 2. The liquidator shall represent the Company. He shall be vested with be irrevocable, it being specified that a conversion notice may be the broadest powers to dispose of its assets, even informally. He is subject to certain conditions. authorised to pay creditors and distribute the remaining balance. 7. All Preferred Shares converted in this manner shall be fully fungible The General Meeting may authorise the liquidator to continue with the Ordinary Shares as of their conversion date. pending business or to undertake new business for the purpose 8. For purposes of this Article, “Value of an Ordinary Share” means of the liquidation. the greater of the following two values: 3. In the event of the Company’s liquidation, the Preferred Shares shall (a) the volume-weighted average quoted price of an Ordinary Share rank pari passu amongst themselves and with the Ordinary Shares on Euronext Paris (or any other exchange that may come to as set forth below. replace it) over the last fifteen trading days following but not After all of the Company’s liabilities have been settled, the Preferred including the date of publication of the notice indicated in Shares and the Ordinary Shares shall have identical rights to the paragraph 4 above (failing which, the date on which the written net assets, proportional to the percentage of Notional Capital notices indicated paragraph 4 above are sent); and represented by each class of Shares, and, with respect to the (b) 95% of the volume-weighted average quoted price of the Preferred Shares in each class, up to the amount of their Adjusted Ordinary Shares on Euronext Paris (or any other exchange Issue Price (as defined in Article 6, “Share Capital” of the Articles that may come to replace it) over the last fifteen trading days of Association). preceding but not including the date of publication of the notice The par value of the Ordinary shares and of the Preferred Shares indicated in paragraph 4 above (failing which, the date on which shall be reimbursed proportional to their share of the Company’s the written notices indicated paragraph 4 above are sent). share capital, and any liquidation dividend shall be distributed, such 9. The Board of Directors’ reports and Statutory Auditors’ reports that the principle set out in the foregoing paragraph is observed, provided by Article R. 228-18 of the French Commercial Code and, for all of the foregoing, and with respect to the Preferred shall be made available to the Shareholders at the Company’s Shares, up to the Adjusted Issue Price. registered office (i) if the Extraordinary General Meeting approves the conversion, no later than the date on which that meeting is Article 35 32 – Disputes convened; or (ii) if the Extraordinary General Meeting delegates its powers to carry out the conversion to the Board of Directors, no Courts having jurisdiction under ordinary law shall resolve any dispute later than fifteen days after the meeting at which the Board uses the which may arise during the life of the Company or during liquidation authority granted to it by the Extraordinary General Meeting. These following dissolution, either among the Shareholders, the managing reports shall also be brought to the attention of the Shareholders at and governing bodies and the Company, or among the Shareholders the next General Meeting. themselves, in connection with corporate business or compliance with the provisions of the Articles of Association. 578 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. General Information Information on the Company INFORMATION ON THE COMPANY ACQUISITIONS MADE BY CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. OVER THE PAST THREE FINANCIAL YEARS Main acquisitions completed Date Investments Financing 31/08/2016 Acquisition of KBI by Amundi (acquisition of 87.5% of the company, Amundi’s acquisition was financed from own resources. with the management team holding 12.5%); KBI changed its name to KBI Global Investors. 19/10/2016 CFM Indosuez Wealth Management signed a cross-referral agreement Amundi’s acquisition was financed from own resources. with HSBC Private Bank to service HSBC customers in Monaco. 03/07/2017 Amundi finalised the acquisition of 100% of Pioneer Investments. The acquisition was financed by using Amundi’s surplus capital for €1.5 billion, by an Amundi capital increase with pre-emptive subscription rights for €1.4 billion and for the balance by issuing senior and subordinated debt for €0.6 billion. 13/07/2017 Indosuez Wealth Management signs agreement for acquisition of The acquisition was financed by core own funds generated Crédit Industriel et Commercial’s private banking operations in and retained during the year. Singapore and Hong Kong. 21/12/2017 Finalisation of the acquisition by Crédit Agricole Cariparma of 95.3% of The acquisition was financed by core own funds generated the capital of three Italian savings banks. The preconditions had been and retained during the year and by subordinated and met for the acquisition of the three savings banks in Cesena (Cassa non-subordinated medium term notes. di Risparmio di Cesena SpA), Rimini (Cassa di Risparmio di Rimini SpA) and San Miniato (Cassa di Risparmio di San Miniato SpA) from the “Voluntary Scheme” section of Italy’s Interbank Deposit Insurance Fund (“Schema Volontario”). 26/12/2017 Crédit Agricole S.A. finalised the acquisition of Natixis’ 15% stake in The acquisition was financed by core own funds generated CACEIS, giving it 100% control of the company’s capital. and retained during the year and by subordinated and non-subordinated medium-term notes. 03/05/2018 Indosuez Wealth Management finalised the acquisition of 94.1% of The acquisition was financed by core own funds generated Banca Leonardo. and retained during the year. 26/07/2018 Crédit Agricole Assurances finalised the acquisition of 5% of the share The acquisition was financed by core own funds generated capital of Credito Valtellinese S.p.A. and retained during the year. 20/12/2018 Crédit Agricole Assurances finalised the acquisition of all of the share The acquisition was financed by core own funds generated capital of Global Assicurazioni S.p.A. and retained during the year. 21/12/2018 Crédit Agricole Assurances finalised the acquisition of a 25% interest The acquisition was financed by core own funds generated in GNB SEGUROS, bringing its gross profit-sharing to 75%. and retained during the year. NOTE: We cannot disclose certain information about investment amounts without violating confidentiality agreements or revealing information to our competitors that could be detrimental to the Group. Acquisitions in progress On 1 January 2019 the Crédit Agricole Group established Crédit Agricole Agricole Technologies & Services as well as SILCA. CA-GIP encompasses Group Infrastructure Platform (CA-GIP), as part of its medium-term nearly 80% of the infrastructure and IT production of the Crédit Agricole “Strategic Ambition 2020” plan, to regroup the infrastructure and Group and is governed jointly by the Regional Banks and Crédit Agricole IT activities of Crédit Agricole Assurances, Crédit Agricole CIB, Crédit S.A. NEW PRODUCTS AND SERVICES The entities of the Group regularly offer new products and services to customers. Information is available on the Group’s websites, in particular in the press releases accessible online at www.credit-agricole.com. MATERIAL CONTRACTS In the framework of the IPO of Crédit Agricole S.A. in 2001, CNCA (now provisions of this agreement are set out in Chapter IV of the Registration Crédit Agricole S.A.) signed an agreement with the Regional Banks aiming to govern internal relations within Crédit Agricole Group. The main document filed by Crédit Agricole S.A. with the Commission des opérations de bourse on 22 October 2001 under number R. 01-453. The 8 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 579 8 General Information Information on the Company agreement notably provided for the creation of a Fund for Bank Liquidity (CAA). The new guarantees came into effect on 2 January 2014 and and Solvency Risks (“FRBLS”) designed to enable Crédit Agricole S.A. to subsequently allowed the transfer of regulatory requirements applying fulfil its role as central body by providing assistance to any of the members to Crédit Agricole S.A.’s interests both in the Regional Banks (CCI/CCA) of the Crédit Agricole network as defined by the French Monetary and and in CAA. Financial Code who would experience difficulties. To allow for changes As part of the “Eurêka” Crédit Agricole Group structure simplification in the way the FRBLS works following Crédit Agricole Corporate and operation(1), the Switch guarantee mechanism was amended in 2016 Investment Bank’s affiliation to the Crédit Agricole network, Crédit by two supplemental agreements, signed respectively on 17 February Agricole S.A. approved new regulations at its 13 December 2011 Board (Supplemental agreement No. 2) and 21 July (Supplemental agreement Meeting, which set new rules for the contributions paid by Crédit Agricole No. 3). S.A. on behalf of its affiliates. With these supplemental agreements, Crédit Agricole S.A. and the The fund was originally allocated €610 million in assets. At Regional Banks decided: i) to limit the scope of the guarantees previously 31 December 2018 it totalled €1,152 million, having been increased granted by the Regional Banks to Crédit Agricole S.A. exclusively to Crédit by €40 million in the course of the year. Agricole S.A.’s interest in Crédit Agricole Assurances (CAA), following the Furthermore, since CNCA’s reorganisation as a mutual company in 1988, transfer of Crédit Agricole S.A.’s interest in the Regional Banks to Sacam the Regional Banks have committed to making up any shortfall suffered Mutualisation; ii) to change the conditions of expiry of the coverage by creditors should Crédit Agricole S.A. become insolvent or experience obligation for insurance entities to enable the beneficiary to gradually similar financial difficulties as a result of a court-supervised liquidation, reduce the guaranteed amount; iii) to replace the quarterly calculation or once dissolution-related formalities are complete. The Regional Banks’ with a half-yearly calculation. The new scope and guarantee terms came potential commitment under this guarantee is equal to the sum of their into effect on 1 July 2016. share capital and reserves. The effectiveness of the mechanism is secured by a security deposit paid by the Regional Banks to Crédit Agricole S.A. Switch guarantee The guarantee transfers to the Regional Banks the risk of a fall in the The Switch mechanism was implemented on 23 December 2011 as part equity-accounted value of Crédit Agricole S.A.’s interests in CAA. of the financial relationship framework between Crédit Agricole S.A., As soon as a drop in value is observed, the guarantee mechanism is as central body, and the mutualist network of Crédit Agricole Regional activated and Crédit Agricole S.A. receives compensation drawn from the Banks. cash security deposit. If the equity-accounted value later recovers, Crédit It initially enabled the transfer of the regulatory requirements applying Agricole S.A. can return previously paid compensation in accordance to Crédit Agricole S.A.’s interests in the Regional Banks, which were with a financial recovery clause. accounted for under the equity method in the consolidated financial The guarantee expires on 1 March 2027, when it may be extended statements of Crédit Agricole S.A. before the Eurêka operation was automatically. The guarantee may be terminated early, under certain carried out. circumstances and subject to prior notification of the ACPR. By the amendment signed on 19 December 2013, Crédit Agricole S.A. The guarantee deposit is remunerated at a fixed rate based on conditions and the Regional Banks decided to extend the guarantee base granted prevailing for long term liquidity. The guarantee attracts a fixed by the Regional Banks to Crédit Agricole S.A. on 23 December 2011 to remuneration covering the present value of the risk and cost of capital Crédit Agricole S.A.’s equity investment in Crédit Agricole Assurances of the Regional Banks. MATERIAL CHANGES The financial statements for the 2018 financial year were approved by the Board of Directors at its meeting of 13 February 2019. Since that date, there have been no material changes in the financial position or business operations of Crédit Agricole S.A. parent company and Group. PUBLICLY AVAILABLE DOCUMENTS This document is available on the website www.credit-agricole.com/ All regulated information as defined by the AMF (in Title II of Book II finance/finance and on the website of the Autorité des marchés financiers of the AMF’s General Regulations) is available from the Company’s (AMF), www.amf-france.org. website: www.credit-agricole.com/finance/finance under “Regulatory information”. Crédit Agricole S.A. Articles of Association are reproduced, in full, in this document. GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS OF 21 MAY 2019 The agenda and draft resolutions presented to the Ordinary and Extraordinary General Meeting on Tuesday, 21 May 2019 are available on the website: www.credit-agricole.com/finance/finance/espace-actionnaires/assemblees-generales. (1) Operation “Eurêka” described on page 528 of the 2016 Registration document. 580 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. General Information Information on the Company INFORMATION ON INACTIVE BANK ACCOUNTS Under Articles L. 312-19 and L. 312-20 of the French Monetary and to publish annual information on inactive bank accounts. At end-2018, Financial Code, based on Law No. 2014-617 of 13 June 2014 relative to Crédit Agricole S.A. had two inactive bank accounts for an estimated unclaimed assets on inactive bank accounts, named Law Eckert which total amount of €62,394. No transfer to the Caisse des Dépôts et came into force on 1 January 2016, every credit institutions is required Consignations has been made. INFORMATION ON ACCOUNTS PAYABLES AND RECEIVABLES Under Article L. 441-6-1 of the French Commercial Code, companies Accounts receivable payment terms whose parent company financial statements are certified by a Statutory Auditor are required to disclose in their management report the balance The number of invoices issued by Crédit Agricole S.A. outside its banking of amounts due to suppliers by payment term, as set out in Article activity and related transactions is considered irrelevant. D. 441-4 of Decree No. 2008-1492. These information do not include any banking operations neither related transactions. Accounts payable payment terms (in millions of euros) 2018 2017 Past due (1) Current < 30 days 2 > 30 days < 45 days > 45 days Total (1) CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. GROUP ENTITIES IN FRANCE AND ABROAD The information about Crédit Agricole S.A. Group entities required by sale operations under IFRS 5, as well as entities consolidated using the Article 7 of French law No. 2013-672 of 26 July 2013 on the separation equity method, are excluded. and regulation of banking activities and by Order No. 2014-158 of Revenues from foreign entities correspond to their territorial contribution 20 February 2014 supplemented by Implementing Decree No. 2014‑1657 to the consolidated financial statements prior to elimination of reciprocal of 29 December 2014 implementing Article L. 511-45 of the French intragroup transactions. Monetary and Financial Code, are detailed below. Headcount correspond to the average number of employees of the Consolidated entities included in this reporting are the parent company, reporting period. subsidiaries and branches. Entities classed as discontinued or held-forRevenues Income Income excluding intragroup Headcount Income tax charge tax charge Public grants Geographic Location eliminations (full time equivalent) before tax – current(1) – deferred(1) received France (including DOM-TOM) France(2) 9,991 36,057 2,447 (442) (74) France DOM-TOM Other EU countries Germany 490 1,272 201 (64) 9 Austria 52 136 22 (7) 1 Belgium 53 109 24 (7) Bulgaria 1 Denmark (1) Spain 160 260 56 (17) (3) Finland 7 13 6 (1) (1) Greece Hungary 4 40 2 Ireland(3) 221 599 125 (2) (6) Italy 3,171 11,494 900 (264) (45) Luxembourg 670 1,361 372 (69) (12) 8 Netherlands 84 305 (2) 3 Poland 395 5,122 47 (29) 13 Portugal 123 466 67 (19) 3 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 581 8 General Information Information on the Company Revenues Income Income excluding intragroup Headcount Income tax charge tax charge Public grants Geographic Location eliminations (full time equivalent) before tax – current(1) – deferred(1) received Czech Republic 31 94 18 (3) Romania 12 276 (3) United Kingdom 835 924 410 (104) (17) Slovakia 1 4 1 Sweden 26 41 5 (3) 1 Other Europe countries Monaco 139 455 36 (8) Russia 20 170 3 (1) Serbia 40 877 7 Switzerland 352 1,207 73 (25) 4 Ukraine 107 2,288 55 (9) Guernsey(4) 1 North America Canada 6 12 1 United States 1,205 1,217 636 (96) (18) Mexico 1 2 1 1 Central and South America Argentina 2 2 (2) Brazil 50 127 24 (3) Chile 3 5 2 Africa and Middle East Algeria 7 25 3 (1) Egypt 183 2,365 122 (28) United Arabic Emirates 57 93 31 (1) Morocco 212 2,626 84 (23) (3) Mauritius 3 125 Asia and Oceania (excluding Japan) Australia 57 29 44 (8) (3) China 39 142 10 (7) 5 South Korea 60 88 21 (1) (1) Hong-Kong 239 668 50 (13) 6 India 27 161 (1) (9) Malaysia 7 19 4 (1) Singapore 236 701 65 (9) Taiwan 38 98 16 (3) (2) Vietnam Japan Japan 320 434 173 (45) (4) Total 19,737 72,510 6,155 (1,309) (156) (1) Positive amounts represent a revenue and negative amounts a charge. (2) Tax policy of Crédit Agricole S.A. is presented on Chapter 2 – “Social, environmental and societal contribution”. (3) Irish mutual funds owned by the Group are fiscally transparent. Their income is taxed in France. (4) Companies located in Guernsey are taxed in France (in application of ’article 209 B of the Code général des impôts). 582 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. General Information Information on the Company At 31 December 2018 the Group had the following entities: Type of Geographic Type of Geographic Operation Name business location Operation Name business location 61 Unit linked funds with a detention Amundi Pioneer Institutional Asset rate equal or above 95% AG France Management Inc. AG United States AMUNDI AG France AMUNDI Polska AG Poland AMUNDI (UK) Ltd AG United Kingdom AMUNDI Private Equity Funds AG France AMUNDI ASSET MANAGEMENT AG France AMUNDI Real Estate Italia SGR S.p.A. AG Italy AMUNDI ASSET MANAGEMENT AMUNDI SGR S.p.A. AG Italy BELGIUM AG Belgium AMUNDI Singapore Ltd AG Singapore AMUNDI ASSET MANAGEMENT DUBAI United Arab AMUNDI Smith Breeden AG United States (OFF SHORE) BRANCH AG Emirates AMUNDI Suisse AG Switzerland AMUNDI ASSET MANAGEMENT HONG KONG BRANCH AG Hong Kong AMUNDI Tenue de Comptes AG France AMUNDI ASSET MANAGEMENT AMUNDI USA Inc. AG United States LONDON BRANCH AG United Kingdom AMUNDI Ventures AG France AMUNDI ASSET MANAGEMENT Banca Leonardo AG Italy NEDERLAND AG Netherlands BFT INVESTMENT MANAGERS AG France Amundi Asset Management S.A.I S.A. AG Romania CA Indosuez (Suisse) S.A. Hong Kong Amundi Austria AG Austria Branch AG Hong Kong Amundi Austria GmbH AG Austria CA Indosuez (Suisse) S.A. Singapore Amundi Czech Republic Asset Branch AG Singapore Management Bratislava Branch AG Slovakia CA Indosuez (Suisse) S.A. Switzerland Amundi Czech Republic Asset Branch AG Switzerland Management Sofia Branch AG Bulgaria CA Indosuez (Switzerland) S.A. AG Switzerland Amundi Czech Republic Asset CA Indosuez Finanziaria S.A. AG Switzerland Management, A.S. AG Czech Republic CA Indosuez Gestion AG France Amundi Czech Republic, Investicni CA Indosuez Wealth (Europe) AG Luxembourg Spolecnost, A.S. AG Czech Republic CA Indosuez Wealth (Europe) Belgium Amundi Deutschland GmbH AG Germany Branch AG Belgium AMUNDI Finance AG France CA Indosuez Wealth (Europe) Italy AMUNDI Finance Emissions AG France Branch AG Italy AMUNDI GLOBAL SERVICING AG Luxembourg CA Indosuez Wealth (Europe) Spain AMUNDI Hellas MFMC S.A. AG Greece Branch AG Spain AMUNDI Hong Kong Ltd AG Hong Kong CA Indosuez Wealth (France) AG France AMUNDI Iberia S.G.I.I.C S.A. AG Spain CFM Indosuez Wealth AG Monaco AMUNDI Immobilier AG France CPR AM AG France AMUNDI India Holding AG France Étoile Gestion AG France AMUNDI Intermédiation AG France KBI Fund Managers Limited AG Ireland Amundi Intermédiation Asia PTE Ltd AG Singapore KBI Global Investors (North America) Limited AG Ireland Amundi Intermédiation Dublin Branch AG Ireland KBI Global Investors Limited AG Ireland Amundi Intermédiation London Branch AG United Kingdom LCL Emissions AG France Amundi Investment Fund Management Private Limited Company AG Hungary Pioneer Global Investments (Australia) Pty Limited AG Australia Amundi Ireland Ltd AG Ireland Pioneer Global Investments (Taiwan) Amundi Ireland Ltd London Branch AG United Kingdom LTD AG Taiwan Amundi Ireland Ltd Singapore Branch AG Singapore Pioneer Global Investments LTD AG Ireland AMUNDI Issuance AG France Pioneer Global Investments LTD Buenos AMUNDI Japan AG Japan Aires Branch AG Argentina AMUNDI Japan Holding AG Japan Pioneer Global Investments LTD Jelling AMUNDI Luxembourg S.A. AG Luxembourg Branch AG Denmark Amundi Luxembourg S.A. AG Luxembourg Pioneer Global Investments LTD London Branch AG United Kingdom AMUNDI Malaysia Sdn Bhd AG Malaysia Pioneer Global Investments LTD Madrid Amundi Pioneer Asset Management Inc. AG United States Branch AG Spain Amundi Pioneer Asset Management Pioneer Global Investments LTD Mexico USA Inc. Amundi Pioneer Distributor Inc. AG AG United States United States city Branch AG Mexico 8 Pioneer Global Investments LTD Paris Branch AG France The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 583 8 General Information Information on the Company Type of Geographic Type of Geographic Operation Name business location Operation Name business location Pioneer Global Investments LTD CAA 2013 FCPR C1 AG France Santiago Branch AG Chile CAA 2013 FCPR D1 AG France Pioneer Investment Company A.S. AG Czech Republic CAA 2013-2 AG France Pioneer Investment Management Sgr p.A. AG Italy CAA 2013-3 AG France Société Générale Gestion (S2G) AG France CAA 2014 COMPARTIMENT 1 PART A1 AG France Vanderbilt Capital Advisors LLC AG United States CAA 2014 INVESTISSMENT PART A3 AG France CA Indosuez Wealth (Brazil) S.A. DTVM AG Brazil CAA 2015 COMPARTIMENT 1 AG France CA Indosuez Wealth (Group) AG France CAA 2015 COMPARTIMENT 2 AG France CFM Indosuez Conseil en CAA 2016 AG France Investissement AG France CAA INFRASTRUCTURE AG France CFM Indosuez Conseil en Investissement, Succursale de Nouméa AG New Caledonia CAA INFRASTRUCTURE 2017 AG France CFM Indosuez Gestion AG Monaco CAA INFRASTRUCTURE 2018 – COMPARTIMENT 1 AG France ASSUR&ME AG France CAA PR FI II C1 A1 AG France CA Assicurazioni AG Italy CAA PRIV.FINANC.COMP.1 A1 FIC AG France CACI DANNI AG Italy CAA PRIV.FINANC.COMP.2 A2 FIC AG France CACI LIFE LIMITED AG Ireland CAA PRIVATE EQUITY 2017 AG France CACI NON LIFE LIMITED AG Ireland CAA PRIVATE EQUITY 2017 BIS AG France CACI NON VIE AG France CAA PRIVATE EQUITY 2017 FRANCE CACI Reinsurance Ltd AG Ireland INVESTISSEMENT AG France CACI VIE AG France CAA PRIVATE EQUITY 2017 MEZZANINE AG France CACI VITA AG Italy CAA PRIVATE EQUITY 2017 TER AG France CALIE Europe Succursale France AG France CAA PRIVATE EQUITY 2018 – CALIE Europe Succursale Pologne AG Poland COMPARTIMENT 1 AG France Crédit Agricole Assurances (CAA) AG France CAA PRIVATE EQUITY 2018 Crédit Agricole Creditor Insurance (CACI) AG France – COMPARTIMENT FRANCE INVESTISSEMENT AG France Crédit Agricole Life Insurance Company Japan Ltd AG Japan CAA SECONDAIRE IV AG France Crédit Agricole Life Insurance Europe AG Luxembourg CA-EDRAM OPPORTUNITES FCP 3DEC AG France Crédit Agricole Vita S.p.A. AG Italy CAREPTA R 2016 AG France Finaref Risques Divers AG France CEDAR AG France Finaref Vie AG France Chorial Allocation AG France GNB SEGUROS AG Portugal CNP ACP 10 FCP AG France Médicale de France AG France CNP ACP OBLIG AG France Pacifica AG France COMPARTIMENT DS3 – IMMOBILIER VAUGIRARD AG France Predica AG France COMPARTIMENT DS3 – VAUGIRARD AG France Predica – Prévoyance Dialogue du Crédit Agricole AG Spain CORSAIR 1.52% 25/10/38 AG Luxembourg Space Holding (Ireland) Limited AG Ireland CORSAIR 1.5255% 25/04/35 AG Ireland Space Lux AG Luxembourg CORSAIRE FINANCE IRELAND 0.83% 25-10-38 AG Ireland Spirica AG France CORSAIRE FINANCE IRELAND 1.24% ACACIA AG France 25-10-38 AG Ireland ACAJOU AG France CORSAIRE FINANCE IRELANDE 0.7% AGRICOLE RIVAGE DETTE AG France 25-10-38 AG Ireland AM DESE FIII DS3IMDI AG France EFFITHERMIE FPCI AG France AMUNDI GRD 24 FCP AG France FCPR CAA 2013 AG France AMUNDI PE Solution Alpha AG France FCPR CAA COMP TER PART A3 AG France ARTEMID AG France FCPR CAA COMPART BIS PART A2 AG France BFT Opportunité AG France FCPR CAA COMPARTIMENT 1 PART A1 AG France BFT VALUE PREM OP CD AG France FCPR CAA France Croissance 2 A AG France CA VITA INFRASTRUCTURE CHOICE FCPR PREDICA 2007 A AG France FIPS C.I.A. AG France FCPR PREDICA 2007 C2 AG France CA VITA PRIVATE DEBT CHOICE FIPS FCPR PREDICA 2008 A1 AG France C.l.A. AG France FCPR PREDICA 2008 A2 AG France CA VITA PRIVATE EQUITY CHOICE AG France FCPR PREDICA 2008 A3 AG France CAA 2013 COMPARTIMENT 5 A5 AG France FCPR PREDICA SECONDAIRE I A1 AG France CAA 2013 FCPR B1 AG France 584 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. General Information Information on the Company Type of Geographic Type of Geographic Operation Name business location Operation Name business location FCPR PREDICA SECONDAIRE I A2 AG France PREDICA SECONDAIRES III AG France FCPR PREDICA SECONDAIRES II A AG France Predicant A1 FCP AG France FCPR PREDICA SECONDAIRES II B AG France Predicant A2 FCP AG France FCPR Roosevelt Investissements AG France Predicant A3 FCP AG France FCPR UI CAP AGRO AG France Prediquant Eurocroissance A2 AG France FCPR UI CAP SANTÉ A AG France Prediquant Opportunité AG France FCT BRIDGE 2016-1 AG France PREDIQUANT PREMIUM AG France FCT CAA – Compartment 2017-1 AG France PREDIQUANT STRATEGIES AG France FCT CAREPTA – COMPARTIMENT PREMIUM GR 0% 28 AG Ireland 2014-1 AG France PREMIUM GREEN 0.508% 25-10-38 AG Ireland FCT CAREPTA – COMPARTIMENT PREMIUM GREEN 0.63% 25-10-38 AG Ireland 2014-2 AG France PREMIUM GREEN 1.24% 25/04/35 AG Ireland FCT CAREPTA – COMPARTIMENT RE-2016-1 AG France PREMIUM GREEN 1.531% 25-04-35 AG Ireland FCT CAREPTA – RE 2015-1 AG France PREMIUM GREEN 1.55% 25-07-40 AG Ireland FCT CAREPTA 2-2016 AG France PREMIUM GREEN 4.52%06-21 EMTN AG Ireland FCT MID CAP 2 05/12/22 AG France PREMIUM GREEN 4.54%06-13.06.21 AG Ireland FEDERIS CORE EU CR 19 MM AG France PREMIUM GREEN 4.5575%21 EMTN AG Ireland Federval AG France PREMIUM GREEN 4.56%06-21 AG Ireland FPCI Cogeneration France I AG France PREMIUM GREEN 4.7% EMTN 08/08/21 AG Ireland Genavent AG France PREMIUM GREEN 4.72%12-250927 AG Ireland GRD 44 AG France PREMIUM GREEN PLC 1.095% 25-10-38 AG Ireland GRD 44 N3 AG France PREMIUM GREEN PLC 4.30%2021 AG Ireland GRD 44 N2 AG France PREMIUM GREEN TV 06/22 AG Ireland GRD 54 AG France PREMIUM GREEN TV 07/22 AG Ireland GRD02 AG France PREMIUM GREEN TV 07-22 AG Ireland GRD03 AG France PREMIUM GREEN TV 22 AG Ireland GRD04 AG France PREMIUM GREEN TV 26/07/22 AG Ireland GRD05 AG France PREMIUM GREEN TV2027 AG Ireland GRD07 AG France PREMIUM GREEN TV23/05/2022 EMTN AG Ireland GRD08 AG France PREMIUM GREEN4.33%06-29/10/21 AG Ireland GRD09 AG France PurpleProtAsset 1.36% 25/10/2038 AG Luxembourg GRD10 AG France PurpleProtAsset 1.093% 20/10/2038 AG Luxembourg GRD11 AG France RED CEDAR AG France GRD12 AG France UI CAP SANTÉ 2 AG France GRD13 AG France A FD EQ E CON AE(C) AG Luxembourg GRD14 AG France A FD EQ E FOC AE (C) AG Luxembourg GRD16 AG France AF EQUI.GLOB.AHE CAP AG Luxembourg GRD17 AG France AF INDEX EQ JAPAN AE CAP AG Luxembourg GRD18 AG France AF INDEX EQ USA A4E AG Luxembourg GRD19 AG France AM AC FR ISR PC 3D AG France GRD20 AG France AM.AC.MINER.-P-3D AG France GRD21 AG France AMU-AB RET MS-EEUR AG Luxembourg GRD23 AG France AMUN TRESO CT PC 3D AG France IAA CROISSANCE INTERNATIONALE AG France AMUN.ACT.REST.P-C AG France Londres Croissance C16 AG France AMUN.TRES.EONIA ISR E FCP 3DEC AG France LRP – CPT JANVIER 2013 0.30 13-21 11/01A AG Luxembourg AMUNDI ACTIONS FRANCE C 3DEC AG France OBJECTIF LONG TERME FCP AG France AMUNDI AFD AV DURABL P1 FCP 3DEC AG France Peg – Portfolio Eonia Garanti AG France AMUNDI EQ E IN AHEC AG Luxembourg Predica 2005 FCPR A AG France AMUNDI GBL MACRO MULTI ASSET P AG France Predica 2006 FCPR A AG France AMUNDI HORIZON 3D AG France Predica 2006-2007 FCPR PREDICA 2010 A1 AG AG France France AMUNDI KBI ACTION PC AMUNDI KBI ACTIONS C AG AG France France 8 PREDICA 2010 A2 AG France AMUNDI OBLIG EURO C AG France PREDICA 2010 A3 AG France AMUNDI PATRIMOINE C 3DEC AG France The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 585 8 General Information Information on the Company Type of Geographic Type of Geographic Operation Name business location Operation Name business location AMUNDI PULSACTIONS AG France LCL INVEST.PRUD.3D AG France AMUNDI VALEURS DURAB AG France LCL LATITUDE VIE17 C AG France AMUNDIOBLIGMONDEP AG France LCL MGEST 60 3DEC AG France ANTINEA FCP AG France LCL MGEST FL. 0-100 AG France ARAMIS PATRIM D 3D AG France LCL MONETAIRE C SI AG France ARC FLEXIBOND-D AG France LCL OPTIM II VIE 17 AG France ATOUT EUROPE C FCP 3DEC AG France LCL OPTIM VIE T 17 C AG France ATOUT FRANCE C FCP 3DEC AG France LCL PHOENIX VIE 2016 AG France ATOUT MONDE C FCP 3DEC AG France LCL PREMIUM VIE 2015 AG France ATOUT VERT HORIZON FCP 3 DEC AG France LCL T.H. AV(04/14) C AG France AXA EUR.SM.CAP E 3D AG France LCL TEMPO 6 ANS AV AG France BFT FRAN FUT-C SI.3D AG France LCL TRIP HORIZ SEP16 AG France BFT STATERE P (C) AG France LCL TRIPLE HORIZ AV JANV 14 C 3D AG France BNP PAR.CRED.ERSC AG France LCL TRIPLE HORIZON AV (09 2014) AG France CA MASTER EUROPE AG France LCL TRIPLE HORIZON AV (JANV. 2015) AG France CAPITOP MON. C 3DEC AG France LCL V.RDM 8 AV(FEV.10) FCP3DEC AG France CPR CONSO ACTIONNAIRE FCP P AG France LCL VOCATION RENDEMENT NOV 12 3D AG France CPR CROIS.REA.-P AG France OBJECTIF PRUDENCE FCP AG France CPR FOCUS INF.-P-3D AG France OPALIA VIE 2 FCP 3DEC AG France CPR OBLIG 12 M.P 3D AG France OPALIA VIE 3 3DEC AG France CPR REFL.RESP.0-100 P FCP 3 DEC AG France OPCIMMO LCL SPPICAV 5DEC AG France CPR RENAI.JAP.-P-3D AG France OPCIMMO PREM SPPICAV 5DEC AG France CPR SILVER AGE P 3DEC AG France PRÉFÉRENCE RENDEMENT EXCLUSIF DNA 0% 12-211220 AG Luxembourg 3D AG France DNA 0% 21/12/20 EMTN AG Luxembourg PRÉFÉRENCE RENDEMENT FCP 3DEC AG France DNA 0% 23/07/18 EMTN INDX AG Luxembourg SELECTANCE 2017 3DEC AG France DNA 0% 27/06/18 INDX AG Luxembourg SOLIDARITÉ AMUNDI P AG France DNA 0%12-240418 INDX AG Luxembourg SOLIDARITÉ INITIATIS SANTÉ AG France ECOFI MULTI OPPORTUN.FCP 3 DEC AG France TRIALIS 6 ANS AG France ENMIUM FCP 3DEC AG France TRIANANCE 6 ANS AG France EXAN.PLEI.FD P AG France TRIANANCE 6 ANS 5 C AG France EXPANSIA VIE AG France TRIANANCE 6 ANS N 4 AG France FONDS AV ECHUS FIA A AG France VENDOME INV.FCP 3DEC AG France FONDS AV ECHUS FIA C AG France Nexus 1 AG Italy FONDS AV ECHUS FIA D AG France OPCI Camp Invest AG France IND.CAP EMERG.-C-3D AG France OPCI ECO CAMPUS SPPICAV AG France INDO ALLOC MANDAT C AG France OPCI Immanens AG France INDOS.EURO.PAT.PD 3D AG France OPCI Immo Emissions AG France INVEST RESP S3 3D AG France OPCI Iris Invest 2010 AG France LCL AC.DEV.DU.EURO AG France OPCI MASSY BUREAUX AG France LCL AC.EMERGENTS 3D AG France OPCI Messidor AG France LCL ACT RES NATUREL AG France Predica OPCI Bureau AG France LCL ACT.E-U ISR 3D AG France Predica OPCI Commerces AG France LCL ACT.IMMOBI.3D AG France Predica OPCI Habitation AG France LCL ACT.USA ISR 3D AG France B IMMOBILIER AG France LCL ACTIONS EURO C AG France DS Campus AG France LCL ACTIONS MONDE FCP 3 DEC AG France FREY RETAIL VILLEBON AG France LCL AUTOCALL VIE 17 AG France HDP BUREAUX AG France LCL BDP MONETAR B C AG France HDP HOTEL AG France LCL D.CAPT.JU.10 3D AG France HDP LA HALLE BOCA AG France LCL DBL HOR AV NOV15 AG France IMEFA 177 AG France LCL DEVELOPPEM.PME C AG France IMEFA 178 AG France LCL FDS ECH.MONE.3D AG France IMEFA 179 AG France LCL FLEX 30 AG France Issy Pont AG France LCL INVEST.EQ C AG France RUE DU BAC (SCI) AG France 586 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. General Information Information on the Company Type of Geographic Type of Geographic Operation Name business location Operation Name business location SCI 1 TERRASSE BELLINI AG France SCI IMEFA 062 AG France SCI BMEDIC HABITATION AG France SCI IMEFA 063 AG France SCI CAMPUS MEDICIS SAINT-DENIS AG France SCI IMEFA 064 AG France SCI CAMPUS RIMBAUD SAINT-DENIS AG France SCI IMEFA 067 AG France SCI CARGO PROPERTY HOLDING AG France SCI IMEFA 068 AG France SCI CARPE DIEM AG France SCI IMEFA 069 AG France SCI EUROMARSEILLE 1 AG France SCI IMEFA 072 AG France SCI EUROMARSEILLE 2 AG France SCI IMEFA 073 AG France SCI FÉDÉRALE PEREIRE VICTOIRE AG France SCI IMEFA 074 AG France SCI FÉDÉRALE VILLIERS AG France SCI IMEFA 076 AG France SCI FEDERLOG AG France SCI IMEFA 077 AG France SCI FEDERLONDRES AG France SCI IMEFA 078 AG France SCI FEDERPIERRE AG France SCI IMEFA 079 AG France SCI FONDIS AG France SCI IMEFA 080 AG France SCI GRENIER VELLEF AG France SCI IMEFA 081 AG France SCI HEART OF LA DÉFENSE AG France SCI IMEFA 082 AG France SCI Holding Dahlia AG France SCI IMEFA 083 AG France SCI ILOT 13 AG France SCI IMEFA 084 AG France SCI IMEFA 001 AG France SCI IMEFA 085 AG France SCI IMEFA 002 AG France SCI IMEFA 089 AG France SCI IMEFA 003 AG France SCI IMEFA 091 AG France SCI IMEFA 004 AG France SCI IMEFA 092 AG France SCI IMEFA 005 AG France SCI IMEFA 096 AG France SCI IMEFA 006 AG France SCI IMEFA 100 AG France SCI IMEFA 008 AG France SCI IMEFA 101 AG France SCI IMEFA 009 AG France SCI IMEFA 102 AG France SCI IMEFA 010 AG France SCI IMEFA 103 AG France SCI IMEFA 011 AG France SCI IMEFA 104 AG France SCI IMEFA 012 AG France SCI IMEFA 105 AG France SCI IMEFA 013 AG France SCI IMEFA 107 AG France SCI IMEFA 016 AG France SCI IMEFA 108 AG France SCI IMEFA 017 AG France SCI IMEFA 109 AG France SCI IMEFA 018 AG France SCI IMEFA 110 AG France SCI IMEFA 020 AG France SCI IMEFA 112 AG France SCI IMEFA 022 AG France SCI IMEFA 113 AG France SCI IMEFA 025 AG France SCI IMEFA 115 AG France SCI IMEFA 032 AG France SCI IMEFA 116 AG France SCI IMEFA 033 AG France SCI IMEFA 117 AG France SCI IMEFA 034 AG France SCI IMEFA 118 AG France SCI IMEFA 035 AG France SCI IMEFA 120 AG France SCI IMEFA 036 AG France SCI IMEFA 121 AG France SCI IMEFA 037 AG France SCI IMEFA 122 AG France SCI IMEFA 038 AG France SCI IMEFA 123 AG France SCI IMEFA 039 AG France SCI IMEFA 126 AG France SCI IMEFA 042 AG France SCI IMEFA 128 AG France SCI IMEFA 043 AG France SCI IMEFA 129 AG France SCI IMEFA 044 AG France SCI IMEFA 131 AG France SCI IMEFA 047 AG France SCI IMEFA 132 AG France SCI IMEFA 048 AG France SCI IMEFA 140 AG France SCI IMEFA 051 AG France SCI IMEFA 148 AG France SCI IMEFA 052 AG France SCI IMEFA 149 AG France SCI IMEFA 054 SCI IMEFA 057 AG AG France France SCI IMEFA 150 SCI IMEFA 155 AG AG France France 8 SCI IMEFA 058 AG France SCI IMEFA 156 AG France SCI IMEFA 060 AG France SCI IMEFA 157 AG France SCI IMEFA 061 AG France SCI IMEFA 158 AG France The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 587 8 General Information Information on the Company Type of Geographic Type of Geographic Operation Name business location Operation Name business location SCI IMEFA 159 AG France Arc Broker IRB Poland SCI IMEFA 164 AG France CASSA DI RISPARMIO DI CESENA S.P.A. IRB Italy SCI IMEFA 169 AG France CASSA DI RISPARMIO DI RIMINI S.P.A. IRB Italy SCI IMEFA 170 AG France CASSA DI RISPARMIO DI SAN MINIATO SCI IMEFA 171 AG France S.P.A. IRB Italy SCI IMEFA 172 AG France CREDIT AGRICOLE BANK IRB Ukraine SCI IMEFA 173 AG France Crédit Agricole Bank Polska S.A. IRB Poland SCI IMEFA 174 AG France Crédit Agricole Banka Srbija a.d. Novi Sad IRB Serbia SCI IMEFA 175 AG France Crédit Agricole Cariparma IRB Italy SCI IMEFA 176 AG France Crédit Agricole Carispezia S.p.A. IRB Italy SCI LE VILLAGE VICTOR HUGO AG France Crédit Agricole Egypt S.A.E. IRB Egypt SCI MEDI BUREAUX AG France Crédit Agricole Friuladria S.p.A. IRB Italy SCI PACIFICA HUGO AG France Crédit Agricole Group Solutions IRB Italy SCI PORTE DES LILAS – FRÈRES FLAVIEN AG France Crédit Agricole Leasing Italia IRB Italy SCI VALHUBERT AG France Crédit Agricole Polska S.A. IRB Poland SCI VAUGIRARD 36-44 AG France Crédit Agricole Romania IRB Romania SCI WAGRAM 22/30 AG France Crédit Agricole Service sp z o.o. IRB Poland SCI WASHINGTON AG France Crédit du Maroc IRB Morocco TOUR MERLE (SCI) AG France Lukas Finanse S.A. IRB Poland ALTAREA AG France IUB Holding IRB France AMUNDI IT Services AG France Agos SFS Italy ARCAPARK SAS AG France Alsolia SFS France Azqore AG Switzerland Antera Incasso B.V. SFS Netherlands Azqore SA Singapore Branch AG Singapore Crealfi SFS France CA Indosuez Wealth (Asset Credibom SFS Portugal Management) AG Luxembourg Crediet Maatschappij De Ijssel B.V. SFS Netherlands CACI Gestion AG France Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance SFS France Crédit Agricole Assurances Solutions AG France Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance EUROPEAN MOTORWAY INVESTMENTS Nederland SFS Netherlands 1 AG Luxembourg Crédit LIFT SFS France FONCIÈRE HYPERSUD AG France Creditplus Bank AG SFS Germany FREY AG France De Kredietdesk B.V. SFS Netherlands HOLDING EUROMARSEILLE AG France DE NEDERLANDSE VOORSCHOTBANK Icade AG France BV SFS Netherlands INFRA FOCH TOPCO AG France EFL Services SFS Poland IRIS HOLDING FRANCE AG France EUROFACTOR GmbH SFS Germany KORIAN AG France Eurofactor Italia S.p.A. SFS Italy PATRIMOINE ET COMMERCE AG France EUROFACTOR NEDERLAND SFS Netherlands PREDICA ÉNERGIES DURABLES AG France EUROFACTOR POLSKA S.A. SFS Poland PREDIPARK AG France Eurofactor S.A. – NV (Benelux) SFS Belgium RAMSAY – GÉNÉRALE DE SANTÉ AG France Eurofactor S.A. (Portugal) SFS Portugal SA RESICO AG France Eurofintus Financieringen B.V. SFS Netherlands SAS CRISTAL AG France Finaref Assurances S.A.S. SFS France SAS PARHOLDING AG France Finata Bank N.V. SFS Netherlands SAS PREDI-RUNGIS AG France Finata Zuid-Nederland B.V. SFS Netherlands SH PREDICA ÉNERGIES DURABLES SAS AG France GSA Ltd SFS Mauritius Via Vita AG France IDM Finance B.V. SFS Netherlands Banque Thémis FRB France IDM Financieringen B.V. SFS Netherlands Interfimo FRB France IDM lease maatschappij B.V. SFS Netherlands LCL FRB France Iebe Lease B.V. SFS Netherlands LCL succursale de Monaco FRB Monaco INTERBANK NV SFS Netherlands Angle Neuf FRB France INTERMEDIAIRE VOORSCHOTBANK BV SFS Netherlands C.L. Verwaltungs und Krediet ‘78 B.V. SFS Netherlands Beteiligungsgesellschaft GmbH FRB Germany Mahuko Financieringen B.V. SFS Netherlands Crédit Lyonnais Développement Money Care B.V. SFS Netherlands Économique (CLDE) FRB France NL Findio B.V SFS Netherlands 588 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. General Information Information on the Company Type of Geographic Type of Geographic Operation Name business location Operation Name business location RIBANK NV SFS Netherlands CACEIS Fund Administration LC France Sofinco Participations SFS France CACEIS Ireland Limited LC Ireland Société Européenne de Développement CACEIS S.A. LC France d’Assurances SFS France CACEIS Switzerland S.A. LC Switzerland Société Européenne de Développement Crédit Agricole CIB (Belgique) LC Belgium d’Assurances, Succursale du Maroc SFS Morocco Crédit Agricole CIB (Abu Dhabi) United Arab Société Européenne de Développement LC Emirates du Financement SFS France Crédit Agricole CIB (Allemagne) LC Germany VoordeelBank B.V. SFS Netherlands Crédit Agricole CIB (Canada) LC Canada Auxifip SFS France Crédit Agricole CIB (Corée du Sud) LC South Korea Carefleet S.A. SFS Poland Crédit Agricole CIB (Dubai DIFC) United Arab Crédit Agricole Leasing & Factoring SFS France LC Emirates Crédit Agricole Leasing & Factoring, Crédit Agricole CIB (Dubai) United Arab Sucursal en Espana SFS Spain LC Emirates Crédit du Maroc Leasing et Factoring SFS Morocco Crédit Agricole CIB (Espagne) LC Spain Europejski Fundusz Leasingowy (E.F.L.) SFS Poland Crédit Agricole CIB (États-Unis) LC United States Finamur SFS France Crédit Agricole CIB (Finlande) LC Finland Lixxbail SFS France Crédit Agricole CIB (Hong-Kong) LC Hong Kong Lixxcourtage SFS France Crédit Agricole CIB (Inde) LC India Lixxcredit SFS France Crédit Agricole CIB (Italie) LC Italy Unifergie SFS France Crédit Agricole CIB (Japon) LC Japan ARES Reinsurance Ltd SFS Ireland Crédit Agricole CIB (Luxembourg) LC Luxembourg EFL Finance S.A. SFS Poland Crédit Agricole CIB (Miami) LC United States EFL Lease Abs 2017-1 Designated Crédit Agricole CIB (Royaume-Uni) LC United Kingdom Activity Company SFS Ireland Crédit Agricole CIB (Singapour) LC Singapore FCT GINGKO CLOANS 2013-1 SFS France Crédit Agricole CIB (Suède) LC Sweden FCT GINGKO DEBT CONSO 2015-1 SFS France Crédit Agricole CIB (Taipei) LC Taiwan FCT GINGKO PERSONAL LOANS 2016-1 SFS France Crédit Agricole CIB Algérie Bank Spa LC Algeria FCT GINGKO PLOANS 2015-1 SFS France Crédit Agricole CIB AO LC Russia FCT GINGKO SALES FIN 2014-1 SFS France Crédit Agricole CIB Australia Ltd LC Australia FCT GINGKO SALES FINANCE 2015-1 SFS France Crédit Agricole CIB China Ltd LC China FCT GINKGO MASTER REVOLVING LOANS SFS France Crédit Agricole CIB China Ltd Chinese Branch LC China FCT GINKGO SALES FINANCE 2017-1 SFS France Crédit Agricole CIB S.A. LC France Green FCT Lease SFS France Crédit Agricole CIB Services Private Ltd LC India MATSUBA BV SFS Netherlands Ester Finance Titrisation LC France OCHIBA 2015 B.V SFS Netherlands Crédit Agricole Securities (Asia) Limited RETAIL CONSUMER CP GERMANY Hong Kong LC Hong Kong 2016 UG SFS Germany Crédit Agricole Securities (Asia) Limited SUNRISE SPV 20 SRL SFS Italy Seoul Branch LC South Korea SUNRISE SPV 30 SRL SFS Italy Crédit Agricole Securities (USA) Inc. LC United States SUNRISE SPV 40 SRL SFS Italy Crédit Agricole Securities Asia BV SUNRISE SPV 50 SRL SFS Italy (Tokyo) LC Japan SUNRISE SRL SFS Italy CLTR LC France THETIS FINANCE 2015-1 SFS Portugal Compagnie Française de l’Asie (CFA) LC France Banco Crédit Agricole Brasil S.A. LC Brazil Crédit Agricole CIB Air Finance S.A. LC France CACEIS Bank LC France Crédit Agricole CIB Holdings Ltd LC United Kingdom CACEIS Bank S.A., Germany Branch LC Germany Crédit Agricole Global Partners Inc. LC United States CACEIS Bank, Belgium Branch LC Belgium Crédit Agricole Securities Asia BV LC Netherlands CACEIS Bank, Ireland Branch LC Ireland Doumer Finance S.A.S. LC France CACEIS Bank, Italy Branch LC Italy Fininvest LC France CACEIS Bank, Luxembourg Branch LC Luxembourg Fletirec LC France CACEIS Bank, Netherlands Branch LC Netherlands I.P.F.O. LC France CACEIS Bank, Switzerland Branch LC Switzerland Igasus LLC LC United States 8 CACEIS Bank, UK Branch LC United Kingdom CAIRS Assurance S.A. LC France CACEIS Belgium LC Belgium Atlantic Asset Securitization LLC LC United States CACEIS Corporate Trust LC France Benelpart LC Belgium The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 589 8 General Information Information on the Company Type of Geographic Type of Geographic Operation Name business location Operation Name business location Calixis Finance LC France Sofipac LC Belgium Calliope SRL LC Italy TCB LC France Clifap LC France Triple P FCC LC France Crédit Agricole America Services Inc. LC United States TSUBAKI OFF (FCT) LC France Crédit Agricole Asia Shipfinance Ltd LC Hong Kong TSUBAKI ON (FCT) LC France Crédit Agricole CIB Finance (Guernsey) Ltd LC Guernsey Vulcain EUR FCT LC France Crédit Agricole CIB Financial Prod. Vulcain Multi-Devises FCT LC France (Guernsey) Ltd LC Guernsey Vulcain USD FCT LC France Crédit Agricole CIB Financial Solutions LC France Crédit Agricole S.A. CC France Crédit Agricole CIB Global Banking LC France Succursale Crédit Agricole S.A. CC United Kingdom Crédit Agricole CIB Pension Limited Caisse régionale de Crédit Agricole Partnership LC United Kingdom mutuel de la Corse CC France Crédit Agricole CIB Transactions LC France CL Développement de la Corse CC France Crédit Agricole Leasing (USA) Corp. LC United States Crédit Agricole Home Loan SFH CC France DGAD International SARL LC Luxembourg Foncaris CC France ESNI (Compartiment Crédit Agricole CIB) LC France Crédit Agricole Capital Investissement et Eucalyptus FCT LC France Finance (CACIF) CC France FIC-FIDC LC Brazil Delfinances CC France Financière des Scarabées LC Belgium Sodica CC France Financière Lumis LC France CA Grands Crus CC France Fundo A De Investimento Multimercado LC Brazil Cariou Holding CC France Héphaïstos EUR FCC LC France Crédit Agricole Agriculture CC France Héphaïstos GBP FCT LC France Crédit Agricole Payment Services CC France Héphaïstos Multidevises FCT LC France Crédit Agricole Public Sector SCF CC France Héphaïstos USD FCT LC France Crédit Agricole Régions Développement CC France Indosuez Holding SCA II LC Luxembourg ESNI (Compartiment Crédit Agricole Indosuez Management Luxembourg II LC Luxembourg S.A.) CC France Investor Service House S.A. LC Luxembourg FCT Crédit Agricole Habitat 2015 Compartiment Corse CC France Island Refinancing SRL LC Italy FCT Crédit Agricole Habitat 2017 ItalAsset Finance SRL LC Italy Compartiment Corse CC France La Fayette Asset Securitization LLC LC United States FCT Crédit Agricole Habitat 2018 La Route Avance LC France Compartiment Corse CC France Lafina LC Belgium FIRECA CC France LMA S.A. LC France IDIA CC France Merisma LC France IDIA DÉVELOPPEMENT CC France Molinier Finances LC France IDIA PARTICIPATIONS CC France Pacific EUR FCC LC France S.A.S. Evergreen Montrouge CC France Pacific IT FCT LC France SCI Quentyvel CC France Pacific USD FCT LC France SILCA CC France Partinvest S.A. LC Luxembourg SNC Kalliste Assur CC France Placements et Réalisations Immobilières Uni-médias CC France (SNC) LC France FRB: French retail banking. Sagrantino Italy SRL LC Italy AG : Asset gathering. Shark FCC LC France IRB: International retail banking. SNGI LC France SFS: Specialised financial services. SNGI Belgium LC Belgium LC: Large customers. Sococlabecq LC Belgium CC: Corporate Centre. TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES The main transactions entered into with related parties are disclosed in the hand, the Chief Executive Officer, any one of the Deputy Chief Executive consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 Officers or Directors or shareholders of Crédit Agricole S.A. with more in the “General framework – Related parties” section. than 10% of the voting rights, and (ii) on the other, another company in In addition, in accordance with paragraph 13 of Article L. 225-102-1 which Crédit Agricole S.A. has, directly or indirectly, more than a 50% of the French Commercial Code, please note that no agreements were capital interest unless, where appropriate, these agreements relate to entered into, directly or through intermediaries, between, (i) on the one ordinary arms length transactions. 590 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. General Information Statutory Auditors’ report on related party agreements and commitments STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON RELATED PARTY AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS Annual General Meeting held to approve the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 To the General Meeting of Shareholders of Crédit Agricole S.A., In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of your Company, we hereby present to you our report on related party agreements and commitments. We are required to inform you, on the basis of the information provided to us, of the terms and conditions of those agreements and commitments indicated to us, or that we may have identified in the performance of our engagement, as well as the reasons justifying why they benefit the Company. We are not required to give our opinion as to whether they are beneficial or appropriate or to ascertain the existence of other agreements and commitments. It is your responsibility, in accordance with Article R. 225-31 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), to assess the relevance of these agreements and commitments prior to their approval. We are also required, where applicable, to inform you in accordance with Article R. 225-31 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) of the continuation of the implementation, during the year ended 31 December 2018, of the agreements and commitments previously approved by the Annual General Meeting. We performed those procedures which we deemed necessary in compliance with professional guidance issued by the French Institute of Statutory Auditors (Compagnie nationale des commissaires aux comptes) relating to this type of engagement. These procedures consisted in verifying the consistency of the information provided to us with the relevant source documents. AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS SUBMITTED FOR APPROVAL TO THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING In accordance with Article L. 225-40 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), we have been notified of the following related party agreements and commitments which received prior authorization from your Board of Directors. 1. With Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance, Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, Crédit Agricole Payment Services, Crédit Agricole Technologies & Services and Crédit Lyonnais (LCL) Persons concerned Mr Brassac and Mr Musca, Chief Executive Officer and Deputy Chief Executive Officer of your Company, and Ms Flachaire, Ms Gri, Ms Pourre, Mr Epron, Mr Gaillard, Mr Thibault, and Mr Paviet, Chairman or Directors of your Company and Chairmen or Directors of the abovementioned entities. Nature and purpose At its meeting on 14 May 2018, your Company’s Board of Directors first authorized the implementation of the project relating to the transfer of some of the Crédit Agricole Group’s IT infrastructure and production activities to a new entity, Crédit Agricole – Group Infrastructure Platform, consisting of the creation of the latter by the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding, the articles of incorporation of Crédit Agricole – Group Infrastructure Platform, and a Shareholders’ Agreement governing the relationships within this new entity. Noting the existence of common Corporate Officers and Directors, your Board of Directors authorized, under the conditions of Article L. 225-38 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding whose purpose is to organize, between the various entities of the Crédit Agricole Group, the merging of certain IT infrastructure and production activities within the new entity. To that end, the Memorandum of Understanding provides for all the steps and conditions necessary for the performance and successful completion of this operation, namely: nn the creation of the new entity Crédit Agricole – Group Infrastructure Platform and its principles of governance; nn the principles of the valuation and structuring of the various transfer operations to be performed; nn the invoicing rules that Crédit Agricole – Group Infrastructure Platform will apply to its clients. Conditions A framework study carried out during the second half of 2016 confirmed the strategic and economic challenges of the project and laid down its fundamentals. A detailed study, carried out from March to September 2017, made it possible to define the conditions of the operation. Following this study, the parties to the Memorandum of Understanding agreed to create a single Group IT infrastructure and production division. When it is formed, within Crédit Agricole – Group Infrastructure Platform, the new entity to be created in the form of an SAS (simplified joint-stock company), it will group together SILCA and the IT production activities of Crédit Agricole Technologies & Services, Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank in France, Crédit Agricole Payment Services (contributed to SILCA as of 1 January 2018) and Crédit Agricole Assurances Solutions (the “Pôle Unique Infrastructure et Production du Groupe”). Subsequently, its role will be to host the IT production activities of the other Group entities. The Memorandum of Understanding was signed on 8 June 2018. Reasons justifying why the Company benefits from this agreement Your Board of Directors gave the following reasons: 8 Within the framework of its medium-term plan entitled “Strategic Ambition 2020”, the Crédit Agricole Group decided to implement a new client project in order to strengthen its growth dynamics and invest in the sustainable improvement of its industrial efficiency. These priorities and the unprecedented technological changes that accompany the digital revolution will lead all the Group’s entities to invest significantly over the long term in new standard IT practices (Cloud, Devops, etc.). The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 591 8 General Information Statutory Auditors’ report on related party agreements and commitments The merging of some of the Group’s IT infrastructure and production activities is the most efficient way of carrying out these transformations under the best possible conditions of effectiveness, security, innovation and improvement of the economic performance. The project will also provide staff with the opportunity to increase their employability by evolving towards new value-added activities brought about by technological changes. 2. With Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance, Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, Crédit Agricole Payment Services, Crédit Agricole Technologies & Services, Crédit Lyonnais (LCL) and the Fédération nationale du Crédit Agricole Persons concerned Mr Brassac and Mr Musca, Chief Executive Officer and Deputy Chief Executive Officer of your Company, and Ms Flachaire, Ms Gri, Ms Pourre, Mr Lefebvre, Mr Appert, Mr Epron, Mr Gaillard, Mr Ouvrier-Buffet, Mr Thibault and Mr Paviet, Chairman or Directors of your Company and Chairmen or Directors of the abovementioned entities. Nature and purpose At its meeting on 14 May 2018, your Company’s Board of Directors authorized the signing of a Shareholders’ Agreement pursuant to the abovementioned Memorandum of Understanding. Some of the parties agreed to set up a new company, Crédit Agricole – Group Infrastructure Platform, which leads the project concerning the merging of some of the Crédit Agricole group’s IT infrastructure and production activities. This Company was formed in order to acquire, as of 1 January 2019, SILCA and the IT production activities of Crédit Agricole Technologies & Services, Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank in France and Crédit Agricole Assurances Solutions. Its role is to host the IT production activities of other Crédit Agricole group entities. Together, the shareholder parties hold 100% of the share capital and voting rights of the Company. Within this context, the parties wished, through the Shareholders’ Agreement: nn to supplement the rules of governance of the Company provided for in the articles of incorporation; nn to organize their relationships as shareholders; nn to determine the conditions that they intend to comply with in the event of the transfer of all or part of their stake in the Company’s capital. The Shareholders’ Agreement relating to Crédit Agricole – Group Infrastructure Platform notably lays down the following rules of governance specific to Crédit Agricole – Group Infrastructure Platform: a Board of Directors composed 50/50 of Regional Banks and their subsidiaries or IT production entities and the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group, with a Chairman of the Company who is also Chairman of the Board of Directors, appointed upon the proposal of the Regional Banks and a Chief Executive appointed upon the proposal of the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group. Noting, in addition to the presence of common Corporate Officers and Directors, that the rules of governance described above do not reflect the division of the capital between the Regional Banks and their subsidiaries (36%) and the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group (64%), Crédit Agricole S.A. considered that this Shareholders’ Agreement constituted a regulated agreement within the meaning of the provisions of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). Conditions The Shareholders’ Agreement specifies the rules of governance of Crédit Agricole – Group Infrastructure Platform, as concerns both the executive and the supervisory functions of the management body, as well as those of the subsidiary to be formed in accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding. In particular, it organizes the rules relating to the financing of the Company and the transfer of securities, as well as any conditions of the exit of a shareholder and the conditions under which the Company’s services will be provided. The Shareholders’ Agreement was signed on 8 June 2018. Reasons justifying why the Company benefits from this agreement Your Board of Directors gave the following reasons: As this concerns a structure whose role is solely internal to the Crédit Agricole Group, the Shareholders’ Agreement allows the shareholders of Crédit Agricole – Group Infrastructure Platform to determine: nn the special rules applying between them for the organization of their relationships within the Company (governance, decision-making, etc.), beyond the sole criterion of the breakdown of capital; nn the way in which Crédit Agricole – Group Infrastructure Platform will be managed and financed in the interests of the stakeholders; nn the conditions to comply with in the event of the sale of all or part of their stake in Crédit Agricole – Group Infrastructure Platform. The Shareholders’ Agreement also enables the creation of a group of shareholders belonging to the Crédit Agricole Group, thus ensuring a unified approach to decision-making within Crédit Agricole – Group Infrastructure Platform whether by the Board of Directors or the General Meeting of Shareholders. 592 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. General Information Statutory Auditors’ report on related party agreements and commitments 3. With Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance, Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, Crédit Lyonnais (LCL) and Crédit Agricole – Group Infrastructure Platform Persons concerned Mr Brassac and Mr Musca, Chief Executive Officer and Deputy Chief Executive Officer of your Company, and Ms Flachaire, Ms Gri, Ms Pourre, Mr Gaillard and Mr Thibault, Chairman or Directors of your Company and Chairmen or Directors of the abovementioned entities Nature and purpose At its meeting of 6 November 2018, your Company’s Board of Directors authorized the signing of a guarantee agreement, the terms and conditions of which are described below. At its meeting on 14 May 2018 during which it authorized the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding, your Company’s Board of Directors was informed that the signatories would agree that the agreements for the contribution or divestment of business activities would provide for clauses guaranteeing assets and liabilities relating to management prior to the completion date and that, in the case of SILCA, a special mechanism must be studied insofar as this entity will be the subject of a merger before the expiry of the liability guarantees. The purpose of the guarantee agreement authorized by your Board of Directors is to set out the representations and warranties granted by the guarantors for the benefit of Crédit Agricole – Group Infrastructure Platform in respect of the merger of SILCA with Crédit Agricole – Group Infrastructure Platform, as well as the rights and obligations of the parties in the event of breach or inaccuracy of one or more of said representations. Conditions For a period of thirty-six months as from 1 January 2019, the guarantors undertake, each in proportion to its share in the capital of SILCA as at the date of completion of the merger, to indemnify Crédit Agricole – Group Infrastructure Platform: nn for any increase in liabilities or any reduction in assets caused by or arising out of a fact or an event prior to 1 January 2019; nn any damage suffered by Crédit Agricole – Group Infrastructure Platform as a result of the inaccuracy or insincerity of a representation relating to the assets transferred within the framework of the merger; nn any damage suffered by Crédit Agricole – Group Infrastructure Platform following a third-party claim relating to acts prior to 1 January 2019 attributable to SILCA. The period of thirty-six months is replaced by the statute of limitations concerning any damage suffered by Crédit Agricole – Group Infrastructure Platform due to the inaccuracy or insincerity of a representation relating to SILCA. The indemnity undertaking for damage suffered by Crédit Agricole – Group Infrastructure Platform relating to tax matters will expire at the end of a period of ten working days as from the expiry of the statute of limitations. A threshold of EUR10,000 per claim is fixed for the taking into account of a claim. The parties have not set any aggregate limit. The guarantee agreement was signed on 21 November 2018. Reasons justifying why the Company benefits from this agreement Your Board of Directors gave the following reasons: In accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding, the parties agreed on the signing of this guarantee with the shareholders of SILCA as the latter is to cease to exist after the completion of the merger. The signing of this guarantee will result in the costs of any damage arising from the prior management of the SILCA business being borne by the entities that are shareholders of SILCA, according to the terms and conditions under the agreement. Indeed, as not all of the shareholders of Crédit Agricole – Group Infrastructure Platform are shareholders of SILCA, it was deemed inappropriate for such damage to be shared and its cost to be borne by all the shareholders of Crédit Agricole – Group Infrastructure Platform. 4. With the Regional Banks of Val-de-France, Centre-Est, Normandie, Languedoc, Sud Rhône-Alpes, Finistère, Loire Haute-Loire, Lorraine, Charente-Maritime Deux-Sèvres, Centre Loire and Charente Périgord Persons concerned Mr Lefebvre, Mr Appert, Mr Epron, Ms Flachaire, Mr Gaillard, Mr Kerrien, Mr Ouvrier-Buffet, Ms Talamona, Mr Tercinier, Mr Thibault and Mr Boujut, Chairman or Directors of your Company and Chief Executives or Vice-Presidents of the abovementioned entities. Nature and purpose The tax consolidation agreement was authorized by your Company’s Board of Directors at its meeting held on 21 January 2010 and renewed for five years on 15 December 2015. It was the subject of a first amendment authorized by your Board of Directors at its meeting on 19 May 2016, to take into account the change in tax legislation whereby tax savings made by the Group as a result of intragroup dividends received by the Regional Banks would be re-allocated to them in full. The first 2017 Amending Finance Law introduced an exceptional Corporate Income Tax contribution, for financial year 2017 only, for companies whose revenue exceeded certain limits. As revenue is assessed at the level of the tax group, the 2017 taxable income of the Crédit Agricole tax group was thus subject to an effective Corporate Income Tax rate of 44.43%. Crédit Agricole S.A., as consolidating company, thus bore a net financial cost corresponding to the difference between the amount of the contribution due for the tax group on the one hand (MEUR286.7), and the amount of the contributions paid by the consolidated entities subject to this contribution (MEUR143.2) and the total refund obtained in respect of the 3% tax on dividends deemed unconstitutional (MEUR40.7), on the other hand, resulting 8 in a net additional cost of MEUR102.8. At its meeting on 2 August 2018, the Board of Directors of your company authorized the signing of an amendment to the tax consolidation agreement organizing the sharing of this tax expense between Crédit Agricole S.A. and the Regional Banks. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 593 8 General Information Statutory Auditors’ report on related party agreements and commitments Conditions The Regional Banks’ contribution to the sharing of this exceptional tax expense was made, for financial year 2018 only, through the halving of the re-allocation of the tax saving linked to the taxation, within the tax group, of the dividends distributed between Crédit Agricole S.A., the Regional Banks and their entities. This sharing resulted in the Regional Banks bearing half of the net additional cost represented by the exceptional contribution. The amendment was signed by all the parties concerned in September 2018. As a result of this amendment, the 2018 tax savings binding Crédit Agricole S.A. and the abovementioned companies amount to a total of MEUR11.7. Reasons justifying why the Company benefits from this agreement Your Board of Directors gave the following reasons: In accordance with the principle of solidarity among the Crédit Agricole group and the corporate, economic and financial interests that are common to the Group and specific to each entity belonging to the tax group, the Regional Banks agreed to make a partial contribution to the net additional cost. AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS PREVIOUSLY APPROVED BY THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING In accordance with Article R. 225-30 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), we have been notified that the implementation of the following agreements and commitments, which were approved by the Annual General Meeting in prior years, continued during the year ended 31 December 2018. 1. With the Regional Banks of Val-de-France, Centre-Est, Normandie, Languedoc, Sud Rhône-Alpes, Finistère, Loire Haute-Loire, Savoie, Lorraine, Charente-Maritime Deux-Sèvres and Centre Loire Persons concerned Mr Lefebvre, Mr Appert, Mr Epron, Ms Flachaire, Mr Gaillard, Mr Kerrien, Mr Ouvrier-Buffet, Ms Talamona, Mr Tercinier and Mr Thibault, Chairman or Directors of your Company and Chief Executives or Vice-Presidents of the abovementioned entities. Nature and purpose At its meeting on 19 May 2016, your Company’s Board of Directors authorized the signing of the loan agreements granted within the framework of the Eureka operation between your Company and the Regional Banks, giving them various repayment options, specifying that regardless of the option chosen by a Regional Bank, the average cost of its financing would be 2.15%. The Regional Banks thus benefited from financing under the following conditions: nn total loan of EUR11 billion at the fixed rate of 2.15% over ten years; nn option for early repayment on a semi-annual basis as from the fourth year, subject to twelve months’ notice. At its meeting on 2 August 2017, your Company’s Board of Directors authorized the signing of amendments to these loan agreements. The amendments to the senior loan agreements modified the structure of the financing granted by Crédit Agricole S.A. who offered the Regional Banks the possibility of purchasing the early repayment option, the purchase taking the form of a rate reduction in exchange for each Regional Bank fixing a firm repayment schedule. Conditions The refinancing schedule proposed to the Regional Banks was the subject of a fairness opinion delivered by an external firm. The Regional Banks had the possibility of keeping the initial financing structure or replacing it by one or more fundings with the maturities of their choice from the table below (according to market conditions in force as at 4 July 2017). The proposed yield waiver was between 35 base points and 56 base points, corresponding to the management cost estimated at 50 base points for your Company since the outset. Loan maturity Bullet fixed rate 03/08/2020 1.8 03/08/2021 1.64 03/08/2022 1.59 03/08/2023 1.6 03/08/2024 1.67 03/08/2025 1.75 03/08/2026 1.84 The amendments were signed on 10 October 2017. The total amount of the financing proposed to the Regional Banks concerned by the regulated nature of these agreements was MEUR3,391. In 2018, the amount remains unchanged, the operations set up being subject to bullet amortization until 2020 at least. 594 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. General Information Statutory Auditors’ report on related party agreements and commitments 2. With the Regional Banks of Val-de-France, Normandie, Languedoc, Sud Rhône-Alpes, Finistère, Loire Haute-Loire, Lorraine, Centre Loire, Centre-Est, Charente Périgord and Charente-Maritime Deux-Sèvres Persons concerned Mr Lefebvre, Mr Appert, Mr Boujut, Mr Epron, Ms Flachaire, Mr Gaillard, Mr Kerrien, Mr Ouvrier-Buffet, Ms Talamona, Mr Tercinier and Mr Thibault, Chairman of the Board of Directors or Directors of your Company and Chairmen of the Board of Directors or Directors of the abovementioned entities. Nature and purpose At its meeting of 19 May 2016, your Company’s Board of Directors authorized the signing of amendment No. 3 to the Switch guarantee agreement between your Company and the Regional Banks. Within the framework of the Eureka operation, the parties decided to modify certain terms of the Insurance section of the Switch agreement, in respect of which the Regional Banks insure your Company against a reduction in value of its equity-accounted holdings in the capital of Crédit Agricole Assurances, and to establish the conditions for the repayment of the amount of the cash collateral relating to the guarantee applicable to the CCI/CCA. This amendment makes the following changes to the Switch guarantee relating to your Company’s holding in Crédit Agricole Assurances: nn introduction of a mechanism for the partial termination of Switch Assurances which would be implemented upon a decision by your Company by means of the gradual reduction of the amount guaranteed; nn change of the calculation frequency from quarterly to six-monthly. Conditions Amendment No. 3 to the Switch guarantee agreement was signed on 21 July 2016, with retroactive effect from 1 July 2016. The guarantees provided by the abovementioned Regional Banks in respect of the Insurance section amount to MEUR1,973.24 and their guarantee deposits to MEUR667.94 as at 31 December 2018. The remuneration paid or to be paid by your Company to the abovementioned Regional Banks in respect of financial year 2018 is MEUR62.79. Nature and purpose At its meeting on 19 May 2016, your Company’s Board of Directors of your company authorized the signing of an amendment to the tax consolidation agreement between your Company and the Regional Banks. Previously, at its meeting on 21 January 2010, the Board of Directors had authorized the extension of the Crédit Agricole S.A. tax group, in accordance with section 5 of Article 223-A of the French Tax Code (Code général des impôts), this extension being mandatory for all the Regional Banks and Local Banks subject to Corporate Income Tax at the normal rate and, optionally, for their subsidiaries. The mechanism is governed by an agreement binding the central body and each of the entities belonging to the Group as a result of its extension. The collective agreements on taxation binding the central body and each of the entities belonging to the Group as a result of its extension were entered into for an initial term of five years as from 1 January 2010 and are renewable for successive five-year periods subject to the express joint agreement of all the entities concerned. At its meeting on 15 December 2015, the Board of Directors authorized the renewal of the collective agreements on taxation, according to the same conditions and for a term of five years as from 1 January 2015. These agreements, entered into for a term of five years, provided that half of the tax savings made in respect both of the dividends received by these entities and the dividends received by your Company from these entities should be re-allocated to them. The amendment authorized by the Board of Directors of your company at its meeting on 19 May 2016 was signed on 21 July 2016 and provided that the tax savings made by the Group as a result of the intragroup dividends received by the Regional Banks would henceforth be re-allocated to them in full. Conditions The 2018 tax savings paid back in respect of the agreements binding your Company and the abovementioned companies amount to a total of MEUR15.1. 3. With Sacam Mutualisation Persons concerned Mr Lefebvre, Mr Epron, Ms Flachaire, Mr Gaillard, Mr Kerrien, Mr Ouvrier-Buffet, Ms Talamona and Mr Thibault, Chairman of the Board of Directors or Directors of your Company and managers or representatives of the jointly and severably liable partners of Sacam Mutualisation. Nature and purpose At its meeting on 19 May 2016, the Board of Directors of your Company authorized the signing of a tax consolidation agreement between your Company and Sacam Mutualisation. This agreement was entered into on 21 July 2016. Based on the same model as the agreements entered into with the Regional Banks, this agreement provides that the tax savings made by the Group as a result of the intragroup dividends received by this entity should be re-allocated to it in full. Conditions The 2018 tax savings paid back in respect of the agreement binding your Company and Sacam Mutualisation amount to MEUR3.7. 8 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 595 8 General Information Statutory Auditors’ report on related party agreements and commitments 4. With S.A.S. Rue La Boétie, S.A.S. Ségur, S.A.S. Miromesnil, Sacam Avenir, Sacam Développement, Sacam International, Sacam Participations, Sacam Fia-net Europe, Sacam Fireca, Sacam Immobilier, Sacam Machinisme and Sacam Assurance Caution Persons concerned Mr Lefebvre, Mr Epron, Ms Flachaire, Mr Gaillard, Mr Kerrien, Mr Ouvrier-Buffet, Ms Talamona and Mr Thibault, Chairman of the Board of Directors of your Company and Chairmen of the Board of Directors, Vice-Chairman, Partners, Managers or Directors of the abovementioned companies. Nature and purpose At its meeting on 13 December 2016, your Company’s Board of Directors authorized the signing of the amendment to the tax consolidation agreement between your Company and the abovementioned companies. The collective agreements on taxation entered into with the abovementioned entities were authorized by the Board of Directors of your company at its meeting on 21 January 2010 and renewed at its meeting on 15 December 2015. These agreements, entered into for a term of five years, provided that half of the tax savings made as a result of the dividends received by these entities should be re-allocated to them. These agreements were the subject of an amendment which, based on the same model as the amendment to the collective agreements on taxation entered into with the Regional Banks, provides that the tax savings made by the Group as a result of the intragroup dividends received by said companies should henceforth be re-allocated to them in full. Conditions The 2018 tax savings paid back in respect of the agreements binding your Company and the abovementioned companies amounts to a total of MEUR23.7. 5. With Crédit Agricole CIB Persons concerned Mr Brassac, Mr Thibault, Ms Gri, Mr Pourre and Mr Paviet, Chief Executive or Directors of your Company and Chairman of the Board of Directors or Directors of Crédit Agricole CIB. a) Nature and purpose At its meeting on 7 November 2016, your Company’s Board of Directors authorized the signing of the amendment to the tax consolidation agreement between your Company and Crédit Agricole CIB. In 1996 your Company entered into a tax consolidation agreement with Crédit Agricole CIB, which was renewed on 22 December 2015 for the period 2015-2019. Its purpose is to define the relationships between Crédit Agricole S.A., on the one hand, and Crédit Agricole CIB and its consolidated subsidiaries, on the other hand, in particular the division of the Corporate Income Tax expense. The collective agreements on taxation allowed Crédit Agricole CIB to receive a proportion of the tax savings made by the Crédit Agricole group equivalent to its individual tax loss actually related to the Group. This agreement was amended on 15 November 2016 in order to provide for the extension of the monetization, for the benefit of Crédit Agricole CIB, of the entire loss of the subgroup related to Crédit Agricole S.A. as parent company of the Group, including the loss carryforward of the subgroup for the years prior to 1 January 2016 already related to Crédit Agricole S.A. Conditions As the subgroup made a taxable profit in 2018, the application of the tax consolidation agreement did not generate any tax saving as a result of losses and did not give rise to any payment by Crédit Agricole S.A. b) Nature and purpose Following the merging of the corporate and investment banking businesses of the Crédit Agricole S.A. and Crédit Lyonnais Groups, a partial contribution of assets was made by Crédit Lyonnais to Crédit Agricole Indosuez (which became Calyon and then Crédit Agricole CIB). Under these circumstances, it was deemed necessary to increase Crédit Agricole CIB’s shareholders’ equity. At its meeting on 9 March 2004, the Board of Directors authorized your Company to carry out operations to increase Crédit Agricole CIB’s shareholders’ equity by a total maximum amount of EUR3 billion. Conditions Within the framework of this authorization, your Company notably subscribed, in 2004, to an issue of subordinated debt securities, for the amount of MUSD1,730. During financial year 2014, one of the issues amounting to MUSD1,260 was the subject of early repayment on 28 February 2014. The sole issue, amounting to MUSD470, still ongoing in financial year 2018, generated total interest of MUSD17.47 in respect of that year. c) Nature and purpose On 7 December 2016, the European Commission found your Company and Crédit Agricole CIB jointly and severally liable for a fine of MUSD114,654 after an investigation by the Commission concluding on the existence of an agreement between seven banking institutions on interest rate derivatives in euros, agreeing on the determination of the Euribor reference interest rate. The alleged facts apparently took place between September 2005 and May 2008. 596 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. General Information Statutory Auditors’ report on related party agreements and commitments At the time of the delivery of the Commission’s judgement, your Company announced that it would appeal against the decision before the General Court of the European Union. The claim for annulment was filed on 17 February 2017. As the appeal did not stay the judgement, your Company had to pay the full amount of the fine before 5 March 2017. According to an agreement signed with Crédit Agricole CIB, your Company agreed to pay the full amount of the fine on behalf of the two establishments found to be jointly and severally liable, referring the division between them of the payment of the fine to the decision of the judicial authorities of the European Union. At its meeting on 20 January 2017, the Board of Directors authorized the draft agreement between your Company and Crédit Agricole CIB, the terms of which are set out below. Conditions Pending a decision having the force of res judica in a court of last instance, your Company shall bear and pay the amount of MEUR114.654 in respect of the fine. The final terms for the division of the final amount of the potential fine shall be agreed at a later date jointly between your Company and Crédit Agricole CIB, once a decision having the force of res judica has been handed down by a court of last instance. The agreement, expressed in identical terms, was authorized by the Board of Directors of Crédit Agricole CIB on 10 February 2017. It constitutes a formal measure for the organization of the division of the joint penalty, without prejudging the outcome of the appeals entered. In accordance with the delegation granted by their respective Boards, it was signed on 27 February 2017 by the Chief Executive Officer of your Company and the Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole CIB. The penalty was paid within the statutory time limit, namely before 5 March 2017. As no decision has been rendered concerning the appeal entered by Crédit Agricole, the situation between Crédit Agricole S.A. and Crédit Agricole CIB is identical to that noted at the end of 2017. d) Nature and purpose At its meeting on 19 December 2017, your Company’s Board of Directors authorized the transfer of your Company’s IT activities (MSI) to Global IT (GIT) which performs the same assignments for the Crédit Agricole CIB scope. The transfer of the divested business, about which the employee representative bodies of your Company and of Crédit Agricole CIB were informed and consulted, became effective as of 1 January 2018. The transfer itself does not constitute a regulated agreement, but within the framework of this operation, your Company and Crédit Agricole CIB set up a temporary billing and collection mandate which does fall within the scope of section 2 of Article L. 225-38 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) relating to regulated agreements. As such, this mandate was authorized by the Board of Directors of your company at its meeting on 19 December 2017, separately from the overall authorization of the transfer of business. Conditions During a transition period of six to twelve months from the date of transfer, some of the Crédit Agricole Group entities may benefit from the services of MSI, via signed quotations. The billing and collection services would be carried out by your Company within the scope of a billing and collection mandate which notably includes the guarantee by your Company to Crédit Agricole CIB concerning the collection, from the entities benefiting from these services, of the amounts billed by your Company in the name and on behalf of Crédit Agricole CIB. At the end of this transition period, Crédit Agricole CIB may decide, if appropriate, to perform the services for the other Group entities, through Progica or another entity of the Crédit Agricole Group, depending on the result of the services performed during the transition period, regulatory changes and any other potential reorganization of activities within the Crédit Agricole Group. Neuilly-sur-Seine and Paris-La Défense, 25 March 2019 The Statutory Auditors French original signed by: PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Ernst & Young et Autres Anik Chaumartin Olivier Durand 8 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 597 8 General Information Person responsible for the registration document PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Mr Philippe Brassac, Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole S.A. RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT I hereby certify that, to my knowledge and after all due diligence, the information contained in this registration document is true and accurate and contains no omissions likely to affect the import thereof. I hereby certify that, to my knowledge, the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the applicable accounting standards and give a true and fair view of the financial position and results of the Company and all entities included in the consolidated group, and that the management report (whose cross-reference table can be found in chapter 8 of this registration document) herewith provides a true and fair view of the business trends, results and financial position of the Company data and all entities included in the consolidated group, together with a description of the main risks and uncertainties that they face. I have obtained a letter from the Statutory Auditors, upon completion of their work, in which they state that they have verified the information relating to the financial position and financial statements provided in this registration document and read the document as a whole. Montrouge, 26 March 2019 The Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole S.A. Philippe Brassac 598 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. General Information Person responsible for the registration document STATUTORY AUDITORS Statutory Auditors Ernst & Young & Autres PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Company represented by Olivier Durand Company represented by Anik Chaumartin 1-2, place des Saisons 63, rue de Villiers 92400 Courbevoie, Paris – La Défense 1 92208 Neuilly-sur-Seine Statutory Auditors, Member, Compagnie régionale des Commissaires Statutory Auditors, Member, Compagnie régionale des Commissaires aux comptes de Versailles aux comptes de Versailles The Crédit Agricole S.A. Board of Statutory Auditors remained unchanged Since 2015, the signatory for Pricewaterhouse Coopers Audit is Anik in 2011/2012/2013/2014/2015/2016/2017. The signatories remained Chaumartin, replacing Catherine Pariset. In 2017, the signatory for unchanged in 2011/2012/2013 and 2014, namely Valérie Meeus for Ernst & Ernst & Young & Autres is Olivier Durand, replacing Valérie Meeus. Young & Autres and Catherine Pariset for PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit. Alternate Statutory Auditors Picarle et Associés Jean-Baptiste Deschryver Company represented by Marc Charles 1-2, place des Saisons 63, rue de Villiers 92400 Courbevoie, Paris – La Défense 1 92208 Neuilly-sur-Seine Statutory Auditors, Member, Compagnie régionale des Commissaires Statutory Auditors, Member, Compagnie régionale des Commissaires aux comptes de Versailles aux comptes de Versailles Ernst & Young & Autres was appointed Statutory Auditor under the PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit was appointed Statutory Auditor name Barbier Frinault et Autres by the Ordinary General Meeting of by the Ordinary General Meeting of 19 May 2004. This term of office 31 May 1994. This term of office was renewed for a further six years at was renewed for a further six years at the Combined General Meeting the Combined General Meeting of 16 May 2018. of 16 May 2018. Ernst & Young & Autres is represented by Olivier Durand. PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit is represented by Anik Chaumartin. Picarle et Associés was appointed Alternate Statutory Auditor for Ernst Jean-Baptiste Deschryver was appointed Alternate Statutory Auditor & Young & Autres by the Combined General Meeting of 17 May 2006. for PricewaterhouseCoopers for a further six years at the Combined This term of office was renewed for a further six years at the Combined General Meeting of 16 May 2018. General Meeting of 16 May 2018. 8 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 599 8 General Information Glossary GLOSSARY ACRONYMS EBA IFRS European Banking Authority. International Financial Reporting Standards. ACPR SME French Regulatory and Resolution Supervisory Authority (ACPR). Small and Medium-sized Enterprise. AFEP/MEDEF MTP French Business and Employers’ Associations. Medium-Term Plan. AMF GOI French financial markets authority. Gross Operating Income. ECB CSR European Central Bank. Corporate Social Responsibility. ESG VSB Environment, Social, Governance. Very Small Business. MSE Medium-sized Enterprise. DEFINITIONS Asset encumbrance Risk appetite Asset encumbrance corresponds to assets used to secure, collateralise Level of risk that the Group is willing to assume in pursuit of its strategic or back up a credit facility for any type of transaction. objectives. It is determined by type of risk and by business line. It may be stated using either quantitative or qualitative criteria. Establishing the NBV per share Net Book Value per share / NTBV per share Net risk appetite is one of the strategic management tools available to the Tangible Book Value per share (1) Group’s governing bodies. One of the methods for calculating the value of a share. This represents the net equity Group share after AT1 deduction divided by the number of AT1 Additional Tier 1 capital shares in issue at end of period, excluding treasury shares. Additional Tier 1 capital eligible under Basel 3 made up of perpetual debt Net tangible book value per share represents the tangible net equity instruments without any redemption incentive or obligation. It is subject Group share after AT1 deduction, i.e. after deduction of the Group share to a loss absorption mechanism where the CET1 ratio falls below a given in intangible assets and goodwill, divided by the number of shares in threshold, fixed in their prospectus. issue at end of period, excluding treasury shares. Treasury shares Rating agency Shares held by a company in its own capital. Shares held in treasury Organisation specialised in assessing the solvency of issuers of debt do not carry a voting right and are not used in EPS calculations as they securities, i.e. their ability to honour their repayment obligations (principal receive no dividend and have no right to reserves. repayments and interest payments over the contractual period). Basel 3 ALM Asset and Liability Management Regulatory standards for banks, which replace the previous Basel 2 Management of the financial risks borne by an institution’s balance sheet agreements by increasing the quality and quantity of the minimum capital (interest rate, currency, liquidity) and its refinancing policy in order to that banks are required to hold against the risk they take. It also introduces protect the bank’s asset value and/or its future profitability. minimum standards for liquidity risk management (quantitative ratios), defines measures attempting to curb the financial system’s pro-cyclicality NBV Net Book Value(1) (capital buffers varying according to the economic cycle) and tightens the The net book value corresponds to the shareholders’ equity share of the requirements on institutions considered as systemically important. In group from which the amount of the AT1 issues, the gains or losses in the European Union, these regulatory standards were introduced under other comprehensive income and the draft dividend on annual results Directive 2013/36/EU (CRD 4 – Capital Requirements Directive) and have been restated. Regulation (EU) No. 575/2013 (CRR – Capital Requirements Regulation). (1) APM indicator. 600 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. General Information Glossary EPS Earnings Per Share(1) DVA Debit Valuation Adjustment Net income Group share divided by the average number of shares in issue Symmetrical to the CVA and represents the expected loss from the excluding Treasury shares. It indicates the portion of profit attributable counterparty’s perspective on passive valuations of financial instruments. to each share (not the portion of earnings paid out to each shareholder, It reflects the impact of the entity’s own credit risk on the valuation of which is the dividend). It may decrease, assuming the net income Group these instruments. share remains unchanged, if the number of shares increases (see Dilution). Dilution A transaction is described as “dilutive” when it reduces the portion of net CCA Cooperative Associate Certificate – Certificat coopératif d’associés asset value (e.g. net book value per share) or earnings (e.g. earnings per Unlisted securities, which may be traded over the counter and may share) attributable to each share in the company. be issued only by cooperative companies. They may be subscribed by members of the issuing Regional Banks and affiliated Local Banks. A CCA Dividend does not carry voting rights but gives its holders rights to a share of the Portion of net income or reserves paid out to shareholders. The Board net assets and to receive dividends. of Directors proposes the dividend to be voted on by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, after the financial statements for the year ended CCI Cooperative Investment Certificate – Certificat coopératif have been approved. d’investissement Securities quoted on the stock exchange that do not carry voting rights EAD Exposure At Default and may be issued only by cooperative companies. A CCI gives its holders Exposure at default: this is the Group’s exposure should the counterparty rights to a share of the net assets and to receive a dividend payment. default. The EAD includes onand off-balance sheet exposures. Off-balance sheet exposures are converted into balance sheet equivalents Collateral using internal or regulatory conversion factors (draw-down scenarios). A transferable asset or a guarantee that provides security for the repayment of a loan, should the recipient of the loan fail to meet their Goodwill repayment obligations. Amount by which the acquisition cost of a business exceeds the value of the net assets revalued at the time of acquisition. Every year, goodwill has Cost/income ratio to be tested for impairment, and any reduction in its value is recognised The cost/income ratio is calculated by dividing operating expenses in the income statement. by revenues, indicating the proportion of revenues needed to cover operating expenses. EL Expected Loss Loss likely to be incurred depending on the quality of the counterparty in Cost of risk view of the structure of the transaction and any risk mitigation measures, The cost of risk reflects allocations to and reversals from provisions for such as collateral. It is computed by multiplying the exposure at default credit and counterparty risk (loans, securities, and off-balance sheet (EAD) by the probability of default (PD) and by the loss given default commitments), as well as the corresponding losses not covered by (LGD). provisions. Assets under management Cost of risk/outstandings(1) Operating activity indicator not reflected in the Group’s consolidated Calculated by dividing the cost of credit risk (over four quarters on a financial statements, reflecting the assets marketed by the Group, rolling basis) by outstandings (over an average of the past four quarters, whether they are managed, advised or delegated to an external fund beginning of the period). manager. Assets under management are measured for each fund by multiplying net asset value per unit (as calculated by an external Loan Portfolio Hedges appraiser in line with the regulations in force) by the number of units/ The impact of loan portfolio hedges is based on market movements shares outstanding. Amundi fully consolidates all the assets under in credit risk hedging and the level of reserves linked to the market management by its joint ventures at 100% and not its share in the joint movements. ventures. Doubtful loan RWA Risk-Weighted Assets Loan on which the borrower has fallen behind with the contractually Assets and risk commitments (loans, etc.) held by a bank weighted by agreed interest payments or capital repayments, or for which there is a a prudential factor and based on the risk of loss and used, when added reasonable doubt that this could occur. together, as the denominator for major solvency ratios. Impaired loan Systemically important bank Loan which has been provisioned due to a risk of non-repayment. Crédit Agricole Group, but not Crédit Agricole S.A., appears on the list of the 29 global systemically important banks (G-SIBs) published CVA Credit Valuation Adjustment by the Financial Stability Board (FSB) in November 2012 and updated Expected loss arising from the risk of a counterparty default which in November 2018. A systemically important bank has to put in place aims at building in the possibility that the full positive market value of a basic capital buffer of between 1% and 3.5% in relation to Basel 3 instruments may not be recovered. The methodology used to determine requirements. the CVA is based largely on the same type of market parameters that FinTech Finance, Technology market participants use. A FinTech is a non-banking company which uses information and 8 communication technologies to deliver financial services. (1) APM indicator. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 601 8 General Information Glossary Free float Green Bonds Percentage of a listed company’s share capital held by non-core Bonds issued by an approved entity (business, local authority shareholders. Non-core shareholders means any shareholders likely to or international organisation) to finance an eco-friendly and/or buy or sell the shares at any time without having to worry about the sustainability-driven project or activity. These instruments are often used effects of their decision on the control of the business and not bound by in connection with the financing of sustainable agriculture, the protection a contract limiting their right of disposal (e.g. shareholders’ agreement). of ecosystems, renewable energy and organic farming. Shares held by retail investors (including employees) and by institutional investors (SICAV and FCP mutual funds, pension funds, and insurance GRI Global Initiative Reporting companies) are included in the free float. In contrast, the investment held An organisation consisting of stakeholders and partners (businesses, by a majority shareholder is not included in the free float. audit firms, human rights, environmental protection, labour organisations, and government representatives) which has created a joint framework for FCP Fonds commun de placement – mutual fund the development of sustainability reporting. Type of UCITS that issues units and does not have legal personality. By acquiring units, investors gain co-ownership of the securities, but do HQLA High Quality Liquid Assets not have any voting rights. They are not shareholders. An FCP mutual Unencumbered high-quality liquid assets (see Asset encumbrance) that fund is represented and managed from an administrative, financial and can be converted easily and immediately in private markets into cash in accounting perspective by a single management company, which may the event of a liquidity crisis. delegate these tasks. NPS Net Promoter Score FCPE Fonds commun de placement d’entreprise – corporate mutual fund Index measuring how likely customers are to recommend their bank to Employee savings vehicle used by companies offering this type of their family and friends. Based on polling conducted every quarter, this arrangement to their employees. Savers hold units in FCP mutual funds index reflects the number of customers who are critical of, neutral on or that are allotted in return for their payments and any top-up payments willing to promote the bank. made by their employer (employer contribution). SRI Socially Responsible Investing FReD Fides, Respect, Demeter Systematic and clearly documented incorporation of environmental, Initiative to implement, manage and measure the progress made by the social and governance criteria in investment decisions. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programme. FReD has three pillars with 19 commitments that aim to bolster trust (Fides), grow individuals Institutional investors and the corporate ecosystem (Respect) and protect the environment Businesses, public-sector bodies and insurance companies involved (Demeter). Every year since 2011, the FReD index has provided a in securities investment, for example, investing in the shares of listed measure of the progress made by the CSR programme being pursued companies. Pension funds and asset management and insurance by Crédit Agricole S.A. and its subsidiaries. PricewaterhouseCoopers companies come under this heading. conducts an annual audit of this index. LGD Loss Given Default FSB Financial Stability Board Ratio between the loss experienced on an exposure on a counterparty at The Financial Stability Board’s remit is to identify vulnerabilities in the default and the size of the exposure at default. global financial system and establish principles serving as a basis for the regulation and oversight of financial stability. It is made up of the Credit rating governors, finance ministers and supervisors of G20 countries. Its Measurement of credit quality in the form of an opinion issued by a rating primary objective is to coordinate at international level the work of the agency (Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s, Fitch Ratings, etc.). The rating may national financial authorities and of the international standard-setters in apply to a specific issuer (business, government, public-sector authority) the regulation and supervision of financial institutions. Founded at the and/or specific issues (bonds, securitised notes, secured bonds, etc.). G20 meeting in London in April 2009, the FSB is the successor to the The credit rating may influence an issuer’s borrowing terms (interest rate Financial Stability Forum set up by the G7 in 1999. it pays, its access to funding) and its market image (see Rating agency). Asset management NSFR Net Stable Funding Ratio – 1 year Liquidity Ratio Management of negotiable or other assets, for the manager’s own Ratio intended to promote longer-term resilience through the introduction account or for third-party (institutional or retail) investors. In third-party of additional incentives for banks to fund their activities using more stable asset management, assets are adapted via funds or in the framework resources of finance (namely with longer maturities). This structural of management mandates. Specialised products are offered to meet liquidity ratio covering a one-year period has been designed to limit the the range of customer expectations in terms of geographical and sector funding of long term assets by short term resources. diversification, short-term or long-term investing and the desired level of risk. Corporate governance Any mechanism that can be implemented to achieve transparency, equality between shareholders and a balance of powers between management and shareholders. These mechanisms encompass the methods used to formulate and implement strategy, the operation of the Board of Directors, the organisation framework between different governing bodies and the compensation policy for Directors and executive managers. 602 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. General Information Glossary UCITS Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities Resolution An UCITS is a portfolio of negotiable securities (equities, bonds, Shortened form of “resolution of crises and bank failures”. In practice, etc.) managed by professionals (management companies) and held two types of plan need to be drawn up for every European bank: 1) collectively by retail or institutional investors. There are two types of a preventative recovery plan prepared by the bank’s senior managers, UCITS – SICAVs (open-ended investment companies) and FCPs (mutual and 2) a preventative resolution plan put in place by the competent investment funds). supervisory authority. Resolution occurs before bankruptcy of the bank, to plan its ordered dismantling and avoid systemic risk. Mutual shares Portion of the capital of a Local Bank or Regional Bank. Mutual shares GOI Gross Operating Income receive an annual interest payment. Ownership units are reimbursed Calculated as revenues less operating expenses (general operating at their nominal value and give no right to reserves or to liquidation expenses, such as employee expenses and other administrative proceeds. expenses, depreciation and amortisation). P/E ratio Price/earnings ratio Operating income Ratio of the share price to earnings per share. For shareholders, it Calculated as gross operating income less the cost of risk. represents the number of years’ earnings needed to recoup their initial investment. It is an indicator used to compare the value of different NIGS Net income Group share stocks, for example, within the same sector of activity. A high P/E rating Net income/(loss) for the financial year (after corporate income tax). Equal reflects expectations of strong earnings growth or a situation where a to net income less the share attributable to non-controlling interests in company’s value is not fully reflected in its earnings (e.g. it may have fully consolidated subsidiaries. substantial cash holdings). If a company has a P/E of 15x, it is said to capitalise its earnings 15 times. NIGS attributable to common shares(1) The net income Group share attributable to ordinary shares represents Revenues the net income Group share from which the AT1 coupon has been Difference between banking income (interest income, fee income, capital deducted, including issuing costs before tax. gains from market activities and other income from banking operations) and banking expenses (interest paid by the bank on its funding sources, NIGS (Net Income Group Share) underlying(1) fee expenses, capital losses arising on market activities and other The underlying net income Group share represents the stated net expenses incurred by banking operations). income Group share from which specific items have been deducted (i.e. non-recurring or exceptional items). Leverage ratio A voluntarily simple ratio that is intended to control the size of banks’ total RoE Return on Equity(1) assets. The leverage ratio establishes a link between Tier 1 regulatory Indicator measuring the return on equity, calculated by dividing a capital and on-/off-balance sheet assets, after restatement of given company’s net income by its equity. items. RoTE Return on Tangible Equity(1) LCR Liquidity Coverage Ratio – 1 month Liquidity Ratio Measures the return on tangible equity (the bank’s net assets restated to This 1-month ratio aims to enhance the short-term resilience of a bank’s eliminate intangibles and goodwill). liquidity risk profile. The LCR obliges banks to hold sufficient risk-free, highly liquid assets (see HQLA) to cover outflows, net of inflows, assessed Mutual shareholders under stressed assumptions, to see it through a crisis period of 30 days Holders of mutual shares, which make up the capital of the Local Banks. without relying on any support from Central banks. The Local Banks own the share capital of the Regional Bank with which they are affiliated. They receive returns in respect of their mutual shares, MREL Minimum Requirement for own funds and Eligible Liabilities the interest rate of which is capped by law. The members come together Ratio defined in the European Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive once a year at the Annual General Meeting at which they approve the indicating the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities financial statements of the Local Banks and elect its Directors. Each that have to be available to absorb losses in the event of resolution individual member has one vote at these general meetings, irrespective (see chapter 5 on Risks and Pillar 3/Regulatory indicators and ratios). of the number of mutual shares that she/he owns. HPSP Home Purchase Saving Plans SICAV (Société d’investissement à capital variable) – open-ended The Home Purchase Saving Plan provision represents the provision set investment company up for payment into housing savings plans that benefit from an attractive A type of UCITS which enables investors to invest in a portfolio of financial interest rate and may be closed in the short term by their holders. assets without holding them directly and to diversify their investments. It manages a portfolio of stocks or other assets and may specialise in Accretion a specific market, an asset class, an investment profile, or a specific A transaction is described as “accretive” when it increases the portion of sector. From a tax perspective, a SICAV unit is like a share. net asset value (e.g. net book value per share) or earnings (e.g. earnings per share) attributable to each share in the company. 8 (1) APM indicator. The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 603 8 General Information Glossary Solvency Benchmark rate Measures the ability of a business or an individual to repay its debt over Interest rate set by a country’s or currency zone’s central bank to regulate the medium to long term. For a bank, solvency reflects its ability to cope economic activity. Principal tool in a central bank’s arsenal for fulfilling with the losses that its risk profile is likely to trigger. Solvency analysis its role of regulating economic activity: inflation, stimulation of growth. is not the same as liquidity analysis. The liquidity of a business is its ability to honour its payments in the normal course of its business, to find Subordinated notes new funding sources and to achieve a balance at all times between its Issues made by a company, the returns on and/or redemption of which incomings and outgoings. For banks, solvency is governed by the CRD 4 are contingent upon an event (conditional upon payment of a dividend or Directive and CRR Regulation. For an insurance company, solvency is achievement of an outcome). covered by the Solvency 2 Directive (see Solvency 2). TSDI Undated subordinated notes Solvency 2 Undated subordinated notes have no specified maturity date, with European directive on insurance and reinsurance undertakings intended redemption being at the behest of the issuer beyond a certain date. to ensure that they comply at all times with their commitments towards policyholders in view of the specific risks incurred by such businesses. TSS Deeply subordinated notes It aims to achieve an economic and prospective assessment of solvency Undated subordinated issue giving rise to perpetual returns. Their based on three pillars – quantitative requirements (Pillar 1), qualitative perpetual maturity arises from the fact that they do not have a contractual requirements (Pillar 2) and information for the public and the supervisor redemption date, with redemption taking place at the option of the issuer. (Pillar 3). Adopted in 2014, it was transposed into national law in 2015 Should the issuer be liquidated, these notes are redeemed after all the and came into force on 1 January 2016.Credit spread other creditors have been repaid. Actuarial margin (difference between a bond’s yield to maturity and that on a risk-free borrowing with an identical maturity). TLAC Total Loss Absorbing Capacity Designed at the G20’s request by the Financial Stability Board. It aims Issuer spread to provide an indication of the loss-absorbing capacity and of the ability Actuarial margin representing the difference between the actuarial rate to raise additional capital of the systemically important banks (G-SIBs) of return at which the Group can borrow and that of a risk-free loan of (see chapter 5 on Risks and Pillar 3/ Regulatory indicators and ratios). identical duration. VaR Value-at-Risk Stress tests Synthetic indicator used to track on a day-to-day basis the market risks Exercise to study the ramifications on banks’ balance sheets, profit and taken by the Group, particularly in its trading activities (VaR is calculated loss and solvency in order to measure their ability to withstand these using a 99% on 10 days-confidence interval, over one day, in line with kinds of situations. the regulatory internal model). Reflects the largest exposure obtained after eliminating 1% of the most unfavourable occurrences over a 1-year history. 604 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. General Information Cross-reference table CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE The following table indicates the page references corresponding to the main information headings required by EC Regulation 809/2004 (annex I), enacting the terms of the “Prospectus” directive. Headings required under annex I of EC Regulation 809/2004 Page number of the Registration document 1. Persons responsible 598 2. Statutory Auditors 599 3. Selected financial information 3.1 Historical financial information 28 to 30 – 34 to 35 3.2 Interim financial information N.A. 4. Risk factors 206 to 215 – 258 to 261 – 394 to 422 – 463 to 467 – 548 to 549 5. Information about the issuer 5.1 History and development of the issuer 2 to 7 – 26 to 27 – 198 to 201 – 566 to 578 5.2 Investments 26 to 27 – 360 to 361 – 391 to 392 – 493 to 506 – 579 6. Business overview 6.1 Main activities 12 to 24 – 432 to 439 6.2 Main markets 16 to 24 6.3 Exceptional factors N.A. 6.4 Extent to which issuer is dependent on patents or licenses, industrial, commercial 261 or financial contracts 6.5 Basis for any statements made by the issuer regarding its competitive position N.A. 7. Organisation structure 7.1 Brief description of the Group and the issuer’s position within the Group 5 7.2 List of significant subsidiaries 352 to 353 – 493 to 506 – 539 to 542 8. Property, plant and equipment 8.1 Significant existing or planned property, plant & equipment 426 – 458 to 459 – 543 8.2 Description of any environmental issues that may affect the issuer’s utilisation 38 to 91 of property, plant & equipment 9. Operating and financial Review 178 to 203 9.1 Financial position 354 to 361 – 520 to 522 9.2 Operating income 354 – 522 10. Capital resources 10.1 Information concerning the issuer’s capital resources 9 to 11 – 28 to 33 – 198 – 264 to 283 – 356 to 359 – 422 – 469 to 472 – 551 to 552 10.2 Explanation of the sources and amount of the issuer’s cash flows 360 to 361 10.3 Information on borrowing requirements and funding structure 183 to 184 – 244 to 248 – 416 to 417 10.4 Information regarding any restrictions on the use of capital resources that have 267 to 283 – 458 – 493 510 significantly affected, or could significantly affect, the issuer’s operations 10.5 Information regarding the anticipated sources of funds needed to fulfil commitments 579 to 581 11. Research and development, patents and licences N.A. 12. Information on trends 2 to 3 – 198 to 199 – 510 13. Profit forecasts or estimates N.A. 14. Administrative, management and supervisory bodies and Executive Management 14.1 Information about the members of the Board and management bodies 95 to 104 – 120 to 141 14.2 Administrative, management and supervisory bodies and Executive Management 98 to 101 – 142 conflicts of interests 15. Compensation and benefits 15.1 Amount of compensation paid and benefits in kind 96 to 97 – 111 to 112 – 143 to 170 – 474 to 477 – 558 15.2 Total amounts set aside or accrued to provide pension, retirement or similar benefits 111 to 112 – 143 to 170 – 383 to 384 – 463 – 474 to 477 – 534 – 550 – 558 8 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 605 8 General Information Cross-reference table Headings required under annex I of EC Regulation 809/2004 Page number of the Registration document 16. Functioning of administrative and governance bodies 16.1 Term of office expiry date 120 to 141 – 580 16.2 Information on service contracts between members of the administrative bodies 142 and the issuer or one of their subsidiaries 16.3 Information on the issuer’s Audit and Compensation Committees 111 to 112 16.4 Compliance with the current corporate governance regulations 94 to 119 – 171 to 177 in the issuer’s country of origin 17. Employees 17.1 Number of employees and breakdown by main type of activity and by site 4 – 71 to 72 – 82 – 474 – 558 17.2 Investments in the issuer’s share capital and stock options 28 to 29 – 31 to 33 – 155 – 157 to 170 – 384 – 477 – 534 17.3 Arrangements for employee profit-sharing in the issuer’s capital 28 to 29 – 383 to 384 – 477 18. Major shareholders 18.1 Shareholders owning more than 5% of the share capital or voting rights 28 to 29 – 95 – 469 to 471 18.2 Existence of different voting rights for the issuer’s main shareholders 28 to 33 – 469 – 568 to 569 18.3 Control over the issuer 5 – 28 to 29 – 95 – 142 18.4 Description of any arrangements, known to the issuer, the operation of which may 29 at a subsequent date result in a change in control of the issuer 19. Related-party transactions 348 to 350 – 456 to 458 – 524 to 527 – 552 20. Financial information concerning the issuer’s assets and liabilities, financial positions and profits and losses 20.1 Historical financial information(1) 346 to 563 20.2 Pro forma financial information N.A. 20.3 Financial statements 346 to 510 – 518 to 559 20.4 Auditing of historical annual financial statements 511 to 517 – 560 to 563 20.5 Date of the latest financial information 346 20.6 Interim financial information N.A. 20.7 Dividend policy 9 – 30 – 35 to 36 – 201 – 203 – 267 to 269 – 470 – 574 to 576 20.8 Legal and arbitration proceedings 142 – 258 to 261 – 463 to 467 20.9 Significant change in the issuer’s financial or commercial position 580 21. Additional information 21.1 Share capital 28 to 33 – 469 to 470 – 552 – 566 to 567 21.2 Memorandum and Articles of Association 566 to 578 22. Material contracts 348 to 350 – 524 to 527 – 579 to 580 – 590 to 597 23. Third party information and statement by experts and declarations N.A. of any interests 24. Publicly available documents 580 25. Information on equity investments 352 to 353 – 456 to 458 – 493 to 506 – 539 to 542 N.A.: not applicable. (1) In accordance with Article 28 of EC Regulation 809/2004 and Article 212–11 of the AMF’s General Regulations, the following are incorporated by reference: –– the annual and consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 and the corresponding Statutory Auditors’ Reports, as well as the Group’s management report, appearing respectively on pages 456 to 506 and 304 to 452, on pages 507 to 508 and 453 to 454 and on pages 176 to 207 of the Crédit Agricole S.A. Registration Document 2016 registered by the AMF on 21 March 2017 under number D.17-0197; –– the annual and consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 and the corresponding Statutory Auditors’ Reports, as well as the Group’s management report, appearing respectively on pages 468 to 519 and 318 to 460, on pages 520 to 523 and 461 to 466 and on pages 168 to 192 of the Crédit Agricole S.A. Registration Document 2017 registered by the AMF on 22 March 2018 under number D.18-0164. The sections of the registration documents number D.17-0197 and number D.18-0164 not referred to above are either not applicable to investors or are covered in another part of this registration document. 606 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. General Information Cross-reference table REGULATED INFORMATION WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE AMF’S GENERAL REGULATIONS CONTAINED IN THIS REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CAN BE FOUND ON THE PAGES SHOWN IN THE CORRESPONDENCE TABLE BELOW This Registration document, which is published in the form of an annual report, includes all components of the 2018 Annual Financial Report referred to in paragraph I of Article L. 451-1-2 of the French Monetary and Financial Code as well as in Article 222-3 of the AMF’s General Regulations and the ordinance 2017-1162 of 12/07/2017 from the Sapin 2 law: Annual financial report Page number of the registration document 1. Management report nn Analysis of the financial position and earnings 178 to 203 nn Risk analysis 221 to 227 – 204 to 263 nn Sustainable development and corresponding Auditors’ report 38 to 91 nn Share buybacks 31 to 33 nn Information on accounts payables and receivables 581 nn Non-financial reporting (DPEF) 12 to 24 – 39 to 91 – 114 to 119 – 206 to 263 2. Corporate governance nn Offices held by corporate officers 120 to 137 nn Agreements between a Executive manager or a major shareholder and a subsidiary 348 to 350 – 524 to 527 – 579 to 581 – 590 to 597 nn Authorizations inforce concerning capital increases 30 to 31 nn Methods for exercising General management 95 to 102 – 104 to 119 – 140 to 142 – 171 to 177 nn Compensation policy 111 to 114 – 143 to 170 – 474 to 477 – 558 – 565 – 580 nn Information on Committees, Board and Executive management 104 to 119 – 140 to 142 – 171 to 177 nn Capital structure and articles of association 28 to 29 – 104 to 119 – 140 to 142 – 171 to 177 – 566 to 578 3. Financial statements nn Parent company financial statements 518 to 559 nn Statutory Auditors’ Report on the parent company financial statements 560 to 563 nn Consolidated financial statements 346 to 510 nn Statutory Auditors’ Report on the consolidated financial statements 511 to 517 4. Responsibility statement for the document 598 In accordance with Articles 212-13 and 221-1 of the AMF’s General Regulations, this Registration document also includes the following regulated information: nn Annual information report N.A. nn Fees paid to Statutory Auditors 426 nn Chairman’s report on corporate governance 94 8 The definitions of the underlined words can be found in the Glossary on page 600. CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. | 2018 Registration Document 607 Photos credits: Getty Images Interview pictures: Mikael Lafontan Design and production: Tel.: +33 (0)1 55 32 29 74 A French limited company with share capital of €8,599,311,468 Nanterre Trade and Company Registry No. 784 608 416 RCS 12 place des États-Unis • 92127 Montrouge Cedex • France Tel. (33) 1 43 23 52 02 • www.credit-agricole.com
