NEXCO East Annual Report 2018 2018 In consideration of the environment, this report uses FSC ® certified paper and printing ink that doesn’ t contain volatile organic compounds, Annual Report along with printing that uses the “waterless printing” metho d, which doesn’ t require dampening solutions including alkaline developing soluEast Nippon Expressway Company Limited tions and isopropyl alcohol. In addition,“universal design fonts”are employed in this document, taking into consideration ease of reading. Shin-Kasumigaseki Building, 3-2, Kasumigaseki 3-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8979, Japan (General reception on 15th Floor) NEXCO East Customer Center +81-570-024-024 / +81-3-5338-7524 https://www.e-nexco.co.jp/en/ ●●●●●●● (Issued in September 2018) NE X CO E as t A n n u al R e p o r t TOP COMMITMENT 2018 NEXCO East Group engages in the construction, management and CONTENTS operation of expressways, rest areas, and other expressway-related ■ TOP COMMITMENT… ………………………………………………………… 1 businesses in the eastern part of Japan, from the Kanto region to ■ Business Areas of NEXCO East… ………………………………………… 3 Hokkaido, Niigata, and Nagano. ■ Management Principles of NEXCO East Group………………………… 4 For the purpose of achieving a sustainable society that extends beyond ■ Company Profile………………………………………………………………… 5 the framework of regions, countries, and generations, NEXCO East Group strives to create the value of“connections”and will continue to ■ TOP MESSAGE…………………………………………………………………… 7 grow as a company that contributes to all stakeholders. ■ 2025 Long-term Vision and Mid-term Management Plan…………… 9 ■ Special Topic 01 For Sustainable Expressway Services… ………… 1 3 ■ Special Topic 02 Various Impacts by Improving Expressway Networks in the Tokyo Metropolitan Area……………………………… 17 ■ Special Topic 03 Efforts to Make Expressways More User-Friendly for Foreign Visitors… ……………………………… 21 ■ Aspiring to Create Safer and More Comfortable“Best Ways”…… 23 ■ For More Convenient and Comfortable Service… …………………… 27 ■ Next-generation Expressways Designed via Creation and Utilization Technologies…………………………………… 31 ■ For Society and For Employees…………………………………………… 39 ■ Company Profile / Board Members / Organization Chart / List of Expressways Currently Operating / List of Expressways under Construction / Number of Interchanges and Rest Areas / Financial Statements / Group Companies of NEXCO East… ……… 41 NEXCO East has participated in the “United Nations Global Compact”initiative and has adopted 10 principles in the four areas of human rights, labor, the environment, and anticorruption, as stated in this initiative. ● Policy for compiling this report This NEXCO East Annual Report has been Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer issued to publicize to stakeholders details Kunie OKAMOTO Toru OBATA on NEXCO East Group's business involving expressways and its actions toward the development of a sustainable society through business involving expressways. This report can be downloaded from the corporate website of NEXCO East. ● Scope of reporting Eas t Ni p p o n Ex p r es s w ay C o ., Lt d . (N E XC O East) and its 27 group companies. ● Reporting period From April 1, 2017 to March 31, 2018 (Some activities outside of the specified period are also included.) Business Areas of Management Principles of NEXCO East Group NEXCO East As of July 1, 2018 ◆ Group Management Principle Central Japan East Japan By maximizing the social and economic effects of its expressways, NEXCO East Group contributes to improve regional development and the quality of life, and to boosting the Japanese economy. West Japan Social and Economic Boosting the Japanese Effects of Expressways Economy Shibetsu-Kenbuchi Fukagawa-nishi E5A SASSON EXPWY Kitami-nishi Rikubetsu-Shotoshibetsu E5 DO-O EXPWY Yoichi Otaru Ashoro Honbetsu ◆ Group Management Vision NEXCO East Group will create value that connects all stakeholders, working toward a prosperous Numanohata-nishi E38 DOTO EXPWY society transcending regions, countries, and generations, and will grow as a company that contributes to these stakeholders. Onumekoen Customers Local Communities A company that has ties with local A company that E4A AOMORI EXPWY communities and contributes to satisfies its customers. local development. NEXCO East In operation Under construction Aomori Aomori-higashi The Environment Shareholders, Investors Other Organizations ShimodaHachinohe A company that responds to Momoishi In operation An environmentally Under construction expectations based on clear friendly company. E7 NIHONKAI TOHOKU EXPWY NoshiroMinami Interchange Group Management management responsibilities. E4A HACHINOHE EXPWY Interchange （Under construction） Vision E46 KAMAISHI EXPWY Junction Global Society Creating Value That Employees Iwaki Junction （Under construction） Honjo Towa *Names of junctions and interchanges under A company that contributes Connects All Stakeholders A company where each and Yuzawa construction (information valid as of July 1, 2018) proactively to the needs of every employee feels E46 AKITA EXPWY are tentative. global society. the value of his/her work. Sakataport E7 NIHONKAI TOHOKU EXPWY n E4 TOHOKU EXPWY sa no C3 TOKYO-GAIKAN EXPWY do Yu E13 TOHOKU-CHUO EXPWY E48 YAMAGATA EXPWY Gassan Higashine Business Partners The Public Arakawa Tainai E7 NIHONKAI TOHOKU EXPWY YamagataRifu-naka Sound, fair, Kaminoyama Tomiya E51 HIGASHI-KANTO EXPWY A sound company that Nanyo-Takahata Sendaitransparent and honest minami the public can trust. E17 KAN-ETSU EXPWY Yonezawakita business relationships. E8 HOKURIKU EXPWY Itako C4 KEN-O EXPWY Misato E49 BAN-ETSU EXPWY Akiruno Nerima E65 SHIN-KOKU EXPWY ◆ Group Management Policy Asahi E18 JOSHIN-ETSU EXPWY ShinTamagawa Kuko E6 JOBAN EXPWY Matsuo-Yokoshiba Koya E19 NAGANO EXPWY E83 DAISAN-KEIHIN Ukishima ● NEXCO East Group puts our customers first, and improves the safety, reliability, comfort, and Saku-Komoro E50 KITA-KANTO EXPWY Totsuka convenience of expressways. Azumino Fujisawa ● NEXCO East Group applies our technologies and know-how in order to contribute to society Hitachinaka Namiki Yachiho Heights E82 CHIBA-TOGANE EXPWY based on fair and transparent business activities, and provides accurate corporate information. E83 YOKOHAMA SHINDO ● NEXCO East Group optimizes our business resources to improve our customer service and Hokota KisarazuMaboriminami E14 KEIYO EXPWY E16 YOKOHAMA-YOKOSUKA EXPWY Kaigan corporate value and to establish sound management with a never-ending pursuit of efficiency. E14 TATEYAMA EXPWY ● NEXCO East Group respects the efforts and results of each employee, and values their motivation CA TOKYO-WAN-AQUA-LINE EXPWY and challenging spirit. Tomiura ● NEXCO East Group promotes CSR management that contributes to all stakeholders, including E14 FUTTSU-TATEYAMA EXPWY customers, local communities, global society, the public, the environment, shareholders and investors, business partners, and employees. About NEXCO EAST NEXCO East implements steady improvements to expressway networks so as to provide customers with safe, reliable, comfortable, and convenient Com p any Pro file expressway services, thereby contributing to regional development, improvements in people's lives and the revitalization of the national economy. ● NEXCO East Group Business Operations ● Company Profile NEXCO East Group engages in construction, management and operation of expressways, rest areas, and other expresswayTrade Name East Nippon Expressway Company Limited related businesses in the eastern part of Japan, from the Kanto region to Hokkaido, Niigata, and Nagano. Representative Toru Obata, President and Chief Executive Officer Special Topic Date of Establishment October 1, 2005 Management business Construction business Rest area operation business Other expressway-related business Capital 52.5 billion yen Number of Employees 2,243 (As of March 31, 2018)* *This figure excludes employees from our company assigned to outside the company and includes employees from outside the company assigned to our company ● Corporate History 2005 Privatization of Japan Highway Public Corporation and establishment of the East Nippon Expressway Company (Bicycle parking lot operation business) Limited. Expressway businesses Related businesses 2006 The brand name, NEXCO East, is chosen. Expressways Operation Business 2007 The customer center is established. 2008 First Pasar, Pasar Makuhari is launched. ● Major Indexes 2009 India Liaison Office is established. 2010 First Themed Area,“Yorii Rest Area: The Little Prince”is opened. Expressway business operating revenue (consolidated) Related business operating revenue (consolidated) Traffic volume (unit: 10,000 vehicles/day) (in billions of JPY) (in billions of JPY) 2015 The entire route of the JOBAN EXPWY is opened. The Expressway Renewal Project is launched. 1,031.2 1,010.5 954.5 975,5 86.2 87.3 2017 The section of the KEN-O EXPWY between Sakai-Koga IC and Tsukuba-chuo IC is opened, linking the TOMEI 204.0 78.0 72.0 EXPWY and TATEYAMA EXPWY. 253.7 131.9 137.8 785.8 62.9 286 289 2018 The section of the TOKYO-GAIKAN EXPWY between Misato-minami IC and Koya JCT is opened. 281 280 31.1 41.8 42.1 273 Outline of Privatization of Former Japan Highway Public Corporation 126.9 26.7 ● Rest Area Business 17.6 1.6 1.6 2.2 On October 1, 2005, following the privatization of Japan Highway Public Corporation, which had been established in 1956, 2.3 3.4 along with other public highway corporations, Japan Expressway Holding and Debt Repayment Agency (hereinafter referred 806.4 822.5 837.6 658.9 777.4 to as the“Expressway Agency”) and six expressway companies were established. 45.2 43.5 43.0 42.0 41.6 Metropolitan Expressway Hanshin Expressway Honshu-Shikoku Japan Highway Public Corporation Public Corporation Public Corporation Bridge Authority 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (fiscal year) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (fiscal year) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (fiscal year) *Expected to merge with NEXCO West when its ■ Toll revenues ■ Sales of completed highway ■ Rest area operation business ■ Other business 〈Companies〉Construction and operation of expressways and the collection of tolls business becomes stabilized Construction and Technology Development Business construction contracts, etc. ■ Entrusted business NEXCO NEXCO NEXCO Metropolitan Hanshin ExpressHonshu-Shikoku Bridge East Central West Expressway Co., Ltd. way Co., Ltd. Expressway Co., Ltd. Length of roads in service (in kilometers, as of July 1, 2018) Interchanges and rest areas 〈Expressway Agency〉Administration of expressways and the repayment of debts 3,746 ■ Number of interchanges (as of July 1, 2018) Interchanges Smart interchanges Independent Administrative Institution: Japan Expressway Holding and Debt Repayment Agency 2014 3,831 439 47 ● Schemes for Expressway Businesses Expressway NEXCO 2015 Agency East ■ Number of rest areas (as of July 1, 2018) NEXCO East constructs and upgrades expressways in the Fulfilling Our Social Responsibility 3,842 Rest areas eastern Japan area and transfers the assets and debts to Transfer of expressway Construction, the Expressway Agency, while at the same time operating 322 upgrading, etc. 2016 (of which, 197 have commercial assets and debts facilities, 125 do not) the expressway assets leased from the Expressway Agency Holding for which a lease fee is paid through the management and expressway 3,871 operation of the leased assets. assets Leasing of Quick charging stations 2017 expressway assets 139 The Expressway Law specifies that tolls from expressways Funds raised shall not generate profit. The collected tolls are used for Repayment Operation 3,895 the necessary operation and maintenance of expressways of debts Payment of lease fee Toll collection 2018 Total retail store sales and the provision of various services, as well as for (Year) 147.2 billion yen (in FY2017) paying back debt by means of the lease fee paid to the Expressway Agency. Company Profile Customers Investors and financial institutions, etc. 5 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 NE N XCO E E XCO EA ST: Annual A ST: Annual Rep o rr tt 2018 Rep o 2018 6 6 About NEXCO EAST TO P M E S SA G E maintenance work. I believe that it is the role of NEXCO Promotion Committee in NEXCO East Group established East Group to develop technologies and solutions that an action plan to promote regional revitalization in utilize to the fullest knowledge we have attained thus FY2017. We are also taking steps to implement a policy Special Topic far. We should, moreover, look to patent our knowledge of CSV (creating shared value) based on our CSR and know-how so that in the future, we can provide it concept. My desire is to move forward positively in our as a commodity to clients inside and outside Japan. efforts to bring vitality to regional communities as well as enhance rest areas. Connecting Regions, and Connecting Regions with At the same time, it is also important to create a bright Each Other and healthy working environment so that employees We are continuing to expand our expressway networks. can achieve a good work-life balance. Since 2016, In June of this year, thanks to the cooperation of our group has been involved in the“E-Shokuba (ES) everyone in the areas through which it passes, we opened creation movement,” as a measure to reduce work Expressways Operation Business a new section of the TOKYO-GAIKAN EXPWY between hours, maintain and promote good health, mental health Misato-minami IC and Koya JCT. This new link aims to care and prevent harassment, and reform employee relieve congestion in the Tokyo Metropolitan Area and awareness. Achieving an efficient work style and improve transportation convenience and productivity. optimizing working hours in this way will help us fulfill We are also working on improving peripheral our social responsibility to develop excellent human expressways surrounding the Tokyo Metropolitan Area resources and empower women in the workplace. and expressways in each region to eliminate any missing links in our networks. The“connections”realized by “Safety”Is the No. 1 Priority expressway improvements will bring vitality to local NEXCO East Group has one clear mission: that is to President and regions and contribute to their development. operate expressways efficiently, making safety the No. Rest Area Business Chief Executive Officer It is also important that enhancements to rest areas do 1 priority. It is extremely important as an organization Toru OBATA not simply bring comfort and convenience to drivers; that every employee who works for NEXCO East they also help form connections with local regions. We Group understands this philosophy, and sets their goals are contributing to the revitalization of local regions by accordingly. Twenty-four hours a day, 365 days a installing walk-in gates so that rest areas can be accessed year—everyone must do what they have to do, and do A Network Connecting Regions— by local residents from general roads and by turning rest areas into“regional show windows”that showcase and it properly.“Make the extraordinary ordinary.”I resolve to steer our company so that this concept is shared Aiming for Further Enhancement of Expressways sell local specialty products. throughout our group, leading to regional development, improvements in people's lives and the revitalization of Construction and Technology Development Business As Expressways Carrying“Life” the national economy. We are enhancing rest areas so that they can operate as emergency response centers that can be used by Q. What is the mission of NEXCO East Group? particularly relevant for NEXCO East Group, because local authorities in times of disaster. One of our most many of our expressways run through cold regions important roles—and something that the general public Infrastructure Network for Carrying and Connecting and are thus susceptible to snow and ice. If we did not expects of us—is to secure expressways as lifelines in Expressways are infrastructure networks for carrying properly maintain these roads, it would lead to major the event of an emergency or disaster. We prepare goods and connecting regions. In terms of“carrying,” problems. In FY2015, NEXCO East Group launched for disasters by completing thorough preparations expressways play a vital role in supporting the industrial the“Expressway Renewal Project,”which is a longand conducting drills so that we can quickly restore base of Japan. As for “connecting,” expressways term initiative stretching to FY2030. I understand that damaged expressways and thereby enable disaster Fulfilling Our Social Responsibility connect the regions to the capital, and to each other, the major road works from this project will cause some victims to evacuate, and make it possible for the Self bringing vitality to all areas. In this regard, expressways inconvenience, but I ask for your understanding and Defense Forces, police and firefighters to carry out themselves serve as public infrastructure. cooperation in order to bring safety and reliability to rescue activities and transport relief supplies. The mission of NEXCO East Group is to efficiently the next generation. manage expressways so that they are safe, reliable, We are also making efforts to realize our SMH (Smart Q. What are your resolutions going forward? comfortable, and convenient. My role as president and Maintenance Highway) concept, through which CEO is to conduct our operations from the perspective we use state-of-the-art technologies such as ICT to Becoming a Proactive Partner in the Creation of Value of our customers and provide an enhanced and make infrastructure management more advanced NEXCO East Group will fulfill our corporate social satisfying experience. and efficient. In the near future, I believe that Japan's responsibilities (CSR) based on the three pillars of Company Profile declining birthrate and aging population will lead to “vitalization of regional communities,”“promotion Aiming for Safe and Reliable Expressways a major social problem in the form of a decreasing of traffic safety”and“environmental preservation.” Maintenance of aging infrastructure is our greatest number of young workers. To stay ahead of this issue, Understanding that we cannot thrive as a company challenge in terms of safety and reliability. This is we must consider how we can improve the efficiency of without the vitality of local communities, the CSR 7 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 8 About NEXCO EAST Challenging Ourselves and Making Rapid Progress to Realize the Future Ideal State of NEXCO East 〜2025 Long-term Vision and Mid-term Management Plan〜 ◆ Long-term Vision 2025 Special Topic NEXCO East Group has formulated “Long-term Vision 2025” to enhance the corporate value of the Group and continuously fulfill our mission. This is a summary of what we would like to achieve by 2025, 20 years after the establishment of NEXCO East. A company that is trusted by the public: Reliable By placing safety and reliability as top priorities of the company, NEXCO East Group will be a model company for infrastructure management companies which take action for the Expressways Operation Business realization of a sustainable society with a pioneering spirit, including the secure maintenance of aging expressways. A company that is needed by customers: Required NEXCO East Group will always pursue the provision of the largest satisfaction to our customers with a minimum cost and offer new value to customers by utilizing information and communication technologies, etc. A company that lives up to the expectations of local communities: Responsible Rest Area Business Opening ceremony for the TOKYO-GAIKAN EXPWY between Misato-minami IC and Koya JCT NEXCO East Group will establish a strong relationship with local communities, contribute to local communities through the use of our expressway network and assets, and continuously take a variety of actions that lead to co-existence and co-prosperity with local communities. A company that receives recognition from international society: Recognized By utilizing our high technical capabilities, NEXCO East Group will establish relationships of mutual trust with overseas stakeholders and accumulate expertise on overseas businesses to meet the needs of international society. Construction and Technology Development Business A company whose employees realize the value of their work: Rewarding NEXCO East Group will have an established corporate culture in which creating the value of connection through our business brings employees satisfaction at work. Expressway Renewal Project Shobu PA on KEN-O EXPWY (joint rest area for both inbound and outbound lanes) （Formulated in May 2014） In 2017, NEXCO East Group formulated its Mid-term Management Plan (FY2017-FY2020) identifying the four years from FY2017 until Fulfilling Our Social Responsibility FY2020 as“a period for challenging themselves and making rapid ◆ Major Achievements of the Previous Mid-term Management Plan (FY2014–FY2016) progress to realize the future ideal state of the company”in order to achieve the 2025 Long-term Vision of the group. Based on this plan, NEXCO East Group provides safe, reliable, ○ Providing expressways that are safe, reliable, comfortable and convenient, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year comfortable, and convenient expressway services, contributes to ≫ Quickly restoring and maintaining reliable road functionality in the event of an emergency or natural disaster local communities and responds to increases in foreign visitors and ≫ Launching the Expressway Renewal Project (to implement large-scale upgrades and repairs of expressways) environmental conservation, promotes technology development ≫ Promoting safety measures such as measures to prevent driving the wrong way that contributes to society, strengthens the profitability of relevant ≫ Transforming Moriya SA into an emergency response center and starting operation of the New Traffic Control businesses, and strengthens the management of the entire group, Center of the Kanto Regional Head Office ≫ Smoothly introducing a new toll system in the Tokyo Metropolitan Area all in order to fulfill the social missions of the group. Company Profile ≫ Starting operation of areas such as Pasar Moriya (outbound) and two Dramatic Areas Hence, by aspiring to create value that“connects”all stakeholders, ○ Steadily improving networks...Newly opening the following sections (a total of 136 kilometers): as was defined in the group's Management Vision, and to grow as Representative Director and Executive Vice President, ≫ JOBAN EXPWY (between Joban-Tomioka IC and Minami-Soma IC, and between Soma IC and Yamamoto IC): The a corporate group contributing to every stakeholder, NEXCO East Corporate Strategy Division entire route of the JOBAN EXPWY is now open Group is promoting the plan in a united fashion. ≫ KEN-O EXPWY (between Okegawa-Kitamoto IC and Shiraoka-Shobu IC, between Kuki-Shiraoka JCT and TsukubaSeigo SAKAKI chuo IC, and between Inashiki IC and Taiei JCT) 9 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 10 About NEXCO EAST Mid-term Management Plan （from FY2017 to FY2020） ◆ Overall Perspective 〜Five Basic Policies with Priority Actions〜 ◆ Financial Projections 01 Provision of safe, reliable, comfortable, and convenient expressway services ●Expressway Business Special Topic ● Provide expressway services that customers can use with ease by making safety the top priority Profit & loss plan ● Promoting the Expressway Renewal Project Based on the agreement with the Japan *1 ● Realizing Smart Maintenance Highway (SMH) and ensuring the soundness of assets Toll income: Approx. 2.8 trillion yen ● Reinforcing disaster prevention and reduction of impacts of disasters Expressway Holding and Debt Repayment Total from FY2017 ● Reducing the number of traffic accidents Agency (Expressway Agency), NEXCO East to FY2020 Rent for *1 ● Reducing violations of Cabinet orders regarding oversized/overloaded vehicles steadily engages in the necessary management expressway Approx. 2.0 trillion yen Advancing measures against snow and ice assets: of expressways and the payment of rent for ● Expressways Operation Business ● Steadily facilitating expressway network development and strengthening functions for expressway usage in a smart manner expressway assets from the expressway toll Administrative *1 ● Developing comfortable and convenient expressway services tailored to the needs of customers income that we receive from our customers, so expenses, etc.: Approx. 800 billion yen ● Securing smooth traffic that the Expressway Agency can use it to pay Enriching information services, such as choices for routes (active use of ETC 2.0 data) *1 Planned figures (excluding tax) in the agreement that was concluded (revised) back its debts. ● ● Developing toll services that are efficient and highly convenient with the Expressway Agency on March 31, 2017 ● Systematically establishing new commercial facilities, extension and reconstruction work on commercial buildings, and renewing facilities due to deterioration Investment plan ● Maintaining and strengthening the operation structure of gas stations and the installation of quick-charging devices Regarding the assets of the Expressway ● Establishment of easy-to-maintain expressways, focusing on quality, cost and productivity while always placing top priority on safety Total from FY2017 Agency*2, based on the agreement with them, NEXCO East Group has an approximately to FY2020 Agency assets*2 : Approx. 2.0 trillion yen 2 trillion yen investment plan for new Rest Area Business construction, repair, and reconstruction Company assets : Approx. 130 billion yen projects for the TOKYO-GAIKAN EXPWY, Contribution to local communities and responding Promotion of technological development 02 to increases in foreign visitors and environmental 03 that contributes to society YOKOHAMA KANJO-MINAMI EXPWY, and expanding the JOBAN EXPWY to 4 lanes. *2 Expressway assets that are scheduled for hand-over to the Expressway Agency conservation For the assets of group companies, after construction completion ● Technological development so as to enhance business approximately 130 billion yen in investments ● Contribution to local communities operations and labor-saving by prioritizing safety first is projected for the development of toll ● Promoting tourism and supporting recovery from (via the active use of ICT, AI, and IoT big data) collection machines and ETC facilities as well the 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake Realization of SMHs, and technology development as renewal of aging facilities. ● ● Maintaining and improving expressways in cooperfo r th e a d va n cem ent of traf fic s afet y a n d m ea ation with local communities sures against snow and ice Technological assistance to local governments Construction and Technology Development Business Active use of new vehicle technologies (consider● ● ● Coping with increases in foreign visitors and the ation of utilizing the automated driving technology) 2020 Tokyo Olympics and Paralympics ● Promotion of technology development by establishing and actively using the NEXCO-East Technology Center for ● Promoting environmental conservation Development & Education ●Expressway-related Business Profit & loss plan Operating income NEXCO East Group enhances its customer (consolidated) services and corporate values via the optimum Results of FY2016: 1.8 billion yen Strengthening the profitability of expresswayStrengthening the management capability use of management resources, and strengthens 04 related businesses 05 of the entire group earning capacities by streamlining management, 4.0 billion yen Fulfilling Our Social Responsibility Plan for FY2020: aiming to reach 4 billion yen in operating ● Improving customer service and corporate value through ● Pursuit of the advancement of group management income in the last year of the plan (FY2020). the optimum use of management resources, as well as ● Internal controls, ensuring and cultivating human strengthening profitability by streamlining management resources, productivity improvement, etc. Investment plan Rest area business: ● Further strengthening and enhancement of internal control systems ● Introducing measures to advance the attractive● Securing and cultivating human resources and promoting the We are scheduling investments of approximately ness of rest areas creation of a workplace environment where employees feel 48 billion yen in the assets of expresswayTotal from FY2017 ● Efficiently administering commercial facilities the worth of their work and a sense of satisfaction related businesses, such as the establishment to FY2020 ● Improving the ability to respond to actual incidents on of new commercial facilities, extension and Other businesses: expressways by establishing and utilizing the NEXCO-East remodeling of existing commercial facilities, Company assets: Approx. 48 billion yen ● Strengthening of the earning capacity of existing Technology Center for Development & Education and renewal of aging facilities, as well as the business projects Promotion of the “E-Shokuba creation movement” Company Profile ● ● Active use of unused lands (promotion of healthy management) and supporting establishment of the NEXCO-East Technology ● Creation of new business operations the success of women in the workplace Center for Development & Education and the ● Promotion of overseas business ● Optimizing duties and facilitating productivity improvement replacement of IT systems. ● Improving the corporate brand *Please refer to p.6 for an outline of the Expressway Agency. 11 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 12 About NEXCO EAST Special Topic For Sustainable Expressway Services 01 Establishment of Sustainable Long-term Expressway Maintenance (Expressway Renewal Project) The number of large-sized vehicles using expressways has been increasing every year since NEXCO East Special Topic started offering the use of approximately 1,660 km of expressways out of the current total 3,900 km Ordinary Maintenance of expressways 30 years ago. Moreover, as shown by the amount of anti-freezing agent used—which reaches approximately 160,000 tons a year, about 70% of NEXCO East's roads pass through snowy and cold regions. This means that many of the bridges and NEXCO East Group routinely inspects and cleans tunnels located in NEXCO East's area are in a severe up expressways and systematically repairs various environment, and as a result, significant changes are structures so as to provide a safe and reliable road occurring in the conditions of those structures. environment. With these matters in mind, in FY2015, NEXCO East In addition, as the climate of the majority of our Group requested approval from the Minister of Land, Expressways Operation Business business areas is severe in the winter, NEXCO East Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism to launch a Group has taken measures against snow and ice to large-scale project to renew and repair expressway structures based on the Act on Special Slab replacement work ensure safe traffic conditions in the winter season. Measures concerning Road Construction and Improvement. The purpose of this project was to In FY2017, the total distance of plowing snow ensure that expressways could continue to play their role as vital lifelines in Japan that support reached approximately 590,000 km. social infrastructure in the areas of economics, communities, medicine, and disaster prevention and response. This project, which is run jointly with two other expressway companies, was named the“Expressway Renewal Project,”and a logo was devised in order to enhance public understanding about the project's importance. In the near future, as the Expressway Renewal Project gets into full swing, each region will need to regulate road traffic, such as by closing roads and implementing two-way traffic. NEXCO Total distance of plowing snow East Group is therefore engaging in publicity activities in cooperation with other expressway Approx. 590,000 km companies to make sure that the purpose and need for this project is fully understood by Rest Area Business Bridge inspections (hammering test) customers. Activities of the Expressway Renewal Project Replacing slabs* Old slabs are replaced with more durable concrete slabs. *Slabs are parts of bridge structures that directly support the weight of vehicles, etc., passing over the bridge and transmit the Construction and Technology Development Business load to the girders. Slab replacement work Adding a waterproof layer to slabs Reinforcing girders A high-performance waterproof floor Reinforcing material is added to the slab is used as a waterproof layer girders to make them more durable. to prevent the concrete slabs from deteriorating. Fulfilling Our Social Responsibility Installing inverts* Without invert With invert Cleaning road surfaces Bridge inspection via rope access Inverts are installed to strengthen the structure of tunnels to which excessive force is applied from around the tunnel and improve stability. *An invert is a mechanism whereby the bottom of the tunnel is bound to an inverted arch with concrete to increase yield strength and prevent Yield deformation. Heaving Soil pressure strength Invert Illustration of invert installation Installing ground anchors* Company Profile Ground anchors with high corrosion resistance are installed to ensure the long-term stability of roadside slopes. *Ground anchors are used for the stabilization of steep slopes. Tunnel wall cleaning Pavement rehabilitation Removal of snow around emergency telephone Ground anchor Addition of ground anchors installation 13 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 14 Smart Maintenance Highways (SMH) Technology Development for Enhancing Snow and Ice Countermeasures About NEXCO EAST As we enter an era of aging infrastructure, the public been working on materializing the Master Plan. The implementation of measures to prevent road surface conditions, and this is also expected to reduce is becoming more interested in ideal maintenance, One of the major items for realizing SMH (see Figure 2) surface freezing (by scattering antifreezing agents) the cost of preventing expressway freezing, and to renewal, and management technologies. Against involved the launch in 2018 of the MSM-UI (multi-scale serves an important role in providing a safe and reduce salt damage on road structures. this backdrop, NEXCO East Group has been actively monitoring user interface), which is a tool that enables comfortable driving environment for our drivers. To Other measures we are taking to provide more Special Topic installing ICT and mechanized facilities with a view to the diverse data required to operate expressways—data understand the surface conditions quantitatively, we advanced countermeasures against snow and ice finding ways to solve various issues on site to ensure that is central to the SMH concept—to be organized installed a system (known as CAIS®) to detect road include development of driving support technologies the safety and reliability of expressway infrastructure visually and acquired quickly and easily from largesurface conditions on the vehicles that patrol for snow that use the Quasi-Zenith Satellite System to guide the for the long term. In 2013, we announced to the public scale touch-screen panels. MSM-UI, together with and ice every 3–4 hours. We have also commercialized safe operation of snow-ice control vehicles (see p.33), the“SMH Framework”for building a comprehensive mobile computers, BI (business innovation) tools and the Intelligent Salting Control Optimization System and research into technologies for forecasting road maintenance system as an integration of such live teleconferencing systems are now being deployed (ISCOS)*, which can change the amount of the agent conditions in real time using AI (artificial intelligence) technologies and engineers. In 2014, NEXCO East in each local area. Aiming for complete roll-out by being automatically sprinkled according to the derived that will provide drivers with up-to-date information on elevated its status from the SMH Framework to the 2020, NEXCO East has been pushing ahead with road surface conditions. road conditions such as when roads are likely to close “Master Plan,”devised a concrete roadmap for the the introduction of SMH technologies that will bring In the future, it will be possible to sprinkle a more ideal and reopen. realization of the Master Plan by 2020, and set themes advances and efficiencies to infrastructure management amount of anti-freezing agent according to the road *Patent No. 5709144 and tasks according to the maintenance cycles of the leading to further evolutions in expressway operations. expressways (see Figure 1). Since then, the group has ® Overview of CAIS Expressways Operation Business Fig. 1:“Themes”and“tasks”according to the maintenance cycle An acceleration sensor fitted to the inside of the tire outputs characteristic vibration waveforms according to the road Maintenance cycle of expressways Actions for SMH surface conditions. These waveforms are used to identify seven types of road surfaces, such as icy and wet. 1. Development of technologies for Theme１ ﬁeld surveys and inspections ① Inspection Monitoring of infrastructure by 2. Normalization and standardization of utilizing ICT and streamlining ﬁeld monitoring systems work 3. Assisting inspections by ② Assessing/evaluating degradation levels utilizing mobile phones Theme２ ③ Recording the inspection results Sophisticated analysis and 4. Construction of new RIMS* database evaluations via the construction of 5. Supporting damage assessments Rest Area Business a new RIMS database via image analysis technology ④ Developing Theme３ repair plans 6. Management decision tool for Sophistication of asset management infrastructure management that is consistent with ⑤ Repair 7. Visualization of RIMS data work processes ⑥ Recording repair results Theme４ 8. Formulation of infrastructure management Establishment of the SMH work guidelines ⑦ Accumulating repair information via a database (RIMS) process by improving on-site 9. Securing and cultivation of human resources workloads for enhancing management skills Overview of ISCOS *RIMS: Road Maintenance Information Management System Note: Development of construction technologies for renewal and repair work and their procurement methods Construction and Technology Development Business will also be implemented in addition to the above. Fig. 2: Major items for the realization of (SMH) in the future The results of road surface identification by CAIS® are sent to the Web server via the Internet and stored in a database. NEXCO East Group will enhance and systemize its work by 2020, by ① streamlining and increasing the productivity By accessing the Web, the stored data can be used to calculate the optimum amount of salt to be sprinkled according of inspection work, and ② improving management, in order to seek the further evolution of the group. to the road surface conditions every 100 m. An antifreezing agent scattering vehicle equipped with an automatic salting Work ﬂow Present 2020 Further evolution! device automatically accesses the Web and downloads the optimum amount of salt to be sprinkled based on the road surface data, allowing salting to be carried out automatically while the vehicle is traveling along the road. ① Improving the eﬃciency and productivity of inspections by utilizing ICT Road Surface Condition Inspection work A major limitation of inspections is that A snow-ice patrol currently the work Detection System vehicle equipped must be done by with a road Fulfilling Our Social Responsibility hand. surface condition Continuous development of technologies detecting system Work in high places Hammering tests Using UAVs to assist Inspections via robot Identifying the damaged with inspections areas via infrared camera to enable more advanced inspections Generator Carrying drawings and Acceleration sensor a drawing board Further decision-making support by utilizing AI Transmitter Icy Salt amount reduced Wet Mobile data terminal and“deep learning,” by spraying only at etc. necessary locations Employees need to Fresh Compacted Handwritten input inspection results after Data entry Data coordination Dry Slightly wet Wet Slushy Icy ① Patrolling for snow and ice with a vehicle equipped with a road notes via a tablet snow snow coming back to their oﬃces. surface condition detecting system ⇒ Establishing a database via the Internet in real time Productivity improvement by utilizing voice recognition ② Sophisticated analysis and evaluations via the construction of a next-generation RIMS database technologies ② Command vehicle communicates via Internet Intelligent Salting Control Optimization System Asset management ⇒ Amount to be sprinkled calculated in advance BI tools Productivity improvement by utilizing 3D data (ISCOS) ⇒ Amount to be loaded on the vehicle instructed at the site Automatic salting device Company Profile Application of CIMs Console of a salting vehicle for maintenance/ MSM-UI (Bridge Mode) management work ③ Sprinkling salt every 100 m, according to the position I must make charts Multiplex management with by processing data… Centrally control information. Automatically analyze the distributions management system of the vehicles with GPS several systems and frequencies of damage. Branch oﬃce ⇒ Optimum amount sprinkled according to road surface conditions Confusion and corresponding to additional requests at meetings Oﬃce (Cannot be achieved without an automatic salting device) Accumulation of 3D Determine the priority measuring-point group “What happened to that?” “Are there any other similar cases?” order of repair places data Optimizing the volume of sprinkled anti-freezing agent Video conference system “What was the trend in the past?” Share information securely and (making repair plans). suitable to the road surface conditions quickly among business bases. 15 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 16 About NEXCO EAST Special Topic Various Impacts by Improving Expressway Various Efforts for Construction of the Expressway 02 Networks in the Tokyo Metropolitan Area ● Consensus-building with Local Residents Efforts were made in cooperation with the local authorities in the Special Topic areas through which the road would pass to respond sincerely and appropriately to the concerns of local residents. Becoming More Convenient! Development of KEN-O EXPWY and TOKYO-GAIKAN EXPWY Publicity and public relations activities Local events were held to publicize the TOKYO-GAIKAN EXPWY and The section of the KEN-O EXPWY (one at the same time receive feedback from the public. of the three peripheral expressways surrounding the Tokyo Metropolitan Area) Provision of information through consultation counters and public between Sakai-Koga IC and Tsukuba-chuo IC was opened in February 2017, followed by Y relations magazines PW the section of the TOKYO-GAIKAN EXPWY N-O EX E4 PW Y Three consultation counters were set up to provide information on KE (another of the peripheral expressways) EX C4 HO KU BA N the progress of construction and answer people's questions. A public between Misato-minami IC and Koya JCT TO PWY JO relations magazine was also published. Expressways Operation Business E6 EX in June 2018. This is part of the company's E17 SU Misato-minami IC NT O ET plan to improve the expressway networks in NY KA PW C3 HI Investigation into environmental preservation spaces EX GAIKAN EX GAS Taiei JCT the Tokyo Metropolitan Area. Opened EXPWY PW HI Y -KA The Chiba Outer Ring Road Environmental Preservation Space on June 2, 2018 Narita Koya JCT ● Expansion of the TOKYO-GAIKAN EXPWY Oizumi JCT KE E51 Airport Creation Investigation Committee and other local review committees CHUO EXPWY E14 Matsuowere set up. IY O in the Tokyo Metropolitan Area E20 EX PW Y Yokoshiba IC Tomei JCT The approximately 85-km extension of the (tentative) Public relations magazine Midori no Michi T O K Y O G A I K A N E X P W Y , which connects Haneda Airport DAISAN W Y KEIHIN E14 a radius of approximately 15 km from the XP TA ● Measures to Preserve Green-belts IE E83 CA T T ME A OK EX EYA downtown area, is expected to create a smooth TO EX QU YO PW E1 PW A-W L Y MA ● Taking into account opinions expressed in environmental assessments, NEXCO East established investigation network in the downtown area. Totsuka IC Y INE AN The opening of the section between Misatocommittees, etc., that included local residents and experts, and based on their recommendations we Rest Area Business minami IC and Koya JCT is expected to improve restored green-belts and other areas that had been temporarily removed during construction. the flow of traffic in the downtown area, ● When constructing the part of the expressway that passes through Kozukayama Park (Kitakokubun, improve logistics productivity, ease chronic Fujisawa IC Ichikawa City), we used a tunnel structure made with a non-open cut method in order to preserve as much traffic congestion on roads along the route Legend greenery as possible. while improving the safety of residential roads, Kamariya JCT Section under construction and promote tourism in a wider area. The Progress of the TOKYO-GAIKAN EXPWY (Misato-minami IC to Koya JCT) Construction and Technology Development Business The section opened had received urban planning approval in 1969, but planning coordination was fraught with difficulties due to concerns by local residents that the expressway would affect their quality of life. Construction eventually started in 1996, after it was agreed to change the road from an elevated structure to an underground structure. The road was finally opened in June 2018, fifty years after urban planning approval was obtained. Original plan ( elev ated s tr uctur e ) New plan (underground structure) Illustration of Kozukayama area green-belt preservation TOKYO-GAIKAN EXPWY passing under Kozukayama Park Underground structure (Ichikawa City) General General section section Roadside Roadside green-belt green-belt ● Local Coordination Efforts Fulfilling Our Social Responsibility 29 overpasses were constructed to maintain the safety of school walking routes. Nine of the overpasses were named by local elementary schools to give local people a sense of familiarity when using the Expressway section overpasses. Original plan in 1969 ● Environmentally Friendly Structure In 1969 when the road received urban planning approval as an elevated structure, local residents raised concerns about the impact of the planned road on their quality of life. These included Company Profile concerns about the impact of vehicles on the living environment, the fragmentation of local areas due to the construction of the road, and the preservation of remaining green belts in the city. Taking these concerns into account, in 1987 a revised plan for the route and road structure was submitted. The revised plan changed the road to an underground structure that would have less impact on the cityscape and sunlight, etc. The plan also included the creation of a 16-meter-wide environmental Yagirikko Overpass (Shimo-yakiri, Matsudo City) preservation space on both sides of the main lane. Photograph taken in October 2016 17 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 18 About NEXCO EAST ● Various Construction Technologies Because the TOKYO-GAIKAN EXPWY passes through urban areas, it crosses municipal roads with lifelines running Efforts Related to Disaster Prevention and Safety along them such as electricity, gas and water. 2,000 lifelines were relocated with the rerouting of municipal roads. There were also six locations where the expressway intersected railway lines. A safe, secure and logical construction method was used in these locations so that the operation of the trains was not affected. We are utilizing innovative approaches in the Chiba Prefecture section to improve road safety. Various other construction methods were also used in locations where the expressway intersected roads and rivers. ● Safety Measures for the Main Lane Sections Special Topic All expressway main lanes are monitored by road information monitoring cameras. Accidents or items that have fallen on the road are automatically detected through image processing Intersection with Mamagawa River Intersection with National Road Route 14: Pipe roof and control is switched to the quick-response control system. Open-cut method by rerouting the river construction method + Underpinning construction method 落下物：Fallen objects 落下物 Expressways Operation Business Item has fallen Automatically detected All roads monitored by CCTV Traffic Control Center • To allow the expressway section to pass under the Mamagawa River, an enclosure was constructed to • A pipe roof construction method was used for underpinning and a non● Safety Measures for Keiyo Junction reroute the Mamagawa River. open cut method using an under-road retaining wall was also used. • The functionality of existing infrastructure was retained by constructing Facilities have been enhanced and added to each ramp tunnel. under the road with 2.65 meters of overburden. Independent evacuation routes have been located as a means of evacuating in an emergency. The locations of emergency exits have been made more visible. Rest Area Business Emergency guidance facilities Illustration of shield section Legend TOKYO-GAIKAN EXPWY (General Section) Ichikawa City Complete Provisional 2 lanes complete Not complete Jo Kita-Chiba JCT (provisional name) Expressway Chiba ba Michi-no-eki Ichikawa e Complete Misato-minami IC Prefec ture n Lin Not complete n Baraki IC Saitam Lin TO ai Prefec a Matsudo IC KY iM National road e ture OGA ise Other road Ke e Ichikawa-kita IC IK Lin (M bu So N Ma ain) A Ichikawa-minami IC ine tsu Ich PW do ika EX Y Ichikawa IC Koya JCT Lin wa Construction and Technology Development Business so L Chiba e Prefec ture Hok Edogawa River u Tokyo Ichikawa-chuo IC Keiyo JCT Katsushika Ward Edogawa Ward i Toza e wa Shinjuku Lin ika ch e ) I Lin ain su Line (M aya Ur Independent evacuation route Keisei Main Line intersection ● Safety Measures for Tunnel Entrances R & C (roof & culvert) To stop vehicles entering tunnels in an emergency, we have implemented information boards at tunnel construction method Fulfilling Our Social Responsibility entrances (enhanced displays), lights with warning light capability and traffic lights (Keiyo Junction only). World's largest cross-section area Intersection with Toei Shinjuku Line Front jacking construction method Main lanes (installation Lighting with warning light Lighting with warning light illustration) capability (in normal times) capability (in an emergency) Lighting with warning light capability Company Profile • A box culvert was built and towed under the train lines (separated from the train lines by a distance of 4.6 m). • Intersection with TOKYO-GAIKAN EXPWY directly above the Toei Shinjuku Line • The box culvert used for this construction was a (separated by a distance of approx. 3.8 m). large-scale 2-level, 4-lane structure with dimensions • A front jacking construction method was used to prevent deformity of the of (H) 18.4 m x (W) 43.8 m x (L) 37.4 m. underground tunnel due to buoyancy. 19 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 20 About NEXCO EAST Special Topic Efforts to Make Expressways More Development of Duty-free Shops 03 User-Friendly for Foreign Visitors Counters for duty-free processing have been set up in shopping areas to allow foreign visitors to purchase popular souvenir food items and other goods duty Special Topic The 2020 Tokyo Olympics and Paralympics are expected to draw a large number of foreign visitors free. The first such counter was opened in to Japan. We are also seeing more foreign visitors coming to Japan for sightseeing and business. the Taiei Rest Area (inbound/outbound) To cope with this situation, NEXCO East is implementing a range of measures to make expressways on the HIGASHI-KANTO EXPWY in more user-friendly for foreign visitors. September 2015. Currently 17* rest areas are operating duty-free counters, and Implementing and Promoting Numbering on Expressways we are taking steps to further expand the number of shops offering duty-free shopping. In line with a proposal to implement numbering on expressways (made on October 24, 2016), we have been promoting *As of July 1, 2018 the use of a numbering system on expressway signs indicating junctions, interchange exits, and important locations in Duty-free sales (Tomobe Rest Area [Inbound], JOBAN EXPWY) Expressways Operation Business the city such as airports and sightseeing spots. We expect to complete the numbering of major signs by 2020. Multilingual Guidance in Information Centers NEXCO East has enhanced convenience for foreign visitors to Japan by providing guidance about nearby facilities in Rest Area Business multiple languages using tablet devices. All of our information centers have also obtained the Japan National Organization's Kuki-Shiraoka JCT (Outbound), TOHOKU EXPWY Keiyo JCT (Outer Course), TOKYO-GAIKAN EXPWY *Opened on June 2, 2018 Foreign Tourist Information Types of expressway signs that use numbering Center Authorization, which Foreign Tourist Information will allow us to improve our Center Authorization JCT guide sign Confirmation sign Guide sign in urban area Road confirmation sign services so that foreign visitors can use our expressways more comfortably and easily. Multilingual guidance using tablets Construction and Technology Development Business Ashiro JCT (Outbound), TOHOKU Before Fukagawa JCT (Outbound), Iwatsuki IC, TOHOKU EXPWY NIHONKAI TOHOKU EXPWY Pictograms and Multilingual Signs EXPWY DO-O EXPWY To make rest areas easy to use for foreign visitors, signs for toilets and other Expressway Pass for Foreign Tourists Travelling in Japan Fulfilling Our Social Responsibility facilities feature multiple languages together with the International Symbol Due to a recent increase in of Access, as well as tourists from overseas, NEXCO pictograms that comply East has introduced fixedwith JIS standards. rate passes for foreign tourists visiting Japan in cooperation with car rental companies, so that tourists can visit a wider Company Profile selection of places using the Pictogram guidance (Keiyo Ichikawa Rest Area [Outbound], KEIYO EXPWY) expressways. 21 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 22 About NEXCO EAST Aspiring to Create Safer and More Comfortable“Best Ways” Expressways Operation Business Expressways Operation Business Keeping a Close Watch on the Safety of Expressways 24 Hours a Day/365 Days a Year Special Topic Traffic Control Center The Traffic Control Center is divided into the Traffic of transportation control, as it acts to provide Control Division and the Facility Control Division, information on the length of traffic jams and to and operates 24 hours a day to keep track of road collect information regarding onsite situations conditions, etc. more. We have also developed through GPS information and footage from mutual backup systems between some regional dashboard cameras installed in the vehicles head offices to provide mutual support in the event of the Traffic Management Patrol Squad. We of a large-scale disaster. have also been making control operations more sophisticated; for example, by utilizing 3D maps at ● Traffic Control Division junctions to quickly understand accident situations, Expressways Operation Business The Traffic Control Division collects information making it possible for us to deal with accidents on unusual events, road conditions, and weather smoothly. conditions in conjunction with the Regional Police Bureau Expressway Management Office, and ● Facility Control Division provides such information to our drivers. The Facility Control Division measures, monitors When unusual events occur, we provide and controls the operations of various facilities on Near Oyachi IC, DO-O EXPWY instructions to the Traffic Management Patrol roads and tunnels using remote supervisory control Squad onsite so they can take appropriate actions facilities 24 hours a day. In the event of a fire in to handle the situation. If need arises, we also call a long tunnel, we swiftly and accurately provide on firefighting services, and we notify other road evacuation guidance for drivers and operate Rest Area Business Aspiring to Create The Operation Division of NEXCO East administrators and relevant local governments, etc. emergency facilities in the tunnels. Moreover, we supports the safety and reliability of 3,895 The Traffic Control Center of the Kanto Regional also analyze the records of facility operations km of expressways in the eastern Japan Head Office, which has jurisdiction over the to provide assistance for the maintenance and area, 24 hours a day/365 days a year. In addition to daily inspections, maintenance, and tasks regarding traffic safety and tolls, the Safer and Kanto region, has the highest level of aseismic performance. The center can provide a high level improvement of facilities. Operation Division engages in a wide variety of projects, such as to strengthen the functions More Comfortable “Best Ways” of expressways, including countermeasures for traffic congestion, as well as the Expressway Construction and Technology Development Business Renewal Project for ensuring the soundness of the expressways for a long time. In addition, securing transportation routes that support ● Congestion Forecasting Using AI rescue and recovery activities as early as As more people use the TOKYO-WAN-AQUApossible in the event of a large-scale disaster is LINE EXPWY on weekends and holidays to access also an essential mission of expressway-related amusement parks and other popular locations in companies. Moreover, due to predicted neighboring Chiba Prefecture, traffic volumes on the changes in working age populations and the road are continuing to increase, leading to chronic employment environment, improving efficiency traffic congestion in the Kawasaki-bound lane during Traffic Control Center, Kanto Regional Head Office (Traffic Control Division) and productivity is also a pressing task. The the return rush in the evenings. Fulfilling Our Social Responsibility Operation Division is also working intensively With the aim of easing this congestion, NEXCO East on the realization of a next-generation joined forces with NTT DOCOMO in December comprehensive infrastructure management 2017 to implement a traffic congestion forecasting system (i.e., the“Smart Maintenance Highway system known as AI Traffic Congestion Forecast that Framework” ) by utilizing the latest technologies, uses AI to predict the occurrence of traffic jams. The such as ICT and AI, and is focusing on system makes predictions based on crowds on the the mechanization and advancement of day in question, enabling more precise forecasting operations to control snow and ice, due to compared with conventional traffic congestion having many regions with heavy snowfall forecasting methods that rely on information such under the company's jurisdiction. By putting as weather forecasts and event schedules. Company Profile customers first and giving top priority to safety, NEXCO East Group pursues the provision of safe, reliable, comfortable, and convenient expressways. Traffic Control Center, Kanto Regional Head Office (Facility Control Division) 23 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 24 About NEXCO EAST Expressways Operation Business Aspiring to Create Safer and More Comfortable“Best Ways” Traffic Patrols 〈Achievements in 2017〉 Maintaining and Improving the Driving Environment Number of cleanups of NEXCO East patrols expressways periodically and fallen objects: as required to collect traffic information such as Measures for Traffic Safety congestion, road conditions such as fallen objects, Approx. 107,400 Special Topic and weather conditions. In order to prevent traffic accidents, NEXCO East alignment signs, high-visibility reflective tape, Also, when unusual events occur, Traffic Patrol Distance covered by Group analyzes the situations of traffic accidents guiding lane markings, rumble strips, and thin-layer traffic patrols: that have occurred in the past and implements pavements so as to call attention to sharp corners, squads hasten to the scenes, remove fallen objects and, in cooperation with the traffic police and fire Approx. 22,600,000km various traffic safety measures such as using chevron control speed and prevent lane departure, etc. departments, address the accidents and assist (Approximately 1.5 laps around those with cars that have been damaged. Handling accidents the earth per day) Crackdown on Vehicles in Violation of Laws and Regulations, etc. The maximum speed limits according to vehicle structures of expressways and may lead to serious Expressways Operation Business dimensions on roads and the hazardous materials accidents. that vehicles can carry through the long tunnels Therefore, NEXCO East Group provides guidance are designated by laws and regulations. In and cracks down on those vehicles in violation particular, overloaded vehicles that are in violation of laws and regulations at toll gates on the of laws and regulations have a large impact on the interchange of expressways. Sharp-corner guide signs and high-visibility reflective tape Guiding lane marks (dashed line section) Rest Area Business Lightening a vehicle's load Traffic law enforcement (directing vehicles) Rumble strips (provisional 2-lane sections) Thin-layer pavement (red pavement section) Promotion of Traffic Safety Measures to Prevent Driving the Wrong Way Construction and Technology Development Business NEXCO East promotes safe driving through traffic also conduct various educational activities such safety campaigns and events in cooperation with as manner-improvement campaigns and calling As driving the wrong way on expressways can cause fatal local police and traffic safety councils. for caution when driving on expressways and the accidents, we promote measures to prevent unreasonable Additionally, through the NEXCO East website, compliance of traffic laws turning and wrong way driving, including the installation of posters, ﬂyers, leaﬂets, and TV commercials, we and regulations. rubber poles at merging points to main lanes, arrows and signs indicating the correct driving direction, and coloring pavement according to direction at level crossing points of Y-shaped interchanges. Measure to prevent driving the wrong way when entering the main expressway lanes. Fulfilling Our Social Responsibility Measures for the Prevention of Head-on Collisions in Provisional 2-Lane Sections (Wire Rope) The provisional 2-lane sections of expressways where inbound and A pocket guide for outbound lanes are separated by rubber poles are areas where tragic Commercial to help stop drivers driving the wrong way Traffic safety campaign the promotion of traffic safety accidents such as head-on collisions can occur. Therefore, since April 2017, as a trial, NEXCO East has installed wire rope instead of rubber poles on the median of approximately 70 km-length of expressway as a countermeasure VOICE When implementing road traffic control as part of my traffic management patrol duties, I have to run carrying heavy equipment and materials. So not to prevent head-on collisions. Since then, there have been no fatalities or Nexco-Patrol Kanto only do I have to be physically fit; I also need to train myself so that I can serious accidents involving crossing over the ropes into oncoming lanes. (As Company Profile Company Ltd. Member of Nasu Office carry out my duties quickly and safely on the road. You might think that this of end of March, 2018) is a hard job for a woman, but if you have the drive to do it, gender doesn't Going forward, NEXCO East will, taking into account the verification results matter. Going forward, I'd like to help create a more female-friendly working Shizuka OTA from the Committee for Investigating Technologies to Prevent Head-on environment while working hard to carry out my daily duties and take care of road users from the unique perspective I have as a woman. Collisions on Expressways, begin full-scale implementation of wire ropes in sections undergoing earthwork. Wire rope 25 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 26 About NEXCO EAST Rest Area Business For More Convenient and Comfortable Service Rest Area Business Developing Safe, Reliable, Comfortable, and Convenient Rest Areas and Various Businesses by Effective Use of Our Business Resources “Enrichment of Uniqueness and Attractiveness”Areas Special Topic Rest Area Business Pasar Dramatic Area Themed Area 6 16 2 “Enrichment of Basic Services”Areas Expressways Operation Business YASMOCCA Areas for Others Convenience (Areas where basic services are provided) Stores 55 33 85 ・ Nursery ・ Gas stations ・ Walk-in gates ・ Restaurants / Food courts ・ Quick-charging stations Types of ・ Dog parks ・ Snack bars for electric vehicles Available ・ Duty-free shopping ・ Coin-operated showers Wattsu PA (Inbound), DO-O EXPWY ・ Shops Services ・ Information services ・ Receipt of digital currencies ・ E-NEXCO Drive Plaza branded products ・“Seattle”-style cafés ・ Information terminals ・ ATMs / Cash dispensers (bottled water,“Dora”bento boxes) ・ E-NEXCO Wiﬁ spots ・ Printers for printing ETC usage history, etc. (Number of areas: As of July 1, 2018) Rest Area Business For More The Rest Area Business Division operates New Business ・ Hibiya parking lot 197 commercial facilities, including Asset Utilization Business operation business ・ Bicycle parking lot Customer Service Business ・ Credit card business Recyclable Energy Business ・ Solar power generation business “Pasars”and“YASMOCCA,”at rest areas Convenient and operation business ・ Travel business ・ Below-expressway ・ Internet services on expressways, along with running viaduct business ・ Hotel business business ・ Goods sales business expressway-related businesses, including ・ Truck terminal business (Drive Plaza Shopping) Comfortable an Asset Utilization Business. Also, we have systematically established new commercial facilities, expanded and renovated them, and renewed aging facilities at rest areas, so that our customers Service Construction and Technology Development Business can use them safely, reliably, comfortably, and conveniently. In addition, we aspire to Using Rest Areas as Emergency Response Engagement in the Creation of create rest areas (service areas & parking areas [SA/PA]) that contribute to local Centers in a Disaster Unique and Fascinating Rest Areas communities, by acting as showrooms for In the Great East Japan Earthquake, expressway the various regions, devising menus that use rest areas were utilized by the Japan Self Defense Development of“Enrichment of Uniqueness and Attractiveness”Areas locally grown products, and by establishing Forces, fire departments and other relief workers walk-in gates. We are also creating rest as operations bases and relay centers. With this ● Development of Pasar can only enjoy onsite, aspiring to offer a wide areas for foreign visitors that feature dutyin mind, NEXCO East has been equipping rest “Pasar” is the flagship brand of NEXCO East variety of services. free shops, area concierge multilingual areas with functions to back up lifelines such as Fulfilling Our Social Responsibility Group's commercial facilities called“Michi-naka (In So far, six Pasars have opened near the Tokyo guidance and facilities that use multilingual power generators and water wells, as well as other Expressway),”and it has provided familiar chain Metropolitan Area, including Pasar Makuhari signage and pictograms to make them functions to enable the rest areas to be used as stores for public and gourmet foods that drivers (Outbound) on the KEIYO EXPWY. easier for everyone to understand. joint disaster response centers so that the relevant Regarding the expressway-related business, authorities can carry out effective disaster relief we proactively engage in a wide variety of activities in the event of a disaster. List of Pasar business by efficiently using management NEXCO East also works together with relevant • Hanyu PA (Outbound), organizations to conduct joint disaster drills and TOHOKU EXPWY resources, such as businesses utilizing • Miyoshi PA (Inbound), spaces below viaducts, and the hotel other such activities. KAN-ETSU EXPWY business. • Moriya SA (Inbound), JOBAN EXPWY Company Profile • Moriya SA (Outbound), JOBAN EXPWY • Makuhari PA (Inbound), KEIYO EXPWY • Makuhari PA (Outbound), KEIYO EXPWY Joint disaster drills (Moriya SA [Inbound], JOBAN EXPWY) Pasar Moriya (Outbound), JOBAN EXPWY 27 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 28 About NEXCO EAST Rest Area Business For More Convenient and Comfortable Service ● Development of Dramatic Areas host “dramatic travel spots.” We capture the NEXCO East Group has developed rest areas atmosphere of the local area in various forms, called“Dramatic Areas”which serve as regional bases, where we concentrate on“locality and such as the exterior of the facilities, local food and local souvenirs. More Customer-Friendly Rest Areas the pleasures of travelling” with an aim to Special Topic Working on Improving the Comfort of Facilities Aiming for rest areas that all of our Display of Shin-Etsu main line train drivers can use comfortably, we are at Yokokawa SA (Inbound), JOSHINETSU EXPWY introducing universal design and making our facilities accessible to Expressways Operation Business Akagi-kogen SA (Inbound), KAN-ETSU EXPWY those with disabilities by eliminating stairs, providing the appropriate ● Development of Themed Areas parking spaces, and providing on the popular novel character“Onihei”) and the wheelchairs and communication NEXCO East Group operates Themed Areas “Yorii Rest Area: The Little Prince”(based on the boards. where world views on integrated themes are children's book by Saint-Exupery). By inviting our In addition to installing warm Exclusive parking for people with disabilities expressed throughout the individual rest areas, drivers to visit extraordinary spaces like these, we water bidet-style toilet seats and such as“Onihei-Edo-Dokoro”(a town recreated can provide them with surprising and heartfelt automatic hot-water faucets, we are from a part of the Edo Period [1745-1829], based moments. providing large stalls with baby seats and small handwashing facilities, Rest Area Business children's urinals, and bathrooms or ostomates*. At many rest areas, we also installed diaper-changing stations, nursing rooms, and hot-water heaters for baby formula so that small children and their families can enjoy using “Onihei-Edo-Dokoro,”Hanyu PA (Inbound), TOHOKU “Yorii Rest Area: The Little Prince,”Yorii PA (Inbound), expressways. EXPWY KAN-ETSU EXPWY Rest facilities with step-free parking lots and sidewalks *Restrooms that are equipped with sinks or wash Construction and Technology Development Business stands for colostomy/bladder bag users. Development of“Enrichment of Basic Services”Areas In small-to-medium-sized rest areas, NEXCO East have been installed in such areas to seek to create provides basic services (food and souvenirs) in places where drivers can casually drop in for a rest. what it calls“Enrichment of Basic Services”Areas. In addition, convenience stores are also available for Shops that operate under the“YASMOCCA”brand driver convenience. Fulfilling Our Social Responsibility Multi-function restroom Free spaces for kids Diaper changing table & nursing room “Relaxation through Flowers and Greenery” “Power lunch”on the regular menu Keiyo-Ichikawa PA (Outbound), KEIYO EXPWY Expressway Gardens Project Installation of Quick Charging Stations This is a project to establish Expressway NEXCO East is installing quick-charging stations to contribute to the Gardens to turn gardens of rest areas into Company Profile promotion of electric vehicles. Currently, 139* quick-chargers have been easier-to-use and comfortable spaces, as installed along expressways, and chargers are scheduled to be added to well as to enhance local identities and seek 10 new locations in the Hokkaido region in FY2018. cooperation with local communities. NEXCO *As of July 1, 2018 East continues working to provide drivers more peaceful and more healing spaces. An Expressway Garden that was designed and supervised by the garden facilities near a neighborhood (Iwamizawa SA [Inbound], DO-O EXPWY) Tomobe SA (Outbound), JOBAN EXPWY 29 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 30 About NEXCO EAST Next-generation Expressways Designed via Creation and Utilization Technologies Construction and Technology Development Business Construction and Technology Development Business Steadily Expanding Expressway Networks so as to Contribute to the Development of Local Communities Special Topic Promoting the Steady Expansion of Expressway Networks NEXCO East is improving expressways by the Hokota IC and Ibarakikuko-kita IC, and in June developing its network in the Tokyo Metropolitan 2018, we opened a new 15.5-km stretch of the Area and other areas and by increasing the TOKYO-GAIKAN EXPWY between the Misatonumber of lanes to 4 lanes. Since 2005, we have minami IC and the Koya JCT. We are also steadily developed a 557-km network over 11 expressway developing 123 km over five expressway routes routes and worked on increasing lanes to 4 lanes and increasing lanes to 4 lanes for 206 km over for 44 km over three expressway routes. six expressway routes, thereby contributing to the Expressways Operation Business In February of 2018, we opened a new 8.8-km development of local communities. section of the HIGASHI-KANTO EXPWY between ［Legend］ Under construction Expansion to 4 lanes underway Shield machine assembly at Oizumi JCT, TOKYO-GAIKAN EXPWY Rest Area Business Next-generation The Construction and Technology Division Construction site between Nanyo-Takahata IC Yoichi Otaru Construction site between Yoichi IC and aims to deliver safe, reliable, comfortable, and Yamagata-Kaminoyama IC, E13 TOHOKU-CHUO EXPWY Otaru JCT, E5A HOKKAIDO-ODAN EXPWY and convenient expressway services via “creation technologies” and “utilization technologies.” Expressways Designed via Creation and Our construction business aims to expand the expressway network and improve network functions by eliminating any missing links in the networks of the Tokyo Metropolitan Area, increasing the number of lanes to 4 Utilization Technologies Construction and Technology Development Business E6 JOBAN EXPWY lanes, installing Smart ICs, and upgrading Between Yamamoto IC and Iwanuma IC Construction site of Oizumi JCT, rest facilities. We give top priority to safety, Developing the Expressway E6 JOBAN EXPWY C3 TOKYO-GAIKAN EXPWY pursue high quality, low cost, and high Between Iwaki-chuo IC and Network by Continuously Applying Construction site for 4 laning, Hirono IC productivity, and engage in the construction E18 JOSHIN-ETSU EXPWY of roads that increase customer trust, all via Various“Creation Technologies” KukiShiraoka the“creation technologies”that NEXCO East Yonezawakita C4 KEN-O EXPWY has cultivated. Tunnel Construction in Urban Areas Itako Between Matsuo-Yokoshiba IC and Taiei JCT MisatoAlso, we conduct research and technology Oizumi Minami Taiei Shield machines have been used for Joetsu Keiyo development into“utilization technologies” Chuo C4 KEN-O EXPWY Iwaki Matsuo-Yokoshiba constructing tunnels in urban areas on the Koya Between Togane IC/JCT and Matsuo-Yokoshiba IC Koshoku for aging expressways from the aspects Fulfilling Our Social Responsibility Togane TOKYO-GAIKAN EXPWY and KEN-O EXPWY. In of realizing SMHs, enhancing traffic safety, particular, for the construction of the TOKYOHokota Kisarazu-minami E14 TATEYAMA EXPWY implementing more advanced measures Between Kisarazu-minami JCT and Futtsu-Takeoka IC GAIKAN EXPWY (between the KAN-ETSU against snow and ice, and preserving the EXPWY and TOMEI EXPWY), we used a shield environment. machine that has the largest cross-section area C4 KEN-O EXPWY Furthermore, in order to ensure that these E66 Between Kamariya JCT and Totsuka IC / Sakae IC/JCT in Japan—about 16 m in diameter. Totsuka IC and Fujisawa IC “creation technologies” and “utilization *Includes ICs/JCTs with tentative names technologies”are passed down to the next generation, NEXCO East undertakes the VOICE Tohoku Regional Head Office I am in charge of the construction project on the TOHOKU-CHOU EXPWY necessary actions, including the establishment Yamagata Construction Office (section between the Nanyo-Takahata IC and Yamagata-Kaminoyama IC) in Yamagata Prefecture. The section that I'm supervising features of the NEXCO-East Technology Center Nanyo-Takahata Area Company Profile Construction Manager some of the country's weakest areas of land, and because we're carrying for Development & Education, which will out not just earthwork but also bridge and tunnel construction, we become a place for training the engineers Motoya CHUTOKU need to place absolute priority on safety as we tackle this very difficult construction project. that are necessary for conducting advanced Even as we face many challenges, we value communication with local research and technology development. residents and other people involved in the project, and wish for nothing more than to properly complete this road that we have worked so hard on. Tunnel construction using shield machine 31 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 32 About NEXCO EAST Construction and Technology Development Business Next-generation Expressways Designed via Creation and Utilization Technologies Researching and Developing Technologies for More Advanced Inspections Utilizing Expressways NEXCO East is carrying out more advanced that can be used in locations that are difficult for inspections by developing inspection robots human inspectors to access. Advancing Sophisticated Countermeasures for Snow and Ice Special Topic NEXCO East endeavors to advance counter● Driving Support System That Uses the Quasimeasures for snow and ice by utilizing IoT, AI, Zenith Satellite System and robotics, in order to reduce road closures in NEXCO East is developing driving support the winter, ensure safe traffic, and cope with the technologies to guide the safe operation of snowshortage of skilled workers that implement these ice control vehicles by combining the Quasi-Zenith countermeasures . Satellite System, which can provide high-precision location information, with high-precision 3D map data. Expressways Operation Business Quasi-Zenith Satellite System* ⬇ Rotary snowplow removing snow in a blizzard High-precision 3D map data Rest Area Business ⬇ Difficult for inspector to access Possible for inspector to access (inspection route available) Difficult for inspector to access (no inspection route) (no inspection route) Deviation from the correct course Photograph of location that is displayed in the cab is difficult for an inspector to Difficult-to-access parts are inspected by a robot access Location of ⬇ guard rail Cab of rotary snowplow ⬇ Construction and Technology Development Business Location of road edge line Converted to a serial photograph Guidance monitor Snow can be removed safely even under low-visibility conditions *Source: Cabinet Office National Space Policy Secretariat ● Integrated Control System for the Operating require complicated operations), identify Devices of Snow-Ice Control Vehicles operational patterns, and develop an automobile NEXCO East is going to amalgamate the various steering system by which snow-ice control vehicles operations of Snow-Ice control vehicles (which can be operated by a single button. Example of inspection robot: Spider-eye® Fulfilling Our Social Responsibility Dedicated controller Identification of deformities and their location Salting device Signage device VOICE Nexco-East Engineering I'm in charge of the development of Spider-eye®. Company Ltd. ⬇ Saitama Maintenance Spider-eye was first trialed in an inspection in FY2017. Through the photographs taken by Spider-eye, we were able to identify cracks in the Planning Center concrete and cracks in the printing of the steel beams with the same Company Profile Civil Engineering accuracy as if an inspector had seen it in a close-up inspection. Inspection and Diagnostics Going forward, I would like to improve the mechanical specifications of Group 1 Spider-eye to give it a better inspection performance—something that has been problematic—so that it can be used in place of human inspectors in Yusuke EGUCHI locations that are difficult to access. To this end, I will continue to develop this technology with an eye on its usefulness at actual inspection sites. Integrated control panel Snowplowing device 33 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 34 About NEXCO EAST Construction and Technology Development Business Next-generation Expressways Designed via Creation and Utilization Technologies NEXCO East's Various Efforts for Environmental Planting Greenery to Mitigate Global Warming Preservation In FY2017, we planted trees covering about 2 ha of newly opened expressway sections. As a result, the total tree-planted area on the slopes of embankments, etc., reached about 3,700 ha at the end of FY2017. Special Topic CO2 absorption and carbon fixation effects in this tree-planted area are Energy Conservation and Employing High-visibility Lighting Fixtures estimated at approximately 39,000 tons per year. Tree planting not only NEXCO East is upgrading the lighting in tunnels from the conventional provides CO2 absorption and carbon fixation effects, but also contributes high-pressure sodium lamps to LED lamps, and this action has not only to easing the heat island phenomenon via the leafy canopies of trees. improved visibility, but also contributed to saving energy. In FY2017, lighting in 13 tunnels was changed to LED lamps. The total reduction Efforts to Protect Local Ecosystems in electricity usage by switching to LED lamps so far is estimated at approximately 32 million kwh/year (CO 2 reduction of about 17,000 During construction work on the GAIKAN EXPWY (between Misatotons/year). Also, we began efforts to reduce electricity usage further by minami IC and Koya JCT), NEXCO East in collaboration with Ichikawashi uprooted a large-diameter Japanese black pine tree (approximately Expressways Operation Business introducing LED lamps for lighting on roads, in addition to tunnel lighting. LED lighting in a tunnel 10 meters high) that had been growing inside the construction area and replanted it in front of Sugano Station on the Keisei Main Line as a symbolic tree. Promoting Environmentally Friendly“eco Inters®”and“eco Areas®” Based on a policy of actively installing energysteps are taken to improve the efficiency of heating Reducing CO2 by Efficiently Utilizing Forestry Resources saving electrical facilities in interchanges and rest and cooling systems inside buildings and utilize areas, NEXCO East is promoting the establishment reusable energy sources such as solar power. In construction work on the HIGASHI-KANTO EXPWY (between Hokota of“environmentally friendly”facilities in which IC and Ibarakikuko-kita IC), NEXCO East used pine piles to maintain the ground load-bearing capacity of the foundations of regulating reservoir Rest Area Business embankments. A special feature of pine piles is that they do not easily An example of eco Inters® Indoor lighting Solar power Double-paned glass sashes rot, even when high underground water levels keep them in a constantly LED lighting Solar power Double-paned used as generation: glass used as wet state. Moreover, they are more workable and economic to use than standard 5 kW standard for the outer surface concrete piles, and have a design load-bearing capacity that is more than sashes sufficient for requirements. By efficiently utilizing forestry resources in this way, the carbon fixation Thermal insulation coating Use of a effect* provided by pine piles has led to a reduction in CO 2 during folded-plate thermal this construction of approximately 27,000 tons compared to when insulation conventional materials such as concrete piles are used. Construction and Technology Development Business coating product *Carbon fixation amount of pine piles: Approximately 0.6 tons of CO2/m3 Road lighting Use of LED ﬂoodlights New Green Recycling Challenge (“Biomass Gasification Power Generation”) Information boards NEXCO East operates a bioMaintenance work for expressways Produced biomass Chipping Rest area Use of LED units mass gas power generation system that utilizes the gas derived from pyrolysis as Fulfilling Our Social Responsibility Pruning Signal lights energy, as a new recycling Dead grass Use of LED lamps system for the plant-derived Timber from thinning Chips materials produced from the Power Biomass mowing of grass, pruning of transmission Gate lighting trees, and thinning of timber, Gas Use of LED in order to supply electricity 1) Dehydration 2) Pyrolysis 3) Gas puriﬁcation 4) Power generation ﬂoodlights to a rest area (Nasu-Kogen SA [Inbound], TOHOKU EXPWY). Biomass Gas Gas Water heating systems Eave materials Thermal insulation Company Profile Use of electric Use of aluminum panels to Use of glass walls Carbide water heaters lighten the eaves inside outer walls and (EcoCute) Implementation of inside ceilings Exhaust heat fall-prevention measures in Spraying of foaming Biomass gas power plant both base materials and urethane on the ﬁnished materials underside of eaves 仙台方面 那須高原 SA（上り） 那須高原 SA（下り） 35 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 36 東北自動車 About NEXCO EAST Construction and Technology Development Business Next-generation Expressways Designed via Creation and Utilization Technologies Developing Overseas Business By Utilizing the Technologies and Know-how of NEXCO East's Expressway Business Special Topic Participating in the Overseas Road Project In 2010, NEXCO East established a liaison office in East has been providing technical advisory services India, where large-scale road development is expected, to Cube Highways regarding surveying and designing and has been collecting information on participating in a rest area project in India, and we are currently projects there. In March 2014, the company entered examining how we can expand our rest facilities the road PPP business in India through the acquisition business. Furthermore, in December of 2017, we of a portion of the shares of a special purpose formed a consortium with Mitsubishi Corporation and vehicle (SPV) that is being used to carry out a project Japan Overseas Infrastructure Investment Corporation Expressways Operation Business pertaining to the 4-lane expansion of a section of the for Transport & Urban Development (JOIN) and have road between Pune and Solapur, located in the State concluded a basic agreement to obtain a 20% share in Traffic congestion on the outskirts of New Delhi of Maharashtra. Moreover, since April 2017, NEXCO Cube Highways with the goal of full-scale entry into the toll road administration business in India. International Cooperation India Liaison Oﬃce Capital New Delhi ① Pune-Solapur Road Going forward, we aim to leverage our China ② Jaipur-Mahua Road NEXCO East has dispatched long-term experts on in FY2017, NEXCO East also received about 340 ③ Mahua-Bharatpur Road advisory services to bring improvements Pakistan ④ ④ Western UP Road and added value to this business. the construction and maintenance of expressways foreign trainees in Japan through agencies such as Gurugram Nepal ⑤ Andhra Pradesh Road Bhutan to each of India and Myanmar through the Japan the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and ②③ ⑥, ⑦, ⑧ Expect to obtain International Cooperation Agency (JICA). Moreover Tourism and JICA. Kolkata Myanmar India Rest Area Business Capital Naypyidaw Pune Mumbai ① Solapur Yangon ⑤⑥ Bengaluru ⑧⑦ Toll road projects currently involved in (including routes we Construction and Technology Development Business expect to obtain) JICA experts conducting a site survey JICA experts attending a seminar on bridge technologies (Myanmar) for a proposed tunnel (India) International Exchange NEXCO East has exchanged technical information for expressways with ASFiNAG, which has managed the expressways in Austria since April 2008. Under this program, we exchanged opinions and views about Providing technical advisory services at a proposed site for rest facilities maintenance data in the field of asset management in Fulfilling Our Social Responsibility FY2017. Consulting Projects for ODA NEXCO East provides surveying, planning and of Japan's efforts to promote the export of quality Technical exchange concerning maintenance data technical support for projects in the road, bridge, infrastructure to developing countries. tunnel and ITS sectors as part of the Government International Conferences NEXCO East collects and transmits information on expressway technologies around the world, through participation in international conferences held by the World Road Association Company Profile (PIARC), International Road Federation (IRF), and the Road Engineering Association of Asia and Australasia (REAAA), etc. Meeting planning for ITS project (India) Presentation for Capacity Development of Road and Bridge Technology the Republic of the Union of Myanmar PIARC International Winter Road Congress (Poland) 37 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 38 About NEXCO EAST Fulﬁlling Our Social Responsibility 社会と社員のために Fulﬁlling Our Social Responsibility Key phrases for the CSR of NEXCO East Group “We connect communities and are connected to communities.” The CSR Ideal to Which NEXCO East Group Aspires Flower and Green Peaceful Highway Garden® Project (HOKURIKU EXPWY, Realization of our Management Principles and Visions In February 2014, NEXCO East Group formulated the Yoneyama SA [Inbound]) CSR Declaration, which is the CSR ideal to which CSR activities utilizing our expressway business NEXCO East Group aspires. We take action for CSR Special Topic Vitalization of following the slogan,“We connect communities and are local communities Social connected to communities”to realize our Management challenges Principles and Visions. Expressway business Actions grounded on a high level of awareness of compliance Promotion of Environmental traﬃc safety Provision of safe, preservation reliable, comfortable and convenient expressways Expressways Operation Business *Issues listed in the petal-shaped domains are the ones our company addresses among social challenges. NEXCO East Group supports the“Sustainable Development Goals” formulated by the United Nations, and aspires to contribute to the sustainable development of the world by facilitating the solving of social Rest Area Business For Society and In today's society, companies that do not challenges through our confront head-on issues of compliance and expressway business. workplace environment will not survive. The“E-Shokuba (ES) creation movement” that NEXCO East Group has been engaged For Employees Vitalization of Regional Communities in since 2016 aims to create a comfortable NEXCO East Group hosts events to promote place to work and offer ideas on workstyle Active Employment of Female Employees sightseeing at rest areas and actively diversification, while at the same time participates in various events hosted in local revolutionize employee consciousness. It In the midst of concerns of a decrease in labor regions. In addition, we interact with people in is vital that companies today allow their forces due to lower birthrates and an aging Construction and Technology Development Business local communities through our flower garden employees to work in innovative ways. We society, the Japanese government is making promotion and beautification activities. believe that it is only when each and every efforts to enable women to reach their full employee can take the initiative and work potential, as this is necessary to secure the with vitality that companies will be able to human resources that are going to sustain new Participating in the Yamagata Hanagasa Festival conduct business activities that meet the growth sectors. As the female demographic of needs of society. Promotion of Traffic Safety the population has been under-utilized, and as We also place great value on communicating this demographic can become a large source With the cooperation of the Expressway with all our stakeholders about the activities of human resources, the government aspires Traffic Police Squad, etc., NEXCO East hold that support our business, such as internal to increase the female workforce participation traffic safety workshops and traffic safety controls, accounting practices, financial rate, by formulating an environment where Fulfilling Our Social Responsibility campaigns, caters classes to bus companies and operations, advertising and CSR, and strive children can be securely raised by working towing companies, and provides traffic safety to ensure that these activities are carried parents. This is in addition to supporting workshops for elderly drivers, etc. out efficiently and properly so that we can r e tu r n in g to wo r k afte r c h il d c ar e l e av e and realize even more sound management. the active promotion of women to positions of Traffic safety campaign held at a commercial facility responsibility. Environmental Preservation Percentage of female Percentage of Maternity leave new recruits female employees acquisition rate NEXCO East is engaged in the maintenance of eco roads and implements hands-on eco learning, along with greening and the Company Profile preservation of biotopes in cooperation with people in local regions. FY2017 result As of the end of March FY2018 FY2017 result 15.6% 17.0% 100.0% Biotope preservation activities in collaboration with local high school students 39 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 40 About NEXCO EAST Company Profile Board Members Chairman Kunie Okamoto Trade Name East Nippon Expressway Company Limited Special Topic President and Chief Executive Oﬃcer Toru Obata CEO Shin-Kasumigaseki Building, 3-2, Kasumigaseki 3-chome, Representative Director and Executive Vice President Seigo Sakaki Director of Corporate Strategy Division Chiyodaku, Tokyo 100-8979, Japan Location of <Service Area Business Division> TEL +81-3-3506-0111 Head Office Managing Director and Executive Vice President Motokazu Endo Director of Operation Division MOMENTO SHIODOME Bldg., 3-17, Higashi-Shimbashi 2-chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-0021, Japan Managing Director and Senior Executive Oﬃcer Ryuichi Hagiwara Director of Service Area Business Division Managing Director and Senior Executive Oﬃcer Masanori Yokoyama Director of Construction & Technology Division Representative Toru Obata, President and Chief Executive Officer Managing Director and Senior Executive Oﬃcer Makoto Arakawa Director of General Aﬀairs & Accounting Division Expressways Operation Business Date of EstablishOctober 1, 2005 ment Audit & Supervisory Board Member (full-time) Taizo Fujita Capital 52.5 billion yen Audit & Supervisory Board Member (full-time) Noboru Okamoto Audit & Supervisory Board Member Michiaki Ozaki Number of 2,243 (As of March 31, 2018)＊This ﬁgure excludes employees from our company assigned to outside Employees the company and includes employees from outside the company assigned to our company Audit & Supervisory Board Member Keiko Sakurai Rest Area Business To facilitate road traffic via effective new construction, reconstruction, maintenance, repair, Business and other forms of expressway management, etc., thereby contributing to the healthy Purpose Senior Executive Oﬃcer Takashi Kawazoe Deputy Director of Operation Division development of the national economy and the improvement of the life of the people. Deputy Director of Construction & Technology Senior Executive Oﬃcer Kazuhiro Sawada Expressway management and construction business, rest area operation business, parking lot Division (construction) Business operation business, below-viaduct area utilization business, truck terminal operation, credit Descriptions card business, internet services business, hotel business, overseas business, etc. Senior Executive Oﬃcer Kaoru Matsusaki Director General of Tohoku Regional Head Oﬃce Senior Executive Oﬃcer Tomomichi Takahashi Director General of Kanto Regional Head Oﬃce Hokkaido 12-30, Oyachinishi 5-chome, Atsubetsu-ku, Sapporo-shi, Deputy Director of Operation Division & Construction and Technology Development Business Regional TEL +81-11-896-5211 Hokkaido Executive Oﬃcer Shigemi Oba Director of Toll Collection Management Head Office Department Tohoku Aoba-Dori Plaza, 2-1, Chuo 3-chome, Aoba-ku, Sendai-shi, Deputy Director of Construction & Technology Regional TEL +81-22-711-6411 Executive Oﬃcer Tsutomu Nakanishi Miyagi Division (technology) Head Office Kanto Director of Personnel Department, General Omiya-JP Bldg., 11-20, Sakuragicho 1-chome, Omiya-ku, Executive Oﬃcer Masayuki Okubo Regional TEL +81-48-631-0001 Aﬀairs & Accounting Division Saitama-shi, Saitama Head Office Executive Oﬃcer Yoshinori Okoshi Director General of Hokkaido Regional Head Oﬃce Niigata Fulfilling Our Social Responsibility Niigata-PLAKA3, 1, Tenjin 1-chome, Chuo-ku, Niigata-shi, Executive Oﬃcer Hiroyuki Suzuki Director General of Niigata Regional Head Oﬃce Regional TEL +81-25-241-5111 Niigata Head Office As of July 1, 2018 Company Profile 41 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 42 About NEXCO EAST Organization Chart List of Expressways Currently Operating General Meeting of Shareholders ■ List of National Networks (Expressways) Currently in Business Audit & Supervisory Board Length of roads in Traffic volume Toll income Names of roads in service Special Topic Board of Directors service (km) (number of vehicles/day) (1,000s of yen/day) Audit & Supervisory Board Member DO-O EXPWY 443.5 116,412 116,404 Chairman SASSON EXPWY 38.3 53,161 21,851 Audit Office DOTO EXPWY 206.1 11,119 28,643 Executive Meeting President and Chief Executive Officer TOHOKU EXPWY 680.5 321,653 507,080 AOMORI EXPWY 15.6 4,228 1,498 Internal Control Committee Internal Audit Office HACHINOHE EXPWY 81.3 7,169 11,288 Compliance Committee KAMAISHI EXPWY 11.4 2,554 974 Business Innovation Office Risk Management AKITA EXPWY 143.6 20,494 22,176 Promotion Committee National Expressway Expressways Operation Business YAMAGATA EXPWY 109.8 24,986 21,880 Occupational Safety and Health Promotion Committee BAN-ETSU EXPWY 212.7 22,786 44,570 CSR Promotion Committee NIHONKAI TOHOKU EXPWY 91.6 26,209 13,339 Technology Development Corporate Strategy Division Corporate Strategy Department TOHOKU-CHUO EXPWY 27.1 5,108 2,226 Committee KAN-ETSU EXPWY 246.3 211,409 254,692 Information Systems Department Toll Collection JOSHIN-ETSU EXPWY 203.4 62,437 103,742 Management Department Operation Division International Department JOBAN EXPWY 300.4 214,454 224,021 Maintenance Management Department Nexco Systems Company Ltd. TATEYAMA EXPWY 55.7 78,293 36,080 Facilities Engineering Trans-Tokyo Bay Highway HIGASHI-KANTO EXPWY 92.1 195,052 126,218 Rest Area Business Department Corporation Japan Expressway SHIN-KOKU EXPWY 3.9 6,288 1,471 Traffic Operation International Company Ltd. Department TOKYO-GAIKAN EXPWY 49.2 148,661 70,465 Highway Toll Systems General Affairs & General & Legal Affairs Department KITA-KANTO EXPWY 135.0 76,318 78,718 Company Ltd. Accounting Division NAGANO EXPWY 42.7 7,156 24,279 Construction & Personnel Department HOKURIKU EXPWY 195.8 52,712 89,366 Construction Department Technology Division Land Acquisition Department Public Relations & CSR Department Subtotal 3,386.0 1,668,659 1,800,981 FUKAGAWA-RUMOI EXPWY 4.4 1,970 259 Technology & Accounting & Finance Department Environment Department HIDAKA EXPWY 4.0 5,770 814 Nexco-East Trustee Nexco Insurance Services MOMOISHI EXPWY 6.1 5,352 706 Construction and Technology Development Business Company Ltd. Company Ltd. Nippon Expressway Research YUZAWA-YOKOTE EXPWY 14.5 6,213 1,896 Institute Company Ltd. AKITA EXPWY 9.5 6,223 1,942 Service Area Business Service Area Business Division AKITA EXPWY (Kotooka-Noshiro Road) 17.1 4,448 1,804 Department New Business SENDAI-HOKUBU EXPWY 13.5 20,291 7,504 Promotion Department SANRIKU EXPWY 7.8 46,298 7,566 General Toll Road Nex-area Company Ltd. SENDAI-TOBU EXPWY 24.8 69,769 24,604 Nexco-East Retail Company Ltd. SENDAI-NANBU EXPWY 12.9 28,596 8,192 TOHOKU-CHUO EXPWY Nexco-East Area Support 8.8 4,291 1,138 Company Ltd. (formerly YONEZAWA-NANYO EXPWY) Fulfilling Our Social Responsibility NEXCO East Innovation and HIGASHI-MITO EXPWY 10.2 15,145 3,933 Communications Company Ltd. KEIYO EXPWY 36.7 278,587 67,981 Tohoku Expressway Truck Terminal Company Ltd. CHIBA-TOGANE EXPWY 16.1 54,166 15,089 TOKYO-WAN-AQUA-LINE EXPWY 15.1 46,776 38,212 Hokkaido Regional Head Office Tohoku Regional Head Office Kanto Regional Head Office Niigata Regional Head Office AQUA RENRAKU EXPWY 7.1 33,566 7,902 Operation office (6) Construction office (1) Operation office (15) Construction Office (3) Operation office (14) Construction office (6) Operation office (4) Construction office (1) FUTTSU-TATEYAMA EXPWY 19.2 13,973 5,900 Nexco-Support Hokkaido Company Ltd. Nexco-Toll Tohoku Company Ltd. Nexco-Toll Kanto Company Ltd. Nexco-Support Niigata Company Ltd. KEN-O EXPWY 216.7 210,586 179,344 DAISAN-KEIHIN 16.6 136,120 29,745 Nexco-Engineering Hokkaido Company Ltd. Nexco-Engineering Tohoku Company Ltd. Nexco-Toll Kita-Kanto Company Ltd. Nexco-Engineering Niigata Company Ltd. YOKOHAMA SHINDO 11.3 126,053 37,667 Company Profile Nexco-Maintenance Hokkaido Company Ltd. Nexco-Maintenance Tohoku Company Ltd. Nexco-East Engineering Company Ltd. Nexco-Maintenance Niigata Company Ltd. YOKOHAMA-YOKOSUKA EXPWY 36.9 105,475 51,867 Nexco-Patrol Tohoku Company Ltd. Nexco-Maintenance Kanto Company Ltd. Subtotal 509.3 1,219,668 494,067 Nexco-Patrol Kanto Company Ltd. Total 3,895.3 2,888,327 2,295,048 …Group Company (As of April 1, 2018) ● Length of roads: As of July 1, 2018 ● Traﬃc volume and toll revenues: FY2017 data ● The totals for traﬃc volume and toll revenues may not be consistent because of the rounding of the subtotals. 43 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 44 About NEXCO EAST List of Expressways under Construction Financial Statements ● Key Points Concerning Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Balance Sheet ■ New Sections • The majority of assets are highway assets in process, which are road assets prior to being transferred Length of roads that Scheduled year of to the Expressway Agency. The majority of liabilities are road-building bonds payable / long-term loans Names of routes Section name will be in service (km) opening payable liabilities that were procured for the construction of road assets. HOKKAIDO-ODAN EXPWY Kuromatsunai-Kushiro Route Between Yoichi and Otaru JCT 23 2018 Consolidated Statement of Income Special Topic National Between Nanyo-Takahata and • In the breakdown of operating revenue, revenue came from toll revenues from expressway business and TOHOKU-CHUO EXPWY Soma-Obanazawa Route 24 2018 sales from expressway rest area business, etc., with the majority of revenue coming from toll revenues. Yamagata-Kaminoyama Expressway KAN-ETSU EXPWY Niigata Route Between Chuo JCT and Oizumi JCT 10 — • FY2017 was characterized by an operating loss of 100 million yen caused by responses to heavy snowfalls. • Regarding the net income attributable to owners of parent, due to the recording of extraordinary income, HIGASHI-KANTO EXPWY Mito Route Between Itako and Hokota 31 — etc., generated by the return of the substitutional portion of the employee pension fund, this income was Between Kamariya JCT and Totsuka 9 2020 ＊ 20.8 billion yen. General ■ Consolidated Financial Statements National Road Route 468 Between Taiei JCT and Matsuo-Yokoshiba 19 — Toll Road ● Consolidated Balance Sheet (March 31, 2018) Between Sakae IC/JCT and Fujisawa 7 2020 ＊ (In billions of JPY) Assets Liabilities Expressways Operation Business Total 123 （As of July 1, 2018） Current assets 1,557.2 Current liabilities 289.3 ■ Widened Sections (excluding projects that add auxiliary lanes) Cash and deposits 139.7 Non-current liabilities 1,338.5 Sections Length of roads Scheduled Highway assets in process 1,099.1 Road-building bonds payable / Long-term loans payable 1,236.2 Names of routes Including tentative names for that will be in year of Reference Other current assets 318.3 Other liabilities 102.2 ICs and JCTs service (km) opening Non-current assets 292.7 Total liabilities 1,627.9 KAN-ETSU EXPWY Joetsu Route Between Shinanomachi and Joetsu JCT 38 2018 4-lane expansion Properties, plants and equipment 240.8 Net assets National HIGASHI-KANTO EXPWY Between Kisarazu-minami JCT and 21 2018 4-lane expansion Chiba-Futtsu Route Futtsu-Takeoka JCT Intangible assets 12.2 Shareholders’equity 240.1 Expressway Rest Area Business Between Iwaki-chuo and Hirono 27 2020 4-lane expansion Investments and other assets 39.6 Capital stock 52.5 JOBAN EXPWY Between Yamamoto and Watari 12 2020 4-lane expansion Deferred assets 1.1 Capital surplus 58.7 National Road Route 6 (SENDAI-TOBU EXPWY) Between Watari and Iwanuma 2 2020 4-lane expansion Retained earnings 128.8 General National Road Route 16 (YOKOHAMA-YOKOSUKA EXPWY) Between Kamariya JCT and Namiki ４ 2020 6-lane expansion Accumulated other comprehensive income (16.9) Toll Road National Road Route 126 (CHIBA-TOGANE EXPWY) Between Togane IC/JCT and Matsuo-Yokoshiba 16 2026 4-lane expansion Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities (0) Remeasurements of retirement benefits (16.9) National Road Route 468 (KEN-O EXPWY) Between Kuki-Shiraoka JCT and Taiei JCT 92 2024 4-lane expansion Total net assets 223.1 Total 211 Total assets 1,851.1 Total liabilities and net assets 1,851.1 （As of July 1, 2018） Construction and Technology Development Business ● The total of the lengths of roads may not be consistent because of the rounding of the subtotals. *The calculations in the table may not appear to be consistent, as any numbers less than 100 million have been rounded down. ● The scheduled date of opening may change due to progress in construction. The names of the expressways, ICs, and JCTs used in this section include tentative names. The construction of general toll roads and the Niigata route of the KAN-ETSU EXPWY are joint projects with the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLIT), and their scheduled dates for completion described here are the target ﬁscal years for opening as announced by the MLIT. *The schedules are for when land acquisitions, etc., based on the Compulsory Purchase of Land Act will be smoothly completed. ● Consolidated Statement of Income (From April, 2017 to March, 2018) (In billions of JPY) Operating revenue 1,056.4 Number of Interchanges and Rest Areas Operating expenses 1,056.6 ■ Interchanges Rent expenses on highway assets 601.8 Administration costs of highway business and cost of sales 363.7 439 Fulfilling Our Social Responsibility Interchanges （As of July 1, 2018） Number of Selling, general and administrative expenses 91.0 facilities Operating income (0.1) Smart interchanges 47 （As of July 1, 2018） Non-operating income 3.6 Non-operating expenses 0.1 ■ Rest Areas Ordinary income 3.3 Number of 322 Rest areas (of which, 197 have commercial facilities, 125 do not (As of July 1, 2018)） Extraordinary income 28.7 facilities Extraordinary losses 0.2 139 Quick charging station （As of July 1, 2018） Income before income taxes 31.8 Company Profile Income taxes etc. 10.9 147.2 billion yen Total retail （Results in FY2017） store sales Net income attributable to owners of parent 20.8 *The calculations in the table may not appear to be consistent, as any numbers less than 100 million have been rounded down. 45 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 46 About NEXCO EAST Financial Statements Group Companies of NEXCO East (As of July 1, 2018) 20 Subsidiary Companies/7 Affiliated Companies ■ Non-consolidated Financial Statements Special Topic Investment Company Name Business Content Office Name (Location) ● Non-consolidated Balance Sheet (March 31, 2018) (In billions of JPY) Relationship Area of Responsibility Head Office and other Assets Liabilities Nexco -Toll Tohoku Company Ltd. Subsidiary Tohoku Area (Aoba-ku, Sendai-shi and other) Current assets 1,552.2 Current liabilities 310.2 Head Office and other Nexco -Toll Kanto Company Ltd. Subsidiary Kanto Area Toll Collection (Su m i d a ku , To k yo a n d other) Cash and deposits 134.3 Non-current liabilities 1,300.5 Head Office and other Highway assets in process 1,102.0 Road-building bonds payable / Long-term loans payable 1,236.2 Nexco -Toll KitaKanto Company Ltd. Subsidiary North-Kanto Area (O m i ya ku , S a i t a m a s h i and other) Other current assets 315.8 Other liabilities 64.2 Head Office and other Nexco-Engineering Hokkaido Company Ltd. Subsidiary Hokkaido Area (Shiroishi-ku, Sapporo-shi and other) Non-current assets 252.2 Total liabilities 1,610.7 Head Office and other Expressways Operation Business Non-current assets 103.6 Net assets Nexco -Engineering Tohoku Company Ltd. Subsidiary Tohoku Area (Aoba-ku, Sendai-shi and Maintenance and other) Non-current assets related 102.0 Shareholders’equity 194.8 Kanto Area and Inspection H e a d O f f i ce a n d o t h e r Nexco -East Engineering Company Ltd. Subsidiary (Arakawa-ku, Tokyo and other other) Non-current assets affiliated 26.6 Capital stock 52.5 Head Office and other Nexco -Engineering Niigata Company Ltd. Subsidiary Niigata Area (Chuo-ku, Niigata-shi and Other non-current assets 0.1 Capital surplus 58.7 other) Head Office and other Investments and other assets 19.8 Retained earnings 83.5 Nexco-Maintenance Hokkaido Company Ltd. Subsidiary Hokkaido Area (Shiroishi-ku, Sapporo-shi and other) Deferred assets 1.1 Valuation and translation adjustments (0) Head Office and other Nexco-Maintenance Tohoku Company Ltd. Subsidiary Tohoku Area (Aoba-ku, Sendai-shi and Total net assets 194.8 other) Maintenance Head Office and other Total assets 1,805.6 Total liabilities and net assets 1,805.6 Nexco -Maintenance Kanto Company Ltd. Subsidiary Kanto Area (Chiyoda ku, Tokyo and Rest Area Business other) *The calculations in the table may not appear to be consistent, as any numbers less than 100 million have been rounded down. Head Office and other Nexco-Maintenance Niigata Company Ltd. Subsidiary Niigata Area (Nagaoka-shi, Niigata and other) Head Office and other Nexco -Patrol Tohoku Company Ltd. Subsidiary Tohoku Area (Aoba-ku, Sendai-shi and other) Traffic Management Head Office and other ● Non-consolidated Statement of Income (From April, 2017 to March, 2018) (In billions of JPY) Nexco -Patrol Kanto Company Ltd. Subsidiary Kanto Area (B u n k yo ku , To k yo a n d other) Operating revenue 967.9 Head Office and other Nexco -Support Hokkaido Company Ltd. Subsidiary Hokkaido Area (Atsubetsu-ku, Sappro-shi Toll revenues 837.6 Toll Collection and and other) Traffic Management Head Office and other Sales of completed highway construction contracts 129.3 Nexco -Support Niigata Company Ltd. Subsidiary Niigata Area (Chuo-ku, Niigata-shi and other) Construction and Technology Development Business Other sales 0.9 Site survey & management and Head Office and other Nexco -East Trustee Company Ltd. Subsidiary ( M i n a to ku , To k yo a n d real estate business, etc. other) Operating expenses 975.2 Management and operation of Head Office and other Rent expenses on highway assets 601.8 Nex-area Company Ltd. Subsidiary ( M i n a to ku , To k yo a n d commercial facilities at rest areas other) Cost of sales of completed highway construction contracts 129.3 Nexco -East Retail Company Ltd. Subsidiary Operation of directly managed stores at Head Office and other ( M i n a to ku , To k yo a n d rest areas other) Administrative expenses 244.1 Management and inspection of Head Office and other Operating income from highway business (7.2) Nexco -East Area Support Company Ltd. Subsidiary commercial facilities at rest areas ( M i n a to ku , To k yo a n d and concierge services other) Operating revenue related operations 54.8 NEXCO East Innovation and R&D of technologies relating to smart mainHead Office Operating expenses related operations 53.4 Communications Company Ltd. Subsidiary tenance highways and the advancement of (Minato-ku, Tokyo) information infrastructure, etc. Fulfilling Our Social Responsibility Operating income from related operations 1.3 Affiliated Head Office and other Nexco Insurance Services Company Ltd. Insurance agency (Chiyoda ku, Tokyo and Operating income total business (5.9) Company other) Affiliated Development, operation, and management of the Head Office and other Non-operating income 7.3 Nexco Systems Company Ltd. Company mission-critical systems of three NEXCO companies (Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo and other) Non-operating expenses 0 Nippon Expressway Research Institute Affiliated R& D fo r t h e e x p res s way te ch n o l o gi es o f Head Office and other (Machida-shi, Tokyo and Company Ltd. Company three NEXCO companies Ordinary income 1.3 other) Affiliated Maintenance of the toll collection machines Head Office and other Extraordinary income 28.7 Highway Toll Systems Company Ltd. Company of three NEXCO companies ( C h u o k u , To k y o a n d other) Extraordinary losses 0.1 Affiliated Management and operation of the TOKYO-WANHead Office and other Trans-Tokyo Bay Highway Corporation (Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo and Company AQUA-LINE EXPWY and the Umihotaru PA other) Income before income taxes 29.9 Company Profile Affiliated Maintenance and operation of the Sendai-minami Head Office and other Income taxes etc. 8.7 Tohoku Expressway Truck Terminal Company Ltd. (N a to ri s h i , M i ya gi a n d Company Truck Terminal and the Koriyama Truck Terminal other) Net income 21.2 Japan Expressway International Company Ltd. Affiliated Expressway investment, consulting, and Head Office Company advisory for overseas road projects (Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo) *The calculations in the table may not appear to be consistent, as any numbers less than 100 million have been rounded down. 47 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2018 48
