NILFISK CSR REPORT 2018 Developing sustainable and innovative cleaning solutions Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Conscious part of society Conscious towards climate and environment Conscious customer relationships Conscious employer About the report Business overview Our CSR goals and actions Our method 3 Letter from the CEO 8 Nilfisk’s approach to CSR 30 About the report Introduction 30 Scope of reporting The Nilfisk CSR report covers the financial 4 About Nilfisk 11 Conscious part of society 30 GRI content index – disclosures year from January 1, 2018, to December 31, 5 Our business model 12 Good governance 31 UN Global Compact 2018, and contains our Statutory Statement 7 Value chain – risk assessment 12 General Data Protection Regulation 31 Data handling for Social Responsibility per section 99a and 7 CSR governance 12 Integrity program 31 Organizational scope 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act. 13 Anti-corruption 32 Contact The report also serves as our Communication 13 Competition law on Progress report to the UN Global Compact 13 Foreign trade controls (UNGC). 13 Anti-fraud and conflicts of interest 13 Whistleblower system Throughout 2018, Nilfisk has increased its 14 Local communities focus on internal operations and processes 14 Supplier social management rooted in the company’s simplification strategy, 15 2018 results and future objectives with the goal of reducing complexity to improve earnings. With regards to CSR, these 16 Conscious towards climate strategic priorities are seen in the developand environment ment of a new governance framework, 17 Materials and recycling cross-functional audits, and enhanced internal 18 Energy and water CSR-related programs such as occupational 19 Emissions health and safety, and data handling. 19 Supplier environment management 20 2018 results and future objectives 21 Conscious customer relationships 22 Customer health and safety 23 Marketing and labeling 23 Customer data privacy 23 Total cost of ownership 24 2018 results and future objectives 25 Conscious employer 26 Labor conditions 26 Diversity and inclusion 27 Competence development 28 Occupational health and safety 29 2018 results and future objectives N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2018 | 2 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Conscious part of society Conscious towards climate and environment Conscious customer relationships Conscious employer About the report Being a responsible global citizen 2018 was a year at Nilfisk marked by solid progress in our strategy execuCSR continues to be a vital part of our everyday work at Nilfisk. We want tion. Our strategy, Nilfisk Next, is a transformational strategy initiated to CSR to be an integral part of our work, everywhere, every day, acknowldrive our existing business to the peak of its profitability while positioning edging and supporting our accountability for our impact on the commuNilfisk as the leader in intelligent cleaning. Throughout 2018, we have nity at large, and aligning our business with behaviors and norms that go worked intensely on simplifying our business, production, and portfolio; beyond legal and regulatory requirements. we divested several businesses, significantly reduced our manufacturing footprint, and trimmed our product portfolio by terminating almost 40% Nilfisk has been a signatory member to the United Nations’ Global Comof our product platforms. pact (UNGC) since 2010, and we continue to support the UN guiding principles in our efforts to constantly develop our business and our prodIn the context of this strong focus on internal operations and processes, ucts and services. Our contribution to the UN´s Sustainable Development much of our Corporate Social Responsibility focus in 2018 has centered Goals (SDGs) is focused on two of the goals, “Good health and wellaround establishing a new governance framework, setting up crossbeing” and “Responsible consumption and production patterns”. Both functional audits, and enhancing focus on internal CSR-related programs represent areas with a clear link to Nilfisk’s products and services, and to such as occupational health and safety, and data handling. the mission statement that drives our business. At Nilfisk, we are proud of having been a responsible global citizen for Over the course of 2018 we have enhanced focus on the health and more than a century. Global markets are essential to our success, and safety of our employees, as well as on our own consumption worldwide, Nilfisk respects the disparate cultures, customs and values of each individand we have developed an updated Code of Conduct governing legal ual society. At the same time, Nilfisk must comply with many global laws compliance, regulatory matters and CSR. I am proud of the work and and follow certain global standards of behavior for responsible and susdedication that our employees have shown in implementing and incorpotainable companies. To accomplish this, Nilfisk must have one standard of rating these new standards and procedures. And I am proud of how our business behavior applicable to every Nilfisk company and employee. employees all over the world continue to be part of the transformation of Nilfisk, redefining industry standards and building the future of clean. Hans Henrik Lund CEO N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2018 | 3 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Conscious part of society Conscious towards climate and environment Conscious customer relationships Conscious employer About the report About Nilfisk Founded in 1906, Nilfisk brings over a century of experience to the manufacturing and sale of highquality cleaning equipment. Since the development of its first vacuum cleaner more than a hundred years ago, Nilfisk has responded to the changing needs of markets and customers, supplying innovative cleaning products and solutions to businesses and homes around the world. Today, we are a global company, operating in over 40 countries, with 5,500 employees working at development centers, production facilities, and sales companies. We focus continuously on innovating and improving our products, thereby maintaining our position as one of the world’s leading suppliers of professional cleaning equipment. 1906 1,054 mEUR Founded Annual revenue in 2018 5,500 Our mission: Employees We enable sustainable Nilfisk sales entity cleaning worldwide to improve quality of life Nilfisk dealer Nilfisk production site N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2018 | 4 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Conscious part of society Conscious towards climate and environment Conscious customer relationships Conscious employer About the report Our business model Our products and services are offered to our customers through a busiIndustry To support a clean environment, Nilfisk offers an industry-leading prodness model built on a conscious use of resources with focus on creating uct portfolio, along with significant aftermarket support. Our products and capturing value for our customers, society, employees, and shareand services are offered in more than 100 countries, and help improve holders. the sustainability performance of our customers, and partners, by: • Improving human health Our customer base operates in a wide range of sectors and industries, • Helping protect the environment and customers range from large global contract cleaners that buy fleets • Enhancing customer profitability of machines across the product range to smaller businesses buying a single machine. Industry-leading product offerings with significant Based on in-depth customer insights, our product development, maraftermarket support keting, and sales activities are targeted three overall business verticals, CCI named Industry, CCI and ABCA: Aftermarket Floorcare 31% 33% Industry covers areas like manufacturing and warehouse & logistics, in which cleaning becomes an integrated part of the ongoing optimization and automation of facilities and production. CCI covers contract cleaners and institutions such as retail and education, where optimization of Revenue the cleaning task is a key focus, as well as exploiting new and flexible 2018 ways of cleaning supported by new digital opportunities. ABCA refers to Agriculture, Automotive and Building & Construction. Cleaning solutions to these industries reflect that areas like health and safety are particularly important to these customers, as well as regulatory requireABCA 16% 20% ments to the equipment are high. High pressure Vacuum cleaners washers N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2018 | 5 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Conscious part of society Conscious towards climate and environment Conscious customer relationships Conscious employer About the report Our business model Nilfisk is an established global leader in cleaning technolOur business model is based on creating value for our ogy with the broadest portfolio of cleaning equipment customers. There is a universal need for cleaning, and and solutions on the market. We are among the global the effect of clean is valuable everywhere. By providing market leaders in the professional cleaning equipment high-quality cleaning products and services we enable industry, which has an estimated value of 7.5 bnEUR. our customers to increase their productivity, and quality of life. Rooted in insights about our customers and with Through a combination of direct and indirect sales, we a clear focus on harvesting the benefits of new technoloservice contract cleaners, retailers, industrial customers gies, we have a clear vision to be the leader in intelligent and many more across more than 100 markets. cleaning to make our customers’ businesses smarter. Innovation Starting with customer insights, Nilfisk develops intelligent cleaning solutions and services rooted in new technologies and Resources tailored to our customers’ Value creation needs. Aftermarket For our shareholders: Portfolio Capital provided by investors Through a broad range of aftermarket solutions – Dividends and a global team of dedicated service techAcross our extensive Nilfisk product portfolio, we nicians, we ensure that our customers get the – Optimal capital allocation aim to deliver a top-tier cleaning performance, Insights from customers and support and service needed throughout complemented by services that increase producmarket analysis the product life cycle. tivity and reduce total cost of ownership. For our customers: Facilities for development – Productivity increase – Improved cleaning, hence Innovation enhanced quality of life for people A competent and diverse staff For our employees and society: Customers – Job creation and development – Tax contribution With innovative cleaning solutions we Operations increase cleaning productivity and qual– Better cleaning solutions for the ity for our customers – in short, we A global production footprint combenefit of people and make our customers’ businesses bined with a distribution set-up environment smarter though intelligent that ensure operational efficleaning solutions and ciency and quality. services. Sales and marketing Through a global team of sales representatives combined with dealers and e-commerce, we build customer relationships and drive sales across our strategic customer segments. N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2018 | 6 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Conscious part of society Conscious towards climate and environment Conscious customer relationships Conscious employer About the report Value chain – risk assessment Nilfisk remains committed to ensuring that our entire value Raw material extraction Suppliers (production) chain, is considered when evaluating the range of potential Mining of scarce minerals, extraction of crude Human rights, labor rights, equality, risks posed by our business activities. oil for production of plastic and/or climate effect corruption, energy usage, water from crude oil, biodiversity, spills, human rights, usages, CO2 emission, waste, We continuously evaluate these risks, assessing their potenlabor rights, corruption, and conflict minerals. dangerous substances, and safety. tial impact and working proactively to mitigate them, with a primary focus on the most serious risks. Our CSR department monitors risks. If significant risks arise, they are analyzed and reported to the Nilfisk Leadership Team through our corporate governance structure. Value chain – risk assessment CSR governance The Nilfisk Leadership Team has the overall responsibility Nilfisk Transport for setting the strategic direction of CSR within the Nilfisk Human rights, labor rights, equality, Particle pollution, CO2 emission, Group. Daily operation, and coordination, of our CSR resource usage, pollution, waste, traffic safety, and facilitation payments. activities is managed by the CSR department. CO2 emission, corruption, and work safety. Dealers End users Disposal Human rights, corruption, Energy usage, water usage Waste, product compliance, labor rights, work safety, and detergent pollution, pollution, and labor safety. and energy usage. customer safety and health. Value chain – risk assessment N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2018 | 7 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Conscious part of society Conscious towards climate and environment Conscious customer relationships Conscious employer About the report Nilfisk’s approach to CSR This CSR report addresses issues material to Nilfisk and its stakeholders. Nilfisk’s primary stakeholders include shareholders, customers, employees, business partners, and society in general. Material issues have been identified through discussions and surveys, involving internal and external stakeholders. We believe the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) can be a strategic guidance for our work with CSR, securing that Nilfisk works towards a more sustainable future development. The SDGs refer to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which comprises 17 goals for ending poverty, protecting the planet, and ensuring global prosperity through a new sustainable development agenda. Each goal has specific targets covering a broad range of sustainable development issues. Throughout the report we show how our activities specifically support the SDGs. Nilfisk acknowledges its role in promoting responsible consumption and production patterns. As a global company, it is important that By incorporating the SDGs into our materiality assessment, Nilfisk comwe intervene in active decisions that impact the environment posimits to taking these into account when prioritizing activities and comNilfisk supports quality of life through our products, which tively. In doing so, we contribute directly to SDG #12, “Responsible munication with stakeholder groups. help keep schools, hospitals, and many other locations clean. consumption and production.” For us, health is a fundamental human right, and we integrate Our mission statement, “We enable sustainable cleaning to this philosophy with our development of cleaning solutions We have pursued three out of 11 specific targets that make up improve quality of life,” guides us in our work with the SDGs. that support good health. That is why SDG #3, “Good health SDG #12. and well-being,” is one of the global goals we support. During 2018, we went deeper into activating our SDGs, working with one of 13 specific targets comprising SDG #3. N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2018 | 8 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Conscious part of society Conscious towards climate and environment Conscious customer relationships Conscious employer About the report Materiality analysis Our Materiality analysis defines four strategy pillars to guide our In prioritizing activities, Nilfisk incorporates the findings of the CSR approach: bi-annual materiality assessment into our decision-making process. • Conscious part of society • Conscious towards climate and environment • Conscious customer relationships • Conscious employer Very important 20 Child labor Customer health and safety Effluents and waste Forced or compulsory labor Anti corruption Non-discrimination Anti-competitive behavior Customer privacy Emmisions Materials Stakeholder concern Human rights assessment Energy Diversity and equal opportunity 15 Marketing and labeling Water Supplier Supplier Good governance Ethics and integrity social environmental assessment assessment Environmental Local communities Economic performance compliance Biodiversity Occupational health and safety Indirect economic Socioeconomic impact compliance Training and education 10 10 15 20 Important Very important Important to Nilfisk N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2018 | 9 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Conscious part of society Conscious towards climate and environment Conscious customer relationships Conscious employer About the report Building the future of cleaning UN Sustainable Our mission Development Goals Conscious part Conscious towards of society climate and environment Good Governance Materials and recycling Anti-corruption Energy and water Local communities Emissions Supplier social management Supplier environmental We enable management sustainable cleaning worldwide to improve quality of life Conscious Conscious customer relationships employer Customer health and safety Labor conditions Marketing and labeling Diversity and inclusion Customer privacy Competence development Total cost of ownership Occupational health and safety Nilfisk has developed policies, rules, targets, and action plans to support the execution of this strategy and guide implementation efforts in the coming years. The aforementioned key policies and rules have been consolidated in Nilfisk’s Code of Conduct. N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2018 | 10 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Conscious part of society Conscious towards climate and environment Conscious customer relationships Conscious employer About the report Conscious part of society We acknowledge our role in society as employer, business partner, and corporate taxpayer. Nilfisk sells products and services in more than 100 countries, and business cultures vary around the world. In navigating these cultures, we comply with applicable laws, as well as industry standards, through our Code of Conduct and compliance setup. N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2018 | 11 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Conscious part of society Conscious towards climate and environment Conscious customer relationships Conscious employer About the report Good governance General Data Protection Regulation Integrity program Corruption and corrupt practices come in many forms, but all have in In May 2018, the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) took Nilfisk has launched a program that anchors our business in integrity: common that they promote inequalities, place employees and busieffect, imposing a wide range of data-privacy obligations on EU-based • Honesty nesses at risk, tarnish reputation and have a detrimental effect on society. companies, and on companies doing business within the EU from out• Fairness To mitigate these risks Nilfisk has adopted a governance framework side its borders. GDPR governs the processing of personal data, which is • Accountability comprising both guidance and comprehensive training. During 2018, information that can be used to identify individuals, or which identifies This program is formulated in our Integrity Policy. an updated Code of Conduct was developed, and will be rolled out them directly. across the organization during the first half of 2019. In preparation for GDPR implementation, Nilfisk mapped relevant global “We understand that customers, investors, regulators, and Key elements include: databases containing personal data; generated guidance and notices other key stakeholders, expect us to act with integrity in for employees and external parties, in accordance with GDPR; executed conducting business, and so do our employees.” • Nilfisk’s Code of Conduct is a one-stop shop for learning about our required data-processing and data-transfer agreements; and conducted – Hans Henrik Lund, CEO behavioral standards. The Code of Conduct has two overarching compliance training. policies, both covering key objectives and steps to achieve them. Each policy has underlying rules covering specific CSR and legalNilfisk has taken steps to ensure GDPR-compliance for secure personalcompliance areas, including: data processing, sharing it only on a need-to-know basis, heightening –– Anti-corruption, competition and data privacy restrictions on the processing of sensitive personal data (i.e. concerning –– Labor rights, diversity and inclusion, health and safety, an employee’s health status), and entering into data-processing and climate and environment data-transfer agreements. –– Product compliance Although Nilfisk’s processing of employee data outside the EU does not • Guidelines instructing employees on implementing the always fall within GDPR jurisdiction, Nilfisk has extended, to all global Code of Conduct in daily work, i.e. conducting risk-assessment employees, the data-privacy rights granted by GDPR to individuals or supplier-side due diligence within its scope. • Annual assurance of Code of Conduct integration, conducted by Nilfisk’s internal compliance activities, and its work with external pareach global entity: ties, are long-term, ongoing activities that will evolve with, and reflect, –– Consolidated into overall Nilfisk Group status report developments in the administration of GDPR by EU and national –– Cross-functional audits of various good-governance areas, data-protection regulators. At the same time, Nilfisk is taking steps to conducted at selected global entities comply with privacy laws outside the EU. • Annual status-reporting to the Nilfisk Leadership Team and the Board of Directors • Nilfisk’s goal of ensuring that Code of Conduct principles are reflected throughout our value chain. Consequently, key focus areas in 2019 include enhancing supplier due diligence, and auditing suppliers’ behavior obligations N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2018 | 12 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Conscious part of society Conscious towards climate and environment Conscious customer relationships Conscious employer About the report Anti-corruption Foreign trade controls Whistleblower system Nilfisk complies with applicable global anti-corruption laws. We do not Nilfisk continues to enhance its compliance program in accordance Nilfisk’s whistleblower system helps employees and external parties engage in bribery, and actively oppose it, both as an individual group of with applicable US and EU regulations requiring export licenses (and report allegations of corruption, as well as other activities that may companies and as a participant in global organizations like the UNGC re-export licenses, in the case of US-made items) for dual-use items in violate laws or key internal rules and procedures, i.e. Nilfisk’s Code of and the OECD’s Business and Industry Advisory Committee (BIAC). its inventory, i.e. standard commercial items and technology, the use of Conduct. Reports are made online to a system operated by an indepenwhich might be associated with weapons or surveillance. dent supplier, Got Ethics, ensuring confidentiality – and, if the reporter wishes, anonymity. “Bribery means giving someone something so they will Likewise, Nilfisk continues to enhance its compliance program in accordo something they should not, or so they will not do dance with applicable UN, US, and EU sanctions, including laws and Reports are investigated according to their complexity and severity, and regulations restricting, or prohibiting, commercial dealings with sancare reviewed by Nilfisk’s Compliance Committee, consisting of Nilfisk’s something they should. You cannot engage in bribery tioned countries, governments, and parties. CEO and CFO, the heads of HR and Legal, the global compliance offiif you act with integrity – and if we are confident our cer, and by the Audit Committee of Nilfisk’s Board of Directors. suppliers act with integrity, we can be confident that Nilfisk’s compliance program involves growing cross-functional colla­ we are complying with applicable laws.” boration, including collaboration between its legal, treasury, procureThe whistleblower system is accessible on nilfisk.com. – Joseph Simon, Global Compliance Officer ment, R&D, and logistics teams, leading to synergy and enhanced efficiency. As stated in the Anti-corruption rule, no employee may, whether Anti-fraud and conflicts of interest directly or indirectly, offer, give, or accept money – or anything else of Nilfisk’s Anti-fraud rule mitigates conflicts of interest and fraud risks value – to or from any person, in an effort to secure an improper busiboth external and internal. Supplemental guidelines, and the Authority ness advantage. Matrix – which clarifies managers’ financial authority – also provide instructions and processes for avoiding these risks. In addition to implementing the new Anti-corruption rule, Nilfisk has conducted cross-functional audits at key facilities in China, India, Joint audits, conducted by legal and financial control teams, also mitiMexico, and Turkey. These audits included employee training and intergate fraud risks, with each team providing a specialized review of local views with local suppliers. transactions, documentation, and practices. Furthermore, Nilfisk is developing a new third-party due diligence Like many global companies, Nilfisk is experiencing increasingly sophistisystem for implementation in 2019. cated fraud attempts by external parties, as well as internal attempts. In response, Nilfisk has enhanced both its reactive and proactive fraudCompetition law mitigation actions, including clear transaction-approval rules and proIn 2018, Nilfisk updated its Competition Law rule to enhance employee cesses, as well as enhanced awareness of suspicious practices. understanding of what Nilfisk – and its employees – may, and may not, do when setting up business relationships, especially those involving In 2019, Nilfisk will focus on further implementation of its conflict of Nilfisk’s competitors. Developing the competition-compliance program interest-mitigation program. will be a key focus area in 2019. N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2018 | 13 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Conscious part of society Conscious towards climate and environment Conscious customer relationships Conscious employer About the report Local communities Nilfisk continues its active involvement in the local communities where we operate, thereby contributing to a positive working environment for both Nilfisk employees and local societies. As an example, our European Distribution Center employs people with mental disabilities; this effort has benefitted these individuals while simultaneously enhancing our operation. In 2018, we decided to work more strategically with projects more closely related to our core business. This work included an assessment of current global partnerships, thereby helping us identify, and prioritize, projects that warrant increased focus, time, and funding. From this baseline, we plan to work more strategically with the projects we believe most relevant to Nilfisk. Supplier social management Because Nilfisk´s operations are mostly assembly-based, it is important that our extensive network of suppliers conform to our standards and observe the 10 UNGC principles. Nilfisk has a responsible procument initiative that ensures supplier compliance with the UNGC principles remains in effect. We continue to interact proactively with suppliers, encouraging them to adopt the principles. With 89% of suppliers with a direct spend exceeding 50,000 EUR having confirmed compliance with the aforementioned principles, we have exceeded our target of 80% for 2018. A focus area in 2019 will be an updated supplier due diligence system, including risk assessment. N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2018 | 14 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Conscious part of society Conscious towards climate and environment Conscious customer relationships Conscious employer About the report 2018 results Future objectives Actions and results Focus area Goals 2018 Goals Planned actions Good governance »» New Code of Conduct »» Code of Conduct completed »» Roll out Code of Conduct globally »» Communicate and activate roll-out »» Launch Integrity Project »» Integrity project initiated »» Conduct training in all rules »» Identify appropriate training system Policy: Integrity All »» Governance Framework System »» Framework system initiated »» Code of Conduct integration into daily »» Promote Code of Conduct during site Risks: Human and labor rights, legal compliance »» Compliance strategy 2019-2021 »» Compliance strategy drafted, operations visits, e.g. town-hall meetings reviewed by the Nilfisk Leadership Team »» Supplier-compliance verification »» Audit key suppliers to assess compliance with Nilfisk’s Code of Conduct and similar behavior obligations GDPR »» Nilfisk is GDPR-prepared »» Global databases being mapped »» Keep our high GDPR-compliance standard »» Continue database-mapping »» Required documents generated, »» Continue GDPR-compliance actions Rule: Data privacy published »» Compliance audits Risks: Human rights »» Execution of data-processing and data-transfer agreements Anti-corruption »» New Anti-corruption rule »» Anti-corruption rule adopted »» Audits on anti-corruption expanded »» Continue audits and supplier interviews »» Anti-corruption-compliance audits: »» Five audits performed as needed, based on risk Rule: Anti-corruption internal and suppliers Risks: Corruption, bribery Competition law »» New Competition rule »» Rule adopted »» Audits on competition law expanded »» Trainings »» Continue audits and supplier interviews Rule: Competition law as needed, based on risk Risks: Cartels, anti-competitive actions Fraud, conflicts of interest »» New Fraud and Conflicts of »» Rule completed »» Roll out Conflicts of interest program »» Support Authority Matrix-implementation interest rule »» Performed five joint audits globally and training Rule: Fraud and conflicts of Interest »» Implement joint audits »» Continue joint audits with Finance teams Risks: Corruption, fraud »» Authority Matrix »» Rolled out Authority Matrix Local Communities »» Develop synergy among local ini»» Not completed »» Investigate the possibilities of establishing »» Work with Marketing on establishing a tiatives a global initiative that can embrace and global initiative Policy: Compliance and CSR policy support local initiatives »» Internal survey on local initiatives from Risks: Labor rights, work safety, customer health/safety, and human rights all sites Supplier social management »» New third-party due-diligence system »» Not completed »» New third-party due-diligence system »» Develop supplier behavior, requirements regarding supplier social management regarding supplier social management »» Develop training Policy: Compliance and CSR policy »» Audit key suppliers »» 80% of suppliers (yearly procure»» Required existing suppliers to sign Risks: Human rights, corruption, equality, and labor rights ment above 50,000 EUR) sign UNGC UNGC Principles during renegotiations Principles »» Required new suppliers to sign UNGC Principles »» Result 89% of suppliers (yearly procurement above 50,000 EUR) has signed UNGC Principles N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2018 | 15 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Conscious part of society Conscious towards climate and environment Conscious customer relationships Conscious employer About the report Conscious towards climate and environment In 2018, we have reaffirmed our commitment to reducing Nilfisk’s environmental impact and our focus has been on improving environment and climate-centric performance by optimizing internal structures, systems and processes. Our efforts have among other things resulted in ISO 14001 certification of four additional Nilfisk sites. N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2018 | 16 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Conscious part of society Conscious towards climate and environment Conscious customer relationships Conscious employer About the report Materials and recycling From a recycling perspective, plastic has an intrinsic recyclability; it is The extraction of oil, for production of raw materials like plastic, has a already durable and lightweight, so the challenge is to design, collect, huge impact on the environment and global climate change1. As part and separate machines in the most sustainable way. of an industrial sector, with relatively heavy use of plastic in production, we are working on reducing the amount of virgin plastic in our Nilfisk uses approximately 11,500 tons of plastic per year in the producmachines. tion of cleaning equipment. A focus area in 2019 will be to determine the extend to which substituting virgin plastic with recovered plastic Our work with materials and recycling correlates granulates is feasible for Nilfisk, and securing a greater use of spare directly to Nilfisk’s CSR strategy, evincing our continued parts from old machines. contribution to supporting the UN`s SDG Goal #12: “Responsible production and con­sumption patterns” With our products made available to a wider range of customers, recycled spare parts generate less waste, all of which is separated, and sold off for handling by professional scrap dealers. Plastic-recycling in our supply chain In 2018, a team in Nilfisk’s global R&D organization, which delivers cleaning solutions to the Agriculture, Building & ConTake-back programs struction, and Automotive industries, initiated a recycling and saving project. One activity involves pilot production of select Nilfisk runs ”take-back” programs for faulty or old machines. plastic parts, using up to 100%-recycled plastic material. These machines are subsequently refurbished, and sold or rented Manufactory / Depending on the results of related tests and fine-tuning, the on the secondhand market, ensuring that they are used to their assemply use of recycled raw materials can be introduced into Nilfisk’s fullest capacity. Nilfisk is experiencing growing interest from the production of certain industrial vacuum-cleaner solutions. rental market. Subsequently, use of recycled plastic material can be rolled out, Materials globally, across similar part categories for all Nilfisk products. Customers are offered the choice of buying new or refurbished, or New product renting a machine, primarily high-pressure cleaners. Old machines are brought back and refurbished, if possible. Machines beyond “The unexplored recycling subject is among the economically feasible repair are dismantled, with full Nilfisk tracemore exciting discoveries in our cost-and-materialability of parts, such as batteries, plastic, metal, and electrics. saving program, and I am pleased to be able to contribute to improving the environmental Customer use footprint of Nilfisk.” Revenue from the Increase in revenue German, UK, and US markets 2016-20182 – Søren Møller, Senior Project Manager Rentals, incl. service 40% Refurshied Refurbished machines 12% product Our next step is to explore the possibility of recycling high-quality plastic from our own scrap, further supplementing a reduction in the use of virgin raw materials. The project Customer use saves both virgin raw materials and cost. N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2018 | 17 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Conscious part of society Conscious towards climate and environment Conscious customer relationships Conscious employer About the report Energy and water Key elements from this project include: The scope of the energy-consumption project comprises the 36 largIn 2018, Nilfisk established a project for creation of a global overview est Nilfisk sites and offices comprising 95% of Nilfisk total site-related of our water and energy consumption. This allows us to set a baseline • Collection of consumption data from 95% of global sites emissions. The next step is identifying energy-efficiency projects, and from which we can establish global KPI’s. Nilfisk has acquired, and • Collection of waste data from all production/ISO 14001 sites implementing them on a global scale. This enables us to further reduce implemented, a global cloud-based system to capture, contain, and • Establishing a complete overview of water and energy company consumption and waste, ultimately minimizing our CO2 footvisualize all resource and energy data. consumption of all Nilfisk sites print – and generating significant cost savings. • Establishing a roadmap for the most essential energy-efficient We are currently working on achieving our environmental goals and CO2-reducing projects “Working with this project has given us the structure, through several projects, including working alongside Schneider • Identification of our CO2 footprint according to Science Based and dedication, needed to collect and log all relevant Electric to establish a global system for Nilfisk’s environmental data. Targets initiative (SBTi) methodology3 data regarding our utility spend from all sites worldwide. We have gained a global energy consumption overview, which • Compliance with updated Green House Gases (GHG) ProtocolNilfisk is now much better equipped to compare sites, enables us to track and monitor our CO2 footprint. guidance for Scope 2 emissions, including access to marketand location-based reporting learning from the best so we can help the rest.” This project enables global monitoring of Nilfisk facilities and their con• Aggregation of historical data for Scope 1 and 2 emissions in – Lars Berg, Head of Global Facilities Management sumption rates. We have created a data stream for comparing sites and one global system4 sharing best-practice knowledge on a global scale. The project correlates directly to the UN`s SDG Goal #12: “Responsible production and consumption patterns”. Baseline – Car fleet – km (thousand) Baseline – Gas – mWh Baseline – Electricity – kWh (thousand) 3,791 11,095 6,214 6,721 6,963 73,874 13,281 4,706 5,639 EMEA Americas APAC EMEA Americas APAC EMEA Americas APAC N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2018 | 18 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Conscious part of society Conscious towards climate and environment Conscious customer relationships Conscious employer About the report Emissions The project for gathering site-consumption data has also generated data on our emissions through a materiality assessment, which will aid us in measuring and defining our CO2 footprint. We have identified the 36 most relevant Nilfisk sites for inclusion in both our scope and our emission-reduction activities, and we have now created a global baseline for emission data, to be used in reducing Nilfisk’s CO2 footprint. Supplier environment management Nilfisk has generated contract terms requiring suppliers to maintain standards of environmental and climate protection similar to Nilfisk’s internal requirements. Our goal is to implement risk assessments and audits in 2019. N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2018 | 19 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Conscious part of society Conscious towards climate and environment Conscious customer relationships Conscious employer About the report 2018 results Future objectives Actions and results Focus area Goals 2018 Goals Planned actions General »» Update Environment and climate rule »» Environment and climate rule updated »» EMS to be updated according to »» Internal communication and training new Environment and climate rule on new Environment and climate rule Risks: Customer health and safety, dangerous »» ISO 14001 scope/certification »» All European sites have been included substances, pollution, waste, and consumption expanded to all sales/service, product in Nilfisk’s ISO 14001:2015 certificate development, production, and distriissued by Intertek »» All European sites will have fully »» ISO 14001 training to be conducted bution sites implemented Nilfisk EMS according at all European sites to ISO 14001 »» More actionable environmental»» All relevant data and site attributes performance measurement (Global have been captured in order to KPIs) support transparency in 2019 KPI development Materials and recycling SDG target »» Measure of waste (in kg) from all »» Data gathered from highest-impact »» Establish global KPIs based on »» Internal communication and impacted: Nilfisk sites established sales, production, distribution, and baseline calculations training on new KPI’s Rule: Environment and climate rule 12·5 Substantially product developmental sites on »» Defining and implementing costreduce waste waste and CO2-saving projects Risks: Waste, pollution, CO2, and emissions generation Energy and water SDG target »» Measure power-consumption »» Power and water consumption mea»» Establish global KPIs based on »» Internal communication and impacted: (in kWh) of all Nilfisk sites sured at 95% of sites baseline calculations training on new KPI’s Rule: Environment and climate 12·2 sustainable »» Establish power-consumption KPIs »» 36 relevant sites identified »» Defining and implementing costRisks: Energy usage, water usage, detergent, management and »» Baseline created to form basis for and CO2-saving projects waste, and emissions use of natural future KPIs resources »» Measure potable-water consumption »» Baseline created to form basis for (in L) of all Nilfisk premises (buildings future KPIs and production) »» Establish water-consumption KPIs Emissions SDG target »» Establish baseline on Nilfisk emissions »» Materiality assessment of 36 biggest »» Establish global KPIs based on »» Internal communication and impacted: »» Establish baseline for CO2 emission sites baseline calculations training on new KPI’s Rule: Environment and climate 12·2 sustainable via leased-car fleet fuel-consumption »» Our global CO2 footprint is »» Defining and implementing Risks: Emissions, CO2, and pollution management and 28,807 metric tons cost and CO2 saving projects use of natural »» CO2 footprint on fleet is resources 12,197 metric tons Supplier environmental management SDG target »» New third-party due diligence »» Process ongoing »» New third-party due diligence »» Develop supplier behavior impacted: system regarding supplier environsystem regarding supplier environ& requirements Rule: Environment and climate 12·6 encourage mental management mental management »» Develop training Risks: Emissions, CO2, pollution, detergent, companies to adopt »» Audit key suppliers sustainable prectices »» 80% of suppliers (yearly procure»» 89% of suppliers (yearly procureenergy usage, water usage, waste, and dangerous substances and sustainability ment above 50,000 EUR) sign UNGC ment above 50,000 EUR) sign UNGC reporting Principles Principles N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2018 | 20 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Conscious part of society Conscious towards climate and environment Conscious customer relationships Conscious employer About the report Conscious customer relationships Nilfisk is committed to investing in innovative customer solutions while ensuring product safety and quality. Nilfisk complies with applicable standards, regulations, and legal requirements governing our products, working proactively to improve product safety through numerous working groups in the EU and US. N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2018 | 21 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Conscious part of society Conscious towards climate and environment Conscious customer relationships Conscious employer About the report To develop and control our product quality, Nilfisk has implemented an We want to enable our customers to choose products that offer the Industry-leading products are part of our DNA, and the new IECEx stanISO 9001-certified Quality Management System. best value of cleaning, thereby raising the global industry standards for dard helps reinforce our commitment to our quality standard – today customer health and safety. Objective, global definitions of standardizaand tomorrow. Life cycle-analysis shows that Nilfisk products higest energy and consumption remain the only real way for our customers to compare competing tion footprint is during the user-phase that is why working with lovering products. This work correlates directly to the UN`s SDG Goal #3: the energy consumption in our product development is a focus area. “Good health and well-being”. Customer health and safety “Collaboration with authorities, on legislation, ensures Nilfisk works to raise the bar for product quality across our entire industhat Nilfisk’s expertise and customer knowledge are both try. This is being accomplished through participation in external bodies, The value of cleaning is high – and measurable. The following examples used to define the best future legislation governing safety, where we work to create new standards that enhance product safety motivate us in continuing to contribute to our customers’ business. sustainability, and eco-design. This puts Nilfisk in a leading worldwide. Nilfisk has, during the last decade, cooperated with authorA clean working environment can: ities to create a new IECEx5 standard, establishing safety requirements position to offer our customers the most innovative and • Reduce absenteeism by up to 46%6 for hazardous or explosive dust. This will ensure safer products for our beneficial solutions.” • Reduce the probability of contracting rhinovirus customers, thereby improving the global industry standard for customer – Lennart Frølund, Production Manager or influenza by 80%7 health and safety. • Reduce the occurrence of respiratory infections, which remain the world’s deadliest communicable diseases8 The WHO lists the 10 most common causes of death, five of which are related to a reduced hygienic standard. These factors motivate us to meet our customers´ changing needs, thereby enhancing the performance of their cleaning operations, and improving quality of life for people around the world. N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2018 | 22 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Conscious part of society Conscious towards climate and environment Conscious customer relationships Conscious employer About the report Marketing and labeling Customer data privacy Total cost of ownership At Nilfisk, it is vital that we provide for open, effective dialogue with Data privacy is not only an internal concern for Nilfisk. GDPR-compliDelivering sustainable cleaning solutions is an integral pillar of Nilfisk’s our customers in order to provide correct, complete instructions for our ance also ensures security for our customers, as external data privacy business, and we place high value on efficiency, productivity, and products. is also of high concern for Nilfisk. For further information on the GDPR reduction of total cost of ownership (TCO) across the product portfolio. implementation process, please be see page 12. We will achieve this by developing solutions that use less energy, water, Our products are covered by the EU’s regulatory framework, along with and detergents, while simultaneously performing more efficiently and other regional frameworks establishing requirements and underlying effectively to reduce environmental impact. harmonized standards of conformity. The best way for Nilfisk to meet future customer needs is by ensuring: These areas include, but are not limited to: • Lower TCO for our customers • Electrical safety • Higher cleaning value for our customers • Electro Magnetic Compatibility (EMC) and Radio matters (RED) • Better working environments for equipment operators • Restriction of hazardous substances • Reduced consumption through increased efficiency • Eco design • Equipment for intended use in potentially explosive atmospheres The CE mark on Nilfisk products is our statement, as the manufacturer, that a product complies with applicable EU requirements. Similar regulatory frameworks are in place in other regions, where we use markings such as ETL (US and/or Canada), RCM (Australia), CCC (China), EAC (Russia), to show compliance with applicable requirements. Nilfisk exceeds legal requirements by prohibiting the use of Substances of Very High Concern (SVHC) in our products, and we will continue to find alternate solutions whenever technically possible, in accordance with the EU’s Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) regulation, which restricts the use of certain chemicals. N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2018 | 23 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Conscious part of society Conscious towards climate and environment Conscious customer relationships Conscious employer About the report 2018 results Future objectives Actions and results Focus area Goals 2018 Goals Planned actions Customer health and safety SDG target »» Create new standard for improving »» Creation of new ATEX standard to »» Secure consistently high safety »» Establish standards covering new impacted: customer health and safety improve customer health and safety standards for new product types autonomous products Rule: Labor rights, diversity and inclusion, 3·9 reduce illnesses and at a global scale »» Work on global extension of the and product compliance death from hazardous European standard for hazardous Risks: Labor rights, human rights, customer chemicals and pollution particles health/safety, and equality Marketing and labelling »» Increase focus on product »» Established new policy and rule »» Increase transparency of »» Establish IT solutions: compliance regarding third party verification on product-compliance status – Certificate overview Rule: Product compliance safety and other regulatory areas – Reports on re-certification »» Complete compliance processes Risks: Customer health/safety, and work safety Customer data privacy »» GDPR compliance »» GDPR compliance secured »» Keep our high GDPR-compliance »» Continue database-mapping standard »» Continue GDPR-compliance actions Rule: Confidential information, Data privacy and protection »» Compliance audits Risks: Human rights Total cost of ownership (TCO) »» Define TCO projects »» Initial overview of TCO projects »» Structure for product-screening »» Working to establish TCO structure in Nilfisk of TCO established Rule: Environment and climate Risks: Energy/water usage N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2018 | 24 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Conscious part of society Conscious towards climate and environment Conscious customer relationships Conscious employer About the report Conscious employer Nilfisk is founded on Scandinavian cultural values, which influence the way we run our business globally. We are recognized, by the global community, for the value we place on individual human rights, particularly in places where these rights are not always prioritized, and we are committed to setting a progressive example in the countries where we operate. N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2018 | 25 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Conscious part of society Conscious towards climate and environment Conscious customer relationships Conscious employer About the report With a large, broad and global workforce, there will always be a risk Diversity and inclusion Employee engagement increases at Nilfisk that employee rights can be violated. This is something we at Nilfisk With 5,500 employees spread across more than 40 countries, our Employee feedback, gathered through a yearly engagement survey, is take seriously and we are constantly working to improve our interstarting point is employee diversity, but diversity is not only about critical to ensuring that we take action that best supports the ongoing nal processes, policies and workflows to reduce the risk of breach of nationality, gender, or age. It is about encouraging diversity in mindsets, transformation of Nilfisk. The overall engagement score for our 2018 employee rights. We want to continuously develop Nilfisk as a positive, and building diverse teams. survey was 7.6 on a 10 point scale – 0.2 points above the global averhealthy, innovative workplace that creates sustainable value for customage benchmark for manufacturing companies. ers, employees, and suppliers. We want to maintain, and nurture, this diversity by creating an inclusive culture that allows everyone to openly share their point of view. By We have improved in areas related to employee understanding of the Labor conditions working with people from different backgrounds, with different expecompany’s future direction and strategy. Feedback shows that this One of our 2018 initiatives was placing a global focus on health and riences, we can inspire new ways of thinking, leading to better, more progress is supported by open, honest, and transparent communication safety. Workplace-safety standards are important to Nilfisk, hence, we innovative decision-making. A wide range of ideas, and perspectives, is via channels like leadership blogs and town hall meetings on a global have established a new global Health and Safety task force, coincida critical advantage in meeting the needs of diverse customers. and local scale. ing with the development of a Code of Conduct rule, and guidelines, within Occupational Health and Safety (OHS). In 2018, we developed a new set of company behaviors, defined with Best-in-class company active participation from people across the global organization. They Nilfisk aspires to be among the top 25% of companies within the Nilfisk adheres to the rights described in the UNGC Principles on illustrate the culture we want to promote, in order to execute on our manufacturing industry (those with an aggregate engagement score Business and Human Rights; the International Labor Organization’s strategy and drive transformation, and ultimately realize our vision of of 7.9 or higher). We already occupy this bracket in areas like Freedom (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work; the leading intelligent cleaning. of Opinion and Communication of Strategy. Learning emerged as the Children’s Rights and Business Principles; and the Organization for biggest area of improvement, and has been identified as a global focus Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) guidelines for MulNilfisk Behaviors: area. tinational Enterprises. We also meet the requirements for employee • Be one team, with one agenda protection as described in the UK Modern Slavery Act. • Understand our customers’ business 2018 Employee Engagement Survey • Act, and expect forgiveness • Try, learn, and disrupt 43 4,818 • Deliver on your promise countries participants 84% 7.6 “The behaviors have already released a lot of energy and response rate engagement score passion across the organization, and I think we will be able Note: Change of scale on engagement score from 5 to 10 point, new aspirational best-in-class to release a huge amount of potential in the organization… benchmark is 7.9. Survey took place in September, 2018. but we know it is a journey that will take some time.” – Jacob Blom, Executive Vice President, Group HR N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2018 | 26 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Conscious part of society Conscious towards climate and environment Conscious customer relationships Conscious employer About the report Gender diversity Global distribution of gender and age Competence development As of December 31, 2018, the Nilfisk Leadership Team consists of 11 Gender distribution across the entire organization is 29% female Our engagement survey identified Learning as a global key focus persons, two of whom are women. The ratio of 18% is similar to 2017. employees and 71% male employees. Further, there is a good spread area, and we will launch support initiatives in 2019 in connection with across all age groups, and the average age is declining mainly due to release of our new performance management process. Nilfisk believes that all genders should enjoy equal opportunities, and generational shift in the organization. we are taking action to address possible imbalances caused by the In 2018, we launched several training activities with a special focus on historical, marked preponderance of men within our industry sector. We will continue monitoring diversity development. The 2018 implethe Nilfisk Behaviors. This journey will take time, supporting the longTo bridge the gap, we will launch initiatives, i.e. mentor programs, mentation of a global Human Resources Information System (HRIS) will term transformation of Nilfisk. supporting stronger cultural diversity, especially with regards to the create a much stronger foundation for data collection, and subsequent underrepresented gender defined in the Danish Financial Statements identification of critical actions to address diversity challenges. We have completed the original scope of the Sales Academy training Act § 99b. for 850 sales representatives, and feedback was positive, with stories of To promote equal opportunities for both genders in the pursuit of how sales representatives, throughout the organization, have applied The target figure for the under-represented gender, in accordance with senior positions, we also require that recruitment firms and headhunters the new tools to increase sales and market presence. section 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act, among shareholderinclude both genders in their candidate pools whenever feasible. elected Board members is minimum 17%, which corresponds to one person. This target was met in 2017. While Nilfisk believes the current Gender split organization Board of Directors has an optimal composition based on qualifications and experience, the target figure will be monitored to ensure this is both realistic and ambitious, with the aim of increasing the representation of the under-represented gender. 29% 71% Female Male Gender split Nilfisk Leadership Team Gender split Board of Directors Global age distribution 4% 6% 18% 17% 15% 32% 44% 82% 83% Male Female Male Female 16-30 46-60 ≥ 75 31-45 61-74 Age unknown N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2018 | 27 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Conscious part of society Conscious towards climate and environment Conscious customer relationships Conscious employer About the report Occupational health and safety The OHS methodology Throughout 2018, we renewed Nilfisk’s focus on Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) at a global level, and we remain committed to providing even better, safer workplaces for our employees. Nilfisk has established a global OHS project group consisting of facility Lethal accidents managers from our biggest sites worldwide, as well as representatives from CSR and Global Production. The amount of this kind The key elements of this OHS project are: Serious injuries of accident should decrease • Creation of a shared approach to OHS at Nilfisk • Definition of global KPIs for OHS Nilfisk • Establishment of global OHS rules and guidelines, in order to provide facility management with a viable framework Lost time injuries • Ensuring that data-mapping of workplace accidents is reported correctly, thereby providing a complete overview of site routines and risks • Working on changing and aligning the reporting culture globally First aid cases The number of these cases reported should increase, in order to map the The project correlates directly to the UN`s SDG potential risks needed to secure less serious injuries Goal #3: “Good health and well-being” Near misses, risks “Occupational Health and Safety is one of the most important parts of our business, because it protects our greatest assets: our people. Everyone will benefit from an initiative to align all Nilfisk sites globally, and bring us closer together in the process.” “Our long-term goal is to have zero work-related injuries, and it starts with making sure we have a – Shaun Spring, Production Manager, US culture where all incidents, whether they’re accidents or near-misses, are openly reported and shared so we can learn from them. Building cultures takes time, and therefore we are, for now, focusing our work The overall purpose of the global OHS group is to create global alignon Global Production, where we have the biggest complexity in terms of different areas of risk, ment and standards for Nilfisk’s OHS processes. Changing the culture of reporting is integral, and people across the organization need to underas well as cultural differences.” stand, and accept, that the only way to prevent accidents is to report – Søren Pap-Tolstrup, Senior Vice President, Global Production all minor accidents, near misses, and potential hazards, so we have a complete overview of routines and risks. N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2018 | 28 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Conscious part of society Conscious towards climate and environment Conscious customer relationships Conscious employer About the report 2018 results Future objectives Actions and results Focus area Goals 2018 Goals Planned actions Labor conditions »» Update Business Code of Conduct »» Rule created combining Labor policy »» Prepare for 2019 launch of »» Establish an annual self-assessment system, and include labor conditions and Diversity and inclusion annual self-assessment based on the Business Code of Conduct Rule: Labor, diversity and inclusion »» Renewed focus on compliance and and signed by all country managers integrity »» Launch a Behaviors Award to strengthen Risks: Labor conditions, equality and human rights focus on employee-recognition, and diverse talents Diversity and inclusion »» Develop of diverse, inclusive culture »» Began monitoring progress »» Launch new reward/ »» Launch new global recruitment system to at Nilfisk concerning equal opportunities. performance-management begin building knowledge of trends and Rule: Labor rights, diversity and inclusion »» Implemented new HRIS system to process issues to be addressed in 2020, i.e. finding begin establishing a global data »» Offer mentoring to a couple of areas, jobs, and roles, where the largest Risks: Labor rights, equality, and human rights foundation upcoming female leaders with number of women apply; learning from »» Launch of new Nilfisk Behaviors the purpose of identifying critical experiences; and sharing best practices actions for 2020 across the organization »» Ensure we have female candidates for business areas/key roles in our succession plans »» Review company benefits to streamline these globally, also in the context of offering employees benefits that are aligned with the market and supports equal pay »» Update Business Code of Conduct »» Single rule created, combining »» Establish global training on the »» Partly accomplished; continue in 2019 and include Diversity and inclusion Labor policy and diversity and incluBusiness Code of Conduct, incl. sion Diversity and Inclusion Competence development »» Conduct Global Sales Academy »» Original scope of 850 sales »» Enable a stronger focus on devel»» Launch new Nilfisk performances managetraining for additional 300 sales representatives reached oping skills and competencies ment process Rule: Labor rights, diversity and inclusion representatives Risks: Work safety, and labor rights Occupational health and safety SDG target »» Establish Global OHS work group »» Established global OHS group »» Change culture of reporting in »» Update accident definitions impacted: »» Establish Global OHS rule and »» Established global OHS rule and Nilfisk and develop and share best »» Develop best practices Rule: Occupational health and safety 3·9 reduce illnesses and wwguidelines guideline practices »» Communicate and train/assess Risks: Work safety, labor rights, and equality death from hazardous »» Updated accident definitions »» Develop new KPIs chemicals and pollution N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2018 | 29 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Conscious part of society Conscious towards climate and environment Conscious customer relationships Conscious employer About the report About the report GRI reference Description Page 102-14 GRI: Statement from senior decision-maker Nilfisk: Letter from the CEO 3 Scope of reporting 102-18 GRI: Governance structure This report constitutes the statutory report cf. Danish Financial StateNilfisk: CSR governance 7 ments Act, section 99a and 99b, regarding social responsibility and the 102-15 GRI: Key impacts, risks and opportunities underrepresented gender. The report is published annually, together Nilfisk: Value chain – risk assessment 7 with the Nilfisk Annual Report, and covers the 2018 financial year, from 102-9 GRI: Supply chain January 1, 2018, to December 31, 2018. Nilfisk: Value chain – risk assessment 7 102-40 GRI: List of stakeholder groups In addition, this report also functions as the Communication of Progress Nilfisk: Materiality analysis + Local communities 9 and 14 (COP) to the UN Global Compact. 205-2 GRI: Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures Nilfisk: Anti-corruption 13 The aim of the report is to present complex issues in simple language, 102-17 GRI: Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics while introducing the data needed for specialist use. Nilfisk follows Nilfisk: Whistleblower system 13 Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 in determining content and quality 413-1 GRI: Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs in terms of materiality. Nilfisk: Local communities 14 412-1 GRI: Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments • This report is a presentation of Nilfisk’s activities in the field of Nilfisk: Supplier social management 14 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), legal compliance, and 301-3 GRI: Reclaimed products and their packaging materials regulatory requirements, as well as the challenges Nilfisk faces Nilfisk: Materials and recycling 17 • Our Materiality analysis is inspired by GRI principles and guidelines, 304-2 GRI: Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity and the elements of Nilfisk’s CSR strategy are structured according to Nilfisk: Energy and water 18 the GRI framework as seen below 416-1 GRI: Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories Nilfisk: Customer health and safety 22 417-1 GRI: Requirements for product and service information and labeling Data references Nilfisk: Marketing and labeling 23 1 https://stanfordmag.org/contents/the-link-between-plastic-use-and-climate-change-nitty-gritty 418 GRI: Customer privacy 2 Data from December 2018 is estimated Nilfisk: General Data Protection Regulation + Customer data privacy 12 and 23 3 The Science Based Targets initiative champions science-based target setting as a powerful way of boosting companies’ competitive advantage in the transition to the low-carbon economy. It is a 405 GRI: Diversity and equal opportunity collaboration between CDP, the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), World Resources Institute Nilfisk: Diversity and inclusion 26 (WRI), and the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) and one of the We Mean Business Coalition commitments. (www.sciencebasedtargets.org) 405-1 GRI: Diversity of governance bodies and employees 4 The GHG Protocol Corporate Standard classifies a company’s GHG emissions into three ‘scopes’. Nilfisk: Diversity and inclusion + Gender diversity 26 and 27 Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions from owned or controlled sources. Scope 2 emissions are indirect emissions from the generation of purchased energy. Scope 3 emissions are all indirect 404-2 GRI: Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs emissions (not included in scope 2) that occur in the value chain of the reporting company, Nilfisk: Competence development 27 including both upstream and downstream emissions. 5 The IECEx (International Electrotechnical Commission System for Certification to Standards Relating 403 GRI: Occupational health and safety to Equipment for Use in Explosive Atmospheres (IECEx System)) directive consists of two EU Nilfisk: Occupational health and safety 28 directives describing what equipment and work space is allowed in an environment with an explosive atmosphere. 6, 7 https://www.issa.com/member-benefits/value-of-clean/value-of-clean-infographic.html 8 http://origin.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs310/en/ N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2018 | 30 Letter from CEO About Nilfisk Conscious part of society Conscious towards climate and environment Conscious customer relationships Conscious employer About the report UN Global Compact Data handling Nilfisk works actively within the main areas of the UNGC, which we joined in 2010. Data is generated by respective business owners, and consolidated and controlled by Nilfisk’s CSR department. Unless otherwise noted, data and reporting includes the entire UN Global Compact Page Nilfisk organization, i.e. production sites, Human rights distribution centers, administration, and sales 1: Support and respect the protection of internationally-proclaimed human rights 13, 14 and 22 offices. Data has been requested based on standardized definitions across the organization. 2: Make sure that we are not complicit in human rights abuses 12, 13, 14, 22 and 23 Organizational scope Labor The report covers all sites in the Nilfisk group. 3: Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 14 and 26 If this is not applicable, it will be stated in the relevant chapters. 4: Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor 14 and 26 5: Effective abolition of child labor 14 and 26 6: Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 14, 26 and 27 Environment 7: Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 16 to 20 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 16 to 20 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 16 to 20 Anti-corruption 10: Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 12 and 13 N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2018 | 31 Questions concerning the Nilfisk CSR report can be addressed to: Ann-Katrine S. Friis, Head of CSR csr@nilfisk.com
