Creating a Sustainable Future for Our Planet Sustainability Report 2018 Creating a Sustainable Future CO NTENTS for Our Plane t Hanwha Q CELLS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Our Business CEO Message 06 Company Profile 08 Business Model 10 Our Products 12 ABOUT THIS R EP OR T CORPORATE Governance 16 Overview Governance Stakeholder Engagement 19 This Sustainability Report (the Sustainability Report ) is the second Sustainability Ethics and Compliance 20 Report of Hanwha Q CELLS Co., Ltd. (hereinafter HQCL or the Company ) Risk MANAGEMENT 22 since the first Sustainability Report published in 2017, for the purpose of reporting its annual key performances and achievements to investors and stakeholders. This Sustainabilit y Caring for Our People Sustainability Report covers both the financial and non-financial performances of Issues HR Management 27 HQCL and its activities for creating value. Welfare and Human Rights 29 Health & Safety 32 Reporting Guidelines This Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance with the “Core” option of Caring for the Planet the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. HQCL manages its business activities in ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 34 compliance with the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), and Climate Change 34 the requirements of UNGC Communication on Progress (COP). Product Stewardship 35 Operational Eco-Efficiency 36 Reporting Scope The data presented in this Sustainability Report are based on HQCL’s Form 20-F filing. Focusing on Customers This Sustainability Report covers the following geographical areas: the headquarters Customer Satisfaction 39 office in South Korea, Cyberjaya in Malaysia, Qidong in China, and the Technology RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 40 & Innovation Center in Germany. Additional data have been included and indicated Information Security 41 separately where the business impact and effect of HQCL may significantly affect stakeholders’ decision-making. The Sustainability Report covers the time period from Making A Brighter Tomorrow January 1, 2017 to December 31, 2017 and may cover up to July 2018 for certain activities. CSR Activities 43 Third Party Assurance Supply Chain Supply Chain Management 51 This Sustainability Report is assured by Det Norske Veritas and Germanischer Lloyd Report Conflict-Free Minerals 53 (DNV GL), an internationally accredited registrar, in accordance with VeriSustainTM, EnvironmentaL Impacts 54 and includes the results of its assessment. Notwithstanding the third party assurance, Health & Safety Management 56 however, this Sustainability Report may contain discrepancies between the expected and actual performances of the Company due to political, economic, and circumstantial Appendix MATERIALITY ANALYSIS 58 uncertainties surrounding HQCL’s business operations. THIRD PARTY ASSURANCE REPORT 60 GRI Index 62 Inquiries UNGC 64 Hanwha Q CELLS Co., Ltd., AWARDS 65 86, Cheonggyecheon-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea Global Marketing & Communication Team Our Business CEO Message Company Profile BUSINESS MODEL Our Products CEO Message Dear stakeholders who value and support Hanwha Q CELLS Enhancing Product Reliability through Quality Innovation HQCL works relentlessly to discover new approaches and technologies. By making large-scale Co., Ltd. (HQCL) investments in R&D and new technologies, the Company maintains a world-class quality in its product and manufacturing capacity, while establishing new technological standards in the industry. Notably, we hold the Q.ANTUM DUO technology which is our flagship solar cell technology, while HQCL , which provides wide-ranging solar solutions based our polycrystalline solar cells have been shown to yield the highest level of efficiency in the industry. on its corporate philosophy of creating a sustainable future Through continued innovation, HQCL will provide the highest quality and services to our consumers. for Earth and mankind, is one of the largest photovoltaic Eco-friendly Management for Future Generations manufacturers in the world offering high-quality and highHQCL endeavors to reduce its environmental impact by not only developing eco-friendly products performance solar products and services. but minimizing environmental pollution that may be caused during its production process. To that end, we undertake environmental impact analysis with the supply chain throughout the entire process from cell production to module manufacturing and disposal of waste modules, thereby fundamentally While achieving corporate grow th through product minimizing the environmental impact caused by product manufacturing. Furthermore, we promote the stewardship, we are faithfully fulfilling our roles as a global use of renewable energy through high-quality solar cells and modules, playing a leading role in raising social awareness of the reduction of environmental impact. corporate citizen that grows with society by carrying out our social and environmental responsibilities. We are leading Further Together innovation in the solar energy industry and expanding our HQCL seeks to achieve sustainable growth whereby its stakeholders participate in the entire process from production to product sales and they actively communicate with the company. We want to influence, thereby building trust and reliability in the global cause a positive impact on long-term economic development and the generation of social values solar industry as the best partner offering a better future for by supporting our employees and for suppliers to strengthen their capacity while facilitating growth firmly supported by an increase in the quality of life and respect for human rights. At the same time, our customers and stakeholders. we will faithfully carry out our social responsibilities as a global corporate citizen by reinforcing social contribution activities that align with our businesses and working for the development of local communities. It is my great pleasure to share with our stakeholders, HQCL’s key performances in economic, social and environmental Based on the trust and respect of our stakeholders, we will continue our pursuit of becoming a global areas and major business directions for the future in this company leading the solar energy industry by strengthening our technological capacity and securing quality competitiveness. Sustainability Report. I kindly ask for your continued support for and interest in our work. October 2018 Charles(Hee Cheul) Kim CEO 6 Hanwha Q CELLS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 I Our Business Creating a Sustainable Future for Our Planet I CEO Message 7 Company Profile T h e H Q C L Va lu e S t r u c t u r e As a manufacturer of solar cells and modules with a world-class quality Based on the Company's outstanding production capacity, HQCL Customers and efficiency, Hanwha Q CELLS Co., Ltd.'s Global Executive promptly and flexibly responds to the demands of the market Headquarters is located in Seoul, South Korea and its Technology & and its customers. Through its growing global business network GUARANTEED Innovation Headquarters in Thalheim, Germany. The Company operates spanning Europe, North, Central and South America, Asia, Africa and PR O DUCT large-scale manufacturing facilities in South Korea, Malaysia and China the Middle East, the Company provides outstanding services and STA B ILITY and has the world’s largest cell and module production capacity of 8.0 expands partnerships in Engineering Procurement Construction (EPC), PR O DUCT PLANNING E X ECUTI O N GW per year. commercial, government and residential markets. G e n e r at i o n o f Lo n g HQCL T e c h n o lo g i c a l L e a d e r s h i p term Profits EPC So lu t i o n Ex pe r t CUSTO MER -TAILO RED S e r v i c e s Co m pa n y Ov e r v i e w Co m pe t i t i v e Pr o d u c t Q ua l i t y Reliable O u t s ta n d i n g M a n u fac t u r i n g Co m pr e h e n s i v e So lu t i o n s Co m pr e h e n s i v e O & M* S e r v i c e s Pa r t n e r s h i p Company Name Hanwha Q CELLS Co., Ltd. C a pac i t y 5TH FLOOR, HANWHA BUILDING, CHEONGGYECHEON-RO 86, Location of Headquarters JUNG-GU, SEOUL, KOREA * O&M Services: Monitoring services to ensure optimal operation of photovoltaic plants CEO HEE CHEUL KIM Category of Business Manufacturing of Other Electrical Devices GREAT BRITAIN LONDON Number of Employees 7,510 (AS OF DECEMBER 2017) GERMANY CHINA BITTERFELD-WOLFEN LIANYUNGANG CANADA Company Headquarters LONDON GERMANY BERLIN Company Headquarters for Technology and Innovation KOREA Sales Network SEOUL Reserch & Development KOREA USA Manufacturing IRVINE ISRAEL EUMSEONG JINCHEON EPC MODIIN INDIA NEWDELHI R&D Manufacturing Network Sites ITALY JAPAN TOKYO BOLZANO 4 Countries Germany, South Korea, China, and Malaysia 3 Countries South Korea, China, and Malaysia TURKEY ISTANBUL CHINA FRANCE QIDONG AIX EN PROVENCE Sales Global Production CHILE CHINA SHANGHAI Network Capacity SANTIAGO 40+ Countries Europe, North and South America, Asia, Cell 8.0 GW Module 8.0 GW MALAYSIA SELANGOR MALAYSIA and the Middle East Kuala Lumpur * As of March 2018 and including Hanwha Q CELLS Korea Corporation1) AUSTRALIA 1) An affiliate of Hanwha Q CELLS Co., Ltd. SYDNEY 8 Hanwha Q CELLS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 I Our Business Creating a Sustainable Future for Our Planet I Company Profile 9 Business Model Hanwha Q CELLS Co., Ltd. (HQCL) offers solar energy products and solutions covering the entire process from the production of high-quality, high-performance solar cells and modules to residential/commercial systems and large-scale photovoltaic plant facilities. Photovoltaic Business Value Chain HQCL has completed the verticalization of the photovoltaic value chain from polysilicon to ingots, cells, modules, and large-scale power plant businesses. Hanwha Chemical is creating a new future for the chemical industry by investing in the production of EVA resin, a raw material used in producing polysilicon and EVA sheets. As one of the world’s leading photovoltaic Polysilicon Ingots Photovoltaic Photovoltaic Residential EPC Systems Monitoring O&M companies, HQCL offers a wide range of Cells Modules Systems photovoltaic solutions. Hanwha Chemical Hanwha Q CELLS Hanwha Energy MACHINERY DIVISION Hanwha Corporation Using state-of-the-art technologies, Hanwha Hanwha Corporation Machinery Division develops Advanced automated industrial equipment used to manufacture Material everything from solar modules to automobiles. Hanwha Advanced Materials produces high-tech materials such as EVA sheets for photovoltaic module encapsulation. Hanwha Energy Hanwha Energy provides a real-time monitoring service along with O&M of the highest quality after installation of solar systems. 7,510 persons 1,468 TJ 3,292 thousand tons 2,188.9 million USD 25.6 million USD 8.0 GW 8.0 GW Number of Employees Energy Consumption Water Consumption Net Revenues Operating Income PV Cell PV Module Production Production Capacity 1) Capacity 1) 1) As of March 2018 and includes Hanwha Q CELLS Korea Corporation 10 Hanwha Q CELLS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 I Our Business Creating a Sustainable Future for Our Planet I Business Model 11 Our Products Q.HOME+ ESS-G1 8.0 Q.HOME+ ESS Hanwha Q CELLS Co., Ltd. (HQCL) product brand, offers a premium lineup of solar cell module products ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM including Q.PEAK DUO, Q. PEAK, Q. PLUS, and Q.POWER solar modules. Through its excellent quality, the Q CELLS modules guarantee superior energy generation capacity and are utilized in all industrial fields that use solar energy including commercial facilities, government projects, residential markets and public services. Q CELLS PV MODULE Q.PEAK DUO Series ENERGY MANAGER Q.HOME MANAGER (VIEW HOME OWNER) Applying the Q.ANTUM DUO technology, the Q.PEAK DUO module provides a higher efficiency than existing products, yielding a 20% higher output by dividing existing cells in half. By combining half cells, 6 Bus Bar, and a wiring design, it provides superior output even in harsh environments such as low sunlight and high temperatures and humidity. Its technological competitiveness as a product Q.HOME KIT Series Q.FLAT Series was recognized as the highest level in the world at the 2018 Intersolar Award. A residential model composed of a solar module, an inverter and a battery, Q.FLAT is a product developed based on solar modules and triangular the Q.HOME KIT offers integrated residential energy solutions ranging from mounting structure-based QUANTUM technology. Designed for flat roofs, it can various sizes of solar modules to the ESS system. Equipped with a system that be installed on narrow and inconvenient commercial roof spaces at relatively meets the daily energy needs of customers, it provides residential solutions in low installation cost and enables maximization of energy output. Q.PEAK Series response to constantly increasing demands for solar modules. Developed based on the application of Q.ANTUM monocrystalline technology, the high performance Q.PEAK module is ideal for various solutions such as EPC Project residential, commercial and plant facilities as its high yield Based on extensive experience and expertise in the field, HQCL provides EPC solutions in all areas of business including land acquisition, environmental analysis, per surface area enables reduction of power generation authorization and qualification, building partnerships in the power industry, financial modeling and insurance. As of December 2017, it attained 1.24 GW in EPC costs. In 2017, the Q.PEAK module was the most preferred performance including the performance of Hanwha Q CELLS Korea Corporation. product* in the Japanese residential market. *Based on the “Smart Hit Award 2017” criteria announced by Smart House, an energy equipment and energy-zero-house magazine. 108 MWp 43 MWp 24 MWp 25 MWp 91 MWp 25 MWp 25 MWp BRANDENBURGBEACON OSPVF ONTARIO STOWBRIDGE GREEN END GOLMUD KITSUKI BRIEST COMPLEX CANTIL CANADA UNITED KINGDOM UNITED KINGDOM CHINA JAPAN GERMANY USA DENMARK 8 MWp KOREA NETHERLANDS BURDUR CITY KOREA SLOVAKIA DAEJEON EUMSEONG TURKEY JINCHEON Q.PLUS Series CANADA 20 MWp UNITED KINGDOM GERMANY LONDON FENLAND FARM SWITZERLAND KOREA USA FRANCE CALIFORNIA UNITED KINGDOM SEOUL Developed based on the application of Q.ANTUM USA INDIANA ITALY TURKEY JAPAN technology, the Q.PLUS module features the highest USA PORTUGAL BOLZANO CHINA TOKYO BULGARIA LIANYUNGANG CHINA NORTH CAROLINA output of 350 Wp among polycrystalline solar modules. JORDAN QIDONG MEXICO ISRAEL With a maximum of 17.9% efficiency, it is designed SAN JOSE CHINA INDIA SHANGHAI to reduce system costs of mediumand large-sized 29 MWp NEW DELHI photovoltaic facilities. 28 MWp MALAYSIA PHILIPPINES DIGOS CITY, Davao NORTH CAROLINA SELANGOR PHILIPPINES USA 4 MWp TIENDAS SORIANA I, II MEXICO CHILE SOUTH AFRICA SANTIAGO AUSTRALIA Q.POWER Series SIDNEY Developed based on the 6 Bus Bar technology for the first time in the industry, Q.POWER’s minimized system generation costs and low cost of solar peripheral systems make it ideal for various 11 MWp 3 MWp 14 MWp 13 MWp 8 MWp 11 MWp MAYWOOD TIL TIL I, PROVINCIA CANHA LEVERANO & MARAS CITY AFYON BOLVADIN photovoltaic solutions from residential homes to mediumand large-sized photovoltaic plants. INDIANA CHACABUCO PORTUGAL ALESSANDRIA TURKEY TURKEY USA CHILE ITALY 12 Hanwha Q CELLS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 I Our Business Creating a Sustainable Future for Our Planet I Our Products 13 Corporate Governance Governance Stakeholder Engagement Ethics and Compliance Risk MANAGEMENT Governance Roles and Status of the Board of Audit Committee and Its Independence Independence and Diversity of the BOD Directors (BOD) HQCL operates the Audit Committee in accordance with the rules and To ensure sound corporate governance, HQCL upholds the principle of independence and expertise of its independent directors, who are Hanwha Q CELLS Co., Ltd. (HQCL) has established a transparent regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the appointed based on the following qualifications. and sound corporate governance structure in order to facilitate the NASDAQ Stock Market Rules to ensure legitimacy in the execution of Company’s sustainable growth and protect the interests of its major business affairs by its directors. Its composition, operation, authorities In appointing independent directors, HQCL fully complies with the HQCL ensures efficient business management by reviewing and stakeholders, including shareholders. HQCL Board of Directors (BOD) and responsibilities are set forth in the Audit Committee Charter. It appointment process and principles to ensure their independence selecting nominees from a variety of fields through a strategic decisionhas the full authority to make decisions on major business affairs of the consists only of independent directors and includes accounting and/or from the Company. making process. Company as well as to supervise the directors’ execution of duties. The finance experts. The main roles of the Audit Committee include, but not limited to, auditing the Company’s accounting and financial reporting, ❶ An individual with extensive practical experience or expertise in the ❶ The Company establishes a flexible corporate governance structure by BOD also resolves matters provided under the laws, regulations and its for which it reviews financial statements, any attached specifications, finance, economy, business management, accounting, legal, and/ electing persons who, even if not directly related to the solar energy Articles of Association, matters entrusted by the general meeting of and the processes and results of audits conducted by independent or other relevant fields necessary for performing the duties as an industry, can contribute to HQCL’s business in general with their shareholders, and important matters regarding execution of business. independent director or an Audit Committee member. experience in business management, law, administration and other Furthermore, HQCL strives to promote transparent and reliable audit firms, in addition to auditing material business matters and the fields. business conduct through continuous efforts to improve its corporate status of the Company’s internal accounting management system as ❷ An individual who is not in a conflict of interest as an independent governance. The BOD consists of 7 directors (4 executive directors and 3 reported by internal accounting managers and external auditors. The director or an Audit Committee member and is able to serve his or ❷ Independent directors hold regular (at least quarterly) and non-regular members of the Audit Committee serve their duties self-reliantly to her duties in a fair manner for the interest of all shareholders and meetings to facilitate integration and mutual support of each other’s independent directors). ensure their independence from the BOD and other executive bodies. financial consumers. expertise. They also hold regular meetings with management, the legal team, internal audit team, and independent auditors, in addition ❸ An individual with a strong sense of ethics and responsibility requisite to a separate meetings at least once every quarter with independent Transparency and for the proper performance of his or her role as an independent auditors in order to grasp business affairs and audit activities regarding Preventing Conflicts of Interest director or an Audit Committee member. Independence of the BOD accounting and financial reporting in a more accurate and prompt HQCL ensures that its directors acquire prior approval in order to take manner. HQCL fully complies with the NASDAQ Stock Market Rules regarding any business opportunity that may potentially benefit the Company the independence of its independent directors, who are appointed now or in the future, while managing and supervising conflicts of in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations. To prevent interest in accordance with applicable laws. any conflicts of interest, independent directors are not permitted to engage in any business dealings or serve as directors or employees with unlimited liability in another company within the same industry without prior approval from the BOD. Composition and Key Activities of the BOD Committees Composition of the BOD (As of October 2018) Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee Audit Committee Compensation Committee Name Job Title Experience Appointment Term 1 Executive director / 3 Independent directors 3 Independent directors 3 Independent directors Hanwha Q CELLS CEO Hee Cheul Kim Chief Executive Officer 2018. 10 2020. 10 Nomination of BOD candidates and Chairman of Appointment of outside auditors for financial Approval of the 2017 employee compensation (Former) Hanwha Total Petrochemical Corp. / Hanwha General Chemicals Corp. CEO each committee; Amendment of the regulations of statements in 2017 and internal control; Approval plan; Establish new teams and manage personnel the BOD and each committee; Monitoring of the of transactions with persons with special relations; transfers. Hanwha Q CELLS CFO status of compliance with laws and regulations such Approval of financial statements; Monitoring of the Jung Pyo Seo Chief Financial Officer 2014. 04 2020. 12 (Former) Hanwha SolarOne CFO as the FCPA. status of compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX); Receipt of the auditor’s report from outside Hanwha Q CELLS Head of Planning & Management Headquarters auditors. Moon Seong Choi SVP of Corporate Planning 2017. 11 2019. 12 (Former) Hanwha Q CELLS Head of Southeast Asia Sales Hanwha Q CELLS Head of Global Sales Planning·Strategy·Marketing Joo Yoon SVP of Global Sales Planning 2017. 11 2019. 12 Performance of the BOD (Former) Hanwha Q CELLS Japan Head of Sales (Former) Cost Accounting Head, Defense Acquisition Program Institute Seung Heon Kim Independent Director (Former) Samil PwC/CPA (Korea, U.S.) 2016. 01 2019. 12 Hyun Chul Chun Independent Director President of Saesidae Accounting Corporation (Former) Anjin Accounting Corp. / CPA (Korea, U.S.) 2016. 01 2019. 12 4 71 13/14 (Former) Director of Manufacturing, YNCC Number of BOD Attendance Rate (%) Number of Items Handled/ Young Soon Kim Independent Director 2016. 12 2018. 12 Meetings Held Number of Items Reported (Former) Executive Officer at Hanwha Chemical R&D Center / Technology Officer 16 Hanwha Q CELLS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 I Corporate Governance Creating a Sustainable Future for Our Planet I Governance 17 Stakeholder Engagement Efficient Operation of the BOD Evaluation and The directors review and resolve important management matters Compensation of the BOD and execution of business by establishing three committees under HQCL examines the composition and operational status of the the BOD: the Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee, the BOD and its committees on an annual basis prior to one of the Local Communities Audit Committee, and the Compensation Committee. The purpose general meetings of shareholders. The Corporate Governance and Corporate social responsibility of these committees, established in accordance with the Articles of Nomination Committee makes a comprehensive assessment of the Local/Global Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Activities Association and their relevant Charters, is to ensure the propriety and BOD’s contribution to the interests of internal and external stakeholders Customers Suppliers legitimacy of business decisions as well as to promote transparency – which is one of its major roles – its level of expertise, depth of Marketing-related customer Shared growth management, and fairness of the decision-making process by having important understanding of business operations, commitment to ethics and communication, Fair and transparent supplier management, business decisions undergo internal review through the committees. Customer satisfaction Sustainable practice for suppliers social responsibility, and impartiality regarding any conflicts of interest, improvement activities In doing so, HQCL seeks to ensure sound corporate governance and except for certain specific matters which are independently handled Meetings with suppliers, Purchasing System, Website Meetings, Technical Seminars, responsible business practices. In 2017, four BOD meetings were held by supporting departments. HQCL also operates the Compensation Customer Satisfaction Survey, Website and the attendance rate was 71%. HQCL ensures that all members Committee under the BOD to ensure that a fair remuneration system of the BOD are fully informed of the agenda prior to BOD meetings so is properly designed and operates in line with the risk structure for that they can review each agenda item in advance and, if necessary, executives and specific positions, while monitoring the system, financial HOLDERS persons in charge of certain agenda items attend the meetings to situations, and risk control coordination. Shareholders & Investors Employees provide further explanation to assist the BOD's understanding. By doing so, the Company was able to facilitate lively discussions between the Fair disclosure of information, Recruitment and retaining employees, Compensation for shareholders Labor-management relations, directors, who each hail from diverse professional backgrounds. As a and investors Employee communication, Remuneration of the Directors (Unit: Persons, USD thousand) Employee development result, all resolutions and reported items in 2017 were approved without SEC 6-K Filing Disclosure, being deferred or changed. Each director, using his own expertise, Total Regular IR Activities Intranet Forum, Training Programs, Labor-Management Councils faithfully served his duties as an advisor in order to protect the interests Key Stakeholders of stakeholders on the basis of full understanding of the Company’s ethical and social responsibilities, ensuring they were fully considered in 21 5,965.7 284.1 Communication Channels and Issues Number of Directors Total Amount1) Amount per Person the decision-making process. Executive Directors 4 1,660.2 415.0 Stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement Number of Directors Total Amount Amount per Person HQCL defines stakeholders as entities or individuals that either directly HQCL supports a wide range of communication channels based on Executive Officers (Unregistered) or indirectly affect or are affected by the Company’s business activities the major interests of its stakeholders. In order to accurately identify 14 4,152.5 296.6 and categorizes them into the following groups: customers, local communities, suppliers, shareholders, investors, and employees. Each customer opinions of its products, HQCL conducts customer satisfaction surveys and actively reflects customer opinions in its Number of Directors Total Amount Amount per Person stakeholder group is further categorized into subgroups having legal, product development and overall management activities. Meanwhile, financial, and operational responsibilities and those having an influence it holds Labor-Management Councils on a regular basis and operates Independent Directors on HQCL’s business activities and performance, based on their roles, the intranet forum to enhance the level of employee satisfaction. At the 3 153.0 51.0 social responsibilities, and relationships with the company. HQCL also same time, it holds regular meetings and promotes communication operates various communication channels for each group based on its with its suppliers, important business partners of HQCL , thereby Number of Directors Total Amount Amount per Person respective characteristics. identifying and handling their needs as well as maintaining close business relationships. Furthermore, it carries out volunteer activities 1) Total amount of remuneration of incumbent directors in 2017; Average KRW-USD exchange rate of KRW and holds meetings in local communities to generate values in those 1,130.84 applied in calculation * As of the end of December 2017 areas where it operates its businesses. HQCL will continue to expand its sustainability management efforts through active communication with and engagement of its stakeholders. 18 Hanwha Q CELLS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 I Corporate Governance Creating a Sustainable Future for Our Planet I Stakeholder Engagement 19 E thics and Compliance Compliance System Compliance Activities Strengthening the Privacy Protection System In response to the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) of the As a NASDAQ-listed company, HQCL fully complies with all regulations FCPA Training European Union (EU), HQCL is strengthening its privacy protection required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Being As a NASDAQ-listed company, HQCL’s headquarters and its overseas system. The GDPR applies to all enterprises operating business sites subject to the laws and regulations in South Korea and the United subsidiaries are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). in the EU (the establishment rule ) or those supplying goods and States, HQCL maintains a particularly high level of transparency in its Accordingly, the Company conducts FCPA training on a regular basis services to persons residing in the EU even without having any business business management and practices strict legal compliance. Notably, for all employees of its headquarters and overseas subsidiaries, who sites (the marketplace rule ). Effective as of May 25, 2018, the GDPR HQCL has established the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics to set are required to submit a pledge of compliance upon completion of is a far-reaching privacy regulation imposing fines of up to 4% of out proper ethical standards and foster a sound value system among its the training to reemphasize the importance of compliance among its an organization’s annual global turnover for breach of the GDPR. In employees in their business conduct. employees. Furthermore, through constant monitoring and reporting of responding to these changes in policy world-wide, HQCL has taken sanctions on corruption relating to the operation of overseas business proactive measures for compliance with the GDPR, such as establishing sites, HQCL understands and complies with the U.S. FCPA and the laws a task force team in its Germany office, holding consultations among Company-wide Compliance Activities and regulations of other countries to the fullest extent possible. relevant departments at the headquarters, and taking internal review of relevant matters. In fact, the Germany office, directly subject to HQCL actively executes cross-national agreements of subsidiary regulations under the GDPR, is in the process of establishing the entities and affiliates abroad. In conducting overseas sales, HQCL Anti-Graft Act Training Standard Data Protection Agreement for overseas transfer of personal ensures that it fully complies with all domestic and international laws, In November 2017, HQCL conducted training for all its employees information collected and handled. In order to prevent any negative as well as the social norms, laws and regulations of the countries in regarding the Improper Solicitation and Graft Act (the “Anti-Graft Act”) impact on the Company that may be caused by breaching the GDPR, which the Company conducts sales activities. In addition, HQCL has in order to prevent violations of the respective legislation in the course HQCL will continuously monitor related activities, establish and established strict internal guidelines to prevent its employees from of carrying out their business duties. The Company also notified all apply improvement measures, and devise a global privacy policy responding to any inappropriate demand for entertainment from its employees of the amendments of the Enforcement Decree of the Antiby identifying relevant policy changes in respective countries of the business counterparts. Furthermore, the Company shares advanced Graft Act effective from January 2018. relevant offices. compliance programs, adapting and further developing them to suit the current Korean business environment, by cooperating with the Whistleblowing Policy legal departments of its subsidiary entities located abroad, including Practicing Fair Trade Germany. In agreements to which its subsidiary entities located abroad Protection of the rights and interests of whistleblowers, as required by In December 2017, HQCL amended its existing Subcontractor are a contracting party, the Company further requires the counterparty the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), is implemented Agreement and Purchasing Agreement, adjusting its internal regulations in such agreement to sign a pledge of compliance stating their as part of HQCL’s internal regulations. To protect the identities of to minimize the risks of violating the Fair Transactions in Subcontracting commitment to abide by all applicable laws and regulations during whistleblowers, the Company ensures anonymity when receiving Act (the “Subcontracting Act”). In November 2017, in order to firmly the term of the respective agreement or to stipulate the same in the reports, while continuously supplementing its regulations to prevent establish a culture of legal compliance and fair trade, HQCL conducted agreement, to ensure strict compliance from its counterparties. With any disadvantages to whistleblowers. HQCL seeks to build a healthy training for its employees at the headquarters covering the topics of such efforts, there were no reported cases of bribery or corruption organization by actively encouraging its employees to report any unfair achieving shared growth with subcontractors and complying with the in 2017. or non-compliant activities. Subcontracting Act. As such, HQCL is establishing reasonable business and trade practices. In the future, it will focus on building transparent and equitable trade relationships by distributing fair trade manuals and reinforcing training. 20 Hanwha Q CELLS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 I Corporate Governance Creating a Sustainable Future for Our Planet I Ethics and Compliance 21 Risk Management Risk Management System Financial Risks Operational Risks In the face of both internal and external risks becoming increasingly Risks Related to Foreign Exchange Production Management Risks diverse and interrelated, the importance of proactive risk management The currency used in HQCL’s financial statements is U.S. Dollars (USD), As a manufacturing company, it is vital for HQCL to effectively manage identifying and preventing risks from a company-wide perspective and the performance, assets, and liabilities of its global subsidiaries product manufacturing, quality improvement and cost reduction for is critical than ever. In this context, HQCL has established a risk are converted from local currencies into USD. For this reason, HQCL’s its future growth. For cost reduction, it reduces the cost of auxiliary raw prevention system to minimize risks and their impact on its business performance on a consolidated basis may be influenced by fluctuations materials such as silicon. The Company is continuously considering an practice, while identifying risks that hinder the Company from in the exchange rates of major currencies including the Chinese Yuan expansion of its production facilities to increase the productivity of the accomplishing its goals. Identified risks are classified as financial and (CNY), Euro (EUR), Japanese Yen (JPY), Korean Won (KRW), and Malaysian manufacturing process and achieving economies of scale. non-financial risks, and each type of risk is defined to enable a more Ringgit (MYR) against the USD. A considerable part of its revenues In the event that there is a miscarriage of the Company’s expansion strategic response. is stated in USD, EUR and YEN, while a large part of its costs is stated plans due to failure in obtaining the necessary financing or government in CNY. Furthermore, liabilities and assets each stated in different approval, there still remain potential risks driven by external factors such currencies, such as long-term borrowings in MYR secured by the as a reduction in market demand. In responding to these risks, HQCL Risk Management Governance Malaysian government, are also influenced by fluctuations in foreign engages in continuous R&D efforts to improve the quality of its PV The BOD has the final responsibility for overall decision making related exchange rates. In this regard, fluctuations in exchange rates impact the products through, for instance, improving cell conversion efficiency. to risk management. In addition, the Company identifies emerging risks Company’s profits and financial status, in response to which it engages in the decision-making process stage and makes decisions for major in hedging transactions in accordance with Internal Revenue Service Quality Management Risks management issues. Monitoring of and responding to corporate level regulations in order to mitigate the effects of short-term exchange rate Issues with product quality and performance may result in serious risks are also carried out at individual business sites. fluctuations on foreign currency trade receivables and trade payables. consequences such as loss of clients, decrease in revenues and market Furthermore, HQCL organizes periodic meetings of the Currency share, unexpected costs, and a fall in brand loyalty. In this regard, HQCL Risk Management Process Management Committee hosted by headquarters and participated has established the Global Quality Management (GQM) Team, responsible by finance personnel from its global subsidiaries. It also studies the for monitoring product quality and, where necessary, identifying the prospects of exchange rate fluctuations, by attending seminars on causes of and improvement measures for certain quality issues. HQCL BOD exchange rate fluctuations hosted by major research agencies and also provides product warranty to ensure the safety and reliability of its Risk Identification reviewing relevant reports. products. Business Periodic Financial Site Report Debt-related Risks Risk Debt Collection Risks CEO As of December 31, 2017, HQCL’s debt with financial institutions was There may be a delay in the collection of HQCL’s accounts receivable USD 987.4 million, of which USD 385.2 million was short-term debt or they may not be collected at all. In response to such risks, HQCL Operational Risk and USD 293.6 million was long-term borrowing. There is also a longexecutes agreements that stipulate the purpose of their purchase and Emergency term bill in the amount of USD 99.5 million and long-term borrowing contractual conditions with the majority of its client companies. Such Report secured by the Malaysian government in the amount of MYR 835 agreements, however, are legally binding only to the extent of the million (equivalent to USD 205.3 million; exchange rate: MYR 1 = purchases thereunder, and in some cases major terms of sale may be USD 0.2459). Debt may have considerable impact on the Company’s adjusted. To deal with these risks, HQCL distributes its products mainly operation of business and cash flow in regards to the following: to clients whose credibility can be supported by a history of payments difficulties in the repayment of debt or borrowings, default, or reduced and, where necessary, assesses their credit ratings so as to minimize debt cash flow for general operation of business such as working capital, collection risks. Furthermore, the Company also implements measures capital expenditures, and corporate acquisitions. In this regard, such as advance payments and guarantees by parent companies and for effective debt management, the daily status of the Company’s financial institutions. deposits/savings and borrowings is directly received and reviewed by the CFO and the cash flow of each legal entity is reported to the CEO on a weekly basis. As such, debt-related risks are controlled through strict management of cash flow, while risks of external stakeholders are minimized through loan guarantee from its parent company Hanwha Chemical Co., Ltd. 22 Hanwha Q CELLS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 I Corporate Governance Creating a Sustainable Future for Our Planet I Risk Management 23 Sustainability Issues Caring for Our People Caring for the Planet Focusing on Customers Making A Brighter Tomorrow Caring for HR Management Our People Securing and retaining Improving work efficiency top talent through job matching and increasing opportunities HR Management Strategy Enhancing job performance Evaluating and rewarding through training performance in a fair, HR Strategy Structure consistent manner RECRUITMENT GLOBAL TALENT DEVELOPMENT By hiring and fostering talented individuals with great potential and HQCL offers various training programs to foster talented individuals capacity, HQCL expands its global presence and secures its future with the core values of challenge, dedication, and integrity. Through competitiveness. In addition to annual recruitment, HQCL hires these programs, it seeks to become a global company leading the solar talented individuals as required by each project, thereby securing industry by fostering top talents. overseas investment experts and outstanding technical personnel for R&D. At its overseas business sites, it extensively hires local talent in Internal Job Market the interests of benefiting local communities as well as enhancing the HQCL has created the Job Market forum on its intranet to best match stability of its workforce. Management Background ‘ individual employees’ aptitude and their job duties. When there are staffing needs, the Company posts job announcements and receives As companies seek continued growth amid fierce and dynamic Implementation Plans Approach applications from employees interested in the positions. Through competition, each individual member is an important source of the the Job Market system, HQCL can find the right person for the Company's competitiveness. It is important to establish a sound • More efficient and diverse recruitment tools right position, while employees feel more satisfied with their jobs by organizational culture in which the Company and its members can • Development of recruitment strategies for each target group performing the kind of work that aligns with their individual aptitude. grow together by providing opportunities for individuals to fully • Development of industry-academia collaboration and internship programs demonstrate their abilities while respecting their own values. Job Competency Development Program Key Performance HQCL offers various job competency development programs to Approach Expanding the Pool of Talent through Recruitment help its employees receive the trainings at their needs. Newly hired HQCL uses a variety of channels to secure a pool of talented employees receive mentoring to learn about their roles and set up Hanwha Q CELLS Co., Ltd. (HQCL) recruits talented individuals Creation of Jobs: Education Cost individuals. Most notably, the Company hires outstanding individuals individual long-term goals by gaining a thorough understanding of the through fair employment and offers various talent-fostering programs New Hires per Person* with bachelors, masters, and doctoral degrees from universities Company’s visions and businesses. Employees also receive production to help each employee find work that accords with his or her aptitude. 3,633 469 with solar energy-related departments and research faculties. It line training to gain first-hand experience and a better understanding of It also promotes employee satisfaction by maximizing each individual’s USD also operates industry-academia internship programs with multiple production plants, in addition to expert training to obtain professional Persons values and respecting diversity. universities, offering outstanding students with opportunities for fullknowledge in their field of work so that they can apply what they have * Based on average time employment, thereby securing talent in relevant fields. HQCL learned to actual work practices. Furthermore, HQCL offers in-house KRW-USD exchange rate in 2017 of KRW 1,130.84 will continue to develop and secure the industry’s top talents with language programs to strengthen the global competitiveness of its experience and technological expertise in the field. employees by enhancing their business communication skills. 26 Hanwha Q CELLS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 I Sustainability Issues Creating a Sustainable Future for Our Planet I HR Management 27 Adhering to principles, being impartial, and taking pride in doing so Welfare and • Being honest and adhering to principles for long-term benefits Integrity Human Rights • Separating business and personal affairs, being impartial and treating Pregnancy support system (leave, others based on their performance financial support), reduction of working and achievements hours during pregnancy HR Refresh vacation (up to 10 days) and Treasuring relationships with the Development Pursuing excellence through welfare point program 5-day work week company, customers and colleagues, change and innovation by and being committed to achieving a Dedication Strategy Challenge breaking away from complacency greater goal In-house fitness programs including Group accident insurance for • Engaging in active self-development spinning and yoga classes employees, medical check-ups for • Putting us before me and our goal towards being the best in one’s field • Finding opportunities and new EMPLOYEE employees and their spouses before my goal • Treasuring their promise with ways of doing things through openmindedness and creativity Intensive English instructional WELFARE Daycare center, customers and continuing to create value • Setting challenging goals and working programs, foreign language instructional programs PROGRAMS rescheduling working towards achieving them with a can-do hours for parents •Trusting in each other’s abilities and spirit collaborating based on a strong sense Talent with the Core Values of Challenge, of unity Dedication, and Integrity Financial support for children (congratulatory Gifts to commemorate gifts upon school admission, tuition), leave and Labor Day/Anniversary of payments for special family occasions the Company’s Founding Competency Development Program PERFORMANCE EVALUATION AND Reward and financial support for a vacation overseas for Shuttle bus for long-term employment (10, 20, and 30 years) commuting, cafeteria after Involuntary Termination COMPENSATION * Programs may vary according to each business site HQCL offers various re-employment and start-up support programs for By implementing a reasonable performance evaluation and compensation those employees who have involuntarily terminated from their positions, policy that associates individual performance and the Company’s in order to support their stable living conditions. The Company provides sustainable performance, HQCL enhances its employees’ level of job counseling services and re-employment/start-up support programs satisfaction and encourages them to achieve outstanding performance. EMPLOYEE WELFARE PROMOTING COMMUNICATION with a 3-month follow-up process to ensure they obtained enough skills they need to begin the next chapter in their lives. HQCL provides quality welfare programs for its employees to instill a Each year, Hanwha Group offers a value training course as a Fair Performance Evaluation System sense of pride in the Company and create a pleasant work environment platform of communication to internalize the core values of Hanwha. At the beginning of each year, HQCL sets performance goals for the in which they can work energetically. This course, consisting of programs designed to help employees learn Annual Training Programs1) Company, executives, team managers and staff. These goals provide the strengths of the Company based on the core values, is offered to New Employee Training Program the basis for evaluation which is conducted in terms of two aspects: executives, team managers and staff members so that each employee achievement of goals and level of competence. The Company ensures • Understanding the corporate vision and aligning it with individual goals can undergo training required to perform their roles and responsibilities. objectivity and fairness in the evaluation process through face-to-face • Being introduced to the roles of each division and understanding their In 2017, the Company organized training sessions based on the theme interrelationships evaluations among executives, team managers and staff members of “Young Hanwha”. It also actively participates in a program named • Understanding the competencies required of new employees through inregarding their performance. In addition, the Company provides WITH organized by Hanwha Group, benchmarking various activities depth conversations with senior staff opportunities for early promotion based on evaluation outcome of other affiliates of Hanwha Group and sharing its best practices. • Building team work and loyalty through group activities so that young employees can reach their full potential through a • Gaining first-hand experience and a better understanding of the entire challenging spirit. Hanwha Q CELLS (Qidong) Co., Ltd. has production process through production line training established a monthly evaluation system for employees in production Establishing a Sound Labor-Management Relationship positions whereby their performance is evaluated based on evaluation HQCL is committed to protecting the rights and interests of its Individual Job Competency Programs by business units in connection with corporate goals. Through these employees. Hanwha Q CELLS (Qidong) Co., Ltd., a subsidiary • Obtaining professional knowledge in relevant fields and applying it to work efforts, HQCL effectively generates performance that aligns with its of HQCL, held an employee representative meeting in 2017, where practices strategic goals by allowing managers and producers to work toward the representatives of employees examined the “collective bargaining” In-house Language Programs same goals based on a common understanding. clause and reached an agreement with the management. Going • Enhancing global competitiveness • Improving business communication skills forward, HQCL will continue in protecting the rights of employees, Reasonable Compensation System Day Care Center Provided such as salary increases, through collective bargaining to ensure that the Legally Mandated Training on Anti-Sexual Harassment and Data Security HQCL implements a reasonable compensation system which salary levels of its employees meet corporate labor productivity. • Preventing sexual harassment and security breaches at the workplace comprehensively considers an individual’s performance evaluation • Establishing a healthy organizational culture in align with the Company’s sustainability issues. Wages include base 1) Other group-wide training programs include regular executive breakfast, value program, programs pay and welfare allowances, while a performance bonus is offered for new executives and team managers, promotion candidate programs, core-talent program, entry programs for new and experienced employees and HPMP. in different amounts according to three categories: executives, team managers and staff. 28 Hanwha Q CELLS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 I Sustainability Issues Creating a Sustainable Future for Our Planet I Welfare and Human Rights 29 SUPPORTING WORK-LIFE BALANCE RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS HR & HRD PERFORMANCE Endorsement of Global Initiatives HQCL fully endorses international standards and guidelines including Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Convention of the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, and Total number of employees Person(s) 9,905 8,003 7,510 the UNGC Ten Principles. HQCL also strictly prohibits child labor Month Leaves and forced labor and any discrimination based on gender, religion, political opinion, social status, nationality, or race in its recruitment, job Promoted employees are granted with month leaves of 20 assignments, promotions, wages and training, in accordance with the working days. This enables them to make plans and set goals in Category Unit 2016 2017 International Labour Organization’s Conventions and labor-related laws their new positions, and to recharge and adapt more efficiently and regulations of the Republic of Korea. after returning. China 5,270 4,626 Germany 395 397 Prevention of Sexual Harassment Region Malaysia Person(s) 2,150 2,309 HQCL provides sexual harassment prevention training for all employees at least once a year to prevent sexual harassment at the South Korea 90 95 Company's workplace, create a healthy work environment, and improve Others 78 83 job satisfaction. 2 Hour Lunch Breaks Manufacturing & Engineering 6,294 5,718 This polic y was implemented to help employees bet ter Category Number of Trainees Training Hours concentrate on their work by using the 2 hour lunch break to either Office & Administration 536 609 Anti-sexual harassment take a break from work or to spend on self-development such as 78 persons 14 hours/person training in 2017 Quality Control 541 483 language-learning. * Based on HQCL's headquarters in Korea Job Category Person(s) R&D 308 363 Purchasing & Logistics 148 177 Marketing & Sales 176 160 Male 4,809 4,617 Gender Person(s) Female 3,194 2,893 Male 2,103 2,573 New Employees Person(s) Female 1,033 1,060 Best Practice Training hours (per person) Hours/Person 38 17 Increasing Social Value by Improving Work Environment and Creating Jobs Training1) Training cost (per person) USD/Person 434 469 On February 1, 2018, Hanwha Q CELLS Korea Corporation Jincheon Plant hosted an event titled “Joint Declaration of Job Sharing”. To create job positions, Hanwha Q CELLS Korea Corporation Male 58(68%) 53 changed its shift schedule from a system of 3 to 3 (3 teams and 3 shifts, 56 hours) to a 4 to 3 (4 teams and Performance Evaluation1) Persons (%) 3 shifts, 42 hours) , thereby reducing working hours and increasing the job satisfaction of its employees. To Female 27(32%) 30 reinforce the shortened workforce, we recruited more young people, thereby addressing unemployment and creating social values. President Moon Jae-in attended the Joint Declaration, complimenting HQCL Employees on parental leave 88 60 and Hanwha Q CELLS Korea Corporation’s commitment to implementing key government policies Parental Leave & such as expansion of the use of renewable energy, balanced regional development, job creation, and Returnees from parental leave Persons (%) 85(96%) 54 Continued Service2) reduction of working hours. In recognition of these efforts to create a better workplace, Hanwha Q CELLS Korea Corporation was included in the “Top 100 Places to Work” selected by the Ministry of At least 1 year of service after returning from parental leave 65(76%) 37 Employment and Labor. 1) Data related to training and periodic performance evaluation are based on the headquarters located in South Korea. 2) Data related to parental leave and continued services are based on the headquarters located in South Korea and business sites in China and Malaysia. 30 Hanwha Q CELLS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 I Sustainability Issues Creating a Sustainable Future for Our Planet I Welfare and Human Rights 31 Health & Safet y Caring for the Planet OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY ACTIVITIES TO PROMOTE AND HEALTH PRINCIPLES EMPLOYEE HEALTH HQCL places the highest priority on the safety and health of In an effort to promote employee health, HQCL conducts monthly its employees. To that end, it has established a safety and health hygiene inspections, health consultations, and safety and health management system for accident prevention and health management, campaigns. The Company also regularly monitors employees with prewhile complying with all relevant legal requirements. HQCL will existing medical conditions to prevent occupational diseases and offers continue its efforts to create a safe work environment for all employees health promotion programs for early treatment of diseases. by preventing safety accidents. EMERGENCY RESPONSE SYSTEM OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY Failure of an early response to a minor accident may lead to large AND HEALTH SYSTEM accidents and greater damage. Each of HQCL and its subsidiaries' HQCL has established an occupational safety and health system business sites is equipped with an Emergency Response Team (ERT) to prevent severe and industrial accidents within business sites and in charge of prompt early response and prevention of further damage proactively respond to external demands for occupational safety and in the event of an accident. Hanwha Q CELLS Malaysia Sdn. health. Bhd. conducts fire evacuation drills and responsive training for the leakage of visible and chemical substances in association with the fire Hanwha Q CELLS Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. conducts safety and authorities in Malaysia. Hanwha Q CELLS (Qidong) Co., Ltd. health monitoring on all activities based on OHSAS 18001. Its EHS & IMS conducts annual emergency training against fires, leakage of chemicals, Division, the organization in charge, is responsible for safety and health and food poisoning. In 2017, a total of 14 training sessions were held activities within business sites, while major issues are discussed at the with the participation of 1,100 employees. Head of Department (HoD) meetings and the EHS Committee. Other activities include risk assessments regarding the Hazard Identification, Risk Assessment and Determining Control (HIRADC) documentation system, approval of operation for new installations, weekly and monthly site inspections, and chemical risk assessment and monitoring. Hanwha Q CELLS (Qidong) Co., Ltd. Qidong prevents accidents, manages employee health and promotes safety awareness based on OHSAS 18001. The Company also controls risk factors, conducts monthly site inspections and daily risk assessments, and monitors chemical substances. Management Background In order to prevent potential environmental pollution that may occur in the course of Emergency Drill Approach producing solar photovoltaic modules, HQCL’s products are manufactured through a process that applies microfabrication technology. Furthermore, new material substances included in solar modules must undergo strict environmental assessments and toxicity tests to detect any potential harmfulness. Given these circumstances, the solar industry is OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE placed under increasing scrutiny by the government and society, requiring businesses to Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 voluntarily undertake activities to reduce their environmental impact. LTIFR Case/1 Million Working Hours 2.59 2.48 1.84 employees Industrial Accident Rate % 0.45 0.45 0.33 Approach Fatalities Cases 0 0 0 Key Performance Throughout the entire process from product planning to R&D, manufacturing, sales, distribution and disposal, HQCL establishes accident prevention systems and works to improve eco-efficiency in order to provide products and services that are safe and ecoEnergy Consumption Water Consumption friendly. In this regard, the Company identifies environmental and energy-related issues 1,468 TJ 3,292 thousand tons and their impact in accordance with the standards of the environmental management system (ISO 14001) and energy management system (ISO 50001). 32 Hanwha Q CELLS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 I Sustainability Issues Creating a Sustainable Future for Our Planet I Health & Safety 33 Environmental Climate Product Management System Change Stewardship ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT POLICY CLIMATE CHANGE RESPONSE POLICY COLLECTION AND RECYCLING SYSTEM Life Cycle Assessment HQCL implements environmental management not only for its own As a result of the Paris Agreement, more concrete efforts are being HQCL promotes the recollection and recycling of waste products HQCL conducts product Life Cycle Assessments (LCA) to identify the development but to provide products and services that enhance the made around the world to respond to climate change. As part of this by introducing the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) program. potential environmental impacts by the purchasing, development, quality of life for humanity. movement, HQCL is actively engaged in responding to the global As part of its domestic efforts, HQCL participates in policy meetings production, distribution, usage, and disposal stages. Product life cycle issue of climate change based on its own environmental management to expand the use of waste products and actively supports related assessment is an activity that analyzes the environmental impact of a system. research activities. The Company participates in the PV Recycling product throughout its life cycle. This includes impacts on upstream Program. processes including raw materials, additives, and consumables, as well ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT as downstream processes including the use, transport, and disposal of IMPLEMENTATION SYSTEM ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND GHG products. EMISSIONS CONTROL HQCL considers the effects on its business sites and supply chains HQCL complies with Hanwha Group’s environmental safety MANAGING HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES IN HQCL makes various efforts to minimize GHG emissions caused in in order to take into account the actual environmental impact of the and health policy (ECO-YHES). The Company has also established an PRODUCTS production process. The Company carries out LCAs throughout all environmental management system based on its annual KPI goals the course of manufacturing products at its business sites. Both direct and a master plan for various environmental and safety performance emissions (Scope 1) and indirect emissions (Scope 2) are considered HQCL’s products are strictly managed in accordance with regulations stages of products involved in the use of solar modules, including cell indicators on, for instance, energy consumption and occupational in calculating GHG emissions. To manage indirect emissions, which and standards on hazardous substances. In particular, its products production, module manufacturing, product and system installation. accident rates, according to which targets will be managed until 2020. accounts for 95% of all emissions by HQCL’s business sites, the do not contain beryllium, cadmium, lead, nickel or its compounds. In To minimize the environmental impact caused by HQCL’s products company has installed and operates a power monitoring system. addition, halogen-free cables are used to prevent damage to customers and services as well as production, each business site has obtained and the environment caused by hazardous substances. the ISO 14001 certification and implements its own environmental management system. In addition, personnel in charge of environmental management are assigned to each business site to maximize the efficiency of its prevention activities. Hanwha Q CELLS Malaysia S d n . B h d. has acquired the ISO 14001:2015 environmental LCA certification, the most updated standard of its kind as of 2017. Furthermore, environmental accidents are reflected in the performance Case Study Life Cycle Assessment evaluations of the highest level executives, while environmental impact Energy-Saving Activities at Business Sites assessments are conducted on all processes of business sites under the HQCL replaces energy consumed in the production process with supervision of the manager of the division in charge. renewable energy. In Hanwha Q CELLS (Qidong) Co., Ltd. and Si Feedstock Cell Production Energy Other Material Inputs Hanwha Q CELLS Korea Corporation Jincheon Plant, a 2.2MWPlant (electricity, heat) (excluding consumables EHS Committee and a 1MW-photovoltaic generator have been installed, respectively, for for machines) Poly Si the generation and consumption of self-produced energy, as a result Managing Director Mounting CEO of which each business site was able to reduce electricity costs by USD Poly Si Components (Chairman) 739,687 and USD 88,430, respectively. * Calculated based on average exchange rate in 2017. USD 1 = CNY 7.030, USD 1 = KRW 1,130.84 HOD Mono and Multi Solar Cell Production Module Grid Connection Solar Cells Wafers (multi and mono) Components (BoS) EHS & IMS Emissions Packaging and Solar Module Department Use Phase and Waste Transport Fabrication Waste Water and Air Module Packaging Final Disposal Disposal Waste and Transport Emission Treatment Use of renewable energy in the production process 34 Hanwha Q CELLS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 I Sustainability Issues Creating a Sustainable Future for Our Planet I Environmental Management System I Climate Change I Product Stewardship 35 Operational Eco-efficiency USE OF RAW MATERIALS AIR POLLUTANT MANAGEMENT ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE1) HQCL endeavors to use resources in a responsible manner. To this end, The Company strictly manages air pollutants generated in the course the Company uses raw materials, additives and consumables effectively of the manufacturing process by requiring air pollution management Category Item Unit 2015 2016 2017 and constantly improves its production processes, facilities, and raw at each business site to meet its own standards that are stricter than Energy consumption 1,157 1,386 1,468 materials in ways that can reduce the use of resources. the legal standards of local governments. In particular, it has installed Electricity 1,133 1,362 1,443 pretreatment systems such as scrubbers dust collectors, and reduction Energy TJ Steam 12 7 7 devices to prevent the discharge of hazardous substances. WASTE MANAGEMENT LPG 12 17 18 GHG emissions 226,003 273,422 289,544 HQCL minimizes the generation of waste and recycles waste at the disposal stage. Disposal of waste is handled in accordance with the BIODIVERSITY GHG Scope 1 tCO2eq 726 1,016 1,037 legal requirements and regulations of the countries in which HQCL’s Scope 22) 225,277 272,406 288,507 In recognition of the importance of preserving biodiversity, HQCL business sites are located, and regular audits are conducted on actual manages its impact on biodiversity in the neighboring areas of its Water Water consumption Ton 2,997,120 3,244,264 3,291,808 work facilities of waste management companies to guarantee legal subsidiaries' business sites at home and abroad in cooperation with compliance. Wastewater discharge Ton 905,127 1,307,057 1,214,834 local governments and communities. HQCL and its subsidiaries’ business sites are located within industrial development zones where Malaysia 107 67 92 Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) no ecosystem protection zones or habitats of endangered species China 76 89 85 HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE MANAGEMENT have been found in the vicinity. In addition, there has been no case of Wastewater Malaysia 1 1 13 Whenever a new hazardous substance is used in production, HQCL’s leakage of hazardous substances affecting biodiversity. Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) mg/L China 0 0 0 hazardous substance management team verifies the availability of Malaysia 25 17 17 alternative materials. Suspended solids (SS) All potential risks regarding hazardous substances are detected and ECO-FRIENDLY TRANSPORTATION China 8 57 26 managed, from use to disposal. HQCL also conducts employee Hanwha Q CELLS Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. devised measures to Chemical substance consumption 15,737 11,962 14,472 training on chemicals and emergency drills to prepare for the possibility diagnose and improve the inefficiency of the current cargo-loading Chemical substance3) Chemical substance discharge Ton 0 0 0 of hazardous chemical leakage. In 2017, Hanwha Q CELLS practices in logistics. By adjusting the type and number of trucks used Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. secured an additional 350 tons of storage Acid waste discharge 2,139 for transportation as well as the frequency of their operation, Hanwha capacity for hazardous waste. Q CELLS Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. improved loading efficiency Waste generation 4,787 7,909 7,906 and reduced the amount of vehicle use, succeeding in establishing Landfill 2,736 5,781 4,497 an environment-friendly logistics system. Through these efforts, General waste Ton WATER MANAGEMENT transportation costs dropped by 40% and cost savings of USD 30,066 Recycling 2,010 2,128 3,409 For optimal use of water resources in the production process, the are expected. Incineration 41 0 0 Company sets water consumption targets and implements water * Based on average KRW-USD exchange rate in 2017 of KRW 1,130.84 Hazardous waste generation 8,526 10,074 11,406 Hazardous waste Ton management accordingly. Wastewater generated in the course of Heavy metal discharge 0 0 0 production is purified through a water treatment system, some of which is resupplied to the production process. COMPLIANCE REPORTING Volatile organic compounds (VOC) Malaysia 0.04 0.03 0.02 Malaysia 0.00 0.00 0.55 HQCL strictly complies with the environmental laws and regulations Nitrogen oxides (NOx) of the local governments in which its subsidiaries' business sites are China 25.20 20.20 22.00 Air polluting mg/m3 located. As of 2017, there has been no reported case of legal violations. Sulfur oxides (SOx) China 0.20 0.19 0.00 substances Malaysia 0.01 0.01 2.50 Particle matter (PM) China 0.23 0.02 0.27 Ozone depleting substance China kg 1,589 5,562 908 Environmental Environmental investment 144,100 451,250 448,298 USD investment Environmental facilities operation 3,500,000 3,200,000 2,727,137 1) Based on Hanwha Q CELLS Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. (Malaysia) and Hanwha Q CELLS (Qidong) Co., Ltd (China); Data corrected due to change of data scope (excluding Hanwha Q CELLS Technology Co., Ltd. (Lianyungang, China)) 2) Energy data calculated based on 2006 IPCC Guidelines and IGES Grid EF (Electricity EF = 0.741 tCO2/MWh) for Malaysia, and 2006 IPCC Guidelines for China 3) Based on Hanwha Q CELLS Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.(Malaysia) 36 Hanwha Q CELLS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 I Sustainability Issues Creating a Sustainable Future for Our Planet I Operational Eco-efficiency 37 Focusing on Customer Satisfaction Customers CUSTOMER SATISFACTION SYSTEM CUSTOMER SATISFACTION SURVEY HQCL provides maximum customer satisfaction not only by making HQCL conducts customer satisfaction surveys of its major customers high-quality products but considering their socio-environmental impact in the areas of products, services, sales & distribution, pricing, and by making them safe and eco-friendly. To this end, the Company has marketing. In 2017, surveys were conducted in Europe, the United established the Global Customer Complaints Management System and States, the Middle East, Australia and South Korea, with a total of 132 applies it uniformly to its global sales organizations, research centers, respondents. On a scale of 1 to 6, 1 being the highest and 6 being the and productions facilities to organically resolve and minimize customer lowest level of satisfaction, each area received an average score of 2.2. complaints. Furthermore, complaints that have been reported are In particular, the results identified product quality as HQCL’s strength, actively reflected in its efforts to improve product quality in order to confirming high customer satisfaction with its products. further enhance customer satisfaction. Customer Satisfaction Survey Results in 2017 (November – December 2017) Global Production R&D Unit: Points Sales Facilities 1 2 3 4 5 6 Highest Lowest Global Customer Complaints Management 2.2 HQC HQC HQC HQC Office America AUS JP at Affected Office Office Office Country Case Study Solar Energy Exhibition for Customer Communication EU US AUS JP ROW HQCL participates in solar energy exhibitions in various parts of the Customers Customers Customers Customers Customers world including China, Japan, the United States and Europe. In 2018, the Company joined 17 exhibitions as part of its customer communication efforts. Management Background Customer satisfaction not only has an impact on maintaining existing COMMUNICATION WITH CUSTOMERS Notably, HQCL took part in Intersolar 2018, one of the four largest energy exhibitions participated in by major companies in Europe, China Approach customers but on securing new ones and improving corporate brand image. In recent years, customers look for more than excellence of HQCL operates various communication channels to accurately identify and Japan, where it introduced its solar modules as well as its total residential energy solution “Q.HOME+” and the commercial system customer needs and reflect them in developing products and services. quality in products, demanding positive socio-environmental impact “Q.FLAT”. As the only solar module brand, HQCL was awarded the • HQCL listens to the voices of customers through the use of Intersolar Award for two consecutive years of its technological prowess through the use of eco-friendly materials and generation of social Website its website. values. and competitiveness. Key Performance • HQCL responds to customer claims through its direct Sales and indirect sales networks in 40 countries worldwide and Customer Satisfaction Survey Results Network operates dedicated organizations in key regions (Europe, Approach Japan and South Korea). in Product Quality 1.8 Unit: Points In order to secure product quality and respond proactively to varying Customer • HQCL conducts customer satisfaction surveys in the customer needs, HQCL is strengthening its efforts to improve the Satisfaction categories of products, services, sales & distribution, and quality of its products. Furthermore, it operates a variety of customer Survey marketing support every fourth quarter. 1 2017 2 3 4 5 6 communication channels to accurately identify customer needs and • HQCL provides partner programs in major markets Highest Lowest reflect them in developing products and services. including Europe, Japan and South Korea, maintaining close coordination and communication through product training, 1.9 2.0 Partner Programs promotional support, newsletters and co-marketing. • HQCL provides services through exclusive channels for 2016 2015 partners (website, phone calls, and dedicated organizations). 38 Hanwha Q CELLS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 I Sustainability Issues Creating a Sustainable Future for Our Planet I Customer Satisfaction 39 Research and Information Development Securit y RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT(R&D) POLICY and LID (Light-Induced Degradation) protection technology, setting a Open Innovation INFORMATION SECURITY POLICY AND ACTIVITIES By keeping close track of changes in the market and technological variety of industrial standards. Currently, joint R&D projects are carried out with part material and HQCL implements an information security system based on the information developments, HQCL focuses on R&D with the aim of launching equipment companies in more than 15 countries, more than five security policy of the Hanwha Group. The Company has an organizational products in a timely manner that are competitive in terms of Test Center universities in Germany, and 15 public and private research labs and structure capable of handling information security incidents, which includes performance and cost by applying the most sophisticated technologies. HQCL operates an in-house test center certified by Verband Deutscher institutes. HQCL is working on various R&D projects on reliability the Information Protection Committee. This consists of corporate planning, HR Elektrotechniker (VDE), an independent verification agency based in assessments and standardization as well as cells, modules, part materials and relevant team manager in the event of a security breach or data leakage. In Germany, and having passed VDE’s Quality Tested Program, where it and equipment. addition, HQCL has designated Information Security Managers at its production R&D SYSTEM repeatedly tests its products under extreme conditions such as hail, facilities and sales companies to distribute a set of information security rules and HQCL operates its Technology & Innovation Headquarters in Thalheim, shower and desert heat. KEY R&D PERFORMANCE guidelines to all employees throughout the company. HQCL plans to expand Germany to expedite the application of new technologies to mass information security education for its employees, sharing security breach cases HQCL has secured technological superiority by two or more power production and respond to rapid technological change and innovation Global R&D Network and prevention guidelines both inside and outside the company. classes compared to the average industrial module output through in the solar energy industry. The Technology & Innovation Headquarters HQCL’s R&D centers operate in Germany, South Korea, China and ongoing R&D investment. The Company has also succeeded in develops produc ts with superior technology and innovative Malaysia. At these facilities, the Company makes products using the commercialization of Multi-PERC, the next generation solar cell Strengthening Personal Information Protection System manufacturing processes, thanks to its exclusive R&D capability, pilot outstanding technologies and develops innovative manufacturing technology, for the first time in the industry, strengthening its position In order to prevent leakage of personal information, hacking and production and testing process, on which HQCL bases its industry methods through unparalleled R&D, product tests, as well as the as a global technology leader by expanding its production line. malicious codes, HQCL has established and is continuously improving its standards such as 6-inch solar cells, Q.ANTUM DUO technology, hot spot development of pilot production and test methods. personal information management system. By further strengthening its protection, PID (Potential-Induced Degradation) prevention technology, information security monitoring system in response to the enforcement High Efficiency Cells Based on Kerfless1) Wafer of the EU-GDPR, HQCL will expand its security activities to include the HQCL is able to produce eco-friendly products with less carbon participation of not only related departments but of all employees. In 2017, emissions by reducing the wafering process and using Kerfless there was no case of personal information leakage at HQCL. Case Study technology. In addition, HQCL invests in and carries out joint R&D projects with companies with Kerfless technology. As a result, its cell Solar Cell Technology efficiency has increased to the level of commercialization, reaching up Establishing a Response System for EU-GDPR less power loss due to reduced electrical resistance. to 20% in polycrystalline solar cells and up to 22% in monocrystalline Enforced as of May 25, 2018, the GDPR is a far-reaching privacy regulation carrying Q.ANTUM DUO The Half Cell technology increases output per surface solar cells. heavy risk, as it imposes fines of up to 4% of an organization’s annual global area by dividing existing cells in half, whereas the HQCL owns proprietary solar cell technology known Wiring technology increases cross-sectional areas that H O W Q . A NT U M W O RK S 1) Kerfless: Technology for manufacturing wafers without the cutting process turnover for violations. In response to this new regulation, HQCL is reviewing as Q.ANTUM DUO, which shows an increased output absorb sunlight by 75% through wire-applied cells, the current state of matters relating to the collection of personal information and Aluminium Aluminium compared to existing technologies by dividing cells thereby improving module output by 2.5% enabled backside contact PASTE Floating Module devising preparatory measures. HQCL’s business activities directly subject to the in half using the most advanced laser technology. by the absorption of light reflected from curved wires. Power Reflector regulations of the GDPR are mostly related to personal information collected and A new method combining existing technology and the floating By combining high-efficiency Half Cell and Wiring HQCL’s power generation guarantee technology is Silicon Silicon structure technology, the floating module efficiently utilizes land handled by its subsidiary office in Germany. With its legal part playing a central technologies, Q.ANTUM DUO has increased module also a core element of the Q.ANTUM DUO technology, efficiency by a maximum of 20% by dramatically while the newly added Anti-LID1) and Anti-LeTID2) and maximizes module efficiency by preventing cooling effect and role, the German Office has established a task force team, taking preparatory steps reducing resistance and optical loss. The Company has effectively minimize performance degradation caused shade for all modules. By applying its water resistance and Anti-PID2) such as making data lists and updating its current website, as well as reviewing also enhanced long-term performance and maximized by light, securing the highest level of energy efficiency technologies, HQCL will produce modules that minimize power loss in the websites of HQCL subsidiaries’ business sites outside of the EU to ensure that energy efficiency within the lifespan of products by in the long term. By launching the new Q.PEAK they do not collect personal information of entities inside the EU. All of HQCL humid environments and maintain long-term performance. increasing their thermal stability and reducing power DUO module series based on Q.ANTUM DUO and 2) Anti-PID (Potential Induced Degradation): Technology preventing performance degradation due to subsidiaries’ business sites will continuously monitor their compliance with the loss from micro cracks. Through the application of the guaranteeing at least 85% of performance 25 years 6 Bus Bar technology which narrows down the space after installation, HQCL has proven its technological leakage current GDPR and implement improvement measures until it comes into force. between each Bus Bar, Q.ANTUM DUO cells show 1% prowess and strength in the solar energy market. STANDARD SOLAR CELL Q CELLS SOLAR CELL Key Figures Information Security System LOWER R BAR GREAT O LF CELL REDUCED SHADING LOSSES To prevent the leakage of the Company’s confidential information and R&D Input R&D Investment (Unit: USD thousand) personal information, HQCL has established an information security Sunlight Sunlight 32,735 31,139 37,558 reporting system, constantly implementing PC, server and network security updates. PC and document security solutions are used to prevent leakage 2015 2016 2017 of the Company’s core data, while Network Access Control (NAC) solutions Ribbon Wire are implemented to restrict the use of unauthorized illegal programs and Shadow Shadow control network security. In addition, HQCL has devised measures against Patent Cumulative Patent Applications (Unit: Cases) Existing 4 Bus Bar Existing 6 Bus Bar Existing cells Half cells Ribbon Wiring WannaCry ransomware and distributed companywide guidelines to prevent 134 information infringement caused by malicious codes. To date, there have been technology technology 1) Anti-LID (Light Induced Degradation): Technology preventing performance degradation caused by boron-oxygen complex due to light no information security incidents at HQCL, including leakage of customers’ 2) Anti-LeTID (Light and elevated Temperature Induced Degradation): Technology preventing performance degradation caused by boron-oxygen complex due to light and heat 2017 personal information and other technical information. 40 Hanwha Q CELLS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 I Sustainability Issues Creating a Sustainable Future for Our Planet I Research and Development I Information Security 41 Making a Brighter CSR Activities Tomorrow CSR PHILOSOPHY To achieve sustainable development, HQCL builds cooperative relationships with local communities based on its CSR philosophy, Together, We Go Further . The Company seeks to go “further together” as a corporate citizen fulfilling its social responsibilities. With the vision of “building a happy tomorrow together”, HQCL has established the following CSR strategic system, based on which it hopes to share the energy of life through sharing, consideration and cooperation for shared growth. Happy life for all created by employees Mission Society growing Bright and healthy future through sharing and through eco-friendly values consideration Vision Management Background As environmental issues become increasingly important worldwide, so does Approach the importance of renewable energy. In turn, local communities should recognize the importance of renewable energy and expand its use. As an Building a Happy eco-friendly energy company, HQCL will not only introduce and promote Tomorrow Together Key Performance the use of renewable energy in local communities but fulfill its role as a global company by carrying out sustainable social contribution activities. HQCL builds a “happy tomorrow” Participation in Social Contribution Social Contribution Amount where we all go “further together”. Approach 208 Hours 82,461 USD In the Company's subsidiaries' business sites worldwide, HQCL undertakes social contribution activities in various fields including social welfare, arts * Average KRW-USD exchange rate in 2017 of Social Contribution KRW 1,130.84 applied in calculation and culture, public services, and international aid. It understands the needs Participants of those who benefit from the Company’s social contribution activities, 178 Persons while sharing the energy of life in local and global communities. 42 Hanwha Q CELLS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 I Sustainability Issues Creating a Sustainable Future for Our Planet I CSR Activities 43 Hanwha HAPPY Hanwha Solar Forest Hanwha HAPPY Donation of Solar Power Facilities SUNSHINE CAMPAIGN SUNSHINE CAMPAIGN The Hanwha Solar Forest campaign is Hanwha Group's tree-planting project launched in 2011 in The “Happy Sunshine-Solar Power Facility Donation” is one of HQCL’s key CSR programs which donate solar association with the social enterprise “Tree Planet”. Through the campaign, Hanwha Group has planted power facilities to social welfare facilities, enabling them to reduce electricity costs for other welfare services. 490,000 trees in 133㎡ of land in Mongolia, China and Korea, which is roughly the size of 180 soccer fields joined In 2017, HQCL donated solar power facilities of 252 kW generation capacity (enough for 80 households) to 37 together. To date, Hanwha Group has built six Solar Forests. In the second half of 2018, Hanwha Group facilities across the country. Since its launch in 2011, Hanwha Group's Happy Sunshine Solar Power Facility plans to build the seventh Solar Forest to prevent fine dust diffusion effectively. HQCL, in accordance with Donation Campaign has supported 1,527 kW of solar power facilities to 216 facilities, having the effect of such efforts, is actively engaged in an effort to resolve environmental challenges by donating a 15 kW module planting over 300,000 20-year-old pine trees by reducing more than 881 tons of carbon dioxide emissions. To manufactured in Hanwha Q CELLS (Qidong) Co., Ltd. ensure that this campaign becomes a sustainable CSR activity of the Company, HQCL implements thorough follow-up management to prevent safety accidents. Before After Before building Solar Forest No.2 in 2013 After building Solar Forest No.2 in 2015 • Happy Sunshine-Solar Power Facility Donation Before and after installation at Haneul Daycare Center •• Happy Sunshine-Solar Power Facility Donation After installing 5.85kW solar power facility at Haneul Daycare Center Solar Energy Start-up School The Solar Energy Start-up School is a solar energy education program launched by HQCL in 2013 in cooperation with the Korean Federation for Environmental Movement. Individuals interested in starting up their own solar energy businesses participate in the program, building a consensus on HQCL’s solar energy business and thereby contributing to the growth of the industry itself. The program had a total of 400 participants (100 participants per quarter) in 2017 and expects to have • Before building Solar Forest No.2 in 2013 320 participants (80 participants per quarter) in 2018. •• After building Solar Forest No.2 in 2015 • Lecture at the 6th Solar Energy ••• Hanwha Solar Forest No.6 in 2016 Start-up School 44 Hanwha Q CELLS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 I Sustainability Issues Creating a Sustainable Future for Our Planet I CSR Activities 45 CSR ACTIVITIES BY Lights of Hope GLOBAL CSR CSR Activities in China EMPLOYEES ACTIVITIES HQCL has launched the “Light of Hope” project which delivers lanterns made by the Company's employees to Hanwha Q CELLS (Qidong) Co., Ltd., China children in developing countries with low access to electricity. From the planning stage, the Company worked undertakes various community-based CSR programs. jointly with MIRAL Welfare Foundation with the aim of delivering hope to children in need in developing In 2017, 120 employees donated blood to help countries. The purpose of this project is to shed light on the dreams and hopes to children in the dark due to improve the blood shortage situation of blood banks low access to electricity. In 2017, the Company’s employees made solar lanterns and donated them alongside in Qidong. Hanwha Q CELLS (Qidong) Co., cards with messages of warm-hearted encouragement to children in Malawi. By using the donated kerosene Ltd. plans to make blood donations an annual event. lanterns, children in developing countries can avoid risks such as fire or night-time crime, as well as experiencing In addition, it has been recognized for its contribution an improved living environment. HQCL will expand donation items for this annual matching grant project and to the development of the local communities by promote a positive awareness of solar energy. being awarded the Commendation of Qidong City for donating USD 71,124* to local charity funds. • Commendation of Qidong City for Donation to Local Charity Funds * Average exchange rate in 2017 of USD 1 = CNY 7.030 applied in calculation CSR Activities in Malaysia Hanwha Q CELLS Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. shared with local communities by donating air conditioners to four schools. It also engaged in the “Back to School” program, through which it donated 214 back packs and stationery to students in low-income areas, in addition to donating 400 packs of A4 paper to students at four schools including Hulu Langat and Semenyih. Furthermore, it donated 20 air conditioners to four schools, contributing to creating a pleasant learning environment for local children. • Sending Lights of Hope •• Employees assembling solar lanterns ••• Completed solar lanterns Expanding CSR Activities through Matching Grant A matching grant refers to a fund created by matching funds raised by voluntary donation and employee funds by 150% of corporate funds. HQCL’s Matching Grant Fund established in July 2016 has raised approximately USD 22,107 to date which will be used for various social contribution activities in the future. Beginning in 2018, HQCL will launch “Hanwha Arts Plus”, a program combining culture and arts with volunteering through the Matching Grant. Hanwha Arts Plus will be a future-oriented volunteering activity participated in by HQCL employees, providing educational support in culture and arts for local children and youth through gukak (traditional Korean music), play, dance, craft, and various other forms of art. • Back to School Program * Average KRW-USD exchange rate in 2017 of KRW 1,130.84 applied in calculation •• Donating A4 Papers 46 Hanwha Q CELLS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 I Sustainability Issues Creating a Sustainable Future for Our Planet I CSR Activities 47 Supply Chain Report Supply Chain Management Conflict-Free Minerals ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS HEALTH & SAFETY MANAGEMENT Supply Chain Management ESTABLISHING A SUSTAINABLE SUPPLIER RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS PURCHASE SYSTEM HQCL identifies and manages major risks relating to its suppliers and As a global company, HQCL maintains business relationships with the overall supply chain. It has established a supplier risk management suppliers around the world, engaging in global purchasing in line with process that identifies supplier risks and draws improvement measures. its midand long-term strategy of becoming Global No. 1 in Quality, At the same time, the company manages both financial and nonProductivity and Cost Competitiveness. Furthermore, it selects and financial risks that may arise in the course of transactions with its assesses its suppliers based on an integrated vendor management suppliers by comprehensively assessing the status of their ethics and system, and ensures that all suppliers follow a specific set of principles compliance management, environment and safety management, and in carrying out their business activities. human rights and labor management. The purchase teams of HQCL is in charge of the Company’s supply chain management and focuses on purchasing activities relating to its suppliers. The quality management team conducts periodic evaluations to proactively manage potential supplier risks. Plan Identify Check Action Establishing a Fair Purchasing Process Establishing Identifying Taking Monitoring Through its product management process, HQCL secures stable Plans Risks Necessary and Sharing delivery and quality of products while complying with environmental Measures and Feedback Identifying safety and health requirements in its purchase of raw materials and Areas for equipment. This process is applied throughout the overall purchasing Improvement activities covering raw materials, materials for production facilities, testing and measuring equipment, services, and construction work. In addition, the company encourages all of its suppliers to comply with HQCL’s Code of Conduct while promoting their voluntary compliance. Global Supplier Risk Management of Global Standard Management Background Risk Identification HQCL has designated a group of major suppliers based on the As competition among companies expands to competition among suppliers, supply Approach Company’s dependence on them and their impact on its business chain management (SCM) is considered an integral part of business operation. Referring operation. HQCL’s major suppliers are raw material companies, whose to the management of the economic, social and environmental impact of suppliers that economic and social risks are identified and managed. supply products and services to companies, SCM is emerging as a key part of fulfilling corporate social responsibility. Recently, global companies have played a central role Risk Management in inviting more entities to participate in sustainability management by applying HQCL reviews the financial statements, manpower status and ISO sustainability activities not only to their first-tier but also second and third-tier suppliers certification status of its suppliers, and operates a pool of vendors to Key Performance to promote sustainability management and improve their risk management. classify them based on risk as part of its efforts to manage major risks. Approach Risk Monitoring and Feedback HQCL undertakes continuous and regular monitoring of measures As a global company, Hanwha Q CELLS Co., Ltd. (HQCL) maintains business Total Purchasing taken and tasks implemented to make improvements. Major issues are relationships with suppliers around the world. This requires the company to Amount reported to the purchase team and the quality management team and maintain stringent management of purchase and procurement. Its suppliers include 1,384 shared at the companywide level. manufacturers of photovoltaic cells and modules as well as various manufacturing and Million USD equipment companies. 50 Hanwha Q CELLS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 I Supply Chain Report Creating a Sustainable Future for Our Planet I Supply Chain Management 51 Conflict-free Minerals STATUS OF SUPPLIERS SUPPLIER AUDIT RESULTS AND CONFLICT MINERAL POLICY As of the end of 2017, HQCL has business relations with 829 suppliers for the procurement of materials and parts needed for production. HQCL IMPROVEMENT MEASURES IN 2017 Recently, there have been increasing demands for social responsibility defines major suppliers as companies that have transactions with HQCL exceeding a certain amount, possess non-substitutable technology and After an audit is completed, the findings are classified into Critical, Major, regarding the procurement of minerals. In particular, there are concerns supply core and major raw materials. It undertakes regular on-site inspections and actively communicates with 200 major suppliers. Minor and Opportunity for Improvement. Any critical noncompliance over environmental pollution and human rights violations such as child found is reported immediately to the heads of the Local and Global labor that may arise in the process of mining minerals such as tantalum, Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 Quality Divisions, to whom the non-compliant division must also tin, tungsten and gold found in the Democratic Republic of the Congo Total Purchasing Amount 1,107 1,005 1,384 submit a report. The critical non-compliance status is then lifted by the and surrounding countries. HQCL fully supports the social significance Million USD of restricting the use of conflict minerals and strictly adheres to the Purchasing Amount from Major Suppliers 925 914 1,259 head of the Global Quality Division upon validation of the efficiency of improvement measures. In 2017, HQCL audited 85 companies. HQCL principle of using no conflict minerals in the process of manufacturing Total Number of Suppliers 874 803 829 Companies identifies potential risk factors through supplier audits and requires its products in an effort to strengthen a corporate culture that values Number of Major Suppliers 231 252 200 human rights and environmental issues. measures for improvement when necessary. Status Survey and Results Category 2014 2015 2016 2017 HQCL makes every effort to eliminate the use of conflict minerals SUPPLIER AUDIT PROCESS Audit Process Audit CASE 76 54 58 85 across the entire value chain including suppliers’ smelters, and closely Accepted 26 13 14 20 monitors the status of conflict minerals. Supplier Audit Process Preparation • Check audit schedule • Define auditing organization, purpose and agenda To be Developed 39 40 44 64 HQCL evaluates suppliers based on its Audit Guidelines established • Collect information on suppliers Not accepted 6 1 0 1 in 2015. The Audit Guidelines define the standardized procedures • Prepare audit questionnaire Status Survey Process for approval, planning, implementation and reporting for each type • Confirm detailed matters N/A 5 0 0 0 Tin is the only conflict mineral required to produce HQCL’s products. of audit. Audits are categorized into qualification audits, surveillance HQCL has confirmed that the tin used in its products did not originate audits, and process audits depending on their purpose and scope. Implementation • Kick-off Meeting: Review agenda and purpose from a conflict zone by requesting its suppliers to provide the place of Category Description • Conduct audit ACHIEVING SHARED GROWTH WITH origin. HQCL will eliminate the use of conflict minerals by maintaining • Hold final meeting on audit findings a high level of transparency and continuous monitoring of its suppliers’ Suppliers are required to pass the quality SUPPLIERS Qualification audit inspection of each item to be approved as a procurement process. vendor. Result Analysis • Prepare audit report Supplier Evaluations and Improvements Vendors undergo an audit process on a regular • Define current status of suppliers For efficient logistics operation and management, HQCL undertakes Surveillance audit • Checking for any conflict minerals in the list of materials used basis. • Notify suppliers of audit results supplier evaluations in terms of contract forms and issues regarding in production processes Causes of critical claims and quality issues are payment of logistics costs, from which it identifies areas of Process audit identified and resolved. improvement. In 2017, HQCL executed separate contracts for suppliers Improvement • Collect a list of suppliers’ activities for improvement • Monitor areas for improvement in charge of inland container transportation and maritime forwarding • Confirming no conflict minerals are used in suppliers’ products • Complete audit report businesses, which are major operational tasks for import and export Methods and Major Items of Supplier Audits • Update audit report transportation of goods. Prior to this change, forwarding suppliers • Requesting the place of origin from suppliers that may be at risk of • Document audit process Audits are prepared, executed and followed up based on the FRMexecuted comprehensive contracts and undertook both services and using conflict minerals 15-06-0104-EN document, which includes surveys and checklists. received a commission for inland container transportation. Through To check the quality management system of each supplier and the Major audit items include quality, management system, environment this measure, HQCL is now able to select suppliers specializing in each competence level of its products and services, auditors undertake onand safet y, and impor t inspections. HQCL also assesses the service area, thereby improving their expertise and efficiency of work. • Reviewing the use of conflict minerals in all HQCL products site inspections of production facilities, the results of which are shared implementation status regarding labor, human rights and ethical with the management and relevant departments through the company management by its suppliers. newsletter. Future Plans Audit Items HQCL will request proof of the place of origin from all its suppliers Items Description that are at risk of using conflict minerals. In addition, suppliers will be evaluated to ensure that no conflict minerals are used. Management Certification of ISO 19001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, System qualifications of QA engineers and administrators, etc. Availability of REACH and RoHS, emergency procedures, Environment & safety training, risk identification and evaluation process Safety (HIRAC, Hazard Identification Risk Assessment and Controls), etc. Compliance with the inspection process for raw materials Import Inspection and import inspections, material management, etc. 52 Hanwha Q CELLS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 I Supply Chain Report Creating a Sustainable Future for Our Planet I Conflict-free Minerals 53 Environmental Impacts GHG EMISSIONS CONTROL HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE MANAGEMENT ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE1) In line with social standards, Hanwha Q CELLS Korea Corporation Whenever a new chemical substance is used, Hanwha Q CELLS Korea Category Item Unit 2015 2016 2017 Jincheon Plant undertakes various activities to respond to climate Corporation requires prior verification and registration of such change. In 2016, its business site in Jincheon was designated as a target substances on its chemical substance management system in order to Energy consumption 42 905 1,718 management site under the Greenhouse Gas Target Management check for chemical hazards. Hanwha Q CELLS Korea Corporation System, according to which it manages its energy consumption and provides training on chemicals and emergency drills to all employees at Energy2) Electricity TJ 36 858 1,653 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. its Jincheon Plant to prepare for the possibility of hazardous chemical Others 6 46 65 Hanwha Q CELLS Korea Corporation Jincheon Plant minimizes leakage, in addition to minimizing damage from chemical accidents by GHG emissions from manufacturing products at its business sites, and forming a chemical safety community with other SMEs in surrounding GHG emissions 2,059 44,136 83,761 considers direct emissions (Scope 1) and indirect emissions (Scope 2) regions. in calculating GHG emissions. It operates a power-monitoring system GHG2) Scope 1 tCO2eq 324 2,443 3,478 to reduce indirect emissions (Scope 2) which accounts for 95% of Scope 2 1,735 41,693 80,283 emissions from its business sites, while limiting the application of AIR POLLUTANT MANAGEMENT chemicals relating to its direct emissions (Scope 1). Hanwha Q CELLS Korea Corporation manages air pollutants generated at its business sites by treating them through a maximum of Water Water consumption Ton 190,092 744,822 1,075,720 WASTE MANAGEMENT three steps of treatment process in order to minimize the concentration level of pollutants prior to discharge. The company monitors Wastewater discharge Ton 563,471 818,794 Hanwha Q CELLS Korea Corporation reduces waste generated the concentration level of pollutants on a monthly basis to meet in the course of production. To this end, it has established waste Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) 14 19 government standards and continuously analyzes the causes of any Wastewater3) reduction targets and implements waste generation unit management. increase or decrease. Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) mg/L 10 6 Suspended solids (SS) 15 18 WATER MANAGEMENT Case Study Water is mostly used in the production process and wastewater is Fine Dust Reduction Activities treated through a waste water treatment system. To reduce its water As part of its efforts to reduce fine dust, a matter of national concern, Waste generation 937 6,019 9,880 consumption, Hanwha Q CELLS Korea Corporation Jincheon Hanwha Q CELLS Korea Corporation signed the Voluntary Plant has established a water resource recycling system by injecting Landfill 739 723 Fine Dust Reduction Agreement participated in by 18 conglomerates General waste Ton antiscalant into reverse osmosis concentrated wastewater, reducing under the jurisdiction of the North Chungcheong Province. Pursuant Recycling 937 5,280 7,287 over 105,000 tons of annual water consumption. to this Agreement, Hanwha Q CELLS Korea Corporation has submitted its implementation plan of reducing 8.87% of relevant Others 0 1,870 substances by 2020 compared to 2017, and undertakes various measures COLLECTION AND RECYCLING SYSTEM to attain the target. Hazardous waste Hazardous waste generation Ton 7,640 27,541 Hanwha Q CELLS Korea Corporation supports domestic research on recycling of waste products by actively participating in policy Nitrogen oxides (NOx) 22.90 70.24 42.66 meetings for product recycling with domestic research institutions and providing samples to waste disposal companies. It will contribute to Air pollution3) Sulfur oxides (SOx) mg/m3 0.78 0.00 better use of waste products by playing its role in establishing a stable recycling system in Korea. Particle matter (PM) 0.00 1.03 1.23 Environmental Environmental investment 0 895,161 USD investment Environmental facilities operation 1,873,778 2,086,100 1) Based on the plants of Hanwha Q CELLS Korea Corporation in Jincheon and Eumseong; Environmental performance data in 2016 have generally increased due to an expansion of facilities at Hanwha Q CELLS Korea Corporation’s Jincheon Plant 2) Based on Hanwha Q CELLS Korea Corporation Jincheon Plant; Emissions have been calculated based on the Guidelines on the Greenhouse Gas and Energy Target Management System 3) No emissions from Hanwha Q CELLS Korea Corporation Eumseong Plant 54 Hanwha Q CELLS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 I Supply Chain Report Creating a Sustainable Future for Our Planet I Environmental Impacts 55 Health & Safety Management Appendix OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND MATERIALITY ANALYSIS HEALTH SYSTEM EMERGENCY RESPONSE SYSTEM Hanwha Q CELLS Korea Corporation implements a process Hanwha Q CELLS Korea Corporation operates an Emergency THIRD PARTY ASSURANCE REPORT safety management system for handling hazardous materials Response Team to prepare for unexpected accidents that may take and OHSAS 18001, an international standard for safety and health place and minimize damages that may arise in such event. It also GRI Index management system. Hanwha Q CELLS Korea Corporation’s conducts regular scenario-based emergency drills in preparation for Environment and Safety Team oversees matters relating to safety fires or leakage of chemicals, supplementing them with additional UNGC and health, while each department implements autonomous safety training and drills as necessar y. Hanwha Q CELLS Korea management according to a line responsibility system. Through Corporation maintains its emergency response system by providing AWARDS these efforts, it has achieved “zero” severe industrial accident and emergency training and drills to its suppliers, so that not only its occupational diseases, and holds on-site inspections and consultations employees but all constituents can be fully prepared for any emergency on a regular basis to ensure that opinions of employees are reflected in situation that may take place in any of its business sites. management. ACTIVITIES TO PROMOTE EMPLOYEE HEALTH In order to promote the health of its employees and prevent occupational diseases, Hanwha Q CELLS Korea Corporation provides health management on a regular basis to employees diagnosed with medical conditions at health exams to track their conditions. Through early treatment and health promotion programs, the company enables its employees to enjoy health and well-being at the workplace. OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 LTIFR Case/1 Million Working Hours 0.74 1.57 Suppliers Fatalities Cases 0 0 0 * Based on the critical suppliers at home and abroad 56 Hanwha Q CELLS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 I Supply Chain Report 57 MATERIALITY ANALYSIS By conducting materiality analyses, Hanwha Q CELLS Co., Ltd. (HQCL) discloses details on material topics most closely relevant to the Company’s businesses and stakeholders. MATERIALITY ANALYSIS PROCESS Materiality Map Step 1. Step 2. Step 3. Step 4. Materiality Issue Stakeholder Interest (Impact) 2 Pool of Material Issues Creating an Issue Pool Materiality Analysis Prioritization of Material Issues Analyze sustainability management issues Create a p o ol of issues ref le c ting the Conduct a materiality analysis of stakeholder Selection of Core Reporting Issues relating to HQCL through multidimensional characteristics of the industry interest and business relevance analysis External Internal Issue 1 Stakeholder Issues 5 Environment Analysis Environment Analysis Evidence of ’Impact’ 1 7 Issue 2 Stakeholder survey results Solar Energy Issues 8 Global Standards Employee Survey Analysis Issue 3 6 Internal Data Review Evidence of ’Relevance’ Core Corporate Growth Strategies and Current 9 3 Media Analysis Status 4 Same industry benchmarking, media analylsis, Same Industry global standards analysis Issue 35 Benchmarking Business Relevance (Relevance) Materiality Map External Stakeholder Survey Material Issues No. Issue Stakeholders GRI Standards Topic Page MATERIALITY ANALYSIS PROCESS Reducing Energy Consumption and In order to identify issues that have an impact on its sustainability, HQCL has drawn 35 issues at the sustainability issue analysis stage based on an 1 Employees, Government Energy Improving Energy Efficiency analysis of international standards, the media and internal management status. At the reporting issue selection stage, it conducted a quantitative Entering into Global Market and Expanding Customers, analysis of the 35 issues from the perspective of “Impact on HQCL (X-axis)” and “Impact on Stakeholders (Y-axis), resulting in nine material issues 2 Economic Performance Business Sites Shareholders, Investors finally being selected. Developing Eco-friendly Products and 3 Employees, Customers Services RESULT OF THE MATERIALITY ANALYSIS 4 Managing Pollutants Employees, Suppliers, Local Community Emissions The materiality analysis showed that global market development and business expansion were issues of the highest interest to stakeholders, 5 Achieving Shared Growth with Suppliers Suppliers Supplier Social Assessment demonstrating their high level of interest in the Company’s efforts and progress in becoming the best industry leader in the global market. The analysis also revealed that “reducing energy consumption and increasing energy efficiency” and “developing eco-friendly products and services” Selecting and Assessing Sustainable Supplier Environmental Assessment, 6 Suppliers had high impact on HQCL, suggesting the increasing importance of environmental issues in the industry. Suppliers Supplier Social Assessment Providing Education and Training for 7 Employees Training and Education Capacity Building COMPOSITION OF THE REPORT Undertaking Customer Satisfaction 8 Customers Marketing and Labeling Based on the material issues identified through the materiality analysis, HQCL reports its sustainability system, activities, progress and plans in Activities line with the topics of the GRI Standards. The company also discloses its approach to management and performance through the “GRI Index” with 9 Investing in Local Communities Employees, Local Community Local Communities regard to sustainability issues and aspects. 58 Hanwha Q CELLS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 I Appendix Creating a Sustainable Future for Our Planet I MATERIALITY ANALYSIS 59 THIRD PARTY ASSURANCE REPORT Introduction Sustainability Context Hanwha Q CELLS Co., Ltd. (“HQCL”) commissioned DNV GL Business Assurance Korea, Ltd. (“DNV GL”), part of DNV GL Group, to undertake The Report discloses to the stakeholders the HQCL's management approach to material topics, reasons why the selected topics are material and independent assurance of its ‘Sustainability Report 2018’ (the “Report”). The directors of HQCL have sole responsibility for the preparation of the HQCL’s strategy. In addition, the Report presents sustainable management performance created from its business models, major project stories, Report. DNV GL’s assurance engagements are based on the assumption that the data and information provided by the client to us as part of key achievements in 2017 relative to material topics, which helps the stakeholder understand the sustainability management of HQCL. HQCL could our review have been prepared in good faith. establish and report sustainability goals and strategies for mid and long term which are implemented in line with management strategy. Scope of assurance Materiality The scope of assurance includes a review of non-financial data and sustainability activities and performance data over the reporting period from 1st HQCL has conducted the materiality assessment to prepare the Report. The relevant 35 issues are selected from the review of the global January to 31st December 2017 in the Report (Korean version). This also includes: sustainability initiatives and standards, the topics which industry peer group considers material, the subjects covered by mass media, internal and •E  valuation of the Report on the adherence to the reporting principles for defining report content and the reporting principles for defining report external stakeholder survey results and analysis of internal management topics. The issues in the pool are rated by combining the level of impact quality set forth in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards. on HQCL’s business and the level of stakeholders’ interest in the issue. 9 material topics are prioritized accordingly. The PRJC-584251-2018-AST-KOR • Evaluation of the process for determining material topics for reporting and the management approach to material topics and the process for Page 3 of 3 assurance team reviewed the materiality assessment process and confirmed that the material topics prioritized from the process are generating, gathering and managing the quantitative and qualitative data in the Report. addressed in the Report. Basis of our opinion Completeness We’ve performed our work using DNV GL’s assurance methodology VeriSustainTM1, which is based on our professional experience, international The Report has covered the material topics and sustainability performances of HQCL for the reporting period. The reporting boundary includes assurance best practice including International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000). We applied the limited level of assurance. Headquarters in Korea, Cyberjaya in Malaysia, Oidong in China, and the Technology & Innovation Headquarters in Germany. The assurance team has The assurance was carried out from August till September 2018. The site visits were made to headquarters of HQCL in Korea. Assurance activities not noted any intentional omission of the performance results on material topics within the reporting boundary. were conducted based on sampling as follows: Balance, Comparability, Accuracy, Timeliness, Clarity and Reliability •c  hallenged the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the underlying data management The assurance team has sampled data and tested accuracy and reliability. The assurance team interviewed the data owners and reviewed the data system, information flow and controls; gathering process with the supporting documents and records. The depth of data verification is limited to the aggregated data level. Based on the • interviewed representatives from the various departments; test, the intentional error or misstatement is not noted. The data owners were able to demonstrate to trace the origin of the data and to interpret • conducted document reviews, data sampling and interrogation of supporting databases and associated reporting systems as they relate to the processed data in a reliable manner. The data was identifiable and traceable. In addition, the Report provides the latest three-year performance selected content and performance data; on material topics, helping stakeholders understand the changes over years in organizational performance. Errors or unclear expressions found • reviewed the materiality assessment report. during the assurance process were corrected prior to the publication of the final Report. Limitations Competence and Independence The engagement excludes the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of HQCL’s subsidiaries, associated companies, DNV GL applies its own management standards and compliance policies for quality control, in accordance with ISO/IEC 17021:2011 Conformity suppliers, contractors and any third-parties. DNV GL did not interview external stakeholders as part of this Assurance Engagement. The audited Assessment Requirements for bodies providing audit and certification of management systems, and accordingly maintains a comprehensive consolidated financial statements, the announcement disclosed at the website of Korea Financial Supervisory Service (http://dart.fss.or.kr) and system of quality control, including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards disclosures in HQCL’s website (www.hanwha-qcells.com) are not included in the assurance scope. Limited depth of evidence gathering including and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We have complied with the DNV GL Code of Conduct2 during the assurance engagement and inquiry and analytical procedures and limited sampling at lower levels in the organization were applied. Economic performance based on the maintain independence where required by relevant ethical requirements. This engagement work was carried out by an independent team of financial data is cross-checked with internal documents and the audited consolidated financial statements. The baseline data for Environmental sustainability assurance professionals. DNV GL was not involved in the preparation of statements or data included in the Report except for this and Social performance are not verified, while the aggregated data at the corporate level are used for the verification. DNV GL expressly disclaims Assurance Statement. DNV GL maintains complete impartiality toward stakeholders interviewed during the assurance process. DNV GL did not any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make based on this Assurance Statement. The responsibility of DNV GL in provide any services to HQCL that could compromise the independence or impartiality of our work. performing the assurance work is limited to the management of HQCL in accordance with the terms of reference. Conclusion September 2018 On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing comes to our attention to suggest that the Report does not properly address the adherence to the Seoul, Korea Principles for defining report content in GRI Standards nor is prepared ‘in accordance’ with GRI Standards Core option. Further opinions with regards to the adherence to the Principles are made below; Jang Sup Lee Stakeholder Inclusiveness Acting Country Representative DNV GL HQCL has identified internal and external stakeholder groups such as Customers, Local communities, Suppliers, Shareholders/Investors and Business Assurance Korea, Ltd. Employees. HQCL conducts stakeholder engagement activities through various channels. The way of engagement with respective stakeholder groups and major concerns of stakeholders are described in the Report. 1 2 The VeriSustain protocol is available upon request at DNV GL Website (www.dnvgl.com) DNV GL Code of Conduct is available from DNV GL website (www.dnvgl.com) 60 Hanwha Q CELLS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 I Appendix Creating a Sustainable Future for Our Planet I THIRD PARTY ASSURANCE REPORT 61 GRI Index Local Communities 103-1,2,3 Management Approach 42~43 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 44~47 The previous data have been modified due to changes to calculation standards Supplier Social Assessment 103-1,2,3 Management Approach 50~51 1. General Standards 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 52~53 Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Note Marketing and Labeling 103-1,2,3 Management Approach 38~39 Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization 8~9 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling 39, Annual Report No case 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 8~9, 12~13 (Form 20-F) 102-3 Location of headquarters 8~9 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications 39, Annual Report No case (Form 20-F) 102-4 Location of operations 8~9 102-5 Ownership and legal form 8~9, Annual Report (Form 20-F) 102-6 Markets served 8~9 3. Other Standards 102-7 Scale of the organization 8~11 Economic Performance(GRI 200) 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 31, Based on the headquarters in South KoClassification Disclosure Indicators Page Note Annual Report rea, 70 male and 25 female Employees. (Form 20-F) Economic Performance 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 34 102-9 Supply chain 52 201-4 Financial assistance received from government No case 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain No significant changes Indirect Economic 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 42~47 The previous data have been modified Impact due to changes to calculation standards 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 22~23 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 42~47 102-12 External initiatives 64, Official Website Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 100%, No significant risk identified 102-13 Membership of associations 64, Official Website 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 20~21 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 6~7 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken No case Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 20~21 Anti-competitive Behavior 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices No case Governance 102-18 Governance structure 16~18 Stakeholder 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 19 Engagement 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 97.6% Environmental Performance(GRI 300) 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 19 Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Note 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 58~59 Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 36~37 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 19 Biodiversity 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 36 Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Annual Report 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity 36 (Form 20-F) Effluents and Waste 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 36~37 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries About This Report 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 36~37 102-47 List of material topics 58~59 306-3 Significant spills No case 102-48 Restatements of information Stated separately at the related content Environmental Compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations No case 102-49 Changes in reporting Stated separately at the related content 102-50 Reporting period About This Report 102-51 Date of most recent report About This Report Social Performance(GRI 400) 102-52 Reporting cycle About This Report Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Note 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About This Report Employment 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 27~30 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards About This Report 401-3 Parental leave 31 102-55 GRI content index 62~63 Labor/Management Relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 29 102-56 External assurance 60~61 Occupational 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 32 Health and Safety 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 32 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 32 2. Topic-Specific Standards Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 31 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 100% of regular employees in managerial positions Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Note Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 16, 31 Economic Performance 103-1,2,3 Management Approach 8~9 Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken No case 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 8~11, Annual Report (Form 20-F) Freedom of Association and 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining may be No case Energy 103-1,2,3 Management Approach 33~34 Collective Bargaining at risk 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 10, 34, 37 Child Labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor No case Emissions 103-1,2,3 Management Approach 33~34 Forced or Compulsory Labor 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor No case 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 37 Human Rights Assessment 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 100%, Sexual harassment prevention training Supplier Environmental Assess103-1,2,3 Management Approach 50~51 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Review based on the supplier’s code of conduct ment 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 53 Marketing and Labeling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications No case Training and Education 103-1,2,3 Management Approach 26~28 Customer Privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data No case 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 27~28, 31 Socioeconomic Compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area No case 62 Hanwha Q CELLS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 I Appendix Creating a Sustainable Future for Our Planet I GRI Index 63 AWARDS UNGC Intersolar Award 2018 The Intersolar Award is the largest photovoltaic PHOTON YIELD MEASUREMENT 2013/2014 As a solar power magazine, Photon measures the exhibition in Europe. HQCL was selected as the actual yield and performance of modules as one of winner of the Intersolar Award for two consecutive MOD:27898 photon.info/laboratory its key roles. HQCL's Q.PRO solar module was years, winning the award in 2017 for its steel frame selected as the No. 1 polycrystalline module in HQCL supports the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) regarding Human Rights, Labor Standards, Environment and AntiBest polycrystalline module made with the Company's core technologies solar module 2014 the yield measurement test performed by Photon. such as reinforced steel frame and Q.ANTUM for The Q.PRO-G2 235 Wp module also outperformed Q.PRO-G2 235 Corruption. The Company is committed to fulfilling its social responsibilities by undertaking various activities and reflecting international standards 174 modules tested higher yields as well as lower installation costs and 147 polycrystalline modules by other solar module in sustainability. LCOE, followed by receiving the award in 2018 for its manufacturers. new half celland 6 Bus Bar-based Q.PEAK DUO-G5. PV Magazine Top Innovation SOLAR POWER PORTAL AWARD 2017 Category Principles Key Activities Page Award 2017 The Solar Power Portal Award is an annual event • Compliance with the Ten Principles of the UNGC PV Magazine, a global photovoltaics magazine, awards the held in the U.K. awarding top photovoltaic products 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of with outstanding technological achievements in 13 • Compliance with International Labor Organization (ILO) top photovoltaic companies after thorough evaluations of internationally proclaimed human rights. their modules and technological innovations. HQCL was categories. HQCL's Q.PEAK RSF L-G4.2 steel frame Human Rights Standards module was awarded the Solar Power Portal Award awarded the Top Innovation Award 2017 in recognition • Sexual harassment prevention training of technological innovation and practicality of its steel 2017 in recognition of its product innovation. 2. Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. frame module combining a steel frame and HQCL's • Inclusion of a human rights provision in agreements proprietary Q.ANTUM technology. 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the • Compliance with the Labor Standard Act effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. PV Magazine Array Changing Solar+Power award winner • Operation of a labor union Technology Award 2017 The Solar Power Award is an annual award for the solar Labor 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced power value chain hosted by the global solar power HQCL was awarded the Array Changing Technology and compulsory labor. • Compliance with laws regarding forced labor and child labor Award by PV Magazine in recognition of its techmagazine “Solar+Power Management Magazine.” Standards HQCL was awarded in 2017 in recognition of the 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. nological innovations and product performance based on practicality and feasibility. quality and innovation of The Company’s new Q.PEAK 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in • Fair recruitment process DUO G5 module designed based on Q.ANTUM respect of employment and occupation. • Performance-oriented employee evaluation technology, followed by receiving the award in 2018 for its Q.FLAT-G5 in the Solar PV BOS(Balance of system • Certification of the Environmental Management System cable, inverter, switch, and mounting systems, etc.). (ISO14000) 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Terawatt Diamond Award Climate Change Grand Leaders' • Compliance with national environmental laws and environmental challenges. Award Corporate Sector regulations at SNEC 2018 • Operation of waste product collection programs Awarded the SNEC Terawatt Award for four conThe Climate Change Grand Leaders' Award was secutive years as the only foreign company at SNEC, created by the Climate Change Center to reward Environment • Pollutant discharge control China’s largest photovoltaic exhibition which awards individuals and organizations who make outstanding 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater the top ten companies out of 1,800 participating efforts in various fields of the society to respond to • Reuse and recycling of waste environmental responsibility. companies based on their technological strength and climate change in Korea. HQCL was selected as the • Energy efficiency operation of exhibition. winner in the corporate sector. 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of • Eco-friendly product (carbon footprint) certification EuPD RESEARCH TOP BRAND PV 2018 Smart Hit Award 2017 environmentally friendly technologies. • Life-cycle assessment HQCL won the Smart Hit Award 2017 awarded by EuPD Research evaluates the level of brand manageAnti• FCPA compliance training ment by module and inverter manufacturers in Smart House, a Japanese energy equipment and 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, countries such as Germany, France, Italy and the energy-zero-house magazine. HQCL Japan's Q.PEAK Corruption including extortion and bribery. • Employee compliance training G-4.1 was selected as the most preferred residential U.K. HQCL was awarded the Top Brand PV by the EuPD five consecutive times in Europe and three in photovoltaic product with high cost competitiveness Australia. and cost effectiveness, outperforming products by all other manufacturers in Japan. The 13th Korea New Growth DNV GL 2018 Management Awards: HQCL's modules achieved a “Top Performer” ranking Commendation of the Minister of in the 2018 DNV GL PV Module Reliability Scorecard. Trade, Industry and Energy For three consecutive years, HQCL achieved the Top Performer ranking in recognition of its outstanding Awarded the Commendation of the Minister of Trade, product quality. Its Q.PLUS BFR-G4.1 was ranked Top Industry and Energy in 2016 in recognition of HQCL’s Performer in terms of temperature, humidity and contribution to new growth management activities mechanical load, while the Q.PEAK-G4.1 received the based on next-generation growth engines. same ranking in the PID test. SOLAR INDUSTRY AWARD 2015 Best Place to Work in Korea The Solar Industry Awards was created to understand In June 2018, Hanwha Q CELLS Korea Corporation the whole value chain of the solar industry and was selec ted by the Ministr y of Employment discover innovative people, products and services and Labor as a Best Place to Work in Korea. The embodying groundbreaking technologies. HQCL Ministr y selected 100 companies by analyzing won the Solar Industry Award 2015 (Germany) for its the employment insurance database, locating Q.ANTUM technology-based Q.PLUS module. local employment and labor offices, and receiving recommendations from the public, followed by onsite inspections and review of opinions from labor and management. 64 Hanwha Q CELLS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 I Appendix This Report has been printed on eco-friendly recycled paper certified with an environmental mark from the Korea Environmental Industry & Technology Institute. CONTACT Hanwha Q CELLS Co., Ltd 5th Floor, Hanwha Building Cheonggyecheon-ro 86, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea TEL +82.2.729.2336 FAX +82.2.729.3313 WEB www.hanwha-qcells.com www.q-cells.com Sustainability Report 2018_2018-10_Rev01_EN
