GLOBAL COMPACT Good practices 2019 (Financial Year 2018) Dassault Aviation is among the major players in the global civil and military aircraft industry. A reasonably sized and financially secure private international group, with a presence in more than 70 countries across 5 continents, Dassault Aviation has been profitable ever since its creation in 1936. Structured to adapt its production to market cycles, Dassault Aviation encompasses a rich industrial network of high-tech companies in France, Europe, and many countries worldwide. In order to achieve its objectives in a highly competitive and increasingly global economy, Dassault Aviation builds on strong values, a clear identity and strict ethical standards. Its values are customer spirit, human qualities, technological excellence and innovation, economic performance, openness to the world, environmental protection measures. Commitment Dassault Aviation joined the UN Global Compact initiative in 2003. The Group, whose Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is Mr Eric Trappier, supports the ten principles relating to human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and the fight against corruption. It is through this commitment that Dassault Aviation has progressively incorporated the Global Compact principles into its strategy, culture and daily operations, thus actively contributing to 8 of the 17 UNO sustainable development goals. The following ‘Good Practices’ document illustrates a few actions undertaken by the company as a commitment to the Global Compact. Dassault Aviation renews its commitment to the Global Compact for 2018. The CEO, Mr Eric Trappier Contribution to the UNO Sustainable Development Goals The Dassault Aviation Group, through its corporate agreements and EHS policy, is committed to the well-being of its employees. Many actions to improve workplace conditions and reduce occupational risks are carried out with the support of physicians, prevention specialists and the HR function. In addition, the Parent Company is committed to the replacement of the main hazardous substances used in its activities Convinced that diversity is a major issue and a performance factor for the company, we affirm our commitment to the prevention of discrimination. We also strive to promote equality of opportunity and treatment through the implementation of company agreements. We develop close links with regional and international industrial fabrics, thus contributing to the sustainable economic growth of the global aviation industry. In addition, the Dassault Aviation Group is committed to maintaining and developing the skills of its employees, taking into account its operational needs and the individual desires of its employees. Dassault Aviation holds a Code of Ethics which pays a particular attention to respect for human rights. As part of our “Leading Our Future” transformation plan, we are modernizing our industrial tools through the use of better performing and more environmentally friendly technologies. Optimizing resource and energy consumption and controlling and managing waste are fundamental elements of our EHS policy. The innovations made by Dassault Aviation’s teams in aviation design contribute to reducing the impact of the air sector on the environment in a permanent quest for customer satisfaction. The zero tolerance policy, the strengthening of procedures and resources for fighting against corruption characterize our search for rigorous business ethics. Dassault Aviation establishes an oversight plan to control the risk of serious violation in areas of human rights and fundamental freedoms. 2 Human rights (principles 1 & 2) Dassault Aviation whose main facilities are located in France and the United States is committed to the respect of Human Rights as stated in principle 1 and 2 of the Global Compact, to the respect of international laws and regulations especially as regards occupational health and safety of employees and non-discrimination in the workplace (for more explanations see measures principles 3-6). Dassault Aviation holds a Code of Ethics which reflects these commitments. Pursuant the Law of March 27, 2017 concerning the duty of vigilance of parent companies and companies placing orders, Dassault Aviation is strengthening its process through the establishment of an oversight plan to control the risk of serious violation (in areas of human rights, fundamental freedoms, the health and safety of humans and the environment). Dassault Aviation’s general purchasing conditions require its suppliers and service providers to comply with the Code of Ethics. Under our purchasing and supply chain security policy the evaluation procedure for suppliers and service providers in place since 2007now incorporate parameters for evaluating respect for human rights. Environmental risks are also taken into account to respect the right to a healthy environment of a sufficient quality to live in dignity and comfort in accordance with the 1992 Rio Declaration. Finally the Ethics department, an independent body attached to the CEO, is required to intervene in the internal alert procedure for any report that it receives, especially when harassment and discrimination are involved. For further explanations, see annual rapport pages 90, 110 / contribution to SDGs 8 and 16. Labour (principles 3 6) A number of measures taken in 2018 are illustrative of a strong and steady orientation in favour of social progress and equality at work (principles 3 and 6). They also belong to principle 1 (human rights) of the Global Compact. In order to improve sex equality in an industrial sector that has only still 17,98% (16,85% in 2014) of women employees, Dassault Aviation had set a target for hiring women at 20% for non-management and 25% for management level employees. In 2018, these hires accounted for over 24,3% for non-executives and 26,1% for executives. In addition, on 2 october 2017, the company signed an agreement for 2018, 2019, 2020 with the unanimous consent of its social partners, on equality in the workplace and equal salaries for women and men, and thus pursues its policy to develop general diversity in the company and particularly in the technical and industrial 3 businesses. Through this agreement Dassault Aviation intends to pay particular attention to the training and career development of women, notably by continuing its policy of providing acess to Dassault Institute management training, and promoting women to position of responsibilities. In order to increase employee awareness, Dassault Aviation organized a campaign on professional equality for men and women titled “equality and diversity”. Dassault Aviation has also encouraged its female employees to join two major inhouse management and leadership training programs (“Dassault Management” and “Dassault Leader”) to increase the number of female employees in the management pool. Dassault Aviation is a founding member of the association “elles bougent” (“moving up”) which helps women discover engineering and technical careers. Over 54 female employees of Dassault Aviation are sponsoring this association and provide mentoring to female school and university students. In 2018, the Company has established a network of men and women to act ambassadors to promote our technical careers among female students. This network strengthens the parallel actions of the association “elles bougent”. For further explanations see annual report pages 90, 91, 92, 93, 95 and 96 / contribution to SDGs 3,5,8,10. Regarding handicapped employees, Dassault Aviation has signed on 9 June 2017 a new agreement (for 2018-2019-2020) with union representatives for promoting the employment of handicapped persons, including hire policy, adaptation of working conditions (post / time), allowance for vacation days gift to parents with seriously ill children. Dassault Aviation raised the share of handicapped employees from 7,5% in 2010 to 7,45% in 2018. In France, the minimum share of handicapped employees in the workforce has been fixed by law at 6% but the effective rate is closer to 4% which make Dassault Aviation among the most dedicated to the employment of handicapped persons. This pro-active policy is supported by a strongly mobilized internal network comprising coordinators, leading committees, local oversight commissions and a specific budget. For further explanations about diversity, see annual report page 96. In addition, Dassault Aviation is a founding member of HANVOL, a non-profit organisation helping the training and employment of handicapped persons in the aircraft industry. For further explanations about employee relations, see annual report pages 90 to 99). For Dassault Aviation good practices relating to health and safety at work (occupational risk prevention, workplace conditions, ergonomic improvements in all relevant sectors) see annual report pages 71, 72. 4 For further information, please follow these links https://www.dassault-aviation.com/en/group/finance/publications/ https://www.dassault-aviation.com/en/group/about-us/ https://www.dassault-aviation.com/en/group/careers/ Environment (principles 7 9) In 2018, Dassault Aviation has taken several environmental steps related to principles 7, 8 and 9 of the Global Compact and contributing to UNO SDGs 9, 12 and 13. Dassault Aviation is developing ”green aviation” by improvement of the environmental performance of its products. We are funding our own research into “Future Falcons“ based on innovative technologies such as integrated systems, advanced composites and aerodynamics. Over the past 40 years, technological progress with regard to engine efficiency, aerodynamics and weight saving has considerably reduced fuel consumption, CO2 emissions and nose levels from our aircraft. Dassault Aviation is pursuing this path and has subscribed to the reduction objectives defined by the Advisory Council for Aeronautics Research in Europe (ACARE): 50% reduction of noise levels on the ground in 2020 and 60% in 2050, 50% reduction in CO2 emissions in 2020 and 75% in 2050, 80% reduction in NOX emissions in 2020 and 90% in 2050 reducing the environmental impact created by the production and withdrawal from service of aircraft. As member of the Cleansky program since 2007, we are part of the Smart Fixed Wing Aircraft (SFWA) and Ecodesign Integrated Technology Demonstrators (ITD). In the follow-on program Clean Sky 2, whose ambitious research will continue through 2022, we are contributing to the development of the future aircraft configuration, in particular as coordinator of the aerostructures facet. Through the follow-on Clean Sky 2 program, we are developing a second generation of materials and manufacturing, maintenance and recycling technologies that will further reduce environmental impact. Dassault Aviation is also working to reduce the environmental impact of aircraft through involvement in several projects through the CORAC (the French Civil Aviation Research Advisory Council): -for the development of the “more electric” aircraft (GENOME project), -for the development of biocide coatings without Chrome VI (RING project). 5 The results obtained at the end of CleanSky show that, for the concept of the “2020 business aircraft”, the CleanSky technologies permit reduction in CO2 emissions of around 30% and a 50% reduction in the number of persons exposed to the operations, compared with the reference “2000 business aircraft”. For several years, Dassault Aviation has gradually developed an environmental policy and an organizational structure that helped reinforce environmental considerations at all its sites. In 2005, Dassault Aviation production sites obtained the ISO 14001 certification. In 2007, the whole company processes were certified. And in 2009, Dassault Aviation obtained integrated quality and environmental management ISO certification. The ISO 14001 certification, version 2015 (improvement of the risk approach, consideration of stakeholders and consideration of the environment within the supply chain) has been successfully obtained in 2018, July. Hence, Dassault Aviation has already achieved major actions in favour of the environment, as illustrated in its 2018 Environmental Report, and keeps a highly responsible environmental policy. Improving the higher level is now at the agenda, with the following actions undertaken in 2018: continuation plan of setting up a central management to enhance energy consumption and identify axes of progress based on the results of energy audits on all Parent Company sites in 2015, which will be updated after the 2019 energy audits campaign; plans for “greening” industrial processes to substitute the most environmentally impacting processes such as chemical machining or surface treatments by friendlier ones; optimisation of power consumption by replacement of energy intensive equipment: lighting, furnaces, air heaters, air dryers, motors and compressors; thermal insulation and building phonics; water consumption decrease, especially by rehabilitation of water networks and installation of meters to reinforce the monitoring of water consumption; reduction of industrial processes through oiling cabins, VOC-free paint gun washers, replacement of chemical machining by mechanical machining and renovation or construction of paint cabins with high environmental performance; development of new technologies, which involves replacing metal parts with composite parts and developing new processes such as direct manufacturing, which consumes less raw material. Over the last five years, the mitigation and preservation plans for environmental impact have obtained results such as 11% decrease in gaz consumption and reducing waste at the source has resulted in a decrease of 15% by weight. The recycling rate for waste has been over barely 80% in 2018, especially with stronger 6 practices for selective sorting of scrap metal and rejecting it into the raw material sector, according to circular economy principles. Dassault Aviation is measuring the environmental risks within the supplier approval process with IAEG’s standardised surveys (within the frame of the French law “Devoir de vigilance” / Duty of vigilance) and recommends to its suppliers to respect the 10 principles of the Global Compact and to follow the ISO 14001 recommendations. Dassault Aviation helps its main suppliers to improve environmental awareness through conducting on-site environmental audits. Compliance with the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) European Union Regulation has again been a priority in 2018. Based on transparency and precaution, REACH is to improve the protection of human health and the environment through the better and earlier identification of the intrinsic properties of chemical substances. It also calls for the progressive substitution of the most dangerous chemicals when suitable alternatives have been identified. Since 2012, actions for substituting substances of concern (substitution plans for chromates, cadmium and lead) and for reducing chemical risks were reinforced, particularly with regard to the processes using hexavalent chromium-based mixtures. Since 2013, for instance, we have replaced, or are in the process of replacing 339 products. Dassault Aviation is also one of the founder members of the IAEG (International Aerospace Environmental Group) created in 2011. IAEG is a non-profit corporation comprised of a global group of aerospace companies, established to facilitate harmonization of compliance amongst aerospace companies and their supply chains with the existing and emerging laws and regulations protecting human health and the environment. IAEG will achieve that by promoting the development of voluntary consensus standards published by an independent standards organization harmonizing environmental requirements applicable to aerospace companies. IAEG aims to address such issues as chemical material declarations and reporting requirements, greenhouse gas reporting and management, and to create a forum for dialog and information exchange on industry optional approaches for implementation of environmental requirements. In 2018, the main lines of work of the IAEG were focused on: Standardisation of all chemicals throughout the supply chain, Determination of which chemical substances to be substituted as a priority, Greenhouse Gas inventories, Standardisation of REACh autorisation process, Standardisation of suppliers’ environmental evaluation, Iso 14001:2015 Implementation Guide, Reach Registration 2018. 7 For further information, please follow these links: https://www.dassault-aviation.com/en/group/finance/publications/ https://www.dassault-aviation.com/en/group/about-us/environmental-responsibility/ Anticorruption (principle 10) Dassault Aviation follows a proactive policy against corruption. This is compliant with the French law which, ever since 2000, has enacted and applied stringently numerous international conventions under the OECD, the UN and the European Union against foreign corruption practices. The Dassault Aviation policy is stated in its Chart of Ethics and is in accordance with principle 10 of the Global Compact. For many years, the Company has implemented strict internal procedures to prevent corruption and ensure the integrity, ethics and reputation. Dassault Aviation completed and updated its process by implanting specific measures: an Anticorruption Code with an Anticorruption Guide, an Internal Alert Procedure, a risk mapping intended to identify, analyse and rank the risk of exposure to corruption, procedures for assessing the situation of clients, first tier suppliers and intermediaries in the mapping of risks, specific training sessions for the managers and personnel most exposed to risks of corruption and influence peddling. For further explanations, see annual report pages 111,112 / contribution to SDGs 16. In order to promote business ethics, Dassault Aviation has initiated within the AeroSpace and Defence Industries Association of Europe (ASD), a committee in charge of elaborating European business ethics standards. These” Common Industry Standards” have been approved by the Council of the ASD and signed by Dassault Aviation. Within GIFAS, the French aerospace industries association, Dassault Aviation contributes to good governance standards through several committees. In 2012, Dassault Aviation joined the international Forum of Business Ethical Conduct (IFBEC). The purpose of IFBEC is to: promote and forster through “the Global Principles“, the development of global, industry-wide ethical standards for the companies that are active in the aerospace and defense business sector, organize opportunities for industry and relevant stakeholders to exchange information and best practices concerning ethical business challenges, practices and opportunities worldwide. 8 The IFBEC organized its 9th international conference in Paris, France (14-15 November 2018) in association with the Aerospace and Defense Industries Association of Europe (ASD) and the Aerospace Industries of America (AIA). The purpose of this conference was to share best practices and interact with representatives from various industry stakeholders such as NATO, SFO, the Basel Institute of Governance and OECD. The IFBEC has published in 2014 a “Public Accountability Report”. This Report provides both members and non-members with data on IFBEC members compliance with “the Global Principles” and best practices that align with “The Global Principles“. For further information, please click here: www.ifbec.info Dassault Aviation participated in building up the Global Principles or shared ethics principles between European and American industry professionals, which is under ratification. For the Dassault Aviation values, ethics, reports, please click: https://www.dassault-aviation.com Attached documents: -2018 annual report -Dassault Aviation Ethical Charter 9 2018 Annual Report — 1 Profile 2 Strategy: Interview with the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 4 Tribute 6 Management Committee 7 Shareholding Structure and Organization Chart 8 2018 Consolidated Financial and Operating Highlights 10 Business Model 12 Highlights 19 Dynamic 31 Corporate Social Responsibility 39 Civil and Military Aircraft 49 Dassault Aviation Worldwide 53 2018 Financial Report 275 Combined Ordinary and Extraordinary Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, May 16, 2019 Profile 2018 Annual Report Dassault Aviation 1 Profile — Dassault Aviation is a French aerospace company that shapes the future by designing and building military aircraft, business jets and space systems. Leader on the new-generation fighter developed within the 2,100 joint European program FCAS (Future Combat Air System) Falcon jets Designer and builder of the Rafale multirole fighter, capable in service of handling all types of missions for both air forces and naval air arms 1,000 Designer of the nEUROn combat drone, built by a European partnership combat aircraft Designer and builder of the Falcon family of business jets, in service recognized for their handling qualities, operational flexibility, low fuel consumption and innovative solutions Designer and builder of special Falcons for maritime 11,500 surveillance, intelligence or medical evacuation missions employees, 80% in France The hub of a strategic industrial network comprising hundreds of companies in France and international markets Core shareholder in the Thales Group Expertise in a number of technologies that are key to strategic autonomy Pioneer in digital technologies and behind CATIA™, the 3D CAD/CAM system that has become a global standard Creator of more than 100 prototypes in the last century, with over 10,000 aircraft delivered to 90 countries 2 Dassault Aviation 2018 Annual Report Strategy Strategy — Interview with the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Éric Trappier Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Dassault Aviation What were the major events for Dassault Aviation in 2018? What were the highlights in your military business in 2018 and early 2019? The major event for us, as well as the entire French aerospace industry, was the passing of Serge Dassault, Our defense business has been very busy, thanks Chairman and CEO of Groupe Dassault, former to the dynamic Rafale export trend that kicked off Chairman and CEO of Dassault Aviation and son in 2015, as well as the upcoming French military spending of our founder, Marcel Dassault. Despite the strategic bill for 2019-2025, including a number of programs and economic upheavals in the last few decades, that concern us: Rafale, Mirage 2000, special-mission Serge Dassault was able to strengthen the solid Falcons, ATL2, drones, nuclear deterrence, etc. In short, foundations of our success: family spirit, technical I would single out four major advances, starting with excellence, efficient management and an exceptional the qualification of the Rafale F-3R standard by the French social model. Whether as chief executive or armed forces, on schedule and on budget, plus the shareholder, he always acted in the long-term interest official announcement of the contract to develop the of Dassault Aviation. His passion for aeronautics, his F4 standard for implementation in 2022-2024. patriotism, his perseverance, his strength and dedication These are two major milestones in the continuous to work and his future-looking vision will remain improvement of the Rafale, based on technological engraved in our memories. With the support of Charles progress and feedback from operations. Edelstenne, his successor at the head of Groupe Industriel Marcel Dassault, and the Dassault family, we Next, there is the strategic French-German project are all focused on continuing the work he accomplished for a new-generation fighter, a project on which our and building even more solid foundations for the future. leadership was recognized. The initial political and On the horizon for the next few years are the company’s industrial decisions were made quickly to launch this transformation, the Falcon 6X and special-mission ambitious collaboration, which still has a long way to go. Falcons, the Rafale F4 standard, the new-generation fighter and even stronger support services. Strategy 2018 Annual Report Dassault Aviation 3 We continued to move forward in export markets, with eventually handle the complete assembly and flight the contract from Qatar for 12 more Rafales taking effect. testing of the Falcon 2000. In addition to DRAL, Qatar is a loyal customer that has ordered a total of Dassault Aviation is also handling production in India 36 Rafales, with the first being delivered in February 2019. through an extensive supply chain that already counts dozens of companies. We are encouraging partnerships Lastly, we have developed new support proposals for between the supply chains in France and India. We France’s Rafale and ATL2 aircraft, by embracing the also created a civil and military aircraft engineering Ministry of the Armed Forces’ plan for through-life center in Pune, near Mumbai. At the same time, we are support reform. considering R&D programs with the Indian Ministry of Defense. In short, everything is proceeding as planned, And in the civil market? which means we are well placed, despite the heavy Trends are positive for the Falcon as well, with a slow competition, to win contracts from India’s armed forces but very real recovery in Falcon sales being confirmed. for 167 new combat aircraft – which would extend the The development of the 6X is proceeding on schedule, legacy partnership linking us to India for the last 65 years. and delivery of this aircraft will start in 2022. The 6X will have the most spacious and comfortable cabin in its class. What are your top priorities for the future? It will be powered by Pratt & Whitney Canada’s new For the Rafale, we will continue our export marketing PW812D engine, and fitted with the FalconEye combined efforts, while developing the F4 standard and gearing vision system and FalconConnect, our new integrated up for the future Rafale. For the new-generation fighter, connectivity solution. Offering a range of 5,500 nautical we are starting the design concept phase with Airbus miles, the Falcon 6X will expand our family of long-range and preparing for the launch of a demonstrator that business jets, culminating with the Falcon 8X, which should make its first flight towards 2025. made an impressive non-stop flight of 14 hours between Singapore and London. In the civil sector, we plan to consolidate sales. Along with the development of the 6X, we are also studying Where does your transformation plan stand today? a “Future Falcon”. We also want to further improve the efficiency of Falcon support services, drawing on Transforming Dassault Aviation means addressing the consolidation of our network of service centers upcoming challenges and changing market conditions, following the acquisition of MRO businesses from while maintaining the DNA that has fueled the company’s ExecuJet and Tag Aviation. success for the last century. Our transformation plan, Leading our Future, is being deployed across four Of course, we will be meeting these goals by leveraging strategic areas: culture-skills-organizations, digital our dual business model and position as a responsible tools-processes-innovations, production facilities, and enterprise. In 2018, this approach allowed us to divide program management. I am especially counting on our earnings virtually equally between employee investments in digital to drive the entire transformation profit-sharing and incentive payments, dividends for process. That’s why we signed an ambitious collaboration our shareholders and taxes paid to the French agreement with Dassault Systèmes last May to set up a government. collaborative engineering platform, dubbed 3DExperience. It’s also why we are accelerating our “big data” drive. Have your investments in India generated the expected results? As part of the Indian government’s Make in India policy, our sale of 36 Rafales to India, signed in 2016, also included an offset contract representing 50% of the contract value. Starting with this obligation, we are building a strategic partnership with ambitious objectives: win new Rafale orders, bolster our competitiveness in the business aircraft market, multiply high-tech projects. The plant built for the Dassault-Reliance Aerospace Ltd. joint venture in Nagpur, in the middle of the country, produced its first subassemblies for the Falcon 2000 at the end of 2018, as planned, and is now expanding to 4 Dassault Aviation 2018 Annual Report Tribute Tribute — Serge Dassault passed away Employees at all Dassault Aviation products. Thanks to Serge Dassault, on May 28, 2018, at the age of 93. plants assembled as well to pay we strengthened the fundamentals He received a full military tribute in a tribute to Serge Dassault’s passion that underpin our success: technical ceremony presided by French Prime for aeronautics, his human vision excellence coupled with a passion for Minister Édouard Philippe, at his of business, his courage, his “beautiful” airplanes that enable us funeral at Les Invalides in Paris. perseverance and his winning spirit. to attract and keep top talent; family As for his father, Marcel Dassault, shareholding and spirit to guarantee Serge Dassault oversaw the in 1986, all leading figures from the management stability and sustain our considerable growth of the company government, the armed forces and exceptional social model; and of founded by his father. Under his the aerospace industry were on hand course efficient management to direction, we deployed ambitious, to honor the memory of this patriotic ensure the long-term viability of our long-term strategies consistent with and visionary engineer. enterprise and lay solid groundwork the extended lifecycle of our for the future. Tribute 2018 Annual Report Dassault Aviation 5 6 Dassault Aviation 2018 Annual Report Executive Committee Executive Committee — 1. Philippe Massot 1 2 3 4 6 8 9 9. Bruno Giorgianni 7 Senior Vice President, 11 Corporate Secretary, 5 10 Military Sales France Senior Vice President, Public Affairs and Security 2. Yves Petit Senior Vice President, 10. Benoît Berger Human Resources Senior Executive Vice President, Procurement and Purchasing 3. Denis Dassé Chief Financial Officer 11. Jean-Marc Gasparini Executive Vice President, 4. Benoît Dussaugey Military and Space Programs Senior Executive Vice President, International 14 12. Bruno Chevalier 12 15 13 16 Senior Executive Vice President, 5. Éric Trappier Military Customer Support Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 13. Jean Sass Executive Vice President, IT, 6. Olivier Villa and Chief Digital Officer Senior Executive Vice President, Civil Aircraft 14. Loïk Segalen Chief Operating Officer 7. Frédéric Petit Senior Vice President, 15. Nicolas Mojaïsky Falcon Programs Senior Executive Vice President, Engineering 8. Gérald Maria Senior Executive Vice 16. Frédéric Lherm President, Total Quality Senior Executive Vice President, Industrial Operations Shareholding Structure and Organization Chart 2018 Annual Report Dassault Aviation 7 Shareholding Structure and Organization Chart — Shareholding structure Voting rights (at December 31, 2018) (at December 31, 2018) Groupe Groupe industriel industriel Marcel Float Marcel Dassault 27.4% Dassault 62.2% 76.8% Float 17.1% Dassault Aviation Airbus SE Airbus SE 0.5% 9.9% 6.1% 100% Dassault Aviation Parent company 25% Thales (France) 100% 100% 100% Dassault Dassault Sogitec Falcon Falcon Industries Jet Corp. Service (USA) (France) (France) 8 Dassault Aviation 2018 Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial and Operating Highlights 2018 Consolidated Financial and Operating Highlights — Orders (number of aircraft) Deliveries (number of aircraft) 42 49 38 41 52 41 2018 2017 –3 F5X –10 F5X 2018 2017 FALCON 12 12 9 9 8 RAFALE Export 0 3 1 RAFALE France 2018 2017 2018 2017 Orders Sales (billions of euros) (billions of euros) 5.0 5.1 4.9 2.3 3.3 2.6 3.0 FALCON 2.4 1.7 1.4 1.4 0.4 1.1 1.0 0.5 0.5 2018 2017 2018 2017 RAFALE Export RAFALE France 46% 11% 28% 29% 33% 17% 21% 10% 21% 72% 51% 61% 2018 Consolidated Financial and Operating Highlights 2018 Annual Report Dassault Aviation 9 Backlog Adjusted net income (at December 31, number of aircraft) 53 52 (a) €681 million or €82.1/share (€410 million in 2017 (1) or €49.8/share (1)) 2018 2017 Adjusted net profitability 13.4% (a) Including not-cancelled F5. Without the Safran penalty fee for the Silvercrest engine, 101 101 net profitability would have been 10.8% (8.4% in 2017 (1) ) 73 70 Cash and cash equivalents at December 31 28 2018 31 2017 €5.2 billion (€4.1 billion at December 31, 2017) Self-financed R&D expenditures Backlog (at December 31, billions of euros) 19.4 19.5 €392 million (€313 million in 2017) 2.2 2.5 Dividends 14.2 14.0 €177 million or €21.2/share (2) (€127 million in 2017, or €15.3/share) Reflecting our income distribution policy, Group employees will receive a payout of €168 million in profit-sharing and incentive payments, including the corporate social contribution, versus 3.0 3.0 the minimum legally mandated payout of €30 million. 2018 2017 11% 13% 16% 15% (1) Figures for 2017 are adjusted according to new accounting standards. (2) Proposed at the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders on May 16, 2019. NB: Dassault Aviation books the total amount of Rafale export contracts (including the shares 73% 72% of Thales and Safran Aircraft Engines), but only books its own share for French contracts. 10 Dassault Aviation 2018 Annual Report Business Model Business Model — Dassault Aviation Resources Shaping the future Human 11,500 Employees, including 80% ECHNICAL E in France FOR T XCE SION LLE S NC Expertise PA E A A design office recognized for Governance, its expertise ethics, CSR A century FA of experience M TY ILY S A L S O V E R EI G N Industrial HA Customers first DUAL Digital drivers 18 CIVIL/MILITARY EXPERTISE R E H O L DIN G Specialized Design, production, facilities, sale and support including of business and 13 in France military aircraft ATIO Corporate N AND RN 500 AS Programs in partnership Transformation plan FO Partner TR ES companies ON GI G C LO Environmental O O RP N OR CH AT TE ISO 14001 E I N Certified CU LTUR T ISE environmental E EXPER policy Financial €4 billion Share capital Business Model 2018 Annual Report Dassault Aviation 11 Financial and other 2018 Achievements contributions Human Federal and local 856 New hires, 76% embauches en CDI €178 million Tax charges in France including 22% women (93% of Group’s taxes are paid in France) Expertise Employees 6X FCAS / NGF Launch of a new Falcon Leader on the New-Generation Fighter €168 million In profit-sharing and incentive payments, including corporate social contribution Rafale F3-R MMT Qualification Leader in AI research of this standard for defense €57,100 Gross average annual compensation, Industrial excluding profit-sharing and incentive payments 12 Rafales delivered 41 Falcons delivered Shareholders 1,000 2,100 €177 million Dividends* Combat aircraft supported Falcons supported Corporate Industry At the hub of a strategic ecosystem, Regional and core shareholder in Thales development Society 3D printing cluster developed in the AuvergneRhône-Alpes region Inclusion Support for associations that foster the integration of young people Defense SMEs in aerospace jobs Support agreement Sustainable development Environmental ÿ11% 79% ÿ11% CO2 emissions Recovered waste Gas consumption in five years Financial Contributions to 8 United Nations sustainable development goals (SDG) €681 million 78% adjusted net income of sales in export markets * Proposed to the AGM in May 2019. 12 Dassault Aviation 2018 Annual Report Highlights Highlights — Falcon 6X launch Our new aircraft program, the ultra-widebody Falcon 6X, was unveiled on February 28, 2018. First deliveries of this business twinjet, the most spacious in its class, are slated for 2022. Its development is proceeding on schedule, especially the engine tests and joint work with our partners. Falcon customer support network expands Our core strategy of developing Falcon support services and controlling the customer experience has been strengthened with the acquisition of ExecuJet and TAG Aviation’s maintenance businesses, announced in early 2019. These two entities will consolidate our presence in the Asia-Pacific, Europe, Africa and Middle East regions, by adding 15 new locations to expand our network to a total of 65 service centers. Highlights 2018 Annual Report Dassault Aviation 13 First contract for the Future Combat Air System France and Germany have awarded the contract for a Joint Concept Study (JCS) to Dassault Aviation and Airbus, within the scope of the Future Combat Air System (FCAS) program. The study kicked off on February 20, 2019 and will last two years. Dassault Aviation is leading the New-Generation Fighter (NGF), one of the main components in the FCAS. MALE drone mockup unveiled On April 26, 2018, a life-size mockup of Europe’s new medium-altitude, long-endurance (MALE) remotely piloted aircraft system (RPAS) was unveiled at the ILA airshow in Berlin. Dassault Aviation is participating in this program alongside Airbus Defence & Space and Leonardo. 14 Dassault Aviation 2018 Annual Report Highlights — Rafale delivered to Qatar The first of the 36 Rafales ordered by Qatar was delivered on February 6, 2019 in a ceremony attended by His Excellency Dr. Khalid bin Mohamed Al Attiyah, Vice Prime Minister of Qatar and Minister of Defense, and Geneviève Darrieussecq, French Minister of State reporting to the Minister of the Armed Forces. Qatar exercised its option to order an additional 12 Rafales in March 2018, bringing its total order to 36 aircraft. It also took an option on 36 more Rafale fighters. First flight of Indian Rafale The Rafale RB008, the development aircraft for India, made a successful first flight on October 30, 2018. The Rafale will give India unprecedented air combat capabilities. Highlights 2018 Annual Report Dassault Aviation 15 First deliveries from the DRAL plant in Nagpur In early 2019, our plant in Nagpur, India rolled out its first Falcon forward fuselage sections, including one that was on display at the Aero India Show in February. The cornerstone for this plant, part of our DRAL joint venture, was laid in October 2017. Management Committee in New Delhi Following a four-day visit to India, Éric Trappier called a meeting of the Dassault Aviation Management Committee in New Delhi for the first time, on April 23, 2018, symbolizing the strategic importance of our investment in India. 16 Dassault Aviation 2018 Annual Report Highlights — Qualification of Rafale F3-R standard The Rafale F3-R standard, launched in December 2013, was qualified on October 31, 2018, right on schedule. This new standard is part of ongoing upgrades to the Rafale, and includes the Meteor long-range air-to-air missile and the Talios designation pod. Falcon CUGE The French defense procurement agency DGA (Direction Générale de l’Armement) chose Dassault Rafale F4 standard Aviation to integrate the Falcon CUGE (intelligence and electronic During her visit to Mérignac on warfare) version on March 1, 2018. January 14, 2019, Florence Parly, French Minister of the Armed Forces, officially awarded the contract for the development and integration of the new Rafale standard, F4. At the same time, she renewed the agreement providing support to small and medium-size enterprises (SME) in the defense sector. Highlights 2018 Annual Report Dassault Aviation 17 Aeroprint, a program to support 3D printing On November 5, 2018, Dassault Aviation and the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region of southern France signed a Memorandum of Understanding to support the development of additive manufacturing (3D printing) for aerospace. Partners will support the construction of a joint platform in Argonay for a period of four years. Man-Machine Teaming Man-Machine Teaming (MMT), an applied research program to foster the development of artificial intelligence (AI) for military aviation, was launched on March 16, 2018. Dassault Aviation is co-leader of this program, with Thales. 18 Dassault Aviation 2018 Annual Report Dynamic Dynamic 2018 Annual Report Dassault Aviation 19 Dynamic — Shaping the future 20 Dassault Aviation 2018 Annual Report Dynamic Dynamic 2018 Annual Report Dassault Aviation 21 Proud of our model — Operating in an unpredictable environment and facing very long-term challenges, Dassault Aviation can count on its solid fundamentals. Our strength lies in a unique development model and very loyal customers. Our long-term viability is the result of our ability to imagine the future, and adapt to a constant stream of new challenges. Governance and family values Furthermore, Dassault Aviation pays A unifying core a large majority of its taxes in France. Dassault Aviation’s corporate For 2018, we are paying 93% of our As industrial architect and systems management boasts exemplary taxes in France, a total of 178 million integrator, Dassault Aviation unifies stability, as illustrated by the fact that euros, an amount comparable to the major suppliers in the aviation Éric Trappier is only the company’s two aforementioned figures. industry. fifth Chairman and Chief Executive We take a pragmatic approach Officer in the last century. Dual expertise: civil and military to coordinating partnerships Our long-term vision is a major and alliances, whether in Europe advantage in aviation, an industry Dassault Aviation’s dual civil-military or in a broader international with very long cycles: an aircraft may expertise means that we can count framework, through developments well stay in production for 25 years on two different markets, reducing in the United States and India, and remain in service for more our exposure to fluctuating economic for instance. This approach favors than 40 years. conditions. long-term relationships, based on complementary skills, quality Our stability ensures the long-term As a systems integrator and architect, and performance. validity of the values that have driven we design and produce both military Dassault Aviation’s success: and business aircraft in the same Dassault Aviation naturally plays a design departments and factories. pivotal role in future combat systems, – technical excellence and by teaming up on various programs innovation, combined with The state-of-the-art technologies in conjunction with European partners: a passion for aeronautics; developed for defense also benefit the New-Generation Fighter via – quick strategic decisions; our civil aviation business. For example, FCAS, MALE RPAS and Space Rider. – flexibility to adapt to changes; innovative solutions for the defense – the determination to meet market, such as fly-by-wire controls, objectives; advanced aerodynamics, composites – efficient management and and data fusion, have been applied competitiveness; to the Falcon family of business jets. – a human resources policy In return, our civil aircraft business designed to attract top talent has inspired new production and ensure their loyalty. processes and new certification We deploy a unique approach and flight safety capabilities. to sharing results based on fair distribution, in particular a profit-sharing agreement that goes well beyond legal requirements. In 2018, for example, we paid 168 million euros (including the corporate social contribution) to employees via profit-sharing and incentive agreements, on a par with the 177 million euros in dividends paid to our shareholders (proposed at the Annual General Meeting in May 2019). Civil and military aircraft designed in the same office and built in the same plants — 22 Dassault Aviation 2018 Annual Report Dynamic Shaping technological innovation — As an industrial architect and systems integrator, you have to know how to develop and apply state-of-the-art technologies. Dassault Aviation offers this rare skill, making it a pivotal player in ensuring the strategic autonomy of France and Europe for both civil and military applications. Substantial investments European innovations Artificial intelligence for tomorrow’s air systems Ongoing Rafale upgrades for the Dassault Aviation has been involved F4 standard or export versions, the in the European research programs As part of the Man-Machine Future Combat Air System (FCAS), Clean Sky 1 and 2 since 2008. Teaming (MMT) program, French development of the Falcon 6X and Along with about 20 major partners defense procurement agency DGA Future Falcon, modernization from seven European countries, we chose Dassault Aviation and of the ATL2, next-generation are aiming for a nearly 50% reduction Thales to lead the development maritime surveillance and electronic in aircraft fuel consumption, of an ecosystem dedicated to the warfare aircraft, drones… all of emissions and noise. This work has integration of innovative artificial these challenges count on our led to an extended laminar wing intelligence (AI) solutions ability to innovate, reflected in new aircraft demonstrator called BLADE for military aviation. development contracts and a (Breakthrough Laminar Aircraft substantial investment in R&D. Demonstrator in Europe), along with the development of manufacturing The way we manage innovation technologies needed for volume is also changing. Through the production. We have been InnovLab approach, we formalize participating in BLADE flight tests and federate research and and data analysis since 2015, innovation projects. At the same as well as building a demonstrator Clean Sky, time, we maintain our focus on fostering relations with today’s for production of the tail plane that SESAR, Corac, would meet laminar aerodynamics dynamic startup ecosystem. criteria. We are also working on Man-Machine ways of improving airport and Teaming: Civil aviation research passenger environments, including in France studies on controlling internal and concrete external noise, and saving weight partnerships We are a member of France’s civil through load control aviation research council, Corac (Conseil pour la recherche en methodologies. Within the scope of SESAR, a joint — aéronautique civile), with undertaking to improve European contributions spanning the entire air traffic management, we helped sector: a composite wing develop the FalconEye system, demonstrator, modular avionics which will support the increased extended to business aircraft, and safe use of airports, even under tomorrow’s cockpit functions and bad weather conditions, without aircraft systems, more electric having to add new ground aircraft, and production processes infrastructures. for the Factory of the Future. Dynamic 2018 Annual Report Dassault Aviation 23 24 Dassault Aviation 2018 Annual Report Dynamic Dynamic 2018 Annual Report Dassault Aviation 25 Shaping tomorrow’s programs — We have learned how to plan well ahead and match the pace of innovation to that of development projects to successfully complete complex programs that meet our customers’ evolving needs, on time and on budget. The architect’s role Rafale: continuous Drones and partnerships improvement The system architect has to match The nEUROn program, launched the pace of innovations with that The continuous improvement in 2012, is the first stealthy of programs scheduled to hit the approach applied to the Rafale combat drone (UCAV) to date market towards 2040. We decide is based on a combination of to be developed as part of a joint on the scope of relevant tasks, technological advances and European program. Tests of this and how they will be distributed. feedback from operations. drone have generated invaluable As planned, the F3-R standard, data on this type of strategic system, Our role is to identify both constant initiated in 2014, was qualified especially on its advanced factors and those subject to short in November 2018 and will be stealthiness. These tests have innovation cycles so we can deployed in 2019. The F4 standard generated very useful data, incorporate these fast-paced was launched in January 2019, and will continue. changes without compromising the and concerns enhanced fundamentals of the overall system Unveiled in April 2018, the connectivity, survivability, combat and facilitate upcoming upgrades. medium-altitude long-endurance capabilities and dispatch reliability. remotely piloted aircraft system It should be completely validated (MALE RPAS), developed by Airbus Leader on the in 2024, and some functions Defence & Space, with Dassault New-Generation Fighter will be available as early as 2022. Aviation and Leonardo as co-contractors, has passed its Dassault Aviation and Airbus Future Falcons preliminary design review, paving Defence & Space united their the way to program launch in the strengths on the Future Combat Air The Falcon 6X program was near future. System (FCAS) in April 2018. This launched in February 2018 for an networked system will integrate the entry into service in 2022. At the New-Generation Fighter, current Targeting space same time, we are developing a fighters, drones, cruise missiles, “Future Falcon”. satellites and surveillance aircraft, In addition to our proven expertise along with land and naval systems. Other Falcons, modified to handle in pyrotechnics and telemetry, we Dassault Aviation is the lead special missions, are being prepared. have developed solid technological contractor on the New-Generation In France, the main program is capabilities in hypervelocity and Fighter (NGF). CUGE, which involves three Falcons atmospheric reentry, and we are configured for intelligence and now applying this know-how to the electronic warfare. The program European Space Agency’s (ESA) was announced in March 2018, Space Rider program. We are also and contract awards are expected capable of offering fast-response at the end of 2019. Maritime access to space and reusable surveillance aircraft should also space systems. be ordered in 2020, based on This expertise allows us to offer the Falcon 2000LXS model. projects based on disruptive technologies, in line with our Space Roadmap 2040, and to support any future decisions made by France and Europe concerning space, more than ever a key to strategic autonomy. Manage, decide, plan ahead — 26 Dassault Aviation 2018 Annual Report Dynamic Digital: driving our performance — Digital is at the heart of our innovative solutions and how we organize our work. Our capabilities as system architect draw on all major digital technologies, from 3D design to big data. Starting over 30 years ago, we pioneered a revolution in industry. Digital DNA Transformation and a new 3DExperience: a pivotal choice industrial benchmark Leading up to the 3D modeling On May 28, 2018, we signed a revolution, we have always invested The digital transformation at long-term agreement with in digital innovations. This was the Dassault Aviation is driven by our Dassault Systèmes to replace all crucible that forged Dassault expertise in aircraft development PLM solutions for our civil and Systèmes, our long-standing and new information technologies. military aircraft programs with partner. Our links with the world This transformation fosters the 3Dexperience platform. leader in digital design and Product continuous and natural Both future Falcon developments Lifecycle Management (PLM) improvements in how we work, and the New-Generation Fighter will solutions gives us the foundations to make sure that we remain be produced in this environment. and skills needed to adapt these among the world leaders. This is truly a pivotal choice, made state-of-the-art technologies to to improve the overall efficiency of innovative solutions for industry. our Product Lifecycle Management The new tools we deploy also by eventually setting up a single develop our ability to look ahead platform for all programs. and take a 360° view, from design and production to the user experience. Dynamic 2018 Annual Report Dassault Aviation 27 Collaborative system engineering By “collaborative system engineering”, we mean using a shared digital model to coordinate everybody involved in the development of large airborne systems. This approach was applied to the modernization of the ATL2 maritime patrol aircraft, using the System PLM digital platform, and is now being used on all of our new programs. The system digital model also provides a way of integrating security and data privacy criteria very early in the process. Dassault Aviation is also connected to the secure digital platforms for system engineering deployed by the French defense procurement agency DGA and its partners, expanding possibilities for the joint development of major weapon systems. Analysis, decision-making and big data “Big data” is an essential factor in managing all of our programs. It will improve our products and services, while also helping us develop new ones. By leveraging the advantages of shared data, it will support the deployment of management, analysis and decision-making tools. Our collaborative big data platform calls on the Exalead solution from Dassault Systèmes, while the algorithms specific to aviation are developed by the Data Science Lab, a joint co-engineering research unit Design, manufacture, with Dassault Systèmes. support: towards a comprehensive digital vision — 28 Dassault Aviation 2018 Annual Report Dynamic Dynamic 2018 Annual Report Dassault Aviation 29 Our changing production organization — Our production facilities are constantly upgraded to maintain world-class quality and competitiveness, through solutions such as digital innovation, specialized plants and an international footprint. Made in India Strategic capabilities We have also embraced the Advanced Product Quality Planning Our first Management Committee The drive to continuously improve (APQP) approach. meeting held elsewhere than our competitiveness is reflected in Work is continuing on the Factory in Saint-Cloud was organized in the organization of an integrated 4.0 concept, in particular through New Delhi on April 23, 2018. production system, based on an advanced manufacturing and logistics This event clearly reflects the array of facilities specialized in management to create a set of importance of our investment in strategic areas: metals, composites, operational standards that will India as part of our strategic vision. flat products, etc. The aim is to support a sustained improvement in Our choice was based on the need further simplify our production our production performance. These to achieve sustainable organization and multiply synergies, standards will enhance the use of competitiveness gains within based on a new software package connected production, responsive the scope of the technology and called Sapriso. This specialization production organization and workload transfers as part of India’s approach also entails the construction robotization. order of 36 Rafale fighters in 2016. of new buildings, already under way or planned, in Mérignac, Martignas Our plant in Nagpur delivered its and Biarritz. In addition, it is behind Industrial ecosystem first Falcon 2000 parts at the end the relocation of our fuselage, of 2018. The production ramp-up, fully-equipped skin panels and We are at the center of an industrial planned over a five year period, is complex metallic pipe activities network that has gradually developed taking shape with the construction in a new plant in Cergy-Pontoise, over the decades, one that shares of a second hangar-workshop. near Paris. knowledge and methods, along At the same time, our teams have with proven design and production trained the first Indian operators tools. In January 2019, we officially and managers. Synergies and new ways renewed our support for defense of working The growth of our business in SMEs, following on an agreement India has resulted in a number of signed with the French Ministry of Changes to our facilities are also partnerships with local companies, the Armed Forces in 2014. designed to foster new and more as well as a supply chain extended collaborative ways of working. For Our role is also taking concrete shape to include new suppliers. More than instance, the engineers in our design with Aeroprint, an agreement signed 150 French SMEs have already offices incorporate production and with the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes been offered development support requirements right from the region of southern France in opportunities related to India’s outset. And our design teams work November 2018 to support the Rafale contract. even more closely with our customers development of the regional and take a more holistic view of the additive manufacturing industry. entire aircraft. Among other aspects, this program supports the construction of a collaborative platform in Argonay, slated to start testing in 2020 and production in 2022. Adapt to sustain quality and competitiveness — 30 Dassault Aviation 2018 Annual Report Titre du chapitre… Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 Annual Report Dassault Aviation 31 Corporate Social Responsibility — Higher, together 32 Dassault Aviation 2018 Annual Report Corporate Social Responsibility The human face of performance — Dassault Aviation is a leader that has maintained its human face. Our strength lies in the individual and collective performance of our people, and in their passion for aerospace. Transmitting know-how The main priorities of our career development plans and the “generations contract” are sustained technical excellence and a dynamic approach to strategic workforce planning. We invest more than 3% of our annual payroll in training – three times the legally required amount. The Dassault Conservatory offers specific training courses in addition to basic training, to perpetuate our expertise and uphold our quality standards. Integrating talent Our employee ambassadors are in contact with both students and teachers in schools, universities and training centers to adapt curricula to the needs of the aerospace industry, publicize our company and its professions, and also spot new talent. Our significant recruiting effort in 2018 should continue in 2019. Combining agility and stability — Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 Annual Report Dassault Aviation 33 A motivating social model Proactive social engagement Carrying on the social model Six agreements and amendments policy, women accounted for 26% instituted by Marcel Dassault, we were signed in 2018, especially of newly-hired managers and 24% keep our people highly motivated concerning the organization of working of other new hires. by offering interesting projects, hours, compensation policy, the We are also supporting initiatives to coupled with an attractive organization of collective train disabled persons in aerospace compensation policy. A significant negotiations within the company, jobs via work-study programs, in share of earnings is distributed to the and Perco (a collective retirement particular as a partner to the employees of our French companies savings plan). Several major association Hanvol, created in 2010 based on specific profit-sharing negotiations are now being finalized, with support from French aerospace agreements. In addition, the parent concerning wellbeing at work, the industries association Gifas. The company applies a highly favorable creation of social and economic Dassault Aviation Group had system of incentive payments. committees with employee 534 disabled employees in 2018, representatives, resources allocated The parent company also paid versus 496 in 2017. to employee representatives, and 23.7 million euros to work’s councils the professional careers of these for social and cultural activities, representatives. Commitments equal to 5% of the total payroll. In 2018, the average annual gross We support a wide range of human Diversity and equal opportunity compensation for employees of commitments, as shown by the Dassault Aviation group was following examples. Diversity is a major consideration 57,100 euros (excluding profit-sharing for Dassault Aviation and a factor For instance, through the association and incentive payments), and for driving performance. Our proactive Elles bougent (“Women on the parent company employees it was policy in this matter is reflected in Move”), we encourage women 67,400 euros (including profit-sharing our commitment to hiring women, to join the aerospace industry by and incentive payments). with the aim of raising this figure to promoting science and technology 25% for managers and 20% for courses for female junior high non-managerial staff for the period and high school students. 2018-2020. In the first year of this In addition, we support Les Ailes Brisées and the Fondation des Œuvres Sociales de l’Air, two associations that provide assistance to civilian and military aviators and flight crews and their families, who have experienced injuries or other “life events”. Employees can also support organ donations by participating in the Course du Cœur (“Race for the Heart”) organized by the Dassault Group. 34 Dassault Aviation 2018 Annual Report Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 Annual Report Dassault Aviation 35 Shared values — Dassault Aviation boasts an affirmed identity, strong values and strict ethical principles, reflected in our charter and codes of conduct, a dedicated organizational structure, prevention and training policies, procedures and international commitments. Values Strict ethical principles International commitments Customer satisfaction is both Dassault Aviation applies very strict Dassault Aviation has signed our top priority and our guiding business ethics, in compliance with international agreements on fair philosophy, based on integrity, national laws and international trade practices (Common Industry trust and loyalty. The development agreements. Standards, Global Principles) and of Dassault Aviation depends on the United Nations Global Compact, The Ethics department, an the quality and commitment which promotes ten fundamental independent body which reports of our people. A team spirit, principles concerning basic human directly to the Chairman and Chief mutual respect, collaboration and rights, labor and environmental Executive Officer of Dassault professional fulfillment are all standards, and the fight against Aviation, is tasked with integral parts of our DNA. corruption. implementing measures to fight Both technological excellence corruption and influence peddling, and innovation are anchored in an and closely monitoring performance approach based on quality and in these areas. environmental protection. Economic It has built a solid organization, performance depends on providing based on the following procedures shareholders and financial markets and tools: with open and accurate information, while complying with fair trade rules – an anti-corruption code as part of and equitably treating our suppliers. internal rules, defining the different types of prohibited behaviors, We are open-minded, applying a and an anti-corruption guide that proactive policy of partnerships, shows how this works, with employee training and sustained practical examples and exercises; links with the scientific and – an internal alert procedure, academic communities. enabling employees, temporary Business staff and outside partners to ethics: a solid signal any infraction, or any behavior not in line with the organization anti-corruption code; – a chart of risks to identify, analyze and rank corruption — exposure risks; – procedures to assess the situation of customers, tier-1 suppliers and consultants in relation to this chart; – internal and external accounting control procedures; – special training sessions for staff with the greatest risk exposure. To support this initiative, Dassault Aviation has also set up an internal assessment and control structure. 36 Dassault Aviation 2018 Annual Report Corporate Social Responsibility Contributing to a sustainable environment — Not just specialized teams, but all of our employees contribute to the application of our environmental policy. This involvement encompasses our partners, and we support these companies in their own continuous improvement programs. As an industry leader, we are fully committed to corporate social responsibility (CSR), both locally and internationally. Our health, safety and environment (HSE) policy for 2018-2020 is therefore designed to meet the United Nations’ sustainable development goals (SDGs). Streamlined, high-performance production processes The modernization of our production facilities, within the scope of Dassault Aviation’s transformation plan, Leading our Future, takes into account environmental criteria such as resource consumption, the use of chemical substances, atmospheric and aqueous releases, and the generation of waste. Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 Annual Report Dassault Aviation 37 Reducing our environmental footprint The efforts made by all of our facilities, in line with the company’s general policy, have helped reduce our environmental footprint. Energy and greenhouse gases We have reduced our gas consumption by 11% over the last five years, due to the general application of building management systems, the introduction of more energy-efficient systems, thermal insulation of buildings and the modernization of heating systems. Over and above the greenhouse gases generated for energy, the gases generated indirectly by our operations are being analyzed and various measures are already being applied to reduce these emissions. For example, we have set up new distribution hubs to limit the need for transportation. Volatile organic compounds Waste Over the last five years we have Waste management is also the focus decreased emissions of volatile of continuous improvement efforts, organic compounds (VOC) by 23%, reflecting a circular economy trend. by using industrial processes that Reducing waste at the source require fewer solvents. has resulted in a decrease of 15%, by weight, in five years. Water Furthermore, in 2018 we were able to recover 79% of our waste. The parent company has reduced its consumption of water by 21% over the last ten years, by optimizing water consumption in the sanitation system and eliminating open-circuit industrial processes. ÿ 11% decrease in CO2 emissions in 10 years — 38 Dassault Aviation 2018 Annual Report Chapitre Civil and military aircraft 2018 Annual Report Dassault Aviation 39 Civil and Military Aircraft — Delivering customer satisfaction 40 Dassault Aviation 2018 Annual Report Civil and Military Aircraft Falcon: “Business is a Battle” — Our Falcons are high-end business jets. They stand out thanks to their agility, the quality of the associated services and the incorporation of highly innovative solutions, some drawn from military aviation. Falcon 8X, the flagship Falcon 6X, a class all its own The Falcon 8X is the crown jewel The Falcon 6X was launched in of Falcon customer experience. It has February 2018, with entry into service the longest cabin in our family and expected in 2022. Its development also offers the best soundproofing is on schedule, and engine tests for unrivaled comfort, plus an have started. It will have the largest exceptionally wide choice of cabin in its class. 30 different layouts. The ultra-widebody twin-engine The 8X has a range of Falcon 6X has a maximum speed 6,450 nautical miles, which means of Mach 0.90 and a range of it is capable of non-stop flights 5,500 nautical miles, allowing Safety, between Beijing and New York, non-step flights between Beijing connectivity, Singapore and London, or São and San Francisco. It can also fly Paulo and Moscow. It can also be from Washington, D.C. to New York, comfort operated out of airports that are then continue on to Geneva without and agility inaccessible to most competitors, having to refuel. such as London City, from which it can take off for a non-stop flight The Falcon 6X is fitted with the brand-new and all-digital EASy III — to New York. And it’s 30% more flight deck and avionics suite, eco-efficient that other aircraft along with FalconSphere II and in its class. FalconEye systems. The Falcon 8X also features the Time between inspections is FalconEye combined vision system, guaranteed for 800 hours or enabling it to fly approaches under 12 months, 30% more than reduced visibility conditions with previous-generation aircraft. exceptional safety and reliability because of the combined display with a map based on amplified infrared images collected by the airplane itself. FalconEye was certified in 2018 for approaches under low visibility up to 100 feet. A configuration with a dual head-up display will be available in 2020. Civil and Military Aircraft 2018 Annual Report Dassault Aviation 41 Falcon Connections Our top priorities are naturally FalconConnect is the new JetWave, a high-speed broadband safety and the customer experience, integrated solution for managing antenna, allows passengers to surf especially in terms of providing communications and data the Web, watch videos, or participate the best possible work and exchanges between the aircraft in videoconferences anywhere in the communications environment. and ground networks. It offers clear world, including during trans-oceanic Here are some of the solutions we and flexible connectivity packages flights, via the Inmarsat Global have developed to meet these goals. for both passengers and operators. Xpress network. This service is available on all our FalconSphere II is an integrated FalconTalk is a very user-friendly new aircraft and, starting this year, Electronic Flight Bag (EFB), a solution application that allows the simple it can be retrofitted on all others. that considerably simplifies and use of mobile phones on the plane. shortens the flight planning process Falcon Broadcast gives support staff based on a tablet with multiple technical information in real time, so applications, including a Weight & they can plan ahead, according to Balance Module, Electronic Cruise scheduled stopovers, for any servicing Computation and FalconPerformance. needed. The upshot is improved dispatch reliability for our airplanes. 42 Dassault Aviation 2018 Annual Report Civil and Military Aircraft Serving armed forces — Dassault Aviation delivers what’s needed to meet current and future strategic challenges. France, Egypt, Qatar and India have all chosen Rafale fighters for their armed forces. We have now delivered 175 Rafales out of the 276 ordered, including 96 in export markets. Rafale France France has ordered a total of 180 Rafales, with 152 delivered as of December 31, 2018. A fifth batch of 30 more aircraft is expected in the 2019-2025 military spending bill. The Rafale has now logged a total of 270,000 flight-hours, including 43,000 hours in operation, making it one of the world’s most seasoned combat aircraft. Flown by both French air force and navy pilots, the Rafale has demonstrated its outstanding versatility and combat effectiveness in a wide range of demanding theaters of operation, including Afghanistan from 2007 to 2012, Libya in 2011, and the Sahel, Iraq and Syria since 2013, 2014 and 2015, respectively. The Rafale can handle a variety of missions that previously required seven different types of aircraft. The Rafale was designed from the ground up to incorporate new capabilities throughout its service life, based on operating feedback. The new F3-R standard will enter service in 2019, with features including the Meteor air-to-air missile, the Talios laser designation pod and a new version of the AASM guided missile. Civil and Military Aircraft 2018 Annual Report Dassault Aviation 43 Ongoing upgrades: Rafale F4 Officially announced in December 2018, the Rafale F4 standard will be finalized in 2024, with some functions already available in 2022. F4 will feature innovative connectivity solutions to maximize the Rafale’s effectiveness in networked combat. It also includes upgraded sensors (radar, OSF search & track system) and helmet-mounted display, along with new weapons (Mica NG, 1,000-kg AASM). Another new feature will be a new prognosis and diagnostic-aid system, introducing for the first time predictive maintenance capabilities. Other solutions to optimize maintenance are planned, including those based on big data and artificial intelligence. Lastly, the Rafale F4 will be outfitted with a new electronic engine control unit. Export markets Special-mission Falcons Egypt, the first export customer for For France, we are now preparing provides the best combination of the Rafale, ordered 24 aircraft in 2015. the Falcon CUGE intelligence and size, payload, speed, range and By the end of 2018, 23 had been electronic warfare program, cost of ownership. It features an delivered. announced in March 2018. active electronically scanned array (AESA) radar. Deliveries to Qatar kicked off in French defense procurement agency February 2019. Doha ordered DGA also chose us to carry out the The Japan Coast Guard is set to 36 Rafales, including 24 in 2015 detailed design study for the navy’s receive its first Falcon 2000MSA in then another 12 in 2018, with an future maritime surveillance and 2019, and ordered a fifth aircraft of option on 36 more aircraft. intervention aircraft (AVSIMAR), this type in 2018. based on the Falcon 2000LXS. For India, a loyal customer for the For maritime reconnaissance, last 65 years, the order for 36 Rafales the Falcon 2000 MSA/MRA version is proceeding on schedule, and they will be delivered starting in 2019. Highly versatile, combat proven — 44 Dassault Aviation 2018 Annual Report Civil and Military Aircraft Customer support: anytime, anywhere — Our military aircraft help defend a number of different countries around the world, while our business aircraft enhance corporate efficiency at all levels. These are critical challenges for the long haul. Our support solutions are sound, efficient and tailored to the specific requirements of each user. Preferred partner Digital upgrades We support a thousand military The 3DExperience platform ensures Our big data approach to support aircraft and more than 2,100 Falcon digital continuity from design and allows us to share all data concerning business jets in some 80 countries. production to support. The the service lives of our aircraft. Whether civil or military aircraft, we development of our new support Using contextual visualization or provide the same proactive support packages is based on software dynamic dashboards, it allows to reduce costs and deliver targeted, modules shared between Falcon cross-functional analyses and local services. We support our and military aircraft support. New predictive maintenance models. customers day after day, today and services intended for flight crews The “digital twin” approach, which far into the future, by maintaining are also developed according to our compares the actual aircraft’s the tools and expertise needed to dual civil/military capabilities. performance to its digital model, service our planes over the decades further increases our forecasting of their operating lives. ability. Civil and Military Aircraft 2018 Annual Report Dassault Aviation 45 A stronger Falcon support network Our Falcon support development strategy and our expertise in the customer experience are growing apace with the acquisition of the maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) businesses of ExecuJet and TAG Aviation, announced in early 2019. These two entities will bolster our presence in the Asia-Pacific, Europe, Africa and the Middle East, by adding 15 new locations, bringing our network total to 65 service centers. In France, following the ramp-up of the new Dassault Falcon Service (DFS) facility in Mérignac, which can handle up to six Falcon 8X class aircraft, the modernization of DFS facilities at Le Bourget will improve our MRO capacity for the Falcon 7X and 8X. A new distribution center near Roissy-Charles-de-Gaulle airport will help improve the efficiency of FalconResponse, our 24/7 Aircraft on Ground (AoG) assistance service. Custom-tailored military support By implementing through-life support, Several renovation projects now Dispatch now more vertically integrated under way, for instance on the French under our control, we can further navy’s ATL2 maritime patrol aircraft, reliability improve the dispatch reliability of the French air force’s Mirage 2000 D commitment the Rafales deployed by France. fighters and India’s Mirage 2000s, The new Rafale Care contract (2019-2029) is now being drawn up clearly demonstrate the upgradeability of our aircraft family. — and negotiated. It is designed to cover virtually all of the aircraft’s systems and equipment (except for the engine), in both the domestic and export markets. 46 Dassault Aviation 2018 Annual Report Civil and Military Aircraft Aircraft programs — Rafale Air C (single-seat) Rafale Air B (twin-seat) Rafale Marine (single-seat) Wingspan: 35.8 ft (10.9 m) Wingspan: 35.8 ft (10.9 m) Wingspan: 35.8 ft (10.9 m) Length: 50.2 ft (15.3 m) Length: 50.2 ft (15.3 m) Length: 50.2 ft (15.3 m) Height: 17.4 ft (5.3 m) Height: 17.4 ft (5.3 m) Height: 17.4 ft (5.3 m) Empty weight: ~–10 MT Empty weight: ~–10 MT Empty weight: ~–10.5 MT Maximum takeoff weight: 24.5 MT Maximum takeoff weight: 24.5 MT Maximum takeoff weight: 24.5 MT External stores capacity: 9.5 MT External stores capacity: 9.5 MT External stores capacity: 9.5 MT Mirage 2000-5 and 2000-9 Mirage 2000 D (twin-seat) Wingspan: 29.9 ft (9.1 m) Wingspan: 29.9 ft (9.1 m) Length: 47.0 ft (14.3 m) Length: 47.0 ft (14.3 m) Height: 17.8 ft (5.4 m) Height: 17.8 ft (5.4 m) Empty weight: 8 MT Empty weight: 8 MT Maximum takeoff weight: 17.5 MT Maximum takeoff weight: 16.5 MT External stores capacity: 6.2 MT External stores capacity: 5.7 MT Falcon 2000 MRA/MSA ATL2 Wingspan: 70.2 ft (21.4 m) Wingspan: 123 ft (37.5 m) Length: 66.3 ft (20.2 m) Length: 104 ft (31.7 m) Height: 23.2 ft (7.1 m) Height: 35 ft (10.8 m) Empty weight: 11.3 MT Empty weight: 25.7 MT Maximum takeoff weight: 19.4 MT Maximum takeoff weight: 46.2 MT External stores capacity: 2.2 MT nEUROn Wingspan: 41.0 ft (12.5 m) Length: 32.8 ft (10 m) Height: 8.2 ft (2.5 m) MT = metric tons Empty weight: 5 MT nm = nautical miles Civil and Military Aircraft 2018 Annual Report Dassault Aviation 47 Falcon 8X Falcon 7X Falcon 6X Wingspan: 86.3 ft (26.3 m) Wingspan: 86 ft (26.2 m) Wingspan: 85.1 ft (25.9 m) Length: 80.4 ft (24.5 m) Length: 76.1 ft (23.4 m) Length: 84.3 ft (25.7 m) Height: 26.0 ft (7.9 m) Height: 25.6 ft (7.9 m) Height: 24.5 ft (7.5 m) Range: 6,450 nm (11,945 km) Range: 5,950 nm (11,020 km) Range: 5,500 nm (10,186 km) Beijing ‡ New York Zurich ‡ San Francisco Los Angeles ‡ Geneva Paris ‡ Singapore Paris ‡ Hong Kong Beijing ‡ San Francisco São Paulo ‡ Moscow Beijing ‡ Zurich Moscow ‡ Singapore Falcon 900LX Falcon 2000LXS Falcon 2000S Wingspan: 70.2 ft (21.4 m) Wingspan: 70.2 ft (21.4 m) Wingspan: 70.2 ft (21.4 m) Length: 66.3 ft (20.2 m) Length: 66.3 ft (20.2 m) Length: 66.6 ft (20.2 m) Height: 25.0 ft (7.7 m) Height: 23.3 ft (7.1 m) Height: 23.3 ft (7.1 m) Range: 4,750 nm (8,800 km) Range: 4,000 nm (7,400 km) Range: 3,350 nm (6,200 km) Shanghai ‡ Moscow Zurich ‡ Mumbai New York ‡ Zurich Mumbai ‡ London City Airport Dubai ‡ London City Airport Beijing ‡ Singapore Chicago ‡ Zurich New York ‡ Rome Paris ‡ Dubai Range at Mach 0.80 with eight passengers, three crew members, NBAA IFR reserves, ISA conditions, full fuel tank. Dassault Aviation Worldwide 2018 Annual Report Dassault Aviation 49 Dassault Aviation Worldwide — Unlimited Horizons 50 Dassault Aviation 2018 Annual Report Dassault Aviation Worldwide Dassault Aviation Worldwide — Dassault Aviation operates in more than 80 countries, with more than 3,000 aircraft in service worldwide. Dassault aircraft in service Dassault Aviation facilities (production plants and offices) ExecuJet and TAG Aviation: service centers being acquired Falcon service centers and FalconResponse command centers Dassault Aviation Worldwide 2018 Annual Report Dassault Aviation 51 52 Dassault Aviation 2018 Annual Report 2018 ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT The English language version of this report is a free translation from the original, which was prepared in French language. All possible care has been taken to ensure that the translation is an accurate presentation of the original. However, in all matters of interpretation, views or opinion expressed in the original language version of the document in French take precedence over the translation. Contents GENERAL 5 Dassault Aviation (Parent Company) 115 5.1 Activities Declaration of the person responsible for 5.2 Results the report 56 5.3 Risk management Group structure 57 5.4 Terms of payment Board of Directors / Management 5.5 Shareholder information Committee 58 6 Proposed resolutions 124 DIRECTORS’ REPORT 1 Dassault Aviation Group 59 7 Conclusion and outlook 127 1.1 2018 results 1.2 Financial structure REPORT OF THE BOARD OF 1.3 Related-party transactions DIRECTORS ON CORPORATE 1.4 Group activities 1.5 Group structure GOVERNANCE 1.6 Research & development 1 Corporate governance 141 1.7 Transformation plan: Leading our future 1.1 Composition of the Board of Directors 1.8 Digital tools, processes and innovation 1.2 Offices held and duties performed by 1.9 Production and industrial resources corporate officers in 2018 in other companies 1.10 Total quality 1.3 Conditions for preparing and organizing the work of the Board of Directors 2 Risk factors 77 1.4 Agreements between a shareholder of the 2.1 Risks related to programs Company and one of its subsidiaries 2.2 Risks related to the supply chain 1.5 Operations of Executive Management 2.3 Risks related to the information system 1.6 Powers of the Chairman and Chief Executive 2.4 Risks related to regulatory changes Officer 2.5 Risks related to the fight against corruption 1.7 Powers of the Chief Operating Officer 2.6 Risks related to the fight against tax evasion 1.8 Executive Committee 2.7 Risks related to the respect of Human Rights 1.9 General Meetings of shareholders 2.8 Risks related to intellectual property 2 Compensation of corporate officers 154 2.9 Risks related to personnel 2.1 Directors’ fees allocation system 2.10 Financial risks 2.2 Compensation of corporate officers in 2018 2.11 Market risks 2.12 Environmental risks 2.3 2019 report on executive compensation policy 2.13 Risks related to security breaches 3 Information mentioned in Article 165 2.14 Insurance L. 225-37-5 of the French 3 Internal auditing and risk 84 Commercial Code management procedures 3.1 Internal auditing objectives 3.2 Environment and general organization CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL of internal auditing STATEMENTS 3.3 Risk management procedures 3.4 Internal auditing procedures for Financial statements 167 financial and accounting purposes 3.5 2018 actions Auditors’ report 225 3.6 2019 action plan 4 Non-financial performance 89 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL declaration STATEMENTS 4.1 Identification of relevant non-financial risks 4.2 General policy Financial statements 233 4.3 Human resources information Auditors’ reports 264 4.4 Environmental information 4.5 Corporate responsibility information 4.6 Human Rights 4.7 Business ethics 4.8 Duty of care 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 55 Declaration of the person responsible for the report I hereby certify that, to my knowledge, the financial presents a fair view of the development of the statements have been prepared in accordance with business, performance and financial situation of the the applicable accounting standards and give a true company and of all the other companies included in and fair view of the assets and liabilities, financial the scope of consolidation, together with a position and income or loss of the company and all description of the main risks and uncertainties to the other entities included in the scope of which they are exposed. consolidation, and that the enclosed directors’ report Paris, February 27, 2019 Éric Trappier Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 56 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION Group structure as of December 31, 2018 The Dassault Aviation Group is an international group that encompasses most of the aeronautical business of the Marcel Dassault Industrial Group. The main Group companies are as follows: DASSAULT AVIATION Parent Company Consolidated companies Main non-consolidated 100% 25% companies Sogitec Industries 100% 100% Dassault International Dassault Falcon Jet (France) Thales (France) (USA) (France) 100% Dassault Réassurance (France) Dassault Falcon 100% Service (France) Dassault Aviation Dassault Aircraft 100% 100% Participations Services (USA) (France) 50% 100% Dassault Falcon Dassault Falcon Jet 100% Falcon Training Center Business Services Wilmington (USA) (France) (China) Aero Precision Repair 50% 54% SECBAT (France) and Overhaul (USA) 49% Dassault Reliance Dassault Falcon Jet 100% Aerospace Ltd. Leasing (USA) (India) Corse Composites Dassault Falcon Jet Do 100% 25% Aéronautiques Brasil (Brazil) (France) Midway 100% 16% Eurotradia International (USA) (France) Detailed information on the main Group companies is given in paragraph 1.5 of the Directors’ Report. The list of consolidated entities is presented in note 2, “Scope of consolidation”, to the consolidated financial statements. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 57 Board of Directors as of December 31, 2018 Honorary Chairman Charles Edelstenne Chairman of the Board of Directors Éric Trappier Directors Catherine Dassault Olivier Dassault Charles Edelstenne Marie-Hélène Habert Mathilde Lemoine Henri Proglio Lucia Sinapi-Thomas Richard Bédère (director representing employees) Executive Management Chief Executive Officer Chief Operating Officer Éric Trappier Loïk Segalen Executive Committee as of December 31, 2018 Chairman of the Committee Éric Trappier Chief Executive Officer Loïk Segalen Chief Operating Officer Benoit Berger Senior Executive Vice-President, Procurement and Purchasing Bruno Chevalier Senior Executive Vice-President, Military Customer Support Denis Dassé Chief Financial Officer Benoît Dussaugey Senior Executive Vice-President, International Jean-Marc Gasparini Executive Vice-President, Military Programs Bruno Giorgianni Executive Committee Secretary and Executive Vice-President, Public Affairs and Security Didier Gondoin(*) Senior Executive Vice-President, Engineering Frédéric Lherm Senior Executive Vice-President, Industrial Operations Gérald Maria Senior Executive Vice-President, Total Quality Philippe Massot Senior Vice-President, Military Sales France Frédéric Petit Senior Vice-President, Falcon Programs Yves Petit Senior Vice-President, Human Resources Jean Sass Chief Digital Officer Olivier Villa Senior Executive Vice-President, Civil Aircraft ( ) * Nicolas Mojaïsky, since January 1, 2019 Government Commissioner Mr. Paul Fouilland, French Armed Forces General Inspector Auditors Mazars S.A., represented by Mr. Mathieu Mougard, partner Deloitte & Associés S.A., represented by Mr. Jean-François Viat, partner 58 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION Directors’ Report TRIBUTE TO SERGE DASSAULT The Board of Directors pays tribute to Serge Dassault, who passed away on May 28 at the age of 93. Serge Dassault, a graduate of the École Polytechnique and the École Nationale Supérieure de l’Aéronautique, started at the Company’s engineering department in 1951 under the direction of Henri Deplante before taking responsibility for flight tests. In that capacity, he oversaw the development of several aircraft, such as the Super Mystère B2, Mirage III, Etendard and Mirage IV. After being appointed Military Export Director, he handled the negotiations that led to the purchase of the Mirage III by Switzerland and Australia. He also launched the Mystère 20 sales campaign in the United States. After his time at Société Electronique Marcel Dassault, which later became Electronique Serge Dassault, he became Chairman and CEO of our Company from the end of 1986 until April 2000. During that period, under his leadership, our company successfully deployed long-term and large-scale strategies consistent with the long cycles typical of our products. He was a tenacious and hard worker man with a spirit of conquest. Aeronautics was his passion. At last, he anticipated and settled his successorship by appointing Charles Edelstenne, as head of GIMD with the agreement of all of his children. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 59 DASSAULT AVIATION Dear Shareholders, Before submitting the company and consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2018, and the appropriation of earnings, we would like to take this opportunity to present our consolidated results, the activities of the Group and of the Parent Company during the past year, their future prospects and the other information required by law. 1. DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP 1.1 2018 RESULTS 1.1.1 Key data 2018 2017 (pro forma IFRS 15) EUR 5,024 million EUR 3,289 million 12 Rafale Qatar Order intake 42 Falcon 38 Falcon (52 orders and (41 orders and cancellation of the last 10 Falcon 5X) cancellation of 3 Falcon 5X) EUR 5,084 million EUR 4,876 million (*) 9 Rafale Egypt 8 Rafale Egypt Adjusted net sales 3 Rafale France 1 Rafale France 41 Falcon 49 Falcon EUR 19,376 million EUR 19,460 million 101 Rafale 101 Rafale Backlog (73 Export and 28 France) (70 Export and 31 France) as of December 31 53 Falcon 52 Falcon (no longer including Falcon 5X) (incl. Falcon 5X not canceled) Adjusted operating income (*) EUR 669 million EUR 357 million 13.2% of net sales 7.3% of net sales Adjusted operating margin 9.2% without Safran compensation (*) EUR 681 million EUR 410 million Adjusted net income € 82.1 / share € 49.8 / share 13.4% of net sales 8.4% of net sales Adjusted net margin 10.8% without Safran compensation Available cash EUR 5,211 million EUR 4,121 million as of December 31 EUR 177 million EUR 127 million Dividends € 21.2 / share € 15.3 / share Employee profit-sharing and incentives EUR 168 million EUR 119 million including 20% correlated social tax Workforce as of December 31 11,494 11,398 Note: Dassault Aviation recognizes the Rafale Export contracts in their entirety (including the Thales and Safran parts), whereas for France, only the Dassault Aviation part is recognized. Main IFRS aggregates (see reconciliation table in the Appendix) (*) Consolidated net sales EUR 5,119 million EUR 4,901 million (*) Consolidated operating income EUR 708 million EUR 218 million (*) Consolidated net income EUR 573 million EUR 630 million 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 61 Directors’ Report 1.1.2 Definition of alternative performance indicators To reflect the actual economic performance of the Group, and to monitor and compare performance, the Dassault Aviation Group presents an adjusted income statement of the following elements:  gains and losses resulting from the exercise of derivative hedging instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting under IFRS. This income/loss, presented as financial income/loss in the consolidated income statement, is reclassified as net sales, and therefore in operating income within the adjusted income statement,  the valuation of foreign currency derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, by neutralizing the change in fair value of these instruments (the Group considering that the gains and losses on hedging should impact the result only as commercial flows occur), with the exception of the derivatives allocated to hedge balance sheet positions whose change in fair value is presented in operating income,  the amortization of the Thales Purchase Price Allocation (PPA),  adjustments applied by Thales in its financial reporting,  in 2017, the arbitration award relating to the commercial dispute between the Republic of China and a group of three French industrial companies, among which Dassault Aviation and capital gains made on marketable securities to offset that expense. The Group also presents the “available cash” indicator, which reflects the amount of the Group’s total liquidities, net of financial debt. It covers the following balance sheet items:  cash and cash equivalents,  available-for-sale marketable securities (at their market value),  financial debt. Note that only the consolidated financial statements are audited by the Statutory Auditors. Adjusted financial data are subject to the verification procedures applicable to all the information provided in the annual report. 1.1.3 IFRS 15 impacts – Revenue Recognition The 2017 financial statements were restated in accordance with the application of IFRS 15, which sets out standards for revenue recognition. The most material impact for the Group of applying this standard is the inclusion of a financing component when it is significant, to reflect a “cash sale price” for the service provided. The financing component exists when there is, for a given contract, a significant difference between the moment when the receipts are received and the moment when the revenue is recognized. Future revenue and therefore the operating income, from the relevant contracts will be increased by this financing component, offset by a financial expense recognized along the duration of the contract. 62 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION The IFRS 15 impacts on 2017 adjusted net income are as follows: 2017 2017 IFRS 15 In EUR thousands Adjusted Adjusted impact Published Restated Net sales 4,807,530 68,442 4,875,972 Operating income 348,475 8,215 356,690 Operating margin 7.2% 7.3% Financial income 10,610 -67,846 -57,236 Share in net income of equity associates 244,891 -34,973 209,918 Income tax -114,742 15,692 -99,050 Net Income 489,234 -78,912 410,322 Net margin 10.2% 8.4% 1.1.4 Impact of the adjustments The impact in 2018 of adjustments to income statement aggregates is presented below: 2018 Foreign exchange derivatives Adjustments consolidated THALES 2018 adjusted (in EUR thousands) Foreign applied income Change in PPA income statement exchange by Thales statement fair value gain/loss Net sales 5,119,219 -30,162 -5,223 5,083,834 Operating income 707,529 -30,162 -8,527 668,840 Financial income -145,883 30,162 38,243 -77,478 Share in net income of 205,849 39,580 48,545 293,974 equity associates Income tax -194,693 -9,505 -204,198 Net income 572,802 0 20,211 39,580 48,545 681,138 Group share of net income 572,741 0 20,211 39,580 48,545 681,077 Group share of net income 69.1 82.1 per share (in EUR) 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 63 Directors’ Report The impact in 2017 of adjustments to income statement aggregates (IFRS 15 pro forma) is presented below: Foreign exchange 2017 derivatives Adjustments 2017 adjusted consolidated Commercial THALES (in EUR thousands) applied income income Foreign dispute PPA Change in by Thales statement statement exchange fair value gain/loss Net sales 4,901,080 -30,941 5,833 4,875,972 Operating income 217,935 -30,941 36,195 133,501 356,690 Net financial income 519,559 30,941 -474,235 -133,501(1) -57,236 Share in net income of 143,951 26,384 39,583 209,918 equity associates Income tax -251,363 152,313 -99,050 Net income 630,082 0 -285,727 0 26,384 39,583 410,322 Group share of net in630,040 0 -285,727 0 26,384 39,583 410,280 come Group share of net income 76.4 49.8 per share (in EUR) (1) in order to reflect the actual economic performance of the Group, the amount of the capital gains made on marketable securities to offset the expense recognized for the commercial dispute is also adjusted. 1.1.5 Order intake 2018 Order intake was EUR 5,024 million, compared with EUR 3,289 million in 2017 (IFRS 15 pro forma). Export order intake represented 80%. Order records are as follows, in EUR millions: Defense % Year Falcon Total France Export Export 2014 441 252 3,946 4,639 89% 2015 391 7,891 1,602 9,884 96% 2016 696 7,443 1,419 9,558 92% 2017 552 353 2,384 3,289 82% 2018 1,038 1,672 2,314 5,024 80% The order intake item is composed entirely of firm orders. The data for 2017 was restated for the impact of IFRS 15. Defense programs 2018 Defense orders totaled EUR 2,710 million, compared with EUR 905 million in 2017 (IFRS 15 pro forma), due in particular to the order of 12 Rafale following the coming into force of the option exercised by Qatar and the F4 Standard notification for the Rafale (firm and optional batches announced, however firm batch only recorded in 2018 order intake). 64 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION Falcon programs 2018 Falcon orders totaled EUR 2,314 million versus EUR 2,384 million in 2017 (IFRS 15 pro forma). 42 Falcon were ordered in 2018 (52 orders and cancellation of the last 10 Falcon 5X). In 2017, 38 Falcon were ordered (41 orders and 3 cancellations of Falcon 5X). 1.1.6 Adjusted net sales 2018 net sales amounted to EUR 5,084 million, compared to EUR 4,876 million in 2017 (IFRS 15 pro forma). Export represented 78%. The change in net sales was as follows, in EUR millions: Defense % Year Falcon Total France Export Export 2014 770 225 2,685 3,680 77% 2015 632 1,037 2,507 4,176 83% 2016 525 719 2,342 3,586 83% 2017 473 1,402 3,001 4,876 89% 2018 1,066 1,419 2,599 5,084 78% Defense programs 2018 Defense net sales amounted to EUR 2,485 million, compared to EUR 1,875 million in 2017 (IFRS 15 pro forma). Sales were impacted by the delivery of the Rafale F3-R standard to France and by the increase in the number of Rafale deliveries. 9 Rafale were delivered to Egypt and 3 Rafale to France in 2018, compared with 8 to Egypt and 1 to France in 2017. In addition, 2 Rafale Marine retrofitted to the F3 standard were delivered to France in 2018. Falcon programs 2018 Falcon net sales amounted to EUR 2,599 million, compared to EUR 3,001 million in 2017 (IFRS 15 pro forma). Sales were impacted by the lower number of new aircraft delivered. 41 new Falcon were delivered in 2018, (in line with our delivery guidance of 40 Falcon), compared to 49 in 2017. **** The “book-to-bill ratio” (orders intake/net sales) was 1.0 for 2018. 1.1.7 Backlog The backlog as of December 31, 2018 was EUR 19,376 million, compared to EUR 19,460 million as of December 31, 2017 (IFRS 15 pro forma). The Defense Export backlog stood at EUR 14,217 million, compared with EUR 13,964 million at December 31, 2017. It includes in particular 36 Rafale for India, 36 Rafale for Qatar and 1 Rafale for Egypt (versus 36 Rafale for India, 24 Rafale for Qatar and 10 Rafale for Egypt in 2017). 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 65 Directors’ Report The France Defense backlog stood at EUR 3,011 million compared to EUR 3,039 million as of December 31, 2017. It includes 28 Rafale, versus 31 Rafale at the end of 2017. The Falcon backlog stood at EUR 2,148 million, compared with EUR 2,457 million at December 31, 2017. In particular, it includes 53 Falcon (no longer including Falcon 5X), compared with 52 Falcon (including Falcon 5X) as of December 31, 2017. 1.1.8 Adjusted results Operating income 2018 operating income was EUR 669 million compared to EUR 357 million in 2017 (IFRS 15 pro forma). The operating margin was 13.2%, compared to 7.3% in 2017. Without the compensation of USD 280 million received from Safran following the termination of the Silvercrest engine contract, the operating margin would stand at 9.2%. The improvement in the operating margin can also be explained by the recovery in the pre-owned aircraft market and by the improvement in the hedge rate (USD 1.19/EUR in 2018 vs. USD 1.21/EUR in 2017). Besides, 2017 had been adversely impacted by the depreciation of inventories and work-in-progress resulting from the end of the Falcon 5X program. The higher percentage of self-financed Research and Development expenses (7.7% of net sales in 2018 compared with 6.4% in 2017) partially offsets these positive elements. Net financial result The 2018 net financial result was EUR -77 million compared to EUR -57 million in 2017 (IFRS 15 pro forma). The negative net financial result is the consequence of the financing component recognized for Rafale contracts in a first time as a financial expense before being recognized in net sales along with deliveries. Net income 2018 net income was EUR 681 million compared to EUR 410 million in 2017 (IFRS 15 pro forma). Thales’ contribution to the Group’s net income was EUR 290 million, compared to EUR 206 million in 2017 (IFRS 15 pro forma). The net margin was 13.4% in 2018, compared to 8.4% in 2017. Without the compensation of USD 280 million received from Safran following the termination of the Silvercrest engine contract, the net margin would stand at 10.8%. Net income per share in 2018 stood at EUR 82.1/share, compared with EUR 49.8/share in 2017. 1.1.9 Dividends and profit-sharing/incentives The Board of Directors decided to propose to the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting the distribution of a dividend of € 21.2/share in 2019, corresponding to a total of EUR 177 million, i.e. a payout of 26%, as in the previous year. 66 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION Under the earnings distribution policy, Group employees will receive, in profit-sharing and incentives, EUR 140 million (whereas the legal formula would have led to the amount of EUR 30 million), i.e. EUR 168 million including 20% correlated social tax. Dividends per share over the 5 last years are reminded in the note 33 of the Parent Company Financial statements. 1.1.10 Financial reporting The IFRS 8 “Operating Segments” standard requires the presentation of information per segment according to internal management criteria. The entire activity of the Dassault Aviation Group relates to the aerospace domain. The internal reporting made to the Chairman and CEO, and to the Chief Operating Officer, as used for the strategy and decisionmaking, includes no performance analysis, under the terms of IFRS 8, at a level subsidiary to this domain. 1.2 FINANCIAL STRUCTURE 1.2.1 Available cash The Group uses a specific indicator called “Available Cash” defined in paragraph 1.1.2. Available Cash of the Group amounted to EUR 5,211 million as of December 31, 2018 versus EUR 4,121 million as of December 31, 2017, up by EUR 1,090 million mainly due to the net income for the period and the down payments received under the ongoing Rafale Export contract. 1.2.2 Balance Sheet (data in IFRS) Total equity was EUR 4,277 million as of December 31, 2018 compared with the opening balance of EUR 3,721 million. This increase is mainly due to the consolidated net income for the period. Customers down payments received net of down payments paid to suppliers went up by EUR 563 million as of December 31, 2018 due primarily to down payments received under the ongoing Export Rafale contracts. Inventories and work-in-progress decreased by EUR 68 million and stood at EUR 3,403 million as of December 31, 2018. The decrease in inventories and work-in-progress resulting from Falcon activity was partly offset by the increase in work-in-progress related to Rafale Export contracts. Borrowings and financial debt amounted to EUR 991 million as of December 31, 2018, compared to EUR 1,095 million as of December 31, 2017. They include loans subscribed by the Group in 2014 and 2015 which totaled EUR 875 million as of December 31, 2018 (EUR 75 million were paid back in 2018) and locked-in employee profit-sharing funds. Derivative financial instruments had a market value of EUR 14 million as of December 31, 2018, compared to EUR 161 million as of December 31, 2017. This increase is mainly due to the change in the $/€ exchange rate between December 31, 2017 (1.20 $/€) and December 31, 2018 (1.15 $/€). Note: data restated for the application of IFRS 15 and IFRS 9. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 67 Directors’ Report 1.3 RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS The 2018 related parties are identical to those identified in 2017. Some subsidiaries are related with the Parent Company via development and equipment supply contracts, along with software and associated services contracts. 2018 transactions are specified under Note 27 to the consolidated financial statements. 1.4 GROUP ACTIVITIES 1.4.1 Program developments Defense programs Main events of 2018, for the Rafale program:  the entry into force of the option for 12 additional Rafale for Qatar following the receipt of the first down payment on March 27, 2018,  the notification of the F4 standard (firm and optional batches) announced by the French Minister of the Armed Forces during her visit in Mérignac in early January 2019 showing the ongoing efforts to improve the Rafale, which will add innovative connectivity (new satellite and intra-patrol connections, communication server, software radio), new capabilities (enhanced radar sensors and optronic frontal sector) and incorporate new weapons (Mica NG air-to-air missile and 1,000 kg modular air-to-ground weapons),  delivery of 9 Rafale to Egypt, bringing the total Rafale delivered to Egyptian forces to 23 out of the 24 ordered. These deliveries also included the related support consisting in technical assistance, parts and training,  delivery of 3 Rafale to France, bringing the total Rafale delivered to the French Forces to 152 out of the 180 aircraft ordered,  the delivery to France of the ninth and tenth Rafale Marine retrofitted from the F1 standard to the F3 standard; all 10 Rafale Marine now meet the F3 standard,  the delivery to the French Air Force of the Rafale F3-R standard. This standard includes the Meteor European long-range air-to-air missile, the new-generation Talios laser designator pod, the laser-guidance version of the AASM and an automatic anti-collision system. The F3-R standard strengthens the omnirole character of the Rafale,  continued development, production and support works and continued performance of Rafale contracts for Qatar and India,  continued actions to promote Rafale to Export customers, including the response in July 2018 to the “Request for Information” for the supply of 110 combat aircraft to the Indian Air Force, Regarding the Mirage 2000, we also note the continuations of the upgrade work on the French Mirage 2000D. Besides, in June 2018, the Mirage 2000N was retired from operational service after 30 years in the French forces. For drones, the year was marked by:  in June 2018, in Meseberg, at the Franco-German council, in the presence of the French President and the German Chancellor, France and Germany signed a Letter of Intent materializing their will to build to68 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION gether the future weapons systems and act towards the construction of the Europe of Defense. This Letter of Intent was followed, on November 19 2018, by a common statement to launch the initial works of the Future Combat Air System (FCAS) : on January 31 2019, a 2-year conception and architecture study was notified under the leadership of Dassault Aviation and Airbus ; demonstrators for the combat aircraft and its engine are to be launched at the 2019 Paris Air Show ; Dassault Aviation being the leader of the New Generation Fighter (NGF),  the start of a new nEUROn flight test campaign dedicated to stealthiness demonstration with the French Procurement Agency, the French Air Force, and the French Navy, in the frame of a contract for studies and flight tests over 2018-2020,  the launch of the MALE RPAS (Medium Altitude Long Endurance Remotely Piloted Aircraft System) drone project with European technologies (cooperation between Airbus, Dassault Aviation and Leonardo). The final stage of the System Preliminary Design Review was approved on November 22, 2018, and the Invitation To Tender was issued by the Joint Organisation for Armament Cooperation (OCCAR) on October 31, 2018. Germany is the leader country and Airbus the industrial leader, regarding space programs (2018 was remarkable for on interest in the new Defense space policy), we notice:  for space vehicles, a new batch of the study contract for the reusable orbital vehicle “Space Rider” from the European Space Agency (ESA), of which the first flight is scheduled in 2021. Dassault Aviation is in charge of the vehicle shape design,  for the pyrotechnic, the contractualization of 2 studies with the French Defense Procurement Agency (DGA) and the French Space Agency (CNES) in order to apply the pyrodigital technology allowing a securitized digital bus to convey the pyrotechnic orders for both Callisto demonstrator and Rafale. Make in India The success of Make in India is a priority and involves all areas of Dassault Aviation areas of activity. The members of the Dassault Aviation Executive Committee, meeting in New Delhi in April 2018, were able to observe developments in the JV DRAL and reaffirm Dassault Aviation’s commitment to Make in India. The GIFAS visit to India led by Éric Trappier, Chairman of GIFAS, also gave a large delegation of French industry leaders the opportunity to go to Nagpur to interact with the JV DRAL management team and promote the development of partnerships between Indian and French Supply Chains. Indian needs for combat aircraft are material (Request For Information for 110 aircraft for its Air Force and Request For Information for 57 aircraft for the Navy). In this context, the civil and military aeronautical activities of the Dassault Reliance Aerospace Limited Joint Venture (JV DRAL), created in 2017, should enable us to meet our offsets commitments provided for in the contract signed to supply 36 Rafale, to build the foundations to reach our commercial goals with India, and to improve our competitiveness in manufacturing Falcon 2000 parts in India. JV DRAL industrial operations were launched in April 2018 in the presence of Loïk Segalen, Chief Operating Officer of Dassault Aviation, and Suresh Kakani, Vice Chairman & Managing Director of the supervisory authority for the development of the free zone where JV DRAL is located. The implementation of the first transfers of Falcon 2000 elements (T1 and front tank of T3) in 2018 mark the start of the JV DRAL ramp-up. We have completed the second capitalization phase for the JV DRAL and launched the construction of the first part of the final infrastructure, which should be operational in the summer of 2019. At the same time, we are preparing future transfers, in accordance with a pre-determined phased plan. The first Falcon 2000 subassemblies went out of production in December 2018. We also intensified the development of our industrial ecosystem in India, in terms of deployment of our 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 69 Directors’ Report production line through the deployment of a local Supply Chain, regarding at first primary parts, tools, pylons, containers, as well as our engineering department activities, with the establishment of an engineering center in Pune (India). MARitime SURveillance and MARitime PATrol programs Main events of 2018, for MARitime PATrol and SURveillance aircraft:  the order of a 5th MARitime SURveillance Falcon 2000 by the Japanese Coast Guards and progress in the development and modification on the first four orders,  the announcement by the French State of the choice of a Falcon platform for Archange digital data collection aircraft, which carry the Universal Electronic Warfare Capacity (CUGE) and are slated to replace the Transall C-160 Gabriel, as well as the notification of a preliminary study to prepare the development and manufacturing contract for these aircraft,  the continued efforts to upgrade the combat system on the ATL2, particularly systems integration tests and flight tests, and the launch of the first conversion project; delivery of the upgrade is scheduled for 2019,  delivery to the DGA for the French Navy of the first retrofitted Falcon 50 SURMAR with hatches for Search and Rescue (SAR) chains and consolidation of the transformation projects for the other three Falcon 50 SURMAR,  the notification of a preliminary study for the definition of the future Maritime Surveillance and Response Aircraft (AVSIMAR) based on a Falcon 2000 LXS platform for the replacement of the French Navy’s current fleet. Falcon programs Highlights for 2018 include:  the order intake of 42 Falcon in 2018 (52 orders and cancellation of the last 10 Falcon 5X),  the delivery of 41 Falcon,  the official launch and start of marketing of the Falcon 6X to replace the Falcon 5X, this new aircraft will have a range of 5,500 NM, unequaled comfort with a cabin width of 2.7 m and a volume of 52.2 m 3. This twinjet will be equipped with Pratt & Whitney PWC 812D engines and will reach a maximum speed of Mach 0.9, a 1:1 scale model of a cabin was presented at the NBAA show in Orlando and another was exhibited at the Paris Air Show, the program development is in line with the schedule : the primarily development stage has been completed; first structural parts are being manufactured. Tests on the PW812D engine are also on time: 4 engines are being tested and 120 hours were run on a flying test bench. Design shelves have been set up in Saint-Cloud and Merignac in cooperation with our industrial partners.  the signing of an amicable agreement with Safran ending the dispute over the Silvercrest engine to be installed in the Falcon 5X,  the future Falcon is in progress: marketing and technical studies are ongoing,  the Falcon 8X which demonstrated its long range capacity (Singapore – London in 14 hours) is still an unmatched aircraft in terms of comfort and is acknowledged for being the most silent aircraft on the market, 70 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION  the certification of Electronical Flight Vision System operational gains of up to 100 feet for approaches in poor weather made by the FalconEye system for Falcon 7X, Falcon 8X, Falcon 2000 LX and Falcon 2000LXS, in progress of certification for the Falcon 900LX as of December 31, 2018 (certification in February 2019),  the new service offer for a broadband connectivity such as “FalconConnect”, an integrated management solution for communications and data exchanges between aircraft and ground networks, and technical solutions (Ka for Falcon 900LX, Ku and 4G for Falcon 7X). 1.4.2 Customer support Military customer support In terms of logistics support, the major items for 2018 were:  continued support for the Egyptian Rafale and the entry into force of the related Operational Maintenance contract,  aircraft availability levels acknowledged by our customers,  the completion of the first deliveries of supporting elements intended for Qatari users,  training of over 250 pilots and mechanics trainees for our Rafale customers over the year,  for the Mirage 2000: continued conducting of Major Visits or periodic visits of Mirage 2000 and AlphaJet fleets in Qatar and the Mirage 2000-9 fleet in the United Arab Emirates, support for the Mirage 2000 fleet for French and foreign armed forces. Falcon after-sales The Group’s Falcon support services have, in 2018:  the development of a high-quality customer support network, by the acquisition of service centers strengthening our footprint, in Europe, Asia-Pacific, Africa and Middle-East,  launched the upgrade of Dassault Falcon Service’s maintenance capabilities at Le Bourget to increase its Falcon 7X and 8X capacity,  launched the development of a global IT system that will facilitate the logistics and commercial activities for the supply and distribution of Falcon spare parts,  successfully promoted the FalconCare offering to customers,  supported its customers with the Falcon Response offer with 2 dedicated Falcon,  continued the communication effort with customers through maintenance & operations seminars and meetings with the Operator Advisory Board (OAB),  in Customer Support , Dassault Aviation was first in several categories of the Aviation International News (AIN) ranking (#1 Overall Average, #1 AOG Response, #1 Warranty Fulfillment, #1 Parts Availability, #1 Overall Aircraft Reliability, #1 Technical Reps). Besides, the Falcon Response offer which includes 2 dedicated Falcon, has performed 191 missions (1,395 flight hours), 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 71 Directors’ Report 1.5 GROUP STRUCTURE The parent company Dassault Aviation has a predominant weight in the structure of the Group. 1.5.1 Consolidated subsidiaries and companies Dassault Falcon Jet (DFJ) (United States) markets our Falcon on the American continent and performs interior upgrades. The company is headquartered in Teterboro, New Jersey, and industrial activities are located in Little Rock, Arkansas. The principal subsidiaries of DFJ are:  Dassault Falcon Jet Wilmington Corporation (United States), aviation and maintenance services,  Dassault Aircraft Services Corporation (United States), promotion of aviation maintenance and service sales in the United States,  Aero Precision Repair And Overhaul Company Inc. (APRO) (United States) (held 50/50 with Safran Landing Systems Miami, Inc.), repair and maintenance of landing gear and flight controls,  Midway Aircraft Instrument Corporation (United States), overhaul and repair of civil aviation equipment for French equipment manufacturers,  Dassault Falcon Jet Do Brasil Limitada (Brazil), aviation services and maintenance,  Dassault Falcon Jet Leasing LLC (United States), company that holds the Falcon financing structures. Moreover, Dassault International Incorporated (USA), which held 12% of DFJ and represented Dassault Aviation in the United States, was absorbed by DFJ, and at the end of December 2018, Dassault Aviation directly owned 100% of the capital of DFJ. Dassault Falcon Service (DFS) (France), located at the Paris Le Bourget airport and in Mérignac, contributes to Falcon’s after-sales service through its service center activity dedicated to Falcon maintenance. DFS is also present at the Moscow-Vnukovo airport (Russia). Besides DFS also leases and manages Falcon as part of Public Passenger Transport activity. DFS is 50% owner of Falcon Training Center (France), which provides Falcon training at Le Bourget. Sogitec Industries (France) produces and distributes simulation tools and aeronautical documentation. Thales (France), a listed group that operates in the aviation, aerospace, defense and security markets. Its activities are described in their Annual Report. On December 17, 2017, Thales announced the signing of an agreement for the acquisition of Gemalto in the form of a public offering to create a worldwide leader in digital security. The offer is contingent on the obtaining of regulatory approvals, and the transaction should be completed shortly after the required authorizations have been obtained, which was announced in the first half of 2019. Additional information on consolidated subsidiaries and companies is provided in Note 2 “Scope of consolidation” to the consolidated financial statements. 72 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION 1.5.2 Unconsolidated subsidiaries and holdings The main unconsolidated holdings of the Group are:  GIE Rafale International (France), coordination of feasibility and definition studies for Rafale combat aircraft (60% owned, with the other 40% held equally by Thales and Safran Aircraft Engines),  GIE French Defence Aeronautical Institute (FDAI) (France), a service provider in the domain of military aircraft mechanics training (owned 50/50 with Défense Conseil International),  Dassault Assurances Courtage, Dassault-Réassurance and Agence Aéronautique d’Assurance (France), insurance and reinsurance,  Corse Composites Aéronautiques (France), production of composite aviation parts, particularly for its corporate shareholders (Airbus, Latécoère, Safran and Dassault Aviation),  SECBAT (France), responsible for cooperation in the MARitime PATrol Atlantic program,  Cognac Formation Aéro (France), training of fighter pilots. The Group is present in India :  Dassault Aircraft Services India Private Ltd., which is responsible for promotion in India and is 100% held by Dassault Aviation Participations (France),  Dassault Reliance Aerospace Limited, a company held at 49% by Dassault Aviation, which will produce military and civil aeronautical parts and subassemblies,  Reliance Airport Developers Limited, a company 35% held by Dassault Aviation, which operates in the management and development of airport infrastructures. The Group is also present in China through Dassault Falcon Business Services Co. Ltd (Beijing) and in Dassault Aviation Falcon Asia-Pacific (Hong Kong). Finally, the Group operates in the United Arab Emirates via DASBAT Aviation LLC. 1.5.3 Branches The Group also has a branch in Cairo (Egypt) and Doha (Qatar). 1.6 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Beyond its civilian and military programs, to improve existing products and prepare future products, the Company endeavors to maintain its Research & Development (R&D) effort. It takes part in European projects CleanSky and CleanSky 2, and, since 2008, has been a member of the Council for Civil Aviation Research (CORAC). R&D work supports the maturation of technological developments and concepts such as:  the preparation of extended control functions and an initial piloting concept that will allow one of the two pilots to rest at their seat,  the development of a new type of radome surge protector called “flush”. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 73 Directors’ Report We have made significant progress in cabin pressure measurement along with wing deformation measurements. The Company’s roadmap for additive manufacturing has been established; the implementation of shared resources is being encouraged. The innovation process is boosted by the launch of Innovlab to link and network creativity lab initiatives to encourage them to work collaboratively. The Man Machine Teaming upstream program started in early 2018. It focuses on the definition and modeling of concepts for the Human-System relationship in future combat systems and the maturation of innovative technologies for Man and Machine crews, especially in decision-making autonomy and machine learning. The creation and oversight of an “ecosystem” of partners from the world of start-ups is a key element. 1.7 TRANSFORMATION PLAN: LEADING OUR FUTURE The “Leading our Future” transformation plan was initiated to prepare for the future in an increasingly unpredictable and competitive environment. This plan is based on the women and men of the Company who use the “digital” as a lever to confront the changes in our markets and meet the requirements of our military and civil customers. It is based on four axes:  Culture, skills and organization,  Digital tools, processes and innovation,  Industrial tool,  Program management, and carries our willingness to globally and concurrently improve our processes, structures and digital tools. Actions were continued in 2018: 1. Culture, skills & organization:  Enhanced training (maintenance of skills),  Recruitment of 856 people in 2018 in the Group,  Extended engineering department to better take into account compliance, quality, performance, and customer satisfaction requirements from the design phase through production to support of our products,  Casting: adaptation of Dassault Institute programs to better detect and prepare future managers and leaders  Organization: grouping of Dassault Aviation and Sogitec teams for documentation and training activities 2. Digital tools, processes, innovation: Signature of a strategic partnership between Dassault Aviation and Dassault Systèmes to:  implement the 3DExperience™ collaborative engineering platform, for initial applications on the future Falcon and the FCAS then general application on all programs, 74 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION  development of the Big Data strategy that will allow us to improve our products and services and offer new ones, provide company-based data management tools based on data sharing,  Decision to use SAPRISO for manufacturing functions. 3. Industrial tools:  New buildings and collaborative workspaces, in accordance with extended engineering office : o Saint-Cloud, in 2019, renovation of the building located Boulevard Sénart and creation of collaborative shelves for new programs, o Merignac 2020, new building of 25 000 square feet for up to 1 500 people.  Industrial specialization of our plants : o Argenteuil: decision to transfer to a new site located nearby in the same employment area in Cergy o Argonay: extension project that deals in particular with changes to REACh regulations o Biarritz: decision to launch the upgrade or the site in 2019 o Istres: scope of activities retained o Le Bourget: project of Falcon 7X and Falcon 8X capacity expansion, additional floor area: 1,800 m² o Martignas: in 2018, works on a new pyrotechnics building, transfer of Argenteuil and Poitiers activities scheduled for summer 2019 o Mérignac: transfer of CDE/TME labs in 2018 o Nagpur (India): launch of a second 12,000 m² building, scheduled mid-2019 o Poitiers: transfer of activities and aerostructure repair activities in 2020 o Seclin: extension of the building for “metal parts” activity in progress (framework installed) 1.8 DIGITAL TOOLS, PROCESSES AND INNOVATION An agreement between Dassault Aviation and Dassault Systèmes has been signed for the implementation of the Dassault Systèmes 3DExperience™ collaborative platform in all of the company’s engineering activities. A 3DExperience™ deployment plan for all of the company’s civilian and military programs has started and an initial version of the new platform was made available. The use of the Dassault Systèmes Exalead™ data analytics platform (Big Data), which was implemented in 2017 to monitor Falcon fleets, was extended to military activities and is a major new efficiency tool for the operational maintenance activities of our customers’ Rafale fleets. The already-supplied Dassault Aviation application portfolio, which uses virtual reality, has been supplemented by a new high-end promotional and demonstration tool for real-size immersive Falcon interiors. More specifically, this tool can be used to present future changes to the Falcon 6X. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 75 Directors’ Report 1.9 PRODUCTION AND INDUSTRIAL RESOURCES In addition to the actions pursued as part of the “Leading Our Future” transformation plan described in paragraph 1.7 above, we also implemented robotic installation of non-destructive control in Biarritz, and modernized the Rafale fuel test device in Mérignac and the listening rooms in Istres. 1.10 TOTAL QUALITY As part of its Integrated Management System, in 2018 Dassault Aviation renewed its EN 9100 certification, a standard specific to the aviation industry, and its ISO 14001 environmental certification. Dassault Aviation has also established a Health and Safety at Work management system that meets the requirements of the Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001 standard. We are also monitoring our certifications for the design, production and maintenance of civil aircraft, as well as our recognition for our capability to design military aircraft and produce for the Rafale Export markets. In our new programs, we are deploying the APQP (Advanced Product Quality Planning) quality assurance process in development, which stimulates collaborative work and focuses, very early in the process, on the control of product and process risks. Finally, we continue to implement our program, product, process, environment, and occupational health & safety risk management measures at all Dassault Aviation entities. 76 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION 2. RISK FACTORS The Group is exposed to the following main risks and uncertainties. 2.1 RISKS RELATED TO PROGRAMS 2.1.1 Aerospace cycle The nature of Dassault Aviation’s activity exposes it to a sector risk. Our customers are sensitive to the uncertainty and volatility of the global economy and political instability:  governments, although restricted by drastic budgetary policies, must ensure their safety and maintain their projection capability,  in the business aviation sector, market recovery is confirmed but in a context of uncertainty amidst international tensions and signs of slowing global growth. Competition is becoming increasingly aggressive, both in terms of commercial and price policies, and in terms of technological innovation. The advantage they enjoy in terms of economic competitiveness and flexibility remain a constraint on our sales. To respond to this threat by adapting ourselves to a demanding market, we continue our innovation efforts, the expansion of our Falcon line, the preparation of future air combat systems, and the streamlining of our production and cost reduction. In this context, the proper implementation of the “Leading Our Future” transformation plan is a major challenge for the Company in order to improve our competitiveness, the quality and image of our products and thus meet market expectations. 2.1.2 Control of programs Given the complexity of the Falcon and Defense program technologies, we must ensure that we have instituted the necessary resources to meet our commitments to our customers and our development, production and delivery deadlines, in order to safeguard our net sales. As an industrial architect and integrator, we must manage a multitude of associates, partners and suppliers while observing technical, legal and financial constraints, particularly in relation to contracts involving transfers of technology. Our technical choices must match customer expectations. Our investment in Research and Development must take into account technological developments and result in targeted and fully-controlled innovations. 2.1.3 “Make In India” The company initiated Make in India as part of the performance of offset obligations related to the acquisition contract for 36 Rafale India. Accordingly, the joint venture (Dassault Reliance Aerospace Limited) created in 2017 between Dassault Aviation and Reliance Infrastructure began manufacturing the first Falcon 2000 and Rafale components. We continue to deploy our production lines and engineering department activities with our Indian partners to support scalability while controlling quality, costs and deadlines. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 77 Directors’ Report 2.1.4 Adjustment of technical and industrial capacity The cycles for business aircraft and combat markets are not synchronous. To adapt to the market environment, we need to be flexible and reactive with regard to the production line, which is proving to be an ongoing challenge. This issue is also relevant for our developments, with the 2018 launch of the Falcon 6X and the studies for future Falcon. 2.1.5 Competition In an uncertain economic and geopolitical environment, we are subject to intense competition in our markets. 2.1.6 Pre-owned aircraft market The recovery of the business aircraft market has allowed us to significantly reduce the number of pre-owned aircraft in stock. Nevertheless, this market remains highly dependent on the economic environment, and too many pre-owned aircraft available for sale can have an impact on demand and market prices for new aircraft. 2.2 RISKS RELATED TO THE SUPPLY CHAIN Our production cycle is sensitive to the responsiveness of the procurement process for our manufacturing chains. A supply disruption may lead to the shutdown of our chains. Similarly, delays or failures by our associates, partners or suppliers in terms of development may cause major risks for our programs. This last risk became real in 2017 through delays and deteriorations in performance observed for the Silvercrest engine by the Safran Group, which led to the end of the Falcon 5X program. The Falcon 6X schedule, equipped with PW812D engines (entry into service of the aircraft in 2022), is to be monitored. It is strategic to ensure proper management of the supply chain, selection of suppliers, control of developments up to the measurement of performance (timeliness, quality). In addition to the standards already in place, actions are being taken in the context of the procurement and supply component of the transformation plan. This approach is made in line with the actions recommended by the aviation sector. The introduction of multi-year contracts with suppliers in the upstream phases of programs reduces exposure to supply risks. In the context of its activities, Dassault Aviation is potentially exposed through its suppliers to risks in the areas of human rights, fundamental freedoms, the health and safety of humans, and the environment. A vigilance plan has been put in place to control these risks (see Sections 4.8 Duty of care and 4.5.3 Purchasing policy and supply chain security). 2.3 RISKS RELATED TO THE INFORMATION SYSTEM The scope of cyber risks is increasingly extensive, particularly for the connectivity of our aircraft, our services and our industrial tool. 78 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION A failure of our information systems could result in data loss, errors and/or delays that would prevent the Company from running smoothly. We have put in place mechanisms that can maximize the reliability, confidentiality and availability of our data. The Group has implemented procedures to protect itself against the risk of attacks on the security of its information technology systems and to protect its highly confidential data. The Group has also taken into account changes in threats to onboard systems and the services offered to our customers. Our disaster recovery plan in the event of system shutdown is tested annually to ensure the continuity of our operations. 2.4 RISKS RELATED TO REGULATORY CHANGES Dassault Aviation’s activities are addressed in a complex and evolving legal and regulatory framework, at the national level, European and international levels, and in particular:  in the aeronautical domain in terms of product airworthiness,  in social matters and health and safety at work, see Section 4.3 Human Resources information,  in environmental matters (REACh, etc.), see Section 4.4.3 Regulatory requirements and administrative schemes,  in economic and financial matters. In this complex regulatory environment, risks regarding compliance, obsolescence, competitiveness or distortion of competition may occur. 2.5 RISKS RELATED TO THE FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION Dassault Aviation is potentially exposed to risks related to corruption. In accordance with Article 17 of Law No. 2016-1691 of December 9, 2016 respecting transparency, the fight against corruption and the modernization of economic life, Dassault Aviation handles these risks and takes measures to prevent and detect, in France and abroad, acts of corruption or influence peddling. These measures are detailed in Section 4.7.1 Fight against corruption. 2.6 RISKS RELATED TO THE FIGHT AGAINST TAX EVASION Dassault Aviation is potentially exposed to risks related to tax evasion. We handle these risks in accordance with all applicable tax regulations, as outlined in Section 4.7.2 Fight against tax evasion. 2.7 RISKS RELATED TO THE RESPECT OF HUMAN RIGHTS Dassault Aviation is potentially exposed to risks related to the respect of human rights. Dassault Aviation handles these risks and is committed to respecting human rights through its Code of Ethics, internal organization, the evaluation and monitoring of its suppliers, as well as various international texts to which we adhere. The measures taken in favor of this commitment are detailed in Section 4.6 Human Rights. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 79 Directors’ Report 2.8 RISKS RELATED TO INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Innovation has become an essential tool to guarantee the success of Dassault Aviation products. The protection of intellectual property, principally via patents, copyright fees and trademarks, is a major challenge in the protection of our assets. In particular, Dassault Aviation uses intellectual property rights to protect its technology, to prevent competitors from using its protected technology, and to remain competitive. Dassault Aviation has always robustly protected its innovations for reasons of confidentiality. Employees are encouraged to adopt appropriate organization required to avoid any non-protected disclosures. Some of our innovations remain secret and evidence of their creation is produced, if necessary. Other innovations are patented. 2.8.1 Actions The portfolio of Dassault Aviation patents continues to grow. It comprises French and foreign patents filed in strategic countries. Trademarks are also registered regularly to protect the names of the Company’s leading products and services in the countries where it operates. Awareness-raising sessions focusing on intellectual property and confidentiality are organized periodically for all employees concerned to ensure they are able to actively protect the Company’s technological assets. 2.8.2 Organization Employees are encouraged to create inventions through a pay policy that has been tailored accordingly. “Intellectual Property Representatives” are tasked with identifying the inventions to be protected within various departments of the Company. An “Intellectual Property Committee” meets regularly to decide on protections that require strategic inventions for the Company. 2.9 RISKS RELATED TO PERSONNEL The loss of our technical skills is a risk as they are one of our main assets and the guaranty of the quality expected by our customers. The company’s significant recruitment ambitions are facing a highly competitive job market and the need for new profiles, particularly in digital. For several years, Dassault Aviation has been committed to a systematic policy of reducing occupational risks and improving working conditions. 2.10 FINANCIAL RISK 2.10.1 Cash and liquidity risks The Group investment portfolio is primarily composed of money market investments as classified by the AMF, with no significant risk of impairment. 80 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION The bond investments made by the Group are investments with a short-term management horizon, and the unspecified investments, as defined by the AMF classification, are invested in short-term and money mutual funds. In addition, the majority of the investments are backed by guarantees. 2.10.2 Credit and Counterparty Risks The Group performs its cash and foreign exchange transactions with recognized financial institutions. It divides its investments and bank accounts among these various institutions. The Group limits counterparty risk by performing most of its sales in cash and ensuring that the loans granted to a limited number of customers are secured by export insurance guarantees (Bpifrance Assurance Export) or collateral. The manufacturing risk is also guaranteed with Bpifrance Assurance Export for major military export contracts. Additional information is available in Notes 8 “Trade and Other Receivables” and 24.2 “Management of Credit and Counterparty Risks” to the consolidated financial statements. 2.11 MARKET RISK 2.11.1 Foreign exchange risks Hedging portfolio The Group is exposed to a foreign exchange risk through the parent company on Falcon sales, which are almost all denominated in US dollars. The foreign exchange risk of the Parent Company is partially hedged by its purchases in dollars, and partly by the use of forward currency contracts and options. The Parent Company partially hedges the cash flows that are considered highly probable. The Parent Company ensures that the initial future cash flows will be sufficient to use the foreign exchange hedges in place. The hedged amount may be adjusted according to the variability in the timing of expected cash flows. A sensitivity analysis of the hedge portfolio may be found in Note 24.3 “Management of Foreign Exchange Risks”. Military competitiveness Our competitiveness is also impacted by the fluctuations in the US Dollar for the sale of our military aircraft; comparisons with our competitors is done in US dollars. Embraer shares The Parent Company owns Embraer shares. Embraer is listed on the Brazilian market. It is stated in the Group’s financial statements, based on market value at the balance sheet closing date, in Brazilian reals converted into euros. The value of the shares may therefore fluctuate according to the exchange rate between these two currencies. 2.11.2 Interest rate risks The Group is exposed to interest rate volatility through its floating rate loans and elsewhere. However, instruments have been put in place to fix the rates of these loans. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 81 Directors’ Report 2.11.3 Other market risks The Group is exposed to a risk related to price fluctuations of Embraer shares. A sensitivity analysis is available in Note 24.3.4 “Risks related to Embraer Shares”. 2.12 ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS 2.12.1 Damage caused to the environment For control of environmental risks, the Environmental Management System (EMS) of the Parent Company integrates a risk analysis methodology deployed since 2015 at all sites. No court has ever found Dassault Aviation Group guilty of pollution or ordered it to pay compensation to repair damage caused to the environment. The Biarritz site was subject to a 2006 prefectural order (which was supplemented in 2012) calling for an impact analysis and a treatment study for past groundwater pollution (chrome and halogenated solvents). The treatment plan was established in accordance with the management plan. In 2018, the Dassault Aviation Group declared no environmental accidents. 2.12.2 Risks related to the consequences of climate change Due to its geographical location, the Dassault Aviation Group has low exposure to the consequences of climate change on its industrial sites. The fight against climate change is one of the strategic objectives of the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). This is expressed in binding emissions standards for aircraft that are incorporated into the design requirements of our products. 2.12.3 Provisions and financial guarantees Subsequent to Decree No. 2012-633 of May 3, 2012 which imposes the establishment of financial guarantees on facilities that are subject to ICPE (Environment Protection Classified Installations) legislation, the Parent Company is subject to the obligation of financial guarantees for four of its facilities. These financial guarantees were initiated in 2014 for Argenteuil and Biarritz. In accordance with regulatory deadlines, the Mérignac and Argonay sites submitted their financial guarantee proposals to their respective prefectures in December 2018. In addition to its General Operations Civil Liability insurance policy (EUR 1.5 million for environmental damage risks), the Parent Company has subscribed to Environmental Impairment Liability insurance cover for EUR 13 million, EUR 4 million of which covers natural protected species and habitats. Since January 1, 2012, the environmental damage guarantee, as defined by European Directive 2004/35/E has been extended to include damage caused to wildlife and ecological damage. In this context, insurers regularly conduct site risk reviews. In 2018, the Dassault Aviation Group did not have to recognize any environmental liabilities. 2.13 RISKS RELATED TO SECURITY BREACHES The terrorist threat remained high in the territory in 2018, and the government’s protection plans were maintained everywhere. The full program to bring physical systems into compliance is now being deployed at the various sites, in delegations abroad and in the main subsidiaries of the Dassault Aviation Group. 82 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION Preservation of the technical, scientific and industrial assets of the Group was strengthened by a policy to control protection procedures, by the implementation of a supplier assessment process, by a program to increase awareness among all employees, and by the implementation of a “security” step in all recruitment processes. Cyber risk is increasingly high and resulted in very aggressive attacks on our information systems. The protection mechanisms set up demonstrated their effectiveness and allowed us to resist many ransomware attempts, financial fraud of all kinds, destabilization, and even industrial data theft. The employees most exposed to the cyber threats received specific education in this area. Finally, the software to monitor expatriates and travelers demonstrated their relevance and facilitated anticipation of events in order to guarantee optimal safety during travel and stays. 2.14 INSURANCE The Legal Affairs and Insurance Department implements the risk transfer policy of the Dassault Aviation Group defined by the General Management. Coverage of all the risks generated by the aeronautical activities of Dassault Aviation and its subsidiaries (work-in-progress, changing aircraft, civil liability after delivery, maintenance and logistical support, etc.) constitutes the largest item of the insurance budget. Coverage is obtained from a broad panel of insurers and reinsurers that specialize in the aviation industry and offer high solvency margins to ensure they are able to handle any long-term claims. The Group sites, as well as its industrial facilities, are insured for fire and other risks. The lead insurer, together with the Legal Affairs and Insurance Department, conducts a regular audit program to implement preventive actions to reduce risks that could disrupt our operations. Other programs are purchased in order to reduce risks not related to aviation activity; civil liability under the headings of general operations, environmental damage, or any arising from the fleet of vehicles, as well as to cover the civil liability of company directors and officers. The Group ensures that all insurance obtained will optimally cover changes in its risk exposure. Thus, specific insurance is subscribed as necessary, as is the case, in particular, to cover projects implemented in the context of the transformation plan launched by Dassault Aviation. Dassault Assurances Courtage handles the placement of risks. Dassault-Réassurance handles the subscription of reinsurance portions for our aviation and fire risks. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 83 Directors’ Report 3. INTERNAL AUDITING AND RISK MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES 3.1 INTERNAL AUDITING OBJECTIVES The purpose of the internal control procedures set up in our Company is to:  ensure that the conducting of operations and management actions, and the behavior of staff fall within the framework defined by Executive Management (the Chairman and CEO and the Chief Operating Officer), applicable laws and regulations, and our Company’s internal values and rules,  verify that the information provided and communications addressed to the Board of Directors and to the General Meetings are reliable and give a true and fair view of the Company’s activity. One of the main purposes of the internal auditing system is to anticipate and control the risks resulting from the Company’s activity and risks of error or fraud, particularly with respect to finance and accounting. However, as with any control system, it cannot provide absolute assurance that these risks have been totally eliminated. Dassault Aviation draws on the reference framework of the AMF of July 22, 2010. 3.2 ENVIRONMENT AND GENERAL ORGANIZATION OF INTERNAL AUDITING Internal auditing reference documents The Company’s internal auditing is guided by the following reference documents:  the Quality Manual, which describes the Company processes,  the Organization Manual, which describes the tasks and organization of each department,  for financial and accounting activities, the “Managing Economic and Financial Data” process described in the Quality Manual,  an Anticorruption Code and an Internal Alert Procedure complete the processes that already exist,  a Supplier Vigilance Plan. Internal auditing bodies The main internal auditing bodies in Dassault Aviation are the following:  Executive Committee The composition and the role of this Committee are detailed in Section 1.8 of the Board of Directors’ corporate governance report. Each Committee member is responsible for the internal auditing of his or her department. The actions and recommendations decided upon by the Committee are assigned to one or more of its members, and a manager is designated to ensure coordination. At each meeting, the Committee secretary monitors the progress of these actions through to their effective completion. 84 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION  Total Quality Management Department through the Internal Audit and Risk Department This Department ensures that the risk management process relating to corporate programs, products and activities runs smoothly. It identifies Company risks and makes sure that Executive Management is alerted of them. through the Quality Management System (QMS) and Environment and Health and Safety at Work management systems The QMS is coordinated by the Total Quality Management Department and implemented by the Quality Control Managers, the Health Safety Environment (HSE) managers of the Establishments and the Quality Representatives of Operational Departments. The system uses a structured document repository, comprised of process descriptions and procedures and instructions. The Management System is monitored through a program of internal audits, quality assessments and Management reviews.  Program Departments through Program Management The Program Departments report to Executive Management on the completion of programs for all costs, deadlines and performance.  Financial Department via Management Auditing Management auditing is responsible for overseeing the budget process and economic performance. It consists of a network of management auditors who cover all of the Company’s processes. In particular, regular budget reviews allow for reporting to Executive Management and all economic performance actors.  Ethics Department The Ethics Department, which reports to the Chairman-CEO, is responsible for ensuring compliance with fair practices. It handles procedures implemented under the “Sapin 2” law. Control of subsidiaries The Company maintains an effective presence on the Boards of Directors and management bodies of its subsidiaries. Periodic directors’ reports are prepared by each subsidiary for the Parent Company. Internal auditing Attached to the Total Quality Management Department, the Internal Audit and Risk Department is tasked with assessing risk management and internal auditing processes. The Internal Audit and Risk Director reports to Executive Management on the results of the audits and the recommendations implemented. The Internal Audit Director also presents the internal audit plan to Executive Management for approval prior to its implementation. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 85 Directors’ Report The Audit Committee meets with the Internal Audit and Risk Director and examines the Group’s major risks, the audit plan and the findings of the audits. External auditing factors The Company operates in a particular external auditing environment due to its French government contracts and aviation activity:  the calculation of our cost price components (hourly rates, procurement and non-production expenses) as well as the cost prices of our activities related to French government contracts are examined by the French Defensive Procurement Agency (DGA),  in the field of military aviation, product monitoring, our acknowledgment of design skills and our acknowledgment of skill in the production of Rafale Export is overseen by the DGA,  the Company, in the field of civil aviation, possesses design, production and maintenance certifications. These certifications are subject to ongoing monitoring by the airworthiness authorities that have issued them: the Direction Générale de l’Aviation Civile (DGAC) (French Civil Aviation Authority), the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA), the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). The Parent Company and its subsidiaries DFJ and DFS are EN9100-, ISO9001and ISO14001-certified. Audits conducted in 2018 by outside organizations confirmed the compliance of our management systems with the requirements of the standards. 3.3 RISK MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES The risk management procedures detailed in Chapter 2 of this report are based on a risk mapping updated by all of the Company’s major departments for the activities that concern them. The risks identified in this mapping, whatever their nature, have been assessed according to their seriousness and their frequency of occurrence. The procedures for treating risks are also recorded in this mapping. The risk management procedures are defined and applied by the departments of the Company. In particular, audits of Program risks at Dassault Aviation are performed through regular risk reviews held by the Program Departments with the Operational Departments. Risks are monitored at the various stages in a product’s life cycle based on various reviews. The purpose of these reviews is to identify new risks and monitor and reduce existing risks. The Total Quality Management Department, through the Internal Audit and Risk Department, notifies Executive Management of risks by transmitting the list of most critical risks identified. Finally, the Risk Committee’s mission, based on risk mapping and a campaign of interviews with all Departments, is to:  validate the identified risks, their classification and the risk reduction actions carried out,  ensure that new risks are identified, taken into account and their financial impacts measured. 86 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION To this end, the Committee conducts interviews with those in charge of the Company’s processes who are responsible for updating the risk mapping. This Committee also ensures, through interviews with Dassault Falcon Jet, Dassault Falcon Service and Sogitec Industries executives, that the risk management system in the subsidiaries is taken into account. It is chaired by the Senior Executive Vice President, Total Quality, assisted by the Director of Internal Audit and Risks, secretary of the Committee, and reports to the General Management. 3.4 INTERNAL AUDITING PROCEDURES FOR FINANCIAL AND ACCOUNTING PURPOSES Organization of the financial and accounting function This function, described in the Quality Manual, is managed by the Financial Department for both the Parent Company and Group consolidation. This aforesaid function consists of:  validating and auditing the Company’s financial and accounting information system, implemented by Information Systems General Management,  updating the consolidation software configuration used by the Parent Company and its subsidiaries. General references The financial statements are prepared in accordance with:  the accounting standards applicable to French companies: regulation ANC 2017-03 approved by the Decree of November 3, 2017, subsequent opinions and recommendations of the Accounting Standards Authority.  the international standards for the valuation and presentation of IFRS financial information in force as of December 31, 2018, as adopted by the European Union, which must be applied for fiscal periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018, for the consolidated financial statements,  the operating and control procedures described in the “Economic and Financial Data Management” process, supplemented by the special procedures for the preparation of company and half-yearly financial statements of the Parent Company and the Consolidated Group. These procedures and the IT applications used by the finance and accounting department are regularly reviewed by the Statutory Auditors in connection with their annual certification of the financial statements. Financial and accounting information process In 2018, the Financial Department centralized the accounting data and produced the financial statements for the Parent Company and the Group. It distributed a schedule of the tasks and controls to be performed at each period-end to the relevant persons in the Parent Company and subsidiaries. This schedule indicated the start date for the Statutory Auditors’ certification procedures at approximately four weeks prior to the Board meeting at which the financial statements are submitted for approval. In parallel, the financial reports and statements are reviewed by a review committee independent of the teams participating in the drafting of these documents. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 87 Directors’ Report 3.5 2018 ACTIONS The Internal Audit and Risks Department and the Total Quality Management Department continued to monitor the internal audit procedures for all parties involved by using the risk mapping that was updated during the year. They performed the audits in order to verify the proper application of the internal auditing procedures. 3.6 2019 ACTION PLAN For 2019, the Internal Audit Department and the Total Quality Management Department are tasked with continuing the audits that ensure oversight of internal controls and risk management, and the proper application of procedures. 88 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION 4. NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DECLARATION 4.1 IDENTIFICATION OF RELEVANT NON-FINANCIAL RISKS The CSR risks relevant to the Company were identified according to the process detailed in Section 3.3 for the following six themes. Relevant Policies, due Sustainable Development Theme CSR diligence procedures Goals (SDGs) affected risks and indicators HSE regulatory compliance §2.4 §4.3.5 and §4.4.3 Climate change §2.12.2 §4.4.1 and §4.4.2 Employment and skills §2.9 §4.3.1 Compensation and benefits §2.9 §4.3.2 Health, safety and workplace §2.9 §4.3.5 conditions Supply chain: customer duty §2.2 §4.5.3 and §4.8 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 89 Directors’ Report 4.2 GENERAL POLICY The Dassault Aviation Group pursues a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policy that contributes to the Sustainable Development Goals. In this context, the Parent Company has been a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact since 2003. The Dassault Aviation Group, through its corporate agreements and HSE policy, is committed to the well-being of its employees. Many actions to improve workplace conditions and reduce occupational risks are carried out with the support of physicians, prevention specialists and the HR function. In addition, the Parent Company is committed to the replacement of the main hazardous substances used in its activities. §4.3.5 and §4.4.2 Convinced that diversity is a major issue and a performance factor for the company, we affirm our commitment to the prevention of discrimination. We also strive to promote equality of opportunity and treatment through the implementation of company agreements. §4.3.1, §4.3.2 and §4.3.4 We develop close links with regional and international industrial fabrics, thus contributing to the sustainable economic growth of the global aviation industry. In addition, the Dassault Aviation Group is committed to maintaining and developing the skills of its employees, taking into account its operational needs and the individual desires of its employees. §4.3.1, §4.3.3, §4.5 and §4.8 As part of our “Leading Our Future” transformation plan, we are modernizing our industrial tools through the use of better performing and more environmentally friendly technologies. §4.4.1, §4.4.2 and §4.4.3 Optimizing resource and energy consumption and controlling and managing waste are fundamental elements of our HSE policy. §4.4.2 and §4.8 The innovations made by Dassault Aviation’s teams in aviation design contribute to reducing the impact of the air sector on the environment in a permanent quest for customer satisfaction. §4.4.1 and §4.4.2 The zero tolerance policy, the strengthening of procedures and resources for fighting against corruption characterize our search for rigorous business ethics. §4.6, §4.7 and §4.8 90 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION 4.3 HUMAN RESOURCES INFORMATION People are at the core of our activities. The strength of our Group lies in the individual and collective performance of its employees. 4.3.1 Employment and skills Contribution to SDGs The Group’s companies pursue an employment policy based on recruitment and the development of their employees’ skills in a constantly changing environment. Workforce monitoring Employees as Employees as of 12/31/2018 of 12/31/2017 Dassault Aviation Parent Company 8,205 8,045 Dassault Falcon Jet 2,282 2,317 Dassault Falcon Service 601 629 Sogitec Industries 406 407 Total 11,494 11,398 The breakdown of the Group’s workforce between France and the United States is identical to 2017. Workforce distribution by age group is as follows: 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 91 Directors’ Report Women represent 18% of the Group’s workforce, an increase from 2017. Men Women Given the numerous projects at Dassault Aviation and the combination of two Falcon developments (Falcon 6X and Future Falcon) and the start of the development of the new F4 standard for the Rafale at the same time as the beginning of work on the SCAF, the Mother Company and the Group relaunched their recruitment effort in 2018. In addition, there was a decrease in the number of leavings from the Dassault Aviation Group in 2018 compared to 2017. Individual lay-offs represent about 8% of all of those departures (20% in 2017, mostly at Dassault Falcon Jet). The number of resignations for French companies in the Group was 92 in 2018, which represents less than 1% of the workforce of those companies. Recruitment and integration To prepare for the recruitment of the talents of tomorrow and meet current needs, the Group’s companies continue their cooperative efforts with secondary and higher education institutions. 92 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION To support educational institutions in their pedagogical projects, help students plan their careers and increase awareness of our Company, employee ambassadors meet with students and faculty to pass on our skills. These actions are carried out at the Company level or by our regional sites. The Group’s companies also promote knowledge of their businesses by organizing tours of their facilities for high school teachers and middle and high school and university students. These upstream recruitment efforts are backed by an internship policy designed to facilitate entry into working life. In 2018, the Parent Company and its French subsidiaries had 416 interns. To promote the integration of new hires, the companies of the Group have implemented integration programs aiming at promoting their activities, their organization and their functioning. Furthermore, the Mother Company organizes the “Flight Days” (“ Journées Envol”), which bring together newly recruited managers, are an opportunity for each of the members of the Executive Committee to present their activities. Visits to military air bases allow new employees to talk with our customers about the use of our products and services and understand their expectations. Development and transfer of skills The implementation of the management agreement for jobs, career paths and the generation contract, which was signed in 2016, reflects our commitment to the development and transfer of skills. In particular, this agreement must make technical excellence permanent and develop a dynamic approach to the provisional management of businesses and expertise. The objective is to better control and anticipate their growth and to ensure the development and transmission of skills. The Parent Company launched the restructuring of its Skills Conservatory, which began in 2017. In addition to the design and implementation of modules on specific technical topics (sealing or joining through fastening, for example), the Conservatory now offers courses in business training, as illustrated by the “ Industrialization: from conception to completion” training course intended for process operators. These sessions supplement the employees’ initial training with the contribution of specific skills necessary to perpetuate the Dassault Aviation expertise and meet the expected quality requirements. In order to detect and prepare future Managers more effectively, the Dassault Institute has deployed new training courses (Dassault Team Manager, Dassault Entreprise, etc.) that supplement its management programs, open to French subsidiaries of the Group. In 2018, 268 employees were trained. Courses related to project and program management were reviewed to meet the development priorities of the Program Departments. In 2018, 201 employees took these training courses. At the Group level, the actions taken in 2018 maintained and developed the level of employee skills by taking into consideration the operational needs of the companies and individual wishes. The investment in professional training represented 238,416 hours of training for the Dassault Aviation Group, a decrease over 2017. DFJ has also set up a tuition assistance plan to enable its employees to join a higher education program that will develop their skills. This program must be directly related to the position held by the employee or relate to their career development prospects. In 2018, 44 employees benefited from this plan. Supporting change To support our transformation, a change management expert joined the Human Resources Department in June 2018. Her action focuses on supporting digital transformation, which is the lever of the Leading Our Future plan. In addition, the specialization of the sites established under the transformation plan leads to the transfer of activities between institutions. The Company has defined specific measures to facilitate the resulting changes. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 93 Directors’ Report 4.3.2 Compensation and benefits Contribution to SDGs The Dassault Aviation Group is committed to keeping its employees motivated at a high level by offering interesting projects along with an attractive compensation policy. The Group’s compensation policy rewards and inspires loyalty among its employees while adapting to the economic situation and to the economic environment in order to maintain its competitiveness in a highly competitive market. In addition, the Group’s French companies are developing a very attractive employee participation policy. Sector-based participation agreements are signed to distribute a large portion of profits to employees. These companies also promote employee savings by offering company savings plans with a wide choice of investments. Dassault Aviation and Sogitec also have a collective retirement savings plan which is financed by Dassault Aviation. In addition, the Parent Company and Dassault Falcon Service give employees a sense of involvement in the financial results of the company by entering into a particularly advantageous incentive agreement. The average annual salary of Group employees in 2018 was EUR 57,092. The average annual salary at the Parent Company, including profit-sharing and incentives, was EUR 67,372. The French subsidiaries of the Group hold derogatory participation agreements. Furthermore, the French companies of the Group paid EUR 25.8 million into the works committees to fund social and cultural activities, representing 5% of the total payroll. 4.3.3 Employee relations Contribution to SDGs The Dassault Aviation Group implements an active employee relations policy. Regular negotiations take place with the staff representatives, giving rise to a staff dialog based on the quest for collective agreement. In 2018, for the Parent Company:  six agreements and amendments were signed for working time organization, the wage policy, the organization of collective bargaining in the company and the collective retirement savings plan. This information is available on the Parent Company’s intranet site,  four negotiations were in progress in 2018 concerning electronic voting for the upcoming professional elections, the roles, resources and careers of employee representatives, quality of work life (agreement unanimously signed by the union organizations at the beginning of 2019) and the 2019 wage policy. 94 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION The regular staff dialog within the Group helps to maintain a climate propitious to the smooth operation of the Parent Company and of its subsidiaries Sogitec and Dassault Falcon Service. It operates at several levels:  Staff representative bodies o Local and central Works Committees, o Health & Safety and Working Conditions Committees, o Staff Delegates, o Specialized Commissions (economic, training, employment and gender equality, prevention of psychosocial risks, disabilities, etc.), o Central Committee of the Economic and Social Unit (ESU).  Union organizations o Local Union Delegates and central Union Delegates, o Representatives of the Union Sections,  The Board of Directors o a director representing the employees with voting rights was appointed by the union organization that obtained the largest number of votes in the elections of the work committees of the Parent Company and of its subsidiaries located in France, o the ESU Central Committee is also represented by one of its members. 4.3.4 Diversity and equality of opportunity Contribution to SDGs The Dassault Aviation Group is very committed to principles of non-discrimination. Firmly believing that diversity is a major issue and a performance factor for the company, Group companies restate their commitment to prevent discrimination and commit to promoting equal opportunity and treatment. This desire is manifested in compliance with national regulations, the signing of corporate agreements and the implementation of action plans in the following areas:  professional gender equality,  employment of disabled people,  employment of young workers and seniors,  careers of staff representatives. Professional gender equality In 2018, Dassault Aviation implemented the agreement for professional and wage equality for women and men, which was signed unanimously by the social partners in 2017. It continues its policy of expanding diversity in the company, especially in the technical and industrial businesses. As a result, the Company’s proactive policy of recruiting women employees is expressed in a commitment that at least 25% of executive hires and 20% of non-executive hires will be women for the duration of the agreement. In 2018, those hires represented 26% for executives and nearly 24% for non-executives. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 95 Directors’ Report Through this agreement, Dassault Aviation intends to pay particular attention to the training and career development of women, notably by continuing its policy of providing access to Dassault Institute management training, and promoting women to positions of responsibility. In addition, the Company has offered special experimental training to some women managers to help them develop their leadership and influence by teaching them to value their qualities and special talents and to assert their own style of leadership. In 2018, the French subsidiary Sogitec Industries continued its commitments under their agreement to promote professional equality between women and men, which was signed in 2016. The French subsidiary Dassault Falcon Service has signed a new agreement whose priority is the implementation of actions to foster sustainable change in company attitudes and practices to encourage greater diversity in the aviation maintenance sector. Employment of disabled people In 2017, all social partners of the Parent Company signed a company agreement on the employment and retention of people with disabilities. All of the company’s stakeholders affirm their willingness to continue the mobilization in order to promote the policy that has been pursued for many years within Dassault Aviation. In particular, the Parent Company has financed many adaptations of workstations so that it can continue to employ people with disabilities. It also renewed its actions upstream to train people with disabilities in the aviation professions through work-study programs as part of its partnership with the association Hanvol1. At the same time, Dassault Aviation has strengthened its communication and support measures to promote recognition of the quality of disabled workers and their renewal. The Parent Company’s commitments regarding the employment of people with disabilities have resulted in a direct employment rate of 5,6%. Statutory increases related to the employment of older employees or young people with disabilities have allowed us to achieve an overall employment rate of 7,4% (for a legal minimum of 6%). In 2018, Sogitec Industries continued to implement its agreement for the employment of disabled workers, which was signed in 2016. Concrete measures have been taken such as the adaptation of workstations accompanied by appropriate training, employee awareness campaigns about disabilities in the workplace and schedule accommodations. In addition to these actions, there were actions for the protected sector and disabled trainees. In late 2018, the Dassault Aviation Group employed 534 disabled workers, compared to 496 in 2017. This increase can be explained by the recruitment efforts of people with disabilities in the Group’s companies and by regular communication about ways to recognize the status of disabled workers. Employment of young workers and seniors Dassault Aviation continued its policy of hiring young people through work-study programs, internships and recruitment at the end of initial training. At the same time, the Parent Company promotes end-of-career planning and facilitates the transition between activity and retirement. As a result, Dassault Aviation has supplemented its retirement preparation program for the relevant employees with a personalized retirement information interview. Conducted with an outside counselor, it allows the employee to assess his or her professional situation, obtain a pension estimate, and better prepare for his or her future based on the actual programs. These interviews were initiated at two institutions and have been very successful. They were deployed at a third site this year. In 2018, 241 employees took these interviews. 1 An association created in 2010 with the support of the French Aerospace Industries Group (GIFAS) and other companies in the sector. 96 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION Careers of staff representatives. A Parent Company agreement on staff representative roles, resources and careers has been in force since 2010 and facilitates the functioning of trade unions and staff representative institutions. Many resources in addition to the ones required by law are available to them: time off for trade union duties, budgetary allocations for trade union organizations, and material resources. The agreement also provides a career monitoring mechanism to ensure equal treatment. 4.3.5 Health, safety and workplace conditions Contribution to SDGs Dassault Aviation preserves the workplace health and safety of all of its employees through three pillars of its health and HSE policy: “promoting employee health”, “ensuring a healthy and safe work environment” and “meeting regulatory requirements”. Quality of work life Dassault Falcon Service has set up a concierge service and a company nursery since several years. Dassault Aviation will implement similar devices following the agreement signed with all Union Organizations in January 2019. This agreement also provides the right to disconnection. Those provisions are already effective at Sogitec and Dassault Falcon Service. Promoting employee health Ensuring the health monitoring of employees The Dassault Aviation Group has set up autonomous occupational health services at most of its sites. They ensure the individual monitoring and respond to individual requests from employees. In addition, employees who occupy positions at risk or are expatriates or on mission receive specific monitoring and specialized support. Finally, the Mother Company has put in place an agreement with the Psychological Support and Resources Institute (IAPR), which offers a listening and support system for employees who are victims of stress and psychological trauma in the context of their work. Conducting prevention and awareness campaigns Prevention and awareness campaigns, offered locally or by the Company and led by occupational health services and HSE services are organized regularly or occasionally around various themes: 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 97 Directors’ Report  flu prevention (awareness campaign and free vaccinations),  prevention of heat wave-related risks,  prevention of low back pain and injuries from carrying heavy loads,  prevention of addictions (alcohol, psychotropic products, games, cyberdependence),  help and guidance with quitting smoking,  food hygiene,  prevention of psychosocial risks,  prevention of cardiovascular diseases,  prevention of sleep disorders. Promoting retention and return to employment Upon return from an absence due to maternity leave, occupational disease or accident, a return visit is organized. This visit ensures that the employee can resume his or her activity without restriction. If the state of health of the employee requires it, appropriate measures are studied so that he or she can retain, insofar as possible, a job corresponding to his or her qualifications. The occupational physician may recommend modifications to and adaptations of the workstation. The physician may also recommend reclassification and professional training to facilitate the redeployment of the employee or his or her professional reorientation. Guaranteeing a healthy and secure work environment A successful culture of prevention The sharing of a culture of safety by all employees of the Group is necessary to achieve a higher level of performance. In 2018, Dassault Aviation continued its efforts to deploy this culture through the perpetuation of practices and resources for proactive management of workplace health and safety. In addition, support for establishments has been stepped up to strengthen their maturity through the creation of standards, sharing of experience or good practices and management-focused awareness campaigns. Improving working conditions through general application of the principles of ergonomics Consideration of ergonomics in Dassault Aviation’s activities remains a priority. As far as organization is concerned, the Parent Company has expanded its networks of ergonomics agents and Physical Activity Risk Prevention trainers. Training in ergonomics and communication actions, for the tertiary sector in particular, were conducted in 2018. The transformation of workstations continued, taking into account the existing manual movement diagnostic. This transformation aims to reduce the risk of accidents and occupational diseases and to adapt positions for use by disabled people. At the same time, innovative prospective studies are being conducted to introduce cobot-like technologies, collaborative robots, assisted gloves and automated postural stress assessment systems at workplaces where they are needed. Continuing to reduce physical and chemical hazards at workstations Controlling the risk of workplace accidents and occupational diseases also means reducing physical and chemical risks. Actions to secure complex devices, such as polyenergy, and the reduction of exposure to chemical risks (substitution plans, renovation of paint cabins or ventilation systems) contribute to the achievement of the objectives set. 98 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION Monitoring indicators For the Dassault Aviation Group, absenteeism in 2018 was 82,856 days of absence, from all causes, excluding maternity and parental leave. The number of occupational accidents causing absence was 157, the same as in 2017. The corresponding number of days lost was 5,619 days, compared with 7,051 in 2017. The frequency rate fell from 8.77 to 8.68. The severity rate decreased from 0.39 in 2017 to 0.31 in 2018. Finally, across the Group as a whole in 2018, 14 cases of occupational illnesses were identified by the various competent authorities, compared with 19 in 2017. These were primarily musculoskeletal disorders. A regulatory oversight system Each Dassault Aviation entity has a regulatory oversight system. This system identifies the requirements applicable to its activities and allows compliance actions to be carried out if necessary. The system in place covers the risk of regulatory non-compliance and anticipates the potential impacts of future regulations. Compliance with regulatory requirements contributes significantly to reduction of the risk of workplace accidents and occupational diseases. 4.4 ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION For over fifteen years, the Dassault Aviation Group has been committed to an environmental strategy based on:  an ISO 14001-certified management system deployed in stages: o Dassault Falcon Jet (Little Rock – 2002), o Parent Company (2002-2006 by site, Company certification from conception to support in 2007), o Dassault Falcon Service (Le Bourget – 2015 and Mérignac – 2018), and 2015 version certification since 2018,  an Environment function staffed within the Dassault Aviation Group by a central coordination team, dedicated teams by establishment and functional representatives by process,  raising employee awareness of environmental issues,  involvement in professional bodies that promote the environment: o the International Aerospace Environmental Group (IAEG), as a founding member since 2011, whose objectives are to promote and facilitate the integration of environmental concerns in the world aerospace industry, o the French Aerospace Industries Group (GIFAS), for which Dassault Aviation is a member of the Environment and Sustainable Development Commission,  a 2018-2020 HSE policy for the Parent Company that places the environment at the core of three of its four fundamental pillars: o improving the environmental performance of our products and activities, o meeting regulatory and compliance requirements, o having responsible procedures in place. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 99 Directors’ Report 4.4.1 Improving the environmental performance of our products Contribution to SDGs By taking action on the environmental performance of its products, the Dassault Aviation Group contributes to the control of risks related to climate change. Over the past forty years, technological progress with regard to engine efficiency, aerodynamics and weight saving has considerably reduced fuel consumption, CO2 emissions and noise levels from our aircraft. Dassault Aviation is pursuing this path and has subscribed to the reduction objectives defined by the Advisory Council for Aeronautics Research in Europe (ACARE):  50% reduction of noise levels on the ground in 2020 and 60% in 2050,  50% reduction in CO2 emissions in 2020 and 75% in 2050,  80% reduction in NOX emissions in 2020 and 90% in 2050. Several demonstrators have been set up and evaluated, such as new tail configurations for improved environmental performance. The results obtained show that, for the concept of the “2020 business aircraft”, the CleanSky technologies permit reductions in CO 2 emissions of around 30% and a 50% reduction in the number of persons exposed to the operations, compared with the reference “2000 business aircraft”. CleanSky 2 is an extension of the CleanSky program. Its projected contribution to the targets is a 20% to 30% reduction in CO2 and noise levels on the ground. In this context, Dassault Aviation has established a new consortium to study a second generation of materials and manufacturing, maintenance and recycling technologies with an even more reduced environmental impact. Since 2008, Dassault Aviation has been a member of the Civil Aviation Research Advisory Council (CORAC), which was established in the wake of the Grenelle de l’Environnement Law. The purpose of CORAC is to achieve the environmental objectives set at the European level by 2020 through research and technological innovation actions. In this context, Dassault Aviation is also working to reduce the environmental footprint of aircraft through involvement in several projects:  GENOME, for the development of the “more electric” aircraft,  RING, for the development of biocide coatings without Chrome VI. 4.4.2 Improving the environmental performance of our activities Contribution to SDGs As part of its HSE policy, the Parent Company has set environmental footprint reduction targets for the period 2018-2020. The desired performance improvement targets energy consumption, water consumption, air emissions and waste recovery. 100 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION In general, the performances observed for 2018 are directly related to an increase in the Company’s production activity. This leads to an increase in all consumption and emissions in the annual balance sheet. Energy consumption Energy is mostly consumed within the framework of the industrial activity of the production sites (electricity and gas), and the aviation activity (kerosene). 2018 2017 In Gigajoules Parent Company Group Parent Company Group Excluding kerosene energy 517,120 891,612 499,309 851,045 (ENE001) Electricity (ENE001-a) 305,622 529,361 292,486 509,861 Natural gas (ENE001-b) 210,472 357,748 205,330 335,973 LPG (ENE001-c) 0.12 0.12 0.23 0.23 Heating oil (ENE001-d) 1,027 4,503 1,493 5,210 Kerosene (ENE002) 303,789 586,020 310,905 655,475 Total 820,909 1,477,632 810,214 1,506,520 Despite the increase recorded in 2018, non-kerosene energy consumption by the Parent Company decreased by 17% in 10 years, a result of the actions carried out as part of Dassault Aviation’s environmental policy. In 2018, efforts focused on controlling energy consumption (centralized technical management), building insulation and replacing energy-intensive equipment (lighting, furnaces, air heaters, air dryers, motors and compressors) with more efficient equipment. Water consumption The majority of water comes from public water supply systems and to a lesser extent from groundwater pumping. Most (85%) water is used for non-industrial purposes. 2018 2017 In cubic meters Parent Parent Group Group Company Company Municipal water 111,557 150,472 94,876 142,496 (EAU001-a) Groundwater 34,428 34,447 21,077 21,130 (EAU001-b) For the past ten years, the analysis of water consumption stations and strict management have led to a 21% reduction in overall use by the Parent Company. In 2018, actions such as the rehabilitation of networks, installation of meters and the continued improvement of sanitary networks were carried out. Raw materials and other products Aluminum, titanium, steel and composites are the materials most widely used for the manufacturing of our products. In terms of mass, aluminum, 80% of which comes from recycled material, is preponderant in aircraft structures. The Dassault Aviation Group is taking action to reduce its raw material impact:  the development of new technologies, such as composite or direct metal and plastic fabrication (Aeroprint project, see Section 4.5.4), which consumes less raw material,  the use of centralized platforms to regulate the volumes of raw material consumed, and the preparation of a new hardware platform,  selective sorting of scrap metal and reinjecting it into the raw material sector, according to circular economy principles. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 101 Directors’ Report The modernization of the machine fleet and the changes in processes conducted, as encouraged by the “Leading Our Future” transformation plan, contribute to the optimization of the quantities of chemicals used such as solvents, chemical machining products, paints, detergents and cutting fluids. Since 2013, 339 hazardous products have been replaced or are being substituted. Paper and ink consumption are minimized by default programming on computers of printing in two-sided mode and the introduction in 2018 of printing by badge. Atmospheric discharges Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Direct greenhouse gas emissions come mostly from air activity, combustion installations (boilers and emergency sets) and electricity consumption. 2018 2017 In tons of CO2 Parent Parent Group Group Company Company Scope 1 32,970 60,492 36,336 69,546 (AIR001-S1) Scope 2 4,848 30,285 4,875 32,757 (AIR001-S2) Total 1 + 2 37,818 90,777 41,211 102,303 (AIR001) The decrease observed in 2018 is related to a lower air activity than in 2017 and to a decrease in refrigerant emissions. As they do each year, Dassault Aviation Parent Company and Dassault Falcon Service produced, for their air activity, a CO2 emissions statement under the “Emission Trading Scheme” regulations. Indirect GHG emissions Dassault Aviation has identified its significant indirect greenhouse gas emissions. The Falcon’s design has resulted in fuel consumption and CO 2 emissions 20% lower than for competing aircraft with comparable performance, and up to 40% lower for some models. Despite this, the modeling of the environmental footprints of our products, which is based on a Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) approach, shows that the use of aircraft is behind the majority of the Company’s indirect emissions (more than 95% of total emissions). Although the carbon footprint from our customers’ air activity is predominant, Dassault Aviation Parent Company has:  limited professional travel by providing employees with collaborative tools, videoconferencing or self-service office space,  deployed solutions within the mobility plans of the relevant sites,  reduced transport flows through establishment of distribution platforms for chemicals and materials. Emission of volatile organic compounds (VOC) Dassault Aviation’s production activities require the implementation of a variety of chemical products, including solvent-based paints and cleaning products that create VOCs. VOC emissions are monitored under solvent management and establishment emission control plans. 102 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION 2018 2017 in tons of VOC Parent Company Group Parent Company Group Total quantity 39 121 36 135 (AIR004) The reduction in VOC emissions continues in 2018 (down 45% since 2012 for the Parent Company) due to changes in industrial processes and chemical product substitutions. Optimized container packaging decreases evaporation during transfer operations, and the widespread use of product-impregnated wipes contributes to these results. Other atmospheric discharges Phasing out the heavy fuel oil boilers restricted SO2 and NOx emissions to the discharges from the aviation activity only (kerosene). Wastewater The production sites likely to generate industrial wastewater are equipped with detoxification stations or wastewater treatment installations of the “zero liquid discharge” type. For heavy metals, these equipments have discharge rates lower than the value limits set by the regulations. Out of all sites involved in the monitoring of the Release of Hazardous Substances in Water (RSDE), only Mérignac is subject to continuous monitoring. In order to prevent accidental pollution, the sites are equipped with hydrocarbon separators, fitted dumping areas and containment basins for fire-extinguishing water. Sites situated over water tables have instituted monitoring of the water quality (piezometer) when their activities so require. Waste The waste is divided into non-hazardous waste (paper, cardboard, metals, etc.) and hazardous waste (contaminated packaging, oils, metal hydroxide sludge, solvents, etc.). Sorting is carried out at the source by employees who are constantly informed of new requirements. 2018 2017 In tons Parent Company Group Parent Company Group Non-hazardous 5,288 6,428 3,904 5,171 (DEC001-a) Hazardous 1,561 2,339 1,620 2,388 (DEC001-b) Total 6,849 8,767 5,524 7,559 (DEC001) Recycling % 85 79 78 69 (DEC002) In accordance with circular economy principles, the sites identify their waste flows and focus on two areas:  reduction at the source of the amount of waste produced with, for example, the short-term re-use of thermal cladding and insulation, the introduction of fuel-powered vacuums to replace the use of cloths, or the modification of the assembly process in composite polymerization of reusable bladders,  identification of recovery and disposal solutions best suited to their local environment. The significant increase in non-hazardous waste and the recovery rate is mainly related to the production of metal filings. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 103 Directors’ Report Three main channels are used for the recycling and recovery of our waste:  metal, paper, cardboard and plastic recycling,  energy recovery,  bio-waste recovery. The new recovery channels put in place in 2018 by Dassault Falcon Jet also contribute to the improved Dassault Aviation recovery rate. In addition, to avoid accidental pollution, each site has a grouping area specifically designed for the storage of its waste. Fight against food waste and insecurity Dassault Aviation is aware of the food waste problem. However, only company restaurants are involved in reducing it. Since they are mainly run by specialized service providers, the Dassault Aviation Group does not carry out any specific actions. Respect for animal welfare and a responsible and sustainable diet The Dassault Aviation Group’s activities have no impact in these areas. 4.4.3 Regulatory requirements and administrative regimes Contribution to SDGs Each Dassault Aviation entity has a regulatory oversight system that makes it possible to identify the requirements applicable to its activities and carry out compliance actions when necessary. The system in place contributes to controlling risk of regulatory non-compliance and anticipation of the potential impacts of planned regulations. Compliance with regulatory requirements significantly contributes to the control of environmental accident risks and of exposure risks for employees and the areas surrounding Dassault Aviation sites. The Dassault Aviation Group’s French industrial sites are subject to ICPE (Environment Protection Classified Installations) legislation. As such, they all have administrative authorizations.  No site is SEVESO classified.  The Argenteuil, Argonay, Istres, Mérignac and Dassault Falcon Service sites are under the authorization rules.  The Seclin site is under the registration scheme.  The Biarritz, Martignas, Saint-Cloud and Poitiers sites are under the declaration scheme.  The Sogitec Industries sites are not classified. The industrial sites of foreign subsidiaries are monitored in accordance with the regulations of their country. 104 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION 4.5 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY INFORMATION 4.5.1 Sustainability policy Contribution to SDGs Due to the specific nature of its activities, the Dassault Aviation Group is committed to a policy of sustainability, both in the choice of its partners and in its purchasing policy. The service life of our aircraft requires us to anticipate the constraints relating to their life cycle from the time of their design. To achieve this, Dassault Aviation Group innovates, supported by efficient digital industrial processes such as “ Product Lifecycle Management” (PLM). 4.5.2 Culture of safety and performance Our markets are highly competitive. In order to satisfy our clients and meet their expectations with regard to high technology, performance and innovation, we optimize the features of our aircraft, the on-board services and the associated ground services. In the framework of our security and performance policy, we work closely with the French and international airworthiness authorities, both civil and military. Since Dassault Aviation confirmed to the DGA and DSAE authorities in 2017 its commitment to extend and maintain the airworthiness approvals for the military FRA 21-G and FRA 145 aircraft, work is progressing. We are regularly audited by such authorities (the French General Directorate for Civil Aviation, the French General Defence Procurement Delegation, etc.) to ensure that we strictly comply with the regulations on design, manufacture and testing, maintenance, and security management. The audits conducted by the OSAC in October 2017 and the EASA in November 2018 verified the compliance of our organization with the navigability regulatory requirements for civil production. 4.5.3 Corporate commitment for industrial and purchasing activities Contribution to SDGs In the framework of its industrial and purchasing activities, the Dassault Aviation Group :  supplies, purchases, manufactures and integrates all the elements making up its aircraft, and then, for Falcon business aircraft, creates the internal fittings according to the requirements of its customers,  controls its supply chain,  implements materials for replacement that ensure the best service to customers, handles any procurement instabilities to comply with its long-term commitments for aircraft production and throughout the aircraft service cycle. All these activities have a strong territorial, economic and social impact. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 105 Directors’ Report SMEs and intermediate-sized enterprises For several decades, the Dassault Aviation Group has worked with and supported a broad network of French aerospace companies and contributes to the growth of many SMEs. The very nature of Dassault Aviation’s products and the related services leads to a relationship that is necessarily balanced over the long term with its SME, intermediate-sized enterprise or major group suppliers. Active participation in professional bodies such as the GIFAS (French Aerospace Industries Association) allows Dassault Aviation to support SMEs and ETIs of the French aerospace supply chain in their plans to improve competitiveness. On January 10, 2014 and on January 14, 2019, Dassault Aviation signed the SME Defense Pact membership agreement with the French Ministry of Defense, thereby reaffirming its commitment to advancing the French SMEs and ETIs in the Defense sector, and to strengthening good business practices. This commitment is confirmed through discussions with the Ministry that are aimed at renewing and developing the guidelines for this agreement. Dassault Aviation acts to support the development of French SMEs and intermediate-sized enterprises.  At trade fairs abroad (Aero India in Bangalore in India, LIMA in Malaysia, IDEX in Abu Dhabi, the Dubai Airshow in Dubai, EBACE in Geneva, Switzerland, etc.), Dassault Aviation, in relation with GIFAS, promotes exchanges and meetings between local contractors and SMEs and intermediate-sized enterprises.  In the prospective countries, Dassault Aviation involves SMEs and intermediate-sized enterprises in cooperation and offsets.  Dassault Aviation presents business opportunities abroad in regional conferences. Make in India The order of 36 Rafale by the Indian Air Force was made possible through a strong commitment by Dassault Aviation in “Make in India”. This initiative, which was launched by the Indian government in September 2014, intends to transform India into a “Global Design and Manufacturing Hub”. Programs related to “Make in India” are detailed in Section 1.4.1. Purchasing policy and supply chain security Contribution to SDGs Our purchasing policy aims to secure our supply chain by strengthening the structural evaluation of our suppliers. This evaluation has two phases: authorization, which authorizes the referencing of a supplier, and monitoring, which makes it possible to ensure that it remains compliant with our reference system. A supplier approval procedure has been in place since 2007. In 2016, Finance and Security components were added to this procedure. In 2018, the Sapin 2 and Duty of Care aspects were added to supplement the Prevention of Corruption and Influence Peddling components on the one hand, and the HSE and Human Rights / Basic Freedoms components on the other. The monitoring of suppliers takes into account the same themes. We are taking steps to improve supplier performance:  evaluation of control of the management of our suppliers’ supply chain,  increase in the panel of qualified auditors to support our suppliers. 106 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION This approach, which is applied to all areas of purchasing, is in line with the GIFAS Industrial Performance project and the methodologies developed by SPACE ( Supply Chain Progress towards Aerospace Community Excellence) in the Aerospace sector. The guiding principles of our purchasing policy lead us to integrate our suppliers in the industrial and logistical processes, with a view to:  better responsiveness,  sustainable relationships,  cost control,  optimization of the consumption of resources,  inventory reduction. The strengthening of collaborative work with our suppliers is based on the deployment of the “BoostAeroSpace/Air Supply” digital platform, the standard in our industry. Our corporate approach is passed on to our suppliers by way of our technical and industrial specifications, our Quality/Environment purchasing clauses and our contractual requirements. Efforts to raise awareness of potential environmental risks are conducted with Dassault Aviation subcontractors. These actions target subcontractors whose industrial processes have a potential environmental impact. To strengthen monitoring of our suppliers, we have a Supply Chain Committee. This committee is made up of stakeholders in the supply process of the Parent Company. It makes all decisions and takes all strategic actions in this area. Internal training of our buyers and suppliers results in the issuing of a “Passport” (Buyer Passport and Supplier Performance Manager Passport) to give them the keys necessary for the performance of their missions. Volume of purchases In 2018, the order commitments of Dassault Aviation Group represented approximately EUR 2.9 billion. Each subsidiary of Dassault Aviation manages its own purchasing. The purchases made outside the Group by Dassault Falcon Jet for executing its missions (distribution of aircraft and spare parts, internal fittings, maintenance) represent EUR 302 million. These purchases are mostly made in US dollars. Purchases outside the Group made by Dassault Falcon Service (airline company, maintenance center) represent approximately EUR 56 million for the year. French suppliers are responsible for nearly 70% of these purchases. Purchases made outside the Group by Sogitec Industries represent about EUR 38 million. 98% of these purchases are made from French companies. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 107 Directors’ Report 4.5.4 Territorial influence Contribution to SDGs Significant territorial influence:  Dassault Aviation has nine sites in France and locally manages a large number of suppliers,  Dassault Falcon Service, located on two sites in France, also has a location at the Moscow-Vnukovo Airport,  Sogitec Industries is established at three sites in France,  Dassault Falcon Jet, directly or through its subsidiaries, is established at seven sites in the United States and two sites in Brazil,  In India, Dassault Reliance Aerospace Limited will produce civilian and military aerostructure elements at the Nagpur site. In 2016, Dassault Aviation obtained renewal of the Approved Economic Operator certification. We actively participate in regional organizations such as Chambers of Commerce & Industry, Regional Economic & Social Councils, Environmental Committees and the Franco-American Chamber of Commerce, the Little Rock Regional Chamber of Commerce, State of Arkansas Workforce Development and the Delaware River Administration. We also participate actively in competitiveness hubs and regional professional organizations, such as: SAFE in Provence-Alpes-Côte d’Azur, BAAS, Aerospace Valley, Aérocampus, the campus of ESTIA, the Agence de Développement et de l’Innovation (ADI), Alpha route des lasers (Alpha RLH), Bordeaux Technowest, PDIE and AEROTEAM in the Nouvelle Aquitaine region, Plan de Déplacement Inter-Entreprises under the subsupervisory authority of CCI93, System@tic and Astech in Île-de-France, and development agencies in Arkansas, Delaware, and New Jersey (Economic Advisory Committee). On November 5, 2018, Dassault Aviation signed a memorandum of understanding with the Auvergne-RhôneAlpes region for the industrialization of additive manufacturing applied to aeronautics. The Aeroprint project is driven by excellence. All public and private actors in Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes combine their expertise and know-how to create, with the support of the region, a reference additive manufacturing line. 4.5.5 Cooperation with the world of education Dassault Aviation invests on the material level and the human level to prepare those who will be joining us at the end of their studies. The highly technical nature of our activities leads us to develop cooperation with the world of education focused on the sponsorship of skills. In this context, Dassault Aviation:  contributes to the quality and relevance of the training courses of our future employees and all future professionals in our industry,  participates in the discussions held in the framework of professional organizations such as GIFAS and with teaching bodies and institutions (engineering schools, universities, and vocational schools) to adapt the curriculum to the identified medium or long-term needs of the aeronautical industry, 108 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION  encourages its employees to supervise technical projects and participate in business or multidisciplinary courses and examination boards,  organizes trade meetings (forums, company presentations, etc.) and arranges visits to our sites for pupils, students and their advisors (teachers, career counselors, principals, etc.). Two challenges supported by Dassault Aviation make it possible to give teams of students in technical domains experience in situations close to their future activity. We also give students the opportunity to get to know us better through internships, international volunteer programs and work-study contracts. We also contribute to the general development of the technical skills of future technicians, engineers and researchers by creating or participating in teaching and research chairs. This contribution takes the form of financial support, which we supplement with the participation of our experts in the development of educational and research projects for the benefit of the academic and scientific community. Finally, for the development of the activities of our subsidiaries and to benefit the entire aviation industry in India more generally, in 2018, Dassault Aviation created the Dassault Skill Academy. This entity coordinates various institutional and academic partners in France and India to develop new aeronautical training courses on-site, from the Bac professionnel to higher education levels. 4.5.6 Charitable actions The Dassault Aviation Group is actively involved in many charities:  La Course du Cœur, for organ donation;  Rêves de Gosses, to give children with disabilities an opportunity to have their first flight;  Hanvol, for employment training and insertion of people with disabilities;  Fondation Antoine de Saint-Exupéry pour la Jeunesse, which works to improve the lives of young people in many countries;  Fondation des Œuvres Sociales de l’Air and the association Les Ailes Brisées, which aim to help flight crew members who were victims of accidents and their families;  Les Mirauds Volants, which enables the visually impaired to fly planes;  L’École des pupilles de l’air, an equality of opportunity actor;  Association pour le Développement des Œuvres Sociales de la Marine;  and Technowest, for the insertion of young people in the professional world. We have developed:  a partnership with the associations 4A and Canopée (donations of equipment and financial support for the restoration of aircraft by members who are passionate about aviation),  and activities for the association Vieilles Racines (former employees of aviation companies). Through sponsorship agreements, Dassault Aviation supports the Fondation de l’Armée de l’Air, the Fondation d’Auteuil pour la prévention et la protection de l’enfance and the Bourget Air and Space Museum. Dassault Aviation also has a partnership with Aviation Sans Frontières (ASF). In the United States, Dassault Falcon Jet takes part in initiatives including Habitat for Humanity, the Arkansas Food Bank, the American Red Cross and the Muscular Dystrophy Association. Humanitarian missions were also conducted in 2017 in the Americas after the hurricanes. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 109 Directors’ Report 4.6 HUMAN RIGHTS Contribution to SDGs The Dassault Aviation Group, whose main facilities are located in France and the United States, is committed to the respect of all national and international laws and regulations regarding the protection of human rights, especially as regards occupational health and safety of employees and non-discrimination in the workplace. It acts in conformity with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and the provisions of the OECD and the International Labor Organization relating to Human Rights. Since 2003, the Dassault Aviation Parent Company has been a member of the UN Global Compact. It has adopted the ten principles, including the one dedicated to respect for human rights. The Dassault Aviation Group holds a Group Code of Ethics which reflects these commitments. This Code is available on the Company’s intranet site and is given to new Dassault Aviation hires. The Code also pays particular attention to respect for human rights and fundamental labor rights and to the proper application of the essential principles:  non-discrimination on grounds of origin, morals, gender, disabilities, political or religious opinions, trade union membership;  respect for the individual and his or her private life;  maintenance of a safe working environment and conditions. (See Section 4.3 Human resources information) Our general purchasing conditions require our suppliers and service providers to comply with our Code of Ethics when they execute their orders. Our corporate approach is passed on to our suppliers in our technical and industrial specifications and quality and environment purchasing clauses. Under our purchasing and supply chain security policy, the evaluation procedure for suppliers and service providers in place since 2007 now incorporates parameters for evaluating respect for human rights. During the supplier approval phase, the human rights and fundamental freedoms aspects are evaluated through a questionnaire in which the supplier summarizes its commitments in those areas. Each structural change on the part of the supplier triggers a follow-up phase in which the same themes and principles (finance, security, ethics, hygiene, environment and human rights) are reanalyzed. Environmental risks are also taken into account to respect the right to a healthy environment of a sufficient quality to live in dignity and comfort, in accordance with the 1992 Rio Declaration. Finally, the Ethics Department, an independent body that reports to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, is required to intervene in the internal alert procedure for any report that it receives, especially when harassment and discrimination are involved. 110 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION 4.7 BUSINESS ETHICS Contribution to SDGs 4.7.1 Fight against corruption Through its Code of Ethics, Dassault Aviation Group asserts the values that serve to unite the actions of all its employees. This charter also sets out a code of conduct that the Group follows with its customers, partners, suppliers and subcontractors. Observing a strict code of ethics, the Group commits to acting in accordance with the Convention of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), the United Nations Convention and national laws. For many years, the Dassault Aviation Group has implemented strict internal procedures to prevent corruption and ensure the integrity, ethics and reputation of the Group in its industrial and commercial relations. Pursuant to the Sapin 2 Law of December 9, 2016 concerning the fight against corruption and the modernization of economic life, the Dassault Aviation Group supplemented and enhanced its process to prevent and detect corruption and influence peddling in both the Parent Company and its subsidiaries under the guidance of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer who promotes a zero-tolerance policy. The measures required by the Sapin 2 Law have been effective within the Group as of December 31, 2018. An Ethics Department, an independent body that reports to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Dassault Aviation, was created. It is tasked with implementing and monitoring procedures related to the fight against corruption, in compliance with the new regulation. Risk mapping has been deployed within the Group. Its purpose is to identify, analyze and rank our risks of exposure to corruption. This mapping specifies and summarizes activities and risks of corruption and associated influence peddling throughout the Group’s various processes. It takes into account the sectors of activity, both military and civilian, as well as the geographical areas in which the company deploys its activity. The mapping led the Dassault Aviation Group to strengthen existing anti-corruption procedures and put new measures in place. An Anti-corruption Code specifically dedicated to the prevention of and fight against corruption was implemented in the Dassault Aviation Group alongside the Code of Ethics. This Code defines and illustrates the different types of employee behavior to be proscribed as likely to constitute acts of bribery or influence peddling. It is integrated into the internal rules of the company’s various sites. Any violation is therefore punishable. The Anti-Corruption Code is illustrated by an Anti-Corruption Guide consisting of practical examples and scenarios. An Internal Alert Procedure that allows employees and outside and occasional agents to signal a crime or offense, violations of international commitments, laws or regulations, or even the Anti-Corruption Code, was also implemented. The Ethics Department is responsible for receiving and processing internal alerts. For this purpose, a dedicated e-mail address accessible to employees equipped with an encryption system has been created. This process has not been activated for acts of corruption or influence peddling for as long as it has existed. The Ethics Department launched specific training sessions for the managers and personnel most exposed to risks of corruption and influence peddling. Three training sessions taught by a specialized law firm took place during 2018. The content of each session is set in consultation with the Ethics Department, the relevant Management Department and the law firm. Its purpose is to provide customized training for each of the 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 111 Directors’ Report most exposed categories of employees. These sessions must allow the fundamental principles of the Sapin 2 Law to be acquired based on concrete situations. The procedures for evaluating customer, supplier and consultant situations have been strengthened (see Section 4.6 Human Rights). Special internal and external accounting control procedures intended to ensure that the books, ledgers and accounts do not mask acts of corruption or influence peddling have been deployed within the Finance Department, thus reinforcing existing procedures. Finally, the Ethics Division conducted three follow-up missions for the new evaluation procedures for first-tier suppliers and civilian aircraft customers. In particular, the supplier evaluation monitoring procedure revealed that the evaluation process that incorporated the Sapin 2 issue is securely in place. A page dedicated to the Ethics Department is available on the Parent Company Intranet site. This page presents the Company’s Ethics Policy, Ethics Department contacts, and the reference documents, including the Anti-Corruption Code, the Anti-Corruption Guide and the Internal Alert Procedure. A page dedicated to ethics is also accessible on the Group’s website. The compliance program deployed by Dassault Aviation and its subsidiaries Dassault Falcon Service, Dassault Falcon Jet and Sogitec demonstrates our commitment to effectively combating corruption and influence peddling. Moreover, Dassault Aviation is also a signatory of a number of international commitments to prevent corruption: the Global Pact, Common Industry Standards, and Global Principles. The Company is also a member of several ethics and corporate responsibility committees at the national, European and international levels (see website www.dassault-aviation.com, ethics page). 4.7.2 Fight against tax evasion Dassault Aviation complies with the tax regulations in force and, as such, pays taxes in the countries in which it operates. 4.8 DUTY OF CARE Contribution to SDGs The Company’s risk assessment process (see Section 3.3 Risk management procedures) makes it possible to manage the risk of serious harm in the environment, workplace health and safety, human rights and fundamental freedoms for the activities of the Group. In addition, a vigilance plan was defined to cover the suppliers of the Parent Company and its subsidiaries with whom an established commercial relationship has been maintained. 112 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION 4.8.1 Dassault Aviation process prior to the duty of care law Through its Code of Ethics, adherence to the UN Global Compact in 2003, organization and internal processes (Human Resources, Environment, Ethics, etc.), Dassault Aviation takes into account the risks generated by its activities and services in the fields of workplace health and safety, the environment, human rights and fundamental freedoms. In this context, the risks of serious harm directly related to the activities of the Dassault Aviation Group are handled by the Company Risk Committee for both Dassault Aviation and its subsidiaries (see Section 3.3 Risk management procedures). Since 2013, a specific process to evaluate and monitor production subcontractors related to environmental and workplace health and safety risks has also been in place. To that end, 156 production subcontractors have been evaluated. We were able to identify the 20% lowest-ranking subcontractors in terms of consideration of environmental and chemical issues in their activities. Of those, 22 underwent a surveillance audit with information sessions since 2015. 4.8.2 Process set up under the Duty of Care law Pursuant to Law 2017-399 of March 27, 2017 concerning the duty of vigilance of parent companies and companies placing orders, Dassault Aviation strengthened its process through the establishment of an oversight plan to identify the risks of serious violations with its suppliers and its subsidiaries’ suppliers. This oversight plan is based on the existing Company organization. The main components of the oversight plan are:  risk mapping by country, taking into consideration environmental criteria, rights and freedoms in the workplace, and working conditions. It is based on global indicators published periodically by specialized organizations such as Yale University, UNICEF and ILO,  risk mapping by activity (industrial, tertiary, completion, infrastructure, etc.),  an assessment of the risks by integrated supplier in the approval and oversight process, which relies on the standardized questionnaires of the International Aerospace Environmental Group (IAEG) and questionnaires specific to the company,  an onsite evaluation process that may result in an audit for high-risk subsidiaries and suppliers,  a mechanism for the internal reporting of potentially risky situations detected among suppliers that gave anyone outside the Company an additional opportunity to use one of the existing means of communication to submit any reports. This vigilance plan was presented to the relevant subsidiaries for further deployment with their specific suppliers in 2019. Suppliers common to the subsidiaries and Parent Company are evaluated by the Parent Company. In the context of its missions, the Department of Total Quality coordinates the vigilance plan and ensures the correct operation and effectiveness of the process established. The Dassault Aviation supplier panel consists of under 50 companies with whom we have an established commercial relationship located in States that we consider to be a potential risk. An evaluation of those suppliers has been completed or is in progress. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 113 Directors’ Report The other suppliers are evaluated in the accreditation and monitoring process. In this context, over 200 suppliers were evaluated. As a result of these evaluations, we did not detect any immediate high-risk suppliers. Nevertheless, among all of the suppliers evaluated, 4% were identified as presenting a potential risk due to a weakness in one of the areas of evaluation. These suppliers were placed under surveillance and will be given a special audit in 2019. 114 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION 5. DASSAULT AVIATION, PARENT COMPANY 5.1 ACTIVITIES The activities of Dassault Aviation (Parent Company), particularly in the area of program evolution, Research & Development, and production, have been presented to you within the framework of the Group’s activities. 5.2 RESULTS 5.2.1 Order intake Parent Company order intake in 2018 was EUR 4,332 million, compared with EUR 2,620 million in 2017. Export order intake represented 77%. The change was as follows in EUR millions: Defense % Year Falcon Total France Export Export 2014 418 250 3,429 4,097 87% 2015 358 7,889 1,269 9,516 96% 2016 662 7,432 1,124 9,218 92% 2017 489 223 1,908 2,620 80% 2018 996 1,525 1,811 4,332 77% The order intake item is composed entirely of firm orders. Falcon programs Falcon order intake in 2018 was EUR 1,811 million, compared with EUR 1,908 million in 2017. 41 Falcon were ordered in 2018 (51 orders and cancellation of the last 10 Falcon 5X). In 2017, 38 Falcon were ordered (41 orders and 3 cancellations of Falcon 5X). Defense programs 2018 Defense orders totaled EUR 2,521 million, compared with EUR 712 million in 2017, due in particular to the order of 12 Rafale following the entry into force of the option exercised by Qatar and the F4 Standard notification. 5.2.2 Net sales Net sales in 2018 totaled EUR 4,399 million, versus EUR 4,184 million in 2017. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 115 Directors’ Report Their trends were as follows, in EUR millions: Defense % Year Falcon Total France Export Export 2014 721 224 2,250 3,195 75% 2015 550 1,035 1,741 3,326 81% 2016 500 710 1,951 3,161 81% 2017 494 1,378 2,312 4,184 86% 2018 1,002 1,371 2,026 4,399 76% Falcon programs Falcon net sales in 2018 amounted to EUR 2,026 million, compared with EUR 2,312 million in 2017. 40 Falcon were delivered in 2018, compared to 49 Falcon delivered in 2017. Defense programs 2018 defense net sales amounted to EUR 2,373 million compared with EUR 1,872 million in 2017. It was favorably impacted by the increase in Rafale deliveries and the delivery of the F3-R Standard. Indeed, 9 Rafale were delivered to Egypt in 2018 versus 8 in 2017. In addition, 3 Rafale were delivered to France in 2018, versus 1 in 2017. 5.2.3 Backlog The backlog of the Parent Company as of December 31, 2018 was EUR 18,426 million, compared with EUR 18,505 million at December 31, 2017. The Falcon backlog stood at EUR 2,279 million, compared with EUR 2,507 million at December 31, 2017. In particular, it includes 53 Falcon compared with 52 as of December 31, 2017. The France Defense backlog stood at EUR 2,682 million, compared to EUR 2,687 million as of December 31, 2017. In particular, this includes 28 Rafale. The Defense Export backlog stood at EUR 13,465 million, compared with EUR 13,311 million at December 31, 2017. It includes in particular 36 Rafale India, 36 Rafale Qatar, and 1 Rafale Egypt. 5.2.4 Net income Net income for 2018 was EUR 442 million, compared to EUR 310 million in 2017. In 2019, the personnel will receive EUR 131 million from profit-sharing and incentives tied to 2018 results, including:  profit-sharing: EUR 111 million  incentive plans: EUR 20 million These amounts represent 27% of salaries received in 2018. Under a formula identical to the mandatory legal participation, employees would have received EUR 26 million in profit-sharing for 2018. 116 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION 5.2.5 Allocation of earnings If you approve the accounts for FY 2018, we propose that you allocate the net earnings for the year, which is EUR 442,437,677.28, increased by the retained earnings from previous fiscal years, i.e. EUR 2,195,573,880.46 and reduced by the amount of EUR 29,425.60 allocated to the legal reserve and dividends applied to shares other than treasury shares (*) to the retained earnings balance. * The amount of dividends which, in accordance with the provisions of the 4th paragraph of Article L. 225-210 of the ( ) French Commercial Code, may not be paid in relation to the treasury shares held by the Company, shall be reallocated to the Retained Earnings item. 5.2.6 Five-year results summary The Dassault Aviation five-year summary is shown in Note 33 to the Annual Financial Statements. 5.2.7 Tax consolidation Our Company opted for the tax consolidation scheme in 1999. Since January 1, 2012, the Group’s tax consolidation scope includes Dassault Aviation, Dassault Aéro Service and Dassault Aviation Participations. A tax integration agreement, tacitly renewable for five-year periods, was signed with these companies. 5.3 RISK MANAGEMENT The risks and uncertainties to which the Company is exposed are the same as those outlined regarding the Group in Section 2 “Risk factors” above, since the Parent Company plays a predominant role within the scope of consolidation. 5.4 TERMS OF PAYMENT In application of the law, Dassault Aviation implemented the necessary procedures to assure payment to its suppliers at EOM (End-Of-Month) +45 days. The composition of unpaid past-due supplier invoices received by the balance sheet date was as follows (in EUR millions, VAT excluded): 1 to 31 to 61 to 91 Total 30 60 90 days days days days and over Late payment tranches Number of invoices involved 3,796 Total amount of invoices involved (before VAT) 14.9 6.0 3.0 20.7 44.6 % of FY purchases (before VAT) 0.45% 0.18% 0.09% 0.63% 1.36% Contractual payment terms: EOM + 45 days. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 117 Directors’ Report The composition of unpaid past-due customer invoices issued by the closing date was as follows (in EUR millions, VAT excluded): 1 to 31 to 61 to 91 Total 30 60 90 days days days days and over Late payment tranches Number of invoices involved 5,751 Total amount of invoices involved (before VAT) 52.1 10.7 3.4 46.0 112.2 % of FY net sales 1.18% 0.24% 0.08% 1.05% 2.55% (before VAT) Payment periods: defined in the general sales terms. 5.5 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 5.5.1 Capital structure As of December 31, 2018, the share capital of the Company is EUR 66,789,624. It is divided into 8,348,703 shares, each with a par value of EUR 8. The shares are listed on the regulated “Euronext Paris” market – Compartment A – International Securities Identification Numbers (ISIN Code): FR0000121725. They are eligible for deferred settlement. In 2016, following the increase in the free-float, Dassault Aviation joined the following market indices: Sociétés des Bourses Françaises 120 (SBF 120) and the Morgan Stanley Capital International World (MSCI World). As of December 31, 2018, the shareholding structure of Dassault Aviation is as follows: Exercisable Shareholders Number of shares % % voting rights (2) GIMD 5,196,076 62.2 10,314,316 76.8 Float 2,289,624 27.4 2,294,226 17.1 Airbus SE 825,828 (3) 9.9 825,828 6.1 (1) Treasury shares 37,175 0.5 TOTAL 8,348,703 100.0 13,434,370 100.0 (1) Treasury shares recorded in the “fully registered shares” account, without voting rights. (2) Pursuant to the Florange Law, and in the absence of contrary provisions in the articles of association of Dassault Aviation, shares held in a registered account for more than two years are entitled to double voting rights. (3) Shares underlying the bonds exchangeable for Dassault Aviation shares issued by Airbus SE on June 9, 2016. 5.5.2 Information on capital, shareholders and voting rights Direct or indirect shareholdings in the Company of which it is aware, pursuant to Articles L. 233-7 and L.23312 of the French Commercial Code are set forth in the table above. As of December 31, 2018, 2,152 shares (0.03% of the share capital) were held by one of the corporate investment funds whose members are current or former employees of the Company. Pursuant to Law No. 2014-384 of March 29, 2014, “seeking to reconquer the real economy,” and since April 3, 2016, shares issued by the Company and held in a registered account for two years or more are entitled to double voting rights. The Company has not issued any securities representative of its current capital. The only securities giving rights to Dassault Aviation shares are the bonds issued by Airbus SE on June 9, 2016. The Company did not create any stock options in 2018. 118 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION The General Meeting of September 23, 2015 authorized the Board of Directors to allocate, in one or more stages, existing performance shares of the Company (to the benefit of Company employees or certain employee categories it may determine, and to the benefit of eligible corporate officers of the Company). The General Meeting states that the Board of Directors shall determine the identity of the beneficiaries of such allocations and, as required, the conditions and the criteria for allocating the shares. This authorization was for a maximum of 40,500 shares representing 0.44% of the capital as of September 23, 2015. It was the responsibility of the Board of Directors to determine the length of the vesting and holding period for such shares. This authorization was valid for a period of 38 months from said General Meeting. Pursuant to this authorization (see Table 9 of the Board of Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance), on March 7, 2018 the Board of Directors decided to award 850 performance shares to the Chairman-Chief Executive Officer and 725 performance shares to the Chief Operating Officer. To acquire them, the following performance criteria had to be met:  Parent Company net margin level,  qualitative assessment of individual performance. In addition, this same Board Meeting defined the following other conditions:  a vesting period of one year, expiring on March 7, 2019,  presence in the workforce at the end of the vesting period,  a one-year holding period, beginning on March 7, 2019 and ending on March 6, 2020 inclusive,  starting on March 7, 2020, the retention of 20% of those shares for the duration of their term. Since the authorization granted by the General Meeting of September 23, 2015 to the Board of Directors was only for 38 months, a similar authorization was granted by the General Meeting of May 24, 2018 to the Board of Directors. It affects a maximum number of 35,600 shares representing 0.43% of the share capital as of May 24, 2018. It is the responsibility of the Board of Directors to determine the length of the vesting and holding period for such shares. This authorization is valid for a period of 38 months from that General Meeting. *** The Shareholders’ Meeting has not agreed to delegate any authority or powers to the Board of Directors regarding capital increases. Since the General Meeting of May 20, 2015, there has been a statutory obligation to provide information on the crossing of ownership thresholds for any fraction equal to or greater than 1% of the capital and voting rights of the Company, and any multiple of that percentage. The Company’s Articles of Association do not include any restrictions on the exercise of voting rights or on the transfer of shares. No shareholder has special control rights. In particular, there is no shareholding system offering employees specific control. 5.5.3 Payment of the dividend in shares The Annual General Meeting of May 24, 2018 offered the option to each shareholder to receive, in part or in full, the payment of their 2017 dividend in new shares of the Company. Because of the option exercised by some shareholders for payment of the dividend in shares, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, acting 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 119 Directors’ Report pursuant to the sub-delegation granted by the Board of Directors, noted the creation of 36,782 new shares and the corresponding increase in the Company’s capital on June 27, 2018. 5.5.4 Securities transactions by corporate officers Securities transactions executed in 2018 by Corporate Officers were:  the acquisition of performance shares by the Corporate Officers on March 7, 2018 (see Board of Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance); and  subscription by the Corporate Officers of new shares in payment for the 2017 dividend. No other acquisition or sale of Dassault Aviation shares by the Officers was executed. Such transactions, when they occur, must be reported to the AMF and the Company, pursuant to the provisions of Article L. 621-18-2 of the French Monetary and Financial Code and Articles 223-22-A et seq. of the General Regulations of the AMF. 5.5.5 Agreements between shareholders There is no shareholders’ agreement between Groupe Industriel Marcel Dassault (GIMD) and Airbus Group SE. However, the following two agreements are in place: a) Agreement between the French government, Airbus Group SE (formerly Airbus Group N.V.) and Airbus SE: Pursuant to Article L.233-11 of the French Commercial Code, the Company has been informed by the French Commissioner of State Holdings that on June 21, 2013, the French government signed a shareholders’ agreement with Airbus Group N.V. and Airbus Group SAS that established concerted action with respect to Dassault Aviation. This agreement, to last 90 years, provides as follows:  Airbus Group SAS may exercise its voting rights in General Meetings following consultation with the French government,  the French government is granted a right of first refusal and a right of first offer in case Airbus Group SAS were to seek to dispose of all or part of its shares in the stock of Dassault Aviation. Airbus SE, which also signed the agreement, is bound by these commitments. b) Agreement between the French government and GIMD: In application of Article L.233-11 of the French Commercial Code, the Company was informed by GIMD that, on November 28, 2014, the French government signed an agreement with GIMD, which would enter into force on December 2, 2014. The purpose of this agreement is to confer to the French government preemptive rights in case of transfer of Dassault Aviation shares by GIMD that would drop below the 40% threshold in Dassault Aviation capital, and in case of any subsequent share transfers below this threshold. This agreement does not constitute an act in concert between the French government and GIMD, each remaining at total liberty to manage its shareholding and exercise its voting rights. These two agreements have no impact on the Company’s governance. GIMD holds the majority of the capital and voting rights in Dassault Aviation. 120 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION 5.5.6 Implementation of a share buyback program In order to allow Dassault Aviation to trade its own shares market or off-market, the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2018 authorized the establishment of a new share buyback program, identical to the programs approved on January 28, 2015, May 19, 2016 and May 18, 2017. This new authorization, valid for a period of 18 months as of May 24, 2018 (until November 23, 2019 inclusive), ends, on the date it was implemented by the Board of Directors on July 19, 2018, the share buyback program previously authorized by the Shareholders’ Meeting on May 18, 2017, for the unused portion of this program. This share buyback program is in line with the provisions of Articles L.225-209 et seq. of the French Commercial Code and European Regulation 596/2014 of April 16, 2014. This share buyback authorization may be used by the Board of Directors for the following objectives:  to cancel shares in order to increase the profitability of shareholders’ equity and earnings per share,  to ensure market trading or liquidity of Dassault Aviation stock through an investment services provider under a liquidity contract compliant with an ethics charter recognized by the French Financial Markets Authority,  to transfer or allocate shares to Company employees and Executive Officers and/or associated companies under the conditions and in accordance with the law, particularly in case of the exercising of stock options or allocations of existing performance shares, or by granting and/or subscription of existing shares in an employee stock ownership scheme,  to retain shares with a view to subsequent use, to hand them over as payment or in exchange, including under the scope of potential external growth transactions, of up to 5% of the share capital,  to remit shares upon exercise of rights attaching to securities providing access to Dassault Aviation’s capital,  to implement any market practice that would be recognized by the law or by the French Financial Markets Authority. Shares could, within the limits imposed by the regulations, be acquired, sold, traded or transferred by any means, on whatever market (regulated or not), on a multilateral trading facility (MTF), via a systematic internalizer or over-the-counter through buyback of blocks of shares or otherwise, at times that the Board of Directors or the person acting in a sub-delegated capacity decides, in accordance with the provisions provided for by law. These means include the use of available cash as well as recourse to any derivative financial instruments, including the use of options or warrants, and without limitations. The authorization given by the General Meeting to the Board of Directors entitles Dassault Aviation to buy its own shares up to a limit of 10% of its capital, with a unit price ceiling of EUR 1,700 exclusive of acquisition costs, subject to adjustments linked to capital transactions, particularly through the incorporation of reserves and allocation of performance shares and/or division of the par value or consolidation of shares. The maximum amount to be used to purchase the Company’s shares was EUR 1,413,026,400; this condition is combined with the condition for a 10% cap on the Company’s share capital. This program was not used in 2018. Because of the capital increase on June 27, 2018, 834,870 shares could be acquired which, with a cap of EUR 1,700 per share, would represent a maximum of EUR 1,419,279,000. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 121 Directors’ Report The General Meeting conferred all powers to the Board of Directors, with an option to sub-delegate where authorized by the law, to place any stock market or off-market orders, sign any agreements, draw up any documents including information documents, set the terms for the Company’s market or off-market dealings, as well as the terms and conditions for acquisition and disposal of shares, to make any declarations including to the French Financial Markets Authority, fulfill any formalities and, in general, do what is necessary to close these transactions. On July 19, 2018, the Board of Directors, which implemented this new share buyback program, subdelegated the aforementioned powers to the Chairman and CEO. The General Meeting also conferred all powers to the Board of Directors if the law or the French Financial Markets Authority were to extend or add to the objectives authorized for the share buyback program, in order to bring to public attention, within applicable legal and regulatory terms and conditions, any amendments with regard to the program’s objectives. As of December 31, 2018, the Company still held 37,175 treasury shares, allocated for distribution of performance shares and the establishment of a possible liquidity contract to stimulate the market or ensure the liquidity of the stock through an investment services provider. In order to allow the Company to act at any time with regard to its own shares, on February 27, 2019, the Board of Directors proposed to the General Meeting of May 16, 2019, that a new share buyback program be launched under the same conditions (13th resolution). Pursuant to the provisions of Articles L.225-211 and R.225-160 of the French Commercial Code, the Company maintains registers of the purchase and sale of shares acquired and sold in the context of its share buyback program. 5.5.7 Authorization of reduction in the Company’s share capital On May 24, 2018, the General Meeting authorized the Board of Directors, under the same terms as the authorization of May 18, 2017, to:  reduce its share capital by way of cancellation, in one or more stages, of all or some of the shares acquired by the Company under the scope of its own share buyback program, and limited to 10% of the capital per 24-month period,  allocate the difference between the buyback value of canceled shares and their nominal value to premiums and available reserves. To this end, the General Meeting has granted all powers to the Board of Directors to set the terms and conditions for any capital reductions consecutive to any cancellation operations decided upon. This authorization was given for a period that expires at the end of the Ordinary General Meeting called to approve the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2018. No share of Dassault Aviation stock was canceled in 2018. In order to allow the Company to reduce its capital at any time, on February 27, 2019, the Board of Directors recommended to the General Meeting of May 16, 2019, that it authorize the Board to reduce the capital of the Company through the cancellation of shares purchased or to be purchased under a share buyback program (14th resolution). 122 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION 5.5.8 Significant agreements entered into by the Company The Company did not enter into any major agreement that would be amended or automatically terminated in the event of a change in control of the Company. However, in such a case, the “National Defense” contracts entered into with the French government would be reexamined by the French Ministry of Defense, which could require that all or some of these contracts be transferred to another French company for reasons of national interest. There is no agreement offering compensation for:  members of the Board of Directors, should they resign or be dismissed,  employees, should they resign or be dismissed unjustifiably and without proper cause, or should their employment contract be terminated due to a takeover, over and above the provisions of the collective bargaining agreement. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 123 Directors’ Report 6. PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS The resolutions submitted for your approval cover the following points: Resolutions to be submitted to the Ordinary General Meeting:  Approval of Annual and Consolidated Financial Statements You are asked to approve the Annual Financial Statements of the Parent Company (Resolution No. 1) and the consolidated financial statements (Resolution No. 2) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018. These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on February 27, 2019 after prior examination by the Audit Committee, and were the subject of Statutory Auditor reports, which appear in the 2018 Annual Financial Report.  Allocation and distribution of the net income of the Parent Company You are asked to allocate the net income for the year, plus the retained earnings from prior years, which raises the total distributable to EUR 2,637,982,132.14, to the legal reserve for EUR 29,425.60, and to the distribution of a dividend for fiscal year 2018 in the amount of EUR 21.2 per share, to be paid on May 24, 2019; with the remaining balance to the retained earnings (Resolution No. 3).  Approval of the elements of compensation due or attributed for fiscal year 2018 to Mr. Éric Trappier, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Article L.225-100 II of the French Commercial Code, the General Meeting is asked to approve the fixed, variable and exceptional components of the total compensation and the benefits of any kind paid or awarded for the year ended December 31, 2018 to Mr. Éric Trappier, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, as they appear in the Report on Corporate Governance in paragraphs 2.2.3 – Compensation of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and 2.2.6 – Summary compensation tables (Resolution No. 4).  Approval of the elements of compensation due or attributed for fiscal year 2018 to Mr. Loïk Segalen, Chief Operating Officer Pursuant to Article L.225-100 II of the French Commercial Code, the General Meeting is asked to approve the fixed, variable and exceptional components of the total compensation and the benefits of any kind paid or awarded for the year ended December 31, 2018 to Mr. Loïk Segalen, Chief Operating Officer, as they appear in the Report on Corporate Governance in paragraphs 2.2.4 – Compensation of the Chief Operating Officer and 2.2.6 – Summary compensation tables (Resolution No. 5).  Approval of the 2019 compensation policy for Mr. Éric Trappier, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Article L.225-37-2 of the French Commercial Code, the General Meeting is asked to approve the principles and criteria for the determination, distribution and award of the fixed, variable and exceptional components of the total compensation and benefits of any kind attributable to Mr. Éric Trappier, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, for his position for fiscal year 2019, as they appear in the Corporate Governance Report in paragraph 2.3 (Resolution No. 6). 124 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION  Approval of the 2019 compensation policy for Mr. Loïk Segalen, Chief Operating Officer Pursuant to Article L.225-37-2 of the French Commercial Code, the General Meeting is asked to approve the principles and criteria for the determination, distribution and award of the fixed, variable and exceptional components of the total compensation and benefits of any kind attributable to Mr. Loïk Segalen, Chief Operating Officer, for his position for fiscal year 2019, as they appear in the Corporate Governance Report in paragraph 2.3 (Resolution No. 7).  Renewal of the term of four Directors As the terms of Directors Ms. Lucia Sinapi-Thomas, MM. Charles Edelstenne, Olivier Dassault and Éric Trappier expire at the end of the General Meeting, you are asked to re-elect them for four years (Resolutions No. ,8 9, 10 and 11).  Approval of a regulated agreement relating to the transfer of Sogitec Industries’ documentation and training activities to Dassault Aviation You are asked to approve the regulated agreement authorized by the Board of Directors on December 13, 2018 relating to the transfer of Sogitec Industries’ documentation and training activities to Dassault Aviation (Resolution No. 12).  Authorization to be given to the Board of Directors to allow the Company to purchase its own shares under a share buyback program Companies whose shares are admitted to trading on a regulated market are allowed to purchase their own shares if they are authorized by the General Meeting of Shareholders. Under Article L.225-209 of the French Commercial Code and the provisions of European Regulation 596/2014 of April 16, 2014, you are being asked to authorize the Board of Directors to implement a share buyback program. Such a program could be used for the following objectives: 1) Canceling shares in order to increase the profitability of shareholders’ equity and earnings per share (subject to adopting Resolution No. 14), 2) Ensuring market trading or liquidity of Dassault Aviation stock through an investment services provider via a liquidity contract compliant with an ethics charter recognized by the French Financial Markets Authority, 3) Transferring or allocating shares to Company employees and executive officers and/or associated companies under the conditions and in accordance with the law, particularly in case of the exercising of stock options or allocations of existing shares, or by granting and/or subscription of existing shares in an employee stock ownership scheme, 4) Retaining shares with a view to subsequent use, to hand them over as payment or in exchange for potential external growth transactions or other purposes, within the limit of 5% of the share capital, 5) Remitting shares upon exercise of rights attached to securities convertible to Dassault Aviation shares, 6) Implementing any market practice that would be recognized by the law or by the French Financial Markets Authority. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 125 Directors’ Report Under the proposed authorization, the Board could, with an option to sub-delegate, proceed to buy back Dassault Aviation shares up to a limit of 10% of Dassault Aviation stock, for a maximum price of EUR 1,700 per share, representing a maximum investment of EUR 1 419 279 000. This authorization, which would be granted for a period of 18 months as of the Annual Ordinary and Extraordinary General Meeting of May 16, 2019, would take effect as of the next Board Meeting, which would decide on the implementation of this new share buyback program. This new authorization would terminate the unused portion of the share buyback program previously authorized by the Annual Ordinary and Extraordinary General Meeting of May 24, 2018, and would end on November 16, 2020 (Resolution No. 13). Resolutions to be submitted to the Extraordinary General Meeting:  Authorization to be given to the Board of Directors to reduce the Company’s share capital by cancellation of shares purchased or to be purchased under the scope of a share buyback program The General Meeting is asked to authorize the Board of Directors, with the option of sub-delegation, and pursuant to the provisions of Article L.225-209 of the French Commercial Code, to: reduce its share capital by way of cancellation, in one or more stages, of all or some of the shares acquired by the Company under the scope of its own share buyback program, and limited to 10% of the capital per 24-month period, allocate the difference between the buyback value of canceled shares and their nominal value to premiums and available reserves. This new authorization would be granted for a period that expires at the end of the Annual Ordinary Meeting called to approve the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2019. As of May 16, 2019, it would render the similar authorization granted by the Combined General Meeting of May 24, 2018 ineffective for the unused portion (Resolution No. 14). Resolution to be submitted to the Ordinary General Meeting:  Powers to perform formalities This resolution is intended to grant powers to complete the legal formalities that will have to be performed after the General Meeting (Resolution No. 15). 126 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION 7. CONCLUSION AND OUTLOOK Above all, 2018 will be remembered for Serge Dassault’s passing away. His passion, his tenacity, his vision, his patriotism stay in our hearts and our history. We are grateful to his memory as to our founder’s Marcel Dassault. Our task is to carry on their legacy. Besides, 2018 was eventful for the Company, in both defense and civilian programs. The following events in particular stand out:  the announcement of the launch of the Falcon 6X to replace the Falcon 5X and the amicable agreement signed with Safran to settle the dispute over the difficulties encountered with the Silvercrest engine,  the entry into force of the option for 12 additional Rafale for Qatar,  the notification of the F4 standard (firm and optional batches) announced by the French Minister of the Armed Forces during her visit in Mérignac in early January 2019 showing the ongoing efforts to improve the Rafale, which will add innovative connectivity (new satellite and intra-patrol connections, communication server, software radio), new capabilities (enhanced radar sensors and optronic frontal sector) and incorporate new weapons (Mica NG air-to-air missile and 1,000 kg modular air-to-ground weapons). In addition to these major events, 2018 was marked by: In defense programs:  the 2019-2025 French Military Procurement Law passed in 2018 shows a positive trend in the Nation’s defense efforts and gives the Company expectations for the coming years: a batch of 30 additional Rafale (reaffirmation by the French Minister of the Armed Forces on January 14 th in Mérignac), notification expected for 2023 ; launch of the European MALE drone program in 2019 (cooperation between Airbus, Dassault Aviation and Leonardo) ; selection by the Ministry of the Armed Forces of the Falcon platform to carry the Universal Electronic Warfare Capacity (CUGE), studies notified ; upgrade of 18 ATL2 instead of the 15 initially planned; initialization of the ATL2 replacement program (future PATMAR); renewal of the MARitime SURveillance aircraft fleet based on the Falcon 2000LXS, first studies notified ; and confirmation of the airborne component upgrade,  in June 2018, in Meseberg, at the Franco-German council, in the presence of the French President and the German Chancellor, France and Germany signed a Letter of Intent materializing their will to build together the future weapons systems and act towards the construction of the Europe of Defense. This Letter of Intent was followed, on November 19 2018, by a common statement to launch the initial works of the Future Combat Air System (FCAS): on January 31, 2019, a 2-year conception and architecture study was notified under the leadership of Dassault Aviation and Airbus ; demonstrators for the combat aircraft and its engine are to be launched at the 2019 Paris Air Show ; Dassault Aviation being the leader of the New Generation Fighter (NGF),  delivery of 3 Rafale to France, bringing the total Rafale delivered to the French Forces up to 152 (the last 28 Rafale out of the 180 aircraft ordered being forecasted to be delivered from 2022 on),  the delivery to France of the last 2 Rafale Navy retrofitted from the F1 standard to the F3 standard; all 10 Rafale Marine now meet the F3 standard,  the delivery to the French Air Force of the F3-R standard,  the delivery of 9 Rafale to Egypt, bringing the total number of aircraft delivered to 23 out of the 24 ordered,  the continuation of the Egyptian Rafale support and the entry into force of the associated Maintenance in Operational Conditions contract,  the continued execution of the 36 Rafale contract with Qatar, including pilots training and support implementation : the official acceptance of the first Qatari Rafale took place on February 6 2019, 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 127 Directors’ Report  the continued execution of the 36 Rafale Indian contract. The Indian Air Force is getting ready for the entry into service of the Rafale. Considering the important needs in India for combat aircraft, we answered in July 2018 the “Request for Information” for the supply of 110 combat aircraft to the Indian Air Force (in May 2017, we had answered the “Request for Information” for the supply of 57 combat aircraft to the Indian Navy),  the continued upgrading works on the French Mirage 2000D (the Mirage 2000N entered into service in 1988 was discarded from French Air Forces),  the start of a new nEUROn flight test campaign dedicated to stealthiness demonstration with the French Procurement Agency, the French Air Force, and the French Navy, in the frame of a contract for studies and flight tests over 2018-2020. for the “Make in India” project we :  launched the industrial operations of the JV DRAL: 2018 being the start of the ramp-up. Production of the first Falcon 2000 subassemblies (T3 front tank) completed in December 2018, first T1 section in February 2019,  expanded our industrial ecosystem in India for our production line, with the deployment of a Supply Chain, regarding at first primary parts, tools, pylons, containers, as well as our engineering department activities, with the establishment of an engineering center in Pune (India). in MARitime SURveillance and MARitime PATrol aircraft:  the order of a 5th SURMAR Falcon 2000 (maritime surveillance) by the Japanese Coast Guard (first deliveries scheduled in first half 2019),  the delivery of the 1st retrofitted SURMAR Falcon 50 with additional capacity for dropping SAR (Search And Rescue) chains. regarding space programs (2018 was remarkable for on interest in the new Defense space policy), we notice:  for space vehicles, a new bath of the study contract for the reusable orbital vehicle “Space Rider” from the European Space Agency (ESA), of which the first flight is scheduled in 2021. Dassault Aviation is in charge of the vehicle shape design,  for the pyrotechnic, the contractualization of 2 studies with the French Defense Procurement Agency (DGA) and the French Space Agency (CNES) in order to apply the pyrodigital technology allowing a securitized digital bus to convey the pyrotechnic orders for both Callisto demonstrator and Rafale. in civilian programs:  the order intake of 42 Falcon in 2018 (52 orders and cancellation of the last 10 Falcon 5X). In 2017, 38 Falcon were ordered (41 orders and 3 Falcon 5X cancellations),  the delivery of 41 Falcon,  the official launch of the Falcon 6X program, in early 2018 for an entry into service scheduled in 2022. The program development is in line with the schedule: the primarily development stage has been completed; first structural parts are being manufactured. Tests on the PW812D engine are also on time: 4 engines are being tested and 120 hours were run on a flying test bench. Design shelves have been set up in Saint-Cloud and Merignac in cooperation with our industrial partners,  the Falcon 8X which demonstrated its long range capacity (Singapore – London in 14 hours) is still an unmatched aircraft in terms of comfort and is acknowledged for being the most silent aircraft on the market,  the certification of Electronical Flight Vision System operational gains of up to 100 feet for approaches in poor weather conditions with the FalconEye system for Falcon 7X, Falcon 8X, Falcon 2000LX and Falcon 2000LXS; FalconEye system certification for Falcon 900LX is in progress,  the new service offer for a broadband connectivity such as “FalconConnect”, an integrated management solution for communications and data exchanges between aircraft and ground networks, 128 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION  in Customer Support , Dassault Aviation was first in several categories of the Aviation International News (AIN) ranking (#1 Overall Average, #1 AOG Response, #1 Warranty Fulfillment, #1 Parts Availability, #1 Overall Aircraft Reliability, #1 Technical Reps). Besides, the Falcon Response offer which includes 2 dedicated Falcon, has performed 191 missions (1,395 flight hours),  the future Falcon is in progress: marketing and technical studies are ongoing,  the development of a high-quality customer support network, by the acquisition of service centers strengthening our footprint, in Europe, Asia-Pacific, Africa and Middle-East. In 2018 we pursued our transformation plan “Leading Our Future”. 2019 outlook There are many strategic challenges for 2019:  Continue promotion and sale of our Falcon and Rafale  Complete FCAS studies and obtain the launch of a demonstrator for the future combat aircraft at the Paris Air Show  Continue the Falcon 6X development for an entry into service in 2022  Confirm the future Falcon launch  Start of the Rafale F4 standard development  Perform the Falcon and Rafale contracts in terms of quality, time and cost objectives  Participate in the response to the “Invitation To Tender” for a contract launching the MALE RPAS program  Continue to work on preparing the Falcon MARitime SURveillance and CUGE order with France  Deliver the ATL2 upgrade in 2019  Finalize the new Rafale France Maintenance in Operational Conditions contract  Increase the effectiveness of Falcon support and continue to develop a network of high-quality service centers  Continue the development of the “Make in India” industrial line  Promote our skills in space  Continue to implement the Transformation Plan The Group plans to deliver 45 Falcon and 26 Export Rafale in 2019. 2019 net sales will rise significantly. The Board of Directors would like to express its thanks to all the personnel for their dedication, efficiency and skills in executing our programs. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 129 Directors’ Report Appendix 1 to the Directors’ Report Reporting Methodology for Indicators In accordance with Order No. 2017-1180 of July 19, 2017 and Decree No. 2017-1265 of August 9, 2017, in the Directors’ Report, we publish a non-financial performance declaration that includes the following information: Social information, Environmental information, Information relating to respect for human rights, Information relating to the fight against corruption, Information relating to the fight against tax evasion. Most of the published information follows the third-generation guidelines relating to management and reporting of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The GRI is an initiative co-piloted by the United Nations Environment Program that aims to harmonize and consolidate data on sustainable development. The guidelines propose principles to be followed in order to help organizations to provide a balanced and reasonable presentation of their economic, environmental and labor relations performance. The published indicators that follow the principles of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) are stated in the correspondence table in Appendix 2. Scope of consolidation For FY 2018, the reporting scope includes Dassault Aviation (Parent Company, including all its sites) and its fully-owned subsidiaries. It should be noted, however, that the following are excluded from the reporting scope for 2018: Dassault Falcon Jet Leasing Ltd (100% owned subsidiary of Dassault Falcon Jet): this company have had no significant CSR activity, Dassault Falcon Service Moscow (100% subsidiary of Dassault Falcon Service), Dassault Aircraft Services India Private Ltd (99% subsidiary of Dassault Participation and 1% of Dassault Aéro Services), Dassault Falcon Business Services (100% subsidiary of Dassault Aviation). Control and Consolidation Each published indicator is subject to a reporting protocol detailing the definition of the indicator, the scope and the calculation methodology. Indicators are calculated on the basis of a calendar year (from January 1 to December 31). Taking into account the mode of data gathering and the locations of the subsidiaries, the reporting scope may vary according to the indicators. Certain indicators cannot be consolidated on account of the differences in regulations between the countries. 130 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION Under the framework of ISO 14001 certification, reporting procedures for environmental indicators are applied by the Parent Company. Social and Human Resources Data The social data of this report is based on fact sheets and methodology sheets that form the reference base for reporting social data of the Dassault Aviation Group, in force starting in 2018. The defined indicators are in compliance with national regulations. The following details are given for the following indicators: absenteeism: the causes of absences taken into account for the absenteeism indicator are sickness, stoppages for work-related accidents and accidents when traveling to/from work, and unjustified absences. The indicated number of days are normal working days, departures and dismissals: traditional terminations are to be counted as departures but are not counted within the number of dismissals, Group compensation: the average annual compensation is a gross compensation that includes the base salary, the 13th month and the seniority bonus, excluding other bonuses, Parent Company compensation: the average annual compensation is a gross figure that includes the base salary, the 13th month and the seniority bonus, excluding other bonuses, plus profit-sharing and incentive schemes, training hours: work-study training hours recorded in the training plan as well as the in-school training hours of professional development contracts are also taken into account. Training hours in the workplace are also taken into account when they are part of a training program with precise formal monitoring. Environmental Data The environmental indicators and the associated generation methods are subject to descriptive methodological procedures both for the Parent Company and for its French and American subsidiaries. These procedures are included in the documentation repository of the Parent Company and distributed to the various entities contributing to the generation of these indicators. The balances are produced per calendar year and consolidated, when the data so allows, against invoices and meter readings for the period from January to December. Unavailable information relating to the last months of the year is estimated by comparison with the equivalent months of the previous year or based on the average for the same month of the last three years. The consumption of kerosene for maintenance activities is calculated on the basis of the purchased, nonreinvoiced fuel. The consumption of kerosene for production activities includes both civil and military aircraft. Information relating to respect for human rights Dassault Aviation is committed to respecting human rights through its Code of Ethics, internal organization, the evaluation and monitoring of its suppliers, as well as various international texts to which we adhere. The measures taken in favor of this commitment are detailed in Section 4.6 Human Rights. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 131 Directors’ Report Information relating to the fight against corruption In accordance with Article 17 of Law No. 2016-1691 of December 9, 2016 respecting transparency, the fight against corruption and the modernization of economic life, Dassault Aviation takes measures to prevent and detect, in France and abroad, acts of corruption or influence peddling. Information relating to the fight against tax evasion Dassault Aviation complies with the tax regulations in force and, as such, pays taxes in the countries in which it operates. External Verification The data generated in this report as well as the collection and validation procedures have been subject to an external audit by Deloitte & Associés; the corporate responsibility information has also been checked on a qualitative basis. 132 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION Appendix 2 to the Directors’ Report Table of correspondence between the Dassault Aviation indicators and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Link with GRI – Themes Dassault Aviation Indicators Indicators & Protocols: Social (Version 3.1) EMP01: Total Workforce LA1: Total workforce per type of emEMP02: Employee Distribution by ployment, work contract and geoGender graphical zone LA13: Composition of management EMP03: Employee Distribution by bodies and distribution of employees Age by gender, age group, identifying as a minority and other diversity indicators LA1: Total workforce per type of emEMP04: Employee Distribution by ployment, work contract and geoGeographical Zone graphical zone EMP05: Hiring LA2: Staff turnover in number of emEmployment EMP06: Departures and Dismisployees and percentage per age sals group, gender and geographical zone EC1: Direct economic value created and distributed, including revenues, operational costs, employee compensation and benefits, donations and other community investments, reEMP07: Compensation tained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments EC5: Range of ratios of standard entry level salary compared to local minimum on the main operating sites LA1: Total workforce per type of emORG01: Working Time Organizaployment, work contract and geoWork tion graphical zone Organization LA7: Rate (…) of absenteeism (…) per ORG02: Absenteeism geographical zone REL01: Organization of the Labor Relations Dialog, Procedures for LA4: Percentage of employees covered Informing and Consulting Personby a collective bargaining agreement Labor nel and for Negotiations Relations LA5: Minimum notice period(s) regardREL02: Collective bargaining ing significant organizational changes, agreements including whether it is specified in a collective bargaining agreement 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 133 Directors’ Report Link with GRI – Themes Dassault Aviation Indicators Indicators & Protocols: Social (Version 3.1) LA6: Percentage of the total workforce represented on formal joint management-worker health & safety committees, for monitoring and issuing statements on occupational health & safety programs S&S01: Conditions of health and safety in the workplace LA8: Programs for risk education, training, consulting, prevention and management put in place in order to help employees, their families or the Health and members of their local communities in Safety the event of serious illness S&S02: Agreements Signed with LA9: Questions of health and safety the Union Organizations or Staff covered by formal agreements with Representatives with Regard to the unions Occupational Health and Safety S&S03: Work-Related Accidents S&S04: Frequency Rate of WorkLA7: Rate of work-related accidents, Related Accidents occupational illnesses, (...) number of days lost and total number of fatal S&S05: Severity Rate of Workwork-related accidents, per geographRelated Accidents ical zone S&S06: Occupational Illnesses LA11: Lifelong skills and training deFOR01: Policies Implemented velopment programs, designed to with Regard to Training guarantee employability Training LA10: Average number of training FOR02: Total Number of Training hours per year, per employee and per Hours professional category EGA01: Measures Taken in Favor LA14: Basic pay ratio between men of Gender Equality and women per professional category Equality of EGA02: Measures taken in favor Treatment of the employment and integraLA13: Composition of management tion of disabled people bodies and distribution of employees by gender, age group, identifying as a EGA03: Anti-discrimination policy minority and other diversity indicators 134 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION Link with GRI – Themes Dassault Aviation Indicators Indicators & Protocols: Social (Version 3.1) HR5: Identified activities in the course of which the right to union freedom and collective bargaining risks being threatened; measures taken to ensure this right is maintained OIT01: Respect for freedom of association and the right to colLA4: Percentage of employees covered lective bargaining by a collective bargaining agreement LA5: Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant organizational changes, including whether it is specified in a collective bargaining agreement HR4: Total number of discrimination Promotion and Respect incidents and measures taken for the Stipulations of the Basic Conventions LA13: Composition of management of the International OIT02: Eliminating Employment bodies and distribution of employees Labour Organization and Professional Discrimination by gender, age group, identifying as a minority and other diversity indicators LA14: Basic pay ratio between men and women per professional category HR7: Activities identified as presenting a serious risk of incidents involving OIT03: Elimination of forced or forced or compulsory labor; measures compulsory labor taken to contribute to the prohibition of this type of labor HR6: Activities identified as presenting a serious risk of incidents involving OIT04: Effective Abolition of Child child labor; measures taken to conLabor tribute to the prohibition of this type of labor ENE001: Energy Consumption Excluding Kerosene and Mobile EN3: direct energy consumption disSources tributed according to primary energy source Energy ENE002: Kerosene Consumption Qualitative indicator, “aircraft EN7: initiatives for reducing indirect design performance/kerosene energy consumption and reductions consumption” achieved Water EAU001: Overall Water ConsumpEN8: total volume of water used by Consumption tion (by Source) source EN16: total (direct or indirect) greenAIR001: Greenhouse Gas Emishouse gas emissions, in weight (CO2 sions (Scope 1 and Scope 2) Atmospheric TEQ) Discharges EN20: NOx, SOx and other significant AIR004: Emissions of Volatile Oratmospheric emissions, by type and by ganic Compounds (VOC) weight 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 135 Directors’ Report Link with GRI – Themes Dassault Aviation Indicators Indicators & Protocols: Social (Version 3.1) EN7: initiatives for reducing indirect Indirect GHG Emission Quality energy consumption and reductions Indicator achieved DEC001: Total Production of Hazardous and Non-Hazardous Waste EN22: total mass of waste, by type Waste DEC002: Proportion of Recycled and by treatment method Waste 136 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION Report of one of the Statutory Auditors, appointed as independent third party, on the consolidated non-financial performance declaration published in the group management report Year ended December 31, 2018 To the General Meeting of Dassault Aviation Company, In our capacity as Statutory Auditor of Dassault Aviation, appointed as independent third party and accredited by COFRAC under number 3-1048 (scope of accreditation available at www.cofrac.fr), we hereby report to you on the consolidated non-financial statement for the year ended December 31, 2018 (hereinafter the “Statement”), presented in the group management report pursuant to the legal and regulatory provisions of Articles L. 225-102-1, R. 225-105 and R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). Company’s responsibility The Board of Directors is responsible for preparing a Statement pursuant to legal and regulatory provisions, including a presentation of the business model, a description of the main extra-financial risks, a presentation of the policies implemented with respect to these risks as well as the results of these policies, including key performance indicators. The Statement was prepared by applying the company’s procedures (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), summarized in the Statement and available on the company’s website or on request from its headquarters. Independence and quality control Our independence is defined by Article L. 822-11-3 of the French Commercial Code and the French Code of Ethics for Statutory Auditors (Code de déontologie). In addition, we have implemented a system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with the ethical requirements, French professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 137 Directors’ Report Responsibility of the statutory auditor appointed as independent third party Based on our work, our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on:  the compliance of the Statement with Article R. 225-105 of the French Commercial Code;  the fairness of the information provided pursuant to part 3 of sections I and II of Article R. 225-105 of the French Commercial Code, i.e. the outcomes of policies, including key performance indicators, and measures relating to the main risks, hereinafter the “Information.” However, it is not our responsibility to provide any conclusion on:  the company’s compliance with other applicable legal and regulatory provisions, particularly with regard to the duty of vigilance, anti-corruption and taxation  the compliance of products and services with the applicable regulations. Nature and scope of procedures We performed our work in accordance with Articles A. 225-1 et seq. of the French Commercial Code defining the conditions under which the independent third party performs its mission and in accordance with the professional standards issued by the French Institute of Statutory Auditors (Compagnie nationale des commissaires aux comptes) relating to this engagement and with ISAE 3000 (Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information). We conducted works in order to assess the Statement's compliance with regulatory provisions, and the fairness of the Information:  We familiarized ourselves with the Group’s business activity, the report on the main social and environmental risks relating to this activity and the impacts thereof with regard to the respect for human rights and the fight against corruption and tax evasion, together with the subsequent policies and their results.  We assessed the suitability of the Guidelines in terms of their relevance, completeness, reliability, neutrality and clarity, taking into account, where appropriate, best practices within the sector;  We verified that the Statement covers each category of information stipulated in section III of Article L. 225-102-1 governing social and environmental affairs, the respect for human rights and the fight against corruption and tax evasion.  We verified that the Statement includes an explanation justifying the absence of information required by paragraph 2 of section III of Article L. 225-102-1.  We verified that the Statement presents the business model and the main risks relating to the Group’s business activity, including, where relevant and proportionate, the risks generated by its business relations, products or services as well as policies, measures and outcomes, including key performance indicators.  We verified that, when relevant to the main risks or policies presented, the Statement presents the information stipulated in section II of Article R. 225-105.  We assessed the process of selecting and validating the main risks.  We inquired as to the existence of internal control and risk management procedures set up by the company.  We assessed the consistency of the results and key performance indicators used with regard to the main risks and policies presented.  We verified that the Statement covers the consolidated scope, i.e. all companies within the consolidation scope in accordance with Article L. 233-16, with the limits specified in the Statement.  We assessed the collection process set up by the entity to ensure the completeness and fairness of the Information. 138 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION  For the key performance indicators and other quantitative outcomes 1 that in our judgment were of most significance, we carried out:  analytical procedures that consisted in verifying the correct consolidation of collected data as well as the consistency of changes thereto;  substantive tests, on a sampling basis, that consisted in verifying the proper application of definitions and procedures and reconciling data with supporting documents. These procedures were conducted for a selection of contributing entities2 and covered between 15% and 91% of the consolidated data for the key performance indicators and outcomes selected for these tests;  We consulted documentary sources and conducted interviews to corroborate the qualitative information (measures and outcomes) that in our judgment were of most significance 3;  We assessed the overall consistency of the Statement in relation to our knowledge of the company. We believe that the procedures we have performed, based on our professional judgment, are sufficient to provide a basis for a limited assurance conclusion; a higher level of assurance would have required us to carry out more extensive procedures. Means and resources Our work engaged the skills of eight people between October 2018 and February 2019 . To assist us in conducting our work, we referred to our corporate social responsibility and sustainable development experts. We conducted around ten interviews with people responsible for preparing the Statement. 1 Quantitative environmental information: ISO 14001 certified sites; Total waste production: hazardous waste, nonhazardous waste, recovery rate; Total water consumption; Total energy consumption; Greenhouse Gases (GHG) emissions: scope 1 and 2; Volatile Organic Compounds Emissions (VOC). Quantitative social information: Total headcount; Number of hirings; Number of leavings and lay-off rate; Number of part-time employees; Number of disabled employees; Average annual pay; Total number of days of absence; Number of work-related accidents with lost time; Number of lost days due to work-related accidents; Number of occupational illnesses identified by the competent authorities; Frequency rate and severity rate; Number of training hours. 2 Selected sites: Dassault Aviation SA (France): Biarritz site; Dassault Falcon Service (France): Le Bourget site; Dassault Falcon Jet (US): Little Rock site. 3 Qualitative information: Supplier assessment; Environmental performance of products and CleanSky 2 program; Regulatory watch system; Improvement of working conditions and ergonomics. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 139 Directors’ Report Conclusion Based on our work, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the non-financial statement does not comply with the applicable regulatory provisions and that the Information, taken as a whole, is not fairly presented in accordance with the Guidelines. Paris-La Défense, March 7, 2019 One of the statutory auditors, Deloitte & Associés Jean-François Viat This is a free English translation of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional standards applicable in France. 140 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION Report of the Board of Directors on Corporate Governance Dear Shareholders, This report is intended to inform you of the composition of the Board of Directors of the Company and of the conditions for preparing and organizing its work, along with the components of the corporate officers’ compensation. This report, prepared in application of Article L.225-37 of the French Commercial Code, is presented to you along with the Management Report. The Legal Affairs and Insurance Department and the Financial Department carried out preparatory checks on the drafting of said report, which was then reviewed by the Audit Committee and approved by the Board of Directors on February 27, 2019. Taking account of the structure of its shareholding (the majority of shares are held by GIMD, which belongs to the Dassault family), Dassault Aviation considers that the AFEP/MEDEF Code does not constitute, taken as a whole, its standard of reference for corporate governance. Nevertheless, Dassault Aviation applies principles with reference to the aforementioned Code, in regard to the independence of the Directors and the compensation of the corporate officers. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 141 Report of the Board of Directors on Corporate Governance 1. Corporate Governance 1.1 Composition of the Board of Directors In 2018, the Board of Directors mourned the loss of Serge Dassault, former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Honorary Chairman of the Board of Directors, who died on May 28, 2018. The Board announced that no successor to Serge Dassault would be appointed and that the term of office of Richard Bédère, the Director representing employees appointed by the union organization with the highest number of votes in the first round of employee elections, would be renewed. As of December 31, 2018, the Board of Directors was composed of nine members with the experience and expertise required to fulfill their offices: Éric Trappier, Charles Edelstenne, Catherine Dassault, Marie-Hélène Habert, Mathilde Lemoine, Lucia Sinapi-Thomas, Olivier Dassault, Henri Proglio and Richard Bédère. COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS on 12/31/2018 P articipation on E nd of Years of A ge Independant S tart of 1st Name Office (1) Director the A udit term current serv ice on C ommittee term the Board Chairman and Chief Executive Éric Trappier 2013 2019 Officer 58 6 French nationality Director 2012 2019 Charles Edelstenne Honorary Chairman 80 Yes 1989 2019 29 French nationality Director Catherine Dassault Director 51 2017 2020 2 French nationality Olivier Dassault Director 67 1996 2019 22 French nationality Marie-Hélène Habert Director 53 2014 2022 4 French nationality Mathilde Lemoine Director 49 Yes 2017 2020 2 French nationality Lucia Sinapi-Thomas Director 54 Yes Yes 2014 2019 4 French nationality Henri Proglio Director 69 Yes Yes 2008 2022 10 French nationality Richard Bédère Director 62 2014 2022 4 French nationality representing employees The aforementioned Directors are all of French nationality. The average age was 60 as of December 31, 2018. 50% of the members of the Board of Directors are women, for a legal obligation of 40%. As of December 31, 2018, Mathilde Lemoine, Lucia Sinapi-Thomas, and Henri Proglio were considered to be independent directors in accordance with the criteria of the AFEP/MEDEF Code. These criteria are based on the principle that independent Directors must not be in a position likely to alter their freedom of judgment or place them in a real or potential conflict of interest. The three independent Directors mentioned above repr esent 37.5% of the Board of Directors (excluding the Director representing the employees), which is higher than the percentage recommended by the AFEP/MEDEF Code (33.3%). 142 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION 1.2 Offices held and duties performed by corporate officers in 2018 in other companies 1.2.1 Honorary Presidents and Director  Member of the Strategic Committee: Dassault Développement SAS Serge Dassault: Deceased May 28, 2018 Date of first appointment: 6/27/1967 Dassault Aviation shares held: 26 Charles Edelstenne Date of first appointment: 1/27/1989 Other corporate offices and duties: Start and end of current term: 2015 GM 2019 GM Member of the Audit Committee  Chairman: Dassault Aviation shares held: 67 Groupe Industriel Marcel Dassault SAS Groupe Figaro SAS Other corporate offices and duties: Rond-Point Holding SAS Rond-Point Immobilier SAS  President: Société du Figaro SAS Groupe Industriel Marcel Dassault SAS Fondation Serge Dassault Rond-Point Immobilier SAS  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer: Rond-Point Holding SAS Dassault Medias SA (formerly SOCPRESSE) Société du Figaro SAS Dassault Belgique Aviation (Belgium)  Chairman of the Board of Directors: Groupe Figaro SASU Dassault Belgique Aviation SA  Chairman of the Board of Directors:  Chief Executive Officer: Dassault Systèmes SE Dassault Wine Estates SAS  Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief  Member of the Supervisory Board: Executive Officer: Groupe Industriel Marcel Dassault SAS Dassault Media SA  Director:  Chief Executive Officer: Dassault Falcon Jet Corporation (USA) Dassault Wine Estates SAS Groupe Figaro SAS Dassault Belgique Aviation SA  Director: Thales SA  Honorary Chairman: Carrefour SA GIFAS Sogitec Industries SA SABCA (Belgium)  General Manager: Dassault Falcon Jet Corporation (USA) Rond-Point Investissements SARL Groupe Figaro SASU Société Civile Immobilière de Maison Rouge Lepercq, de Neuflize and Co. Inc. Société Civile Immobilière des Hautes Bruyères Monceau Dumas Other offices and duties over the last five  Honorary Chairman: years: GIFAS  Director:  General Manager: DOW KOKAM LLC (USA) Sociétés Civiles ARIE, ARIE 2 Société Financière Terramaris (Switzerland) Sociétés Civiles NILI, NILI 2 SITA SA (Switzerland) SCI de Maison-Rouge Dassault Systèmes SE Rond-Point Investissement Marcel Dassault Trading Corporation (USA) Serge Dassault Trading Corporation (USA) 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 143 Report of the Board of Directors on Corporate Governance Other offices and duties over the last five  Chair of Defense Committee: years: ASD  Chief Executive Officer: Groupe Industriel Marcel Dassault SAS 1.2.3 Directors  Member of the Advisory Committee: Olivier Dassault Groupe Industriel Marcel Dassault SAS Date of first appointment: 4/17/1996 Start and end of current term: 2015 GM 2019 GM Dassault Aviation shares held: 26 1.2.2 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Other corporate offices and duties: Éric Trappier Date of first appointment as Director: 12/18/2012  Director: Start and end of current term as Director: 2015 GM Dassault Medias SA 2019 GM RASEC International SAS Start and end of current term as CEO: Board meeting of 5/20/2015 2019 GM  Chairman of the Supervisory Board: Dassault Aviation shares held: 1,794 Particulier et Finances Éditions SA Other corporate offices and duties:  Member of the Supervisory Board: Rubis SA  Director: Thales SA  Chairman of the Strategy and Development Sogitec Industries SA Committee: Dasbat Aviation LLC (UAE) Groupe Industriel Marcel Dassault SAS  Chairman:  Vice-Chairman of the Executive Committee: Dassault Falcon Jet Corporation (USA) Jours de Passions SAS Dassault Reliance Aerospace Limited (India)  General Manager:  Chairman: Groupement Forestier des Hautes Bruyères GIFAS HR Finance SAS ASD SCI Nasthel II CIDEF Rhetho SCI Rod Spontini Other offices and duties over the last five Tod years: Other offices and duties over the last five  Permanent representative of Dassault Aviation on years: the Board of Directors of: SOFRESA SA  Vice-Chairman: ODAS SA Valmonde et Cie SA SOFEMA SA Eurotradia International SA  General Manager: LBO Invest D  Director-General Manager: SCI Nasthel I GIE Rafale International  Director:  General Manager: Groupe Figaro SAS Dassault International SARL Valmonde et Cie SA  Senior Vice President:  Chairman of the Supervisory Board: GIFAS Groupe Industriel Marcel Dassault SAS 144 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION Marie-Hélène Habert Other corporate offices and duties: Date of first appointment: 5/15/2014 Start and end of current term: 2018 GM 2022 GM  Director: Dassault Aviation shares held: 25 Dassault Systèmes SE Institut de l’Engagement (association) Other corporate offices and duties:  General Manager:  Chair of the Supervisory Board: TCBD & Fils (civil partnership) Groupe Industriel Marcel Dassault SAS Goya SCI Rond-Point Immobilier Falke (civil partnership)  Director:  Member of the Strategic Communication Dassault Systèmes SE Committee: Biomérieux SA Fondation pour la recherche sur la maladie Artcurial SA d’Alzheimer SIPAREX Other offices and duties over the last five  General Manager: years: H. Investissements SARL SCI Duquesne  Member of the Organizing Committee: HDH (Civil Partnership) Fondation pour la recherche sur la maladie d’Alzheimer  Permanent representative of GIMD on the Supervisory Board: Immobilière Dassault SA Henri Proglio, independent Director Date of first appointment: 4/23/2008  Member of the Strategic Committee: Start and end of current term: 2018 GM 2022 GM HDF SAS Chairman of the Audit Committee Dassault Aviation shares held: 27  Vice-Chairman: Fondation Serge Dassault Other corporate offices and duties: Immobilière Dassault SA  Director: Other offices and duties over the last five Natixis SA years: ABR Management (Russia) Fomentos de Construcciones y Contratas (FCC)  Member of the Strategic Committee: (Spain) Dassault Développement SAS Akkuyu Nuclear (Turkey)  Member of the Supervisory Board: Atalian SAS Groupe Industriel Marcel Dassault SAS  General Manager: SCI du 19 janvier Catherine Dassault  Chairman: Date of first appointment: 3/7/2017 Henri Proglio Consulting SAS Start and end of current term: 3/7/2017 2020 GM HJF Development SAS Dassault Aviation shares held: 25 Other offices and duties over the last five years:  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer: EDF SA 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 145 Report of the Board of Directors on Corporate Governance  Chairman of the Board of Directors:  Member of the Supervisory Board: Edison SpA (Italy) FCPE Esop Capgemini EDF Energy Holdings Ltd (UK) Fondation d’entreprise EDF  Member of the Audit and Risks Committee: Fondation européenne pour les énergies de Bureau Veritas SA demain Other offices and duties over the last five  Director: years: EDF SA  Chairman: CNP Assurances SA Prosodie SAS FCC (Spain) Dalkia SA  Chief Executive Officer: EDF Energies Nouvelles SA Capgemini Outsourcing Services SAS EDF International SAS Sogeti France SAS South Stream Transport BV (Netherlands) South Stream Transport AG (Switzerland)  Executive Officer: Fennovoima (Finland) Capgemini Business Platforms Thales SA  Director:  Member of the Supervisory Board: Capgemini Polska Sp.z.o.o. (Poland) Dalkia SAS Sogeti SA/NV (Belgium) Capgemini Reinsurance International SA  Vice Chairman: (Luxembourg) Eurelectric (association) (Belgium) Euriware SA (France) Lucia Sinapi-Thomas, independent Director Mathilde Lemoine, independent Director Date of first appointment: 5/15/2014 Date of first appointment: 3/7/2017 Start and end of current term: 2015 GM 2019 GM Start and end of current term: 3/7/2017 2020 GM Member of the Audit Committee Dassault Aviation shares held: 25 Dassault Aviation shares held: 26 Other corporate offices and duties: Other corporate offices and duties:  Director:  Executive Director: Carrefour SA Capgemini Ventures CMA CGM SA École Normale Supérieure  Director: Capgemini SE  Member of the Audit Committee: Capgemini Business Services (Guatemala) Carrefour SA Bureau Veritas SA Sogeti Sverige AB (Sweden) Other offices and duties over the last five years: Sogeti Sverige MITT AB (Sweden) Sogeti Norge A/S (Norway)  Director: Capgemini Danmark A/S (Danmark) Neptune Orient Lines Ltd. (Singapore)  Chairman:  Member: Capgemini Employees Worldwide SAS High Council of Public Finances  Chairman of the Supervisory Board: FCPE Capgemini 146 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION Richard Bédère, Director representing 1.2.4 Chief Operating Officer employees Date of first appointment: 7/10/2014 Loïk Segalen Start and end of current term: 7/10/2018 Date of first appointment as Chief Operating Officer: 09/07/2022 1/9/2013 Dassault Aviation shares held: none Start and end of current term: Board meeting of 5/20/2015 2019 GM Other corporate offices and duties: Dassault Aviation shares held: 1,592 None. Other corporate offices and duties: Other offices and duties over the last five  Director: years: Thales SA Sogitec Industries SA  CCE (Comité Central d’Entreprise Central Works Dassault Falcon Jet Corporation (USA) Council) delegate on the Dassault Aviation Board Midway Aircraft Instrument Corporation (USA) of Directors Dassault Belgique Aviation SA (Belgium) SABCA (Belgium)  Substitute CCE member SABCA Limburg (Belgium)  Substitute Mérignac Works Council member  Board Member: GIFAS  Central union delegate Other offices and duties over the last five years:  Director: Dassault Procurement Services (USA) 1.3 Conditions for preparing and organizing the work of the Board of Directors 1.3.1 Directors information To ensure the attendance of Directors at Board meetings, the Board of Directors’ meeting held to approve the financial statements of the first half-year determines the meeting schedule of the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee for the following year. The notices of Board meetings specifying the agenda are sent to the Directors, the Statutory Auditors and the Government Commissioner at least one week in advance, except in emergencies. Prior to each Board meeting, the Chairman of the Board of Directors ensures that the relevant documents are provided to each Director within a sufficient period of time, except in emergencies. The Statutory Auditors and the Government Commissioner receive the same documents as the Directors. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 147 Report of the Board of Directors on Corporate Governance 1.3.2 Activities of the Board of Directors in 2018 In 2018, the Board of Directors met four times: on March 7, July 19, September 5 and December 13. The average attendance rate at Board meetings was 81%. The Board of Directors supervised the implementation of the strategies chosen and inspected the general operations of the Company. In particular, the Board of Directors:  analyzed the amount of orders entered, the order book and net sales, self-financed consolidated research and development,  oversaw the roll-out of civil and military programs and changes in workforce of the Parent Company and subsidiaries,  set the medium-term strategy in the civil and military domains. In addition, the Board of Directors:  approved the fiscal year 2017 company and consolidated financial statements,  convened the Annual General Meeting of May 24, 2018,  approved the financial statements for the first half-year of 2018,  noted the increase of the share capital following the payment of the dividend in shares,  reviewed the Parent Company’s forward-looking management documents in March and July 2018, and reviewed the budgets for self-financed technology investments and industrial investments,  renewed the annual authorization of the Chairman and CEO to grant guarantees and deposits,  ruled on the workplace equality and compensation policy,  approved the wording of the half-yearly and annual financial press releases,  reminded the Directors of their obligation to refrain from trading the Company’s shares when financial statements or financial communications are being approved and of their obligation to declare their transactions and the registration of their shares to the AMF (Autorité des Marchés Financiers French Financial Markets Authority),  evaluated the performance criteria relating to performance shares granted in 2017 and noted the acquisition of said shares by their beneficiaries at the end of the vesting period,  conducted a fourth performance share plan by preparing the list of beneficiaries and defining the conditions under which their shares become fully vested (achievement of performance criteria, vesting and holding periods, employment on the day the shares become fully vested), with delegation to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of all powers to implement the allocation of performance shares,  set out the principles and criteria for determining, distributing and allocating the fixed, variable and exceptional compensation components and benefits of any kind that constitute the executive compensation policy for 2018 subject to the approval of the General Meeting,  implemented a new supplementary pension plan for executive directors, members of the Executive Committee and the flight crew that is compatible with legal requirements, 148 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION  put into operation the share buyback program and sub-delegated to the Chairman and CEO the powers granted by the General Meeting to the Board of Directors to implement the new share buyback and capital reduction program,  noted the signing of an amicable agreement ending the dispute with Safran over the Silvercrest engine to be installed in the Falcon 5X,  noted the new organizational structure for Group documentation and training activities and approved the new regulated agreement related thereto. 1.3.3 Audit Committee Pursuant to the order of December 8, 2008, which transposed Directive 2006/43/EC of May 17, 2006 on statutory audits of company and consolidated financial statements, on July 22, 2009 the Board of Directors established an Audit Committee. The Audit Committee consists of Henri Proglio, Chairman, Charles Edelstenne and Lucia Sinapi-Thomas. They were appointed because of the expertise they received from their academic training, their experience in finance and accounting for listed companies, and their time as members of Executive Management. All three are non-executive Directors. This composition meets the requirements of the aforementioned order. The Board of Directors considered that Lucia Sinapi-Thomas and Henri Proglio met the recommended independence criteria set forth in paragraph 1.1 above. The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring:  the procedure for preparing the financial information,  the effectiveness of the risk management and internal auditing systems,  the auditing of the company and consolidated financial statements by the Statutory Auditors,  the independence of the Statutory Auditors. It met on March 2, 2018 for the 2017 annual financial statements and on July 18, 2017 for the financial statements for the first half-year of 2018. The attendance rate of Committee members at meetings in 2018 was 100%. The Audit Committee:  examined the consolidated and Parent Company financial statements and the main events of the relevant year or half-year,  reviewed the draft financial press releases,  took note of the directors’ report of the Board of Directors and of the half-yearly activity report,  reviewed the report of the Board of Directors on Corporate Governance,  met with the Statutory Auditors, without Executive Management being present, after examining the conclusions of their work and their declaration of independence, 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 149 Report of the Board of Directors on Corporate Governance  questioned the Internal Audit Director and examined actions in progress as well as the review of internal audits conducted in 2017, and reviewed the 2018 audit plan,  reported back on its work to the Board of Directors. 1.3.4 Internal Bylaws The Board meeting of July 25, 2012 approved the internal bylaws of the Board of Directors, which allow Directors to take part in meetings (debating and voting) by means of telecommunications that are compliant with applicable regulations. 1.3.5 Prevention of Insider Trading In accordance with the recommendations stated in the November 3, 2010 AMF Guide and in the October 26, 2016 AMF guide for permanent information and the management of privileged information, the Company established procedures for “black-out periods” (periods to refrain from transactions involving the shares issued by the Company), which begin at least 30 days before the publication of company and half-yearly financial statements. Since the financial statements are in general published by the Company before the opening of the stock market, the date of publication is included in the prohibited period. Every year, the Directors are informed by letter of the calendar of “black-out periods” for the coming year. The financial calendar is published online on the Company’s website at the start of each financial period. The Company took into account the regulations applicable after the entry into force of the European Regulation of April 16, 2014 on market abuses. In addition, the list of permanent and occasional insiders is reviewed quarterly and at any other time as needed. 1.4 Agreements between a shareholder of the Company and one of its subsidiaries Pursuant to Article L.225-37-4-2 of the French Commercial Code, as issued by Order No. 2017-1180 of July 19, 2017, agreements entered into directly or indirectly or by proxy must be mentioned in the report of the Board of Directors on corporate governance if they are:  between one of the shareholders of Dassault Aviation holding a fraction greater than 10% of the voting rights,  and a subsidiary of Dassault Aviation in which the latter holds more than half of its capital, with the exception of “agreements representing a current transaction entered into under normal terms and conditions”. To the Company’s knowledge, there is no agreement:  between GIMD, which holds more than 10% of the voting rights in Dassault Aviation, or one of their subsidiaries,  and Dassault Falcon Jet (or one of its subsidiaries), Dassault Falcon Service, Sogitec Industries or any other subsidiary of Dassault Aviation, that would not constitute a current transaction concluded under normal conditions. 150 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION 1.5 Operations of Executive Management In accordance with the applicable laws, the possibility of separating the duties of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and those of the CEO was introduced into the Company’s Articles of Association during the General Meeting of April 25, 2002. On April 25, 2002, the Board of Directors decided that the Chairman of the Board of Directors would be responsible for the Executive Management of the Company. This was because the Board of Directors had chosen the Executive Management option that it deemed best suited to the Company’s specific features. The decision was therefore made not to separate the duties of Chairman of the Board of Directors and of CEO. Since January 9, 2013, the Chairman and CEO has been assisted by a Chief Operating Officer. This mode of Executive Management was maintained by the Board of Directors on May 20, 2015, when it also renewed the terms of the Chairman and CEO and of the Chief Operating Officer for four years with the same powers. 1.6 Powers of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The powers of the Chairman and CEO are not limited by the Company’s Articles of Association nor by the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board of Directors organizes and directs the work of said Board, reporting back on this to the General Meeting. The Chairman executes the decisions of the Board. He sees to it that the Company management bodies run smoothly and ensures that the Directors are able to fulfill their duties. The CEO is vested with the broadest powers to act in all circumstances on behalf of the Company. The CEO therefore exercises his powers with no other limits than those set forth by the applicable regulations concerning the powers attributed expressly by law to General Meetings of shareholders and to the Board of Directors. 1.7 Powers of the Chief Operating Officer The Chief Operating Officer assists the Chairman and CEO. With respect to third parties, he has the same powers as the CEO. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 151 Report of the Board of Directors on Corporate Governance 1.8 Executive Committee Presided over by the Chairman and CEO, this committee includes the persons in charge of the Company’s various departments. As of December 31, 2018, it consisted of:  Éric Trappier, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,  Loïk Segalen, Chief Operating Officer,  Benoît Berger, Senior Executive Vice President, Procurement and Purchasing,  Bruno Chevalier, Senior Executive Vice President, Military Customer Support,  Denis Dassé, Chief Financial Officer,  Benoît Dussaugey, Senior Executive Vice-President, International,  Jean-Marc Gasparini, Executive Vice-President, Military Programs,  Bruno Giorgianni, Executive Committee Secretary and Executive Vice-President, Public Affairs and Security,  Didier Gondoin(*), Senior Executive Vice-President, Engineering,  Frédéric Lherm, Senior Executive Vice-President, Industrial Operations,  Gérald Maria, Senior Executive Vice-President, Total Quality,  Philippe Massot, Senior Vice-President, Sales,  Frédéric Petit, Senior Vice-President, Falcon Programs,  Yves Petit, Senior Vice-President, Human Resources,  Jean Sass, Chief Digital Officer,  Olivier Villa, Senior Executive Vice-President, Civil Aircraft. (*) Nicolas Mojaïsky, since January 1, 2019. This Committee covers all subjects related to running and operating the different aspects of the Company. It meets once per week. 1.9 General Meetings of shareholders 1.9.1 Specific conditions governing shareholders’ attendance at the General Meeting 1.9.1.1 Admission The conditions governing shareholders’ attendance at General Meetings are set forth in Articles 29 and 31 of the Articles of Association. These conditions are as follows:  the right to attend General Meetings is subject to: for holders of registered shares, registration in the registered shareholder accounts held by the Company, for holders of bearer shares, registration in the bearer shareholder accounts held by the authorized intermediary (i.e. a bank, financial institution or investment service provider) and production of a shareholding certificate issued by the intermediary,  the period during which these formalities must be completed is two business days, in accordance with the provisions of Decree No. 2014-1466 of December 8, 2014, 152 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION  the Board of Directors retains the right to accept the attendance certificate after the above deadline,  shareholders may be represented by proxy according to legal and regulatory conditions. Notification of the designation and revocation of the proxy agent may be made either on paper or by electronic means. In the latter case, the shareholder’s signature may constitute in practice a reliable means of identification guaranteeing his/her link to the associated document, and may in particular consist of a login and password. These conditions are reiterated in the meeting notice and the final notice of the General Meeting that are published in the BALO (Bulletin des Annonces Légales Obligatoires French official announcements bulletin) and online on the Company’s website. 1.9.1.2 Voting rights Subject to special circumstances set forth by law, all members present at the General Meeting have as many votes, without limitation, as the number of fully paid-up shares they own or represent. Since April 3, 2016, the shares issued by the Company registered in nominal accounts for more than two years receive double voting rights. Voting is performed by the raising of hands and/or use of voting slips. A secret ballot may be requested, either by the Board of Directors or by shareholders representing at least one quarter of the share capital, subject to the submission of written notification to the Board of Directors or the authority convening the meeting at least three days prior to the General Meeting. Shareholders may also vote by correspondence in accordance with the legal conditions. Furthermore, the bylaws of the Company state that:  voting may be performed using OCR slips or electronically,  shareholders may also, if the Board has so decided upon convening the meeting, to vote by any means of telecommunications that enables them to be identified, subject to and according to the procedures provided for by applicable laws and regulations. 1.9.2 Convening of general Meetings of Shareholders General Meetings of Shareholders are called by the Board of Directors in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. All shareholders, regardless of the number of shares they own, may take part. The date of each General Meeting is provided on the Company’s website (www.dassault-aviation.com) approximately six months in advance. No later than 21 days before the General Meeting, the documentation may be viewed on the aforementioned website in the Finance/General Meetings section. The results of the vote on the resolutions and the minutes of the General Meeting are also placed online within 15 days following the meeting. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 153 Report of the Board of Directors on Corporate Governance 2. Compensation of corporate officers 2.1 Directors’ fees allocation system Directors’ fees are allocated according to the following principles:  for the Board of Directors: fixed compensation of EUR 28,000, variable compensation of EUR 10,000 multiplied by the attendance rate at meetings, these amounts are doubled for the Chairman of the Board of Directors,  for the Audit Committee: variable compensation only dependent on attendance at meetings of EUR 3,000 per meeting (double for the Chairman). The overall amount authorized by the Annual General Meeting of May 15, 2014 (EUR 444,000) was not modified. 2.2 Compensation of corporate officers in 2018 2.2.1 Compensation paid to Serge Dassault, Honorary Chairman  For GIMD, which controls Dassault Aviation Serge Dassault received gross annual compensation of EUR 265,650 as Chairman and EUR 27,286 (gross) in directors’ fees as a member of the Supervisory Board.  For Dassault Aviation Serge Dassault, Director, received EUR 38,000 in directors’ fees as a member of the Board and EUR 3,745 in gross compensation for his duties as Advisor. He had a chauffeur-driven car for the performance of his duties as Advisor described above. He also had the right to reimbursement of expenses incurred in the interest of the Company as part of that mission.  From French and foreign companies controlled by Dassault Aviation as determined by Article L.233-16 of the French Commercial Code (i.e. companies within the scope of consolidation) In France, Serge Dassault received EUR 38,734 gross in directors’ fees as a member of the Board of Directors of Dassault Falcon Jet. 154 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION 2.2.2 Compensation paid to Charles Edelstenne, Honorary Chairman  For GIMD, which controls Dassault Aviation Charles Edelstenne received gross annual compensation of EUR 804,828 as CEO, then as Chairman, and EUR 27,286 (gross) in directors’ fees as a member of the Supervisory Board. He had a chauffeur-driven company car (benefit in kind valued at EUR 10,440) and reimbursement of actual costs incurred in connection with his functions.  For Dassault Aviation Charles Edelstenne received EUR 44,000 gross in directors’ fees, including EUR 6,000 (gross) for his work on the Audit Committee. Supplementary pension Dassault Aviation agreed to pay a supplementary pension to Charles Edelstenne. It represents a gross amount of EUR 310,512 per year, after revaluation of the AGIRC point in 2018. Dassault Aviation has made a provision for this amount in its books, for payments which should have begun in 2013. However, at the end of his term of office as Chairman and CEO of Dassault Aviation in January 2013, Charles Edelstenne did not retire from his positions at Dassault Systèmes and GIMD. He cannot therefore draw on his statutory pension. Consequently, in spite of its commitment, Dassault Aviation has had to postpone the payment of this pension.  From other French and foreign companies of the Dassault Aviation Group In France, Charles Edelstenne received EUR 38,734 gross in directors’ fees as a member of the Board of Dassault Falcon Jet and EUR 39,740 gross in directors’ fees as a member of the Board of Thales. 2.2.3 Compensation of Éric Trappier, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  For Dassault Aviation Éric Trappier received gross annual compensation as Chairman and CEO of EUR 1,519,992 gross, a 2.6% increase from 2017. His compensation does not include any variable or exceptional compensation. He was not awarded any stock options. The Board of Directors has ascertained compliance with the performance criteria to which the 750 shares allocated to him by the Board in its meeting of March 7, 2017 are subject. On March 7, 2018, he therefore acquired 750 performance shares. These performance shares were valued at EUR 1,000 per share, or EUR 750,000 for all 750 shares. The Board of Directors, in its meeting of March 7, 2018, allocated 850 performance shares to him. These bonus shares were valued at EUR 1,313 per share on December 31, 2018, or EUR 1,116,050 for all 850 shares (0.010% of capital as of December 31, 2018). The acquisition of these shares is subject to performance criteria, a vesting period of one year, and a one-year holding period. He does not benefit as an executive officer from any compensation linked to the cessation of his term of office. He had a chauffeur-driven company car (benefit in kind valued at EUR 8,711) and reimbursement of actual costs incurred in connection with his functions. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 155 Report of the Board of Directors on Corporate Governance In addition, he received gross directors’ fees of EUR 76,000 on the Board of Directors (double fees). On January 9, 2013, the date of his appointment as CEO, the employment contract of Éric Trappier was suspended due to: his length of service of 28 years in the Company on the date of his appointment as CEO in January 2013, the desire of the Company to use internal promotion in the appointment of Executive Directors, entrusting these responsibilities to experienced executives with deep knowledge of the industry and the aviation sector. The decision to suspend his employment contract was consistent with the AMF’s position in its reports on corporate governance in relation to the contracts of executive officers. Upon reinstatement of his employment contract, Éric Trappier will enjoy severance benefits applicable to employees of his category, according to the rules of our Company. He has the supplementary retirement plan provided for the members of the Executive Committee and the flight crew. This plan, which has been applicable starting January 1, 2018, allows for an annual acquisition of additional pension benefits equal to 2% of annual gross compensation, upon performance conditions as defined each year by the Board of Directors, for an amount of EUR 30,574 for 2018. The payment of the pension is conditional, upon retirement, on the determination by the Board of Directors that the annual conditions have been met in at least two-thirds of the years of the term. The rights acquired as of December 31, 2017 under the old plan (as described in the 2016 Annual Report) have been frozen and are amounting to EUR 392,000 (based on retirement at 65 years old). The pension paid under the old and the new plan will be capped at 45% of gross annual compensation for the corporate officer’s last year. During his term of office, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer also has the benefit of health and welfare plans applicable to all executive employees of the Company. The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer has not entered into a service agreement directly or indirectly with Dassault Aviation or its subsidiaries.  From other French and foreign companies of the Dassault Aviation Group In France, Éric Trappier received EUR 38,734 gross in directors’ fees as a member of the Board of Dassault Falcon Jet and EUR 40,990 gross in directors’ fees as a member of the Board of Thales. 2.2.4 Compensation of Loïk Segalen, Chief Operating Officer  For Dassault Aviation Loïk Segalen received gross annual compensation as Chief Operating Officer of EUR 1,344,647 gross, a 2.6% increase from 2017. His compensation does not include any variable or exceptional compensation. He was not awarded any stock options. The Board of Directors has ascertained compliance with the performance criteria to which the 675 shares allocated to him by the Board in its meeting of March 7, 2017 are subject. On March 7, 2018, he therefore acquired 675 performance shares. These performance shares were valued at EUR 1,000 per share, or EUR 675,000 for all 675 shares. 156 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION The Board of Directors, in its meeting of March 7, 2018, allocated 725 performance shares to him. These bonus shares were valued at EUR 1,313 per share on December 31, 2018, or EUR 951,925 for all 725 shares (0.009% of capital as of December 31, 2018). The acquisition of these shares is subject to performance criteria, a vesting period of one year, and a one-year holding period. He does not benefit as an executive officer from any compensation linked to the cessation of his term of office. He had a chauffeur-driven company car (benefit in kind valued at EUR 8,697) and reimbursement of actual costs incurred in connection with his functions. On January 9, 2013, the date of his appointment as Chief Operating Officer, the employment contract of Loïk Segalen was suspended due to: his length of service of 27 years with the Company on the date of his appointment as Chief Operating Officer in January 2013, the desire of the Company to use internal promotion in the appointment of Executive Directors, entrusting these responsibilities to experienced executives with deep knowledge of the industry and the aviation sector. The decision to suspend his employment contract was consistent with the AMF’s position in its reports on corporate governance in relation to the contracts of executive officers. Upon reinstatement of his employment contract, Loïk Ségalen will enjoy severance benefits applicable to employees of his category, according to the rules of our Company. He has the supplementary retirement plan provided for the members of the Executive Committee and the flight crew. This plan, which has been applicable starting January 1, 2018, allows for an annual acquisition of additional pension benefits equal to 2% of annual gross compensation, upon performance conditions as defined each year by the Board of Directors, for an amount of EUR 27,067 for 2018. The payment of the pension is conditional, upon retirement, on the determination by the Board of Directors that the annual conditions have been met in at least two-thirds of the years of the term. The rights acquired as of December 31, 2017 under the old plan (as described in the 2016 Annual Report) have been frozen and are amounting to EUR 355,000 (based on retirement at 65 years old). The pension paid under the old and the new plan will be capped at 45% of gross annual compensation for the corporate officer’s last year. During his term of office, the Chief Operating Officer also benefits from health and welfare plans applicable to all management employees of the Company. The Chief Operating Officer has not entered into a service agreement directly or indirectly with Dassault Aviation or its subsidiaries.  From other French and foreign companies of the Dassault Aviation Group In France, Loïk Segalen received EUR 38,734 gross in directors’ fees as a member of the Board of Dassault Falcon Jet and EUR 40,990 gross in directors’ fees as a member of the Board of Thales. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 157 Report of the Board of Directors on Corporate Governance 2.2.5 Compensation paid to Directors  For GIMD, which controls Dassault Aviation Olivier Dassault received gross annual compensation of EUR 39,500 as Chairman of the Supervisory Board and EUR 311,268 (gross) as an employee. He had the use of a company car (benefit in kind valued at EUR 5,801), and he also received EUR 22,286 gross in directors’ fees as a member of the Supervisory Board. Marie-Hélène Habert received gross annual compensation of EUR 10,000 as Chair of the Supervisory Board and, as an employee, an annual gross amount of EUR 359,548 as Director of Communications and Sponsorship. She received EUR 27,286 gross in directors’ fees and had the use of a company car (benefit in kind valued at EUR 3,324).  For Dassault Aviation Olivier Dassault received EUR 30,500 in directors’ fees. Marie-Hélène Habert and Richard Bédère each received EUR 38,000 gross in directors’ fees. Lucia Sinapi-Thomas received EUR 44,000 gross in directors’ fees, including EUR 6,000 (gross) for her work on the Audit Committee. Henri Proglio received EUR 47,500 gross in directors’ fees, including EUR 12,000 (gross) for his work as Chair of the Audit Committee (double fees). Catherine Dassault received EUR 33,000 in directors’ fees. Mathilde Lemoine received EUR 35,500 in directors’ fees.  From other French and foreign companies of the Dassault Aviation Group The Directors referred to in the paragraph above did not receive any compensation, directors’ fees or benefits in kind. 2.2.6 Summary of compensation tables Table 1 Summary table of compensation due and options and shares granted to each Executive Director (in EUR) 2018 2017 Éric Trappier, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Compensation payable during the fiscal year (breakdown in table 2) 1,604,703 1,570,621 Value of year-on-year variable compensation granted during the fiscal year Value of stock options granted during the fiscal year TOTAL 1,604,703 1,570,621 Loïk Segalen, Chief Operating Officer Compensation payable during the fiscal year (breakdown in table 2) 1,353,344 1,318,793 Value of year-on-year variable compensation granted during the fiscal year Value of stock options granted during the fiscal year TOTAL 1,353,344 1,318,793 158 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION Valuation of shares granted to each Corporate Executive Officer (in EUR) 2018 2017 Éric Trappier, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Valuation of bonus shares allocated over the fiscal year(see tables 6 and 9) 1,116,050 750,000 Loïk Segalen, Chief Operating Officer Valuation of bonus shares allocated over the fiscal year(see tables 6 and 9) 951,925 675,000 Table 2 Summary table of compensation paid to each Executive Director (in EUR) 2018 amounts 2017 amounts Payable Paid Payable Paid Éric Trappier, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Fixed compensation 1,519,992 1,519,992 1,480,910 1,480,910 Annual variable compensation Exceptional compensation (1) Directors’ fees 76,000 76,000 81,000 81,000 Benefits in kind 8,711 8,711 8,711 8,711 TOTAL 1,604,703 1,604,703 1,570,621 1,570,621 Loïk Segalen, Chief Operating Officer Fixed compensation 1,344,647 1,344,647 1,310,096 1,310,096 Annual variable compensation Exceptional compensation (1) Directors’ fees Benefits in kind 8,697 8,697 8,697 8,697 TOTAL 1,353,344 1,353,344 1,318,793 1,318,793 (1) In addition, Éric Trappier and Loïk Ségalen received EUR 38,734 gross in directors’ fees as a member of the Board of Dassault Falcon Jet and EUR 40,990 gross in directors’ fees as a member of the Board of Thales. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 159 Report of the Board of Directors on Corporate Governance Table 3 Table of Directors’ fees and other compensation received by non-executive Directors (in EUR) Amounts paid in 2018 Amounts paid in 2017 Non-executive directors (Gross) (Gross) Serge Dassault Directors’ fees 38,000 (1) 40,500 (1) Other compensation 3,745 9,148 Charles Edelstenne (2) (3) (2) (3) Directors’ fees 44,000 46,500 Other compensation Olivier Dassault Directors’ fees 30,500 33,833 Other compensation Marie-Hélène Habert Directors’ fees 38,000 40,500 Other compensation Catherine Dassault Directors’ fees 33,000 33,013 Other compensation Henri Proglio (4) (4) Directors’ fees 47,500 49,167 Other compensation Lucia Sinapi-Thomas (3) (3) Directors’ fees 44,000 43,167 Other compensation Mathilde Lemoine Directors’ fees 35,500 33,013 Other compensation Richard Bédère Directors’ fees 38,000 40,500 Other compensation salary salary TOTAL 352,245 369,341 (1) In addition, Serge Dassault received EUR 38,734 gross in directors’ fees in 2018 as a member of the Board of Directors of Dassault Falcon Jet and EUR 36,615 gross in 2017 (2) In addition, Charles Edelstenne received EUR 38,734 gross in directors’ fees in 2018 as a member of the Board of Dassault Falcon Jet (versus EUR 36,615 gross in 2017) and EUR 39,740 gross in directors’ fees as a member of the Board of Thales (versus EUR 22,350 gross in 2017) (3) including EUR 6,000 in 2018 and 2017 for the Audit Committee (4) including EUR 12,000 in 2018 and 2017 for the Audit Committee 160 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION Table 4 Options to subscribe for or purchase shares allocated during the fiscal year to each executive officer by the issuer and by any Group company. N/A Table 5 Options to subscribe for or purchase shares exercised during the fiscal year by each Executive Officer. N/A Table 6 Performance shares awarded during the fiscal year to each Executive Officer by the issuer or any Group company. Number of performance Value of Plan name Date of Performance shares allocated shares Vesting date and date availability conditions during fiscal year 2018 (in euros)* 2018 Shares Éric Trappier 850 1,116,050 3/7/2019 3/7/2020 Yes 3/7/2018 2018 Shares Loïk Segalen 725 951,925 3/7/2019 3/7/2020 Yes 3/7/2018 TOTAL 1,575 2,067,975 * price of EUR 1,313 per share (IFRS 2) Table 7 Performance shares that became available during the fiscal year for each Executive Officer. Plan name Number of shares that became Vesting conditions and date available during fiscal year 2018 2016 Shares Shares vested after a vesting period of one year and Éric Trappier 500 3/9/2016 subject to performance conditions 2016 Shares Shares vested after a vesting period of one year and Loïk Segalen 450 3/9/2016 subject to performance conditions TOTAL 950 Table 8 Previous allocations of subscription options or purchase of shares Information on subscription or purchase options. N/A 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 161 Report of the Board of Directors on Corporate Governance Table 9 Previous allocations of performance shares Information on performance shares. 2015 2016 2017 2018 Shares Shares Shares Shares Date of General Meeting 9/23/2015 9/23/2015 9/23/2015 9/23/2015 Date of Board of Directors meeting 9/23/2015 3/9/2016 3/7/2017 3/7/2018 Number of shares allocated 950 950 1,425 1,575 corporate officers 950 950 1,425 1,575  Éric Trappier 500 500 750 850  Loïk Segalen 450 450 675 725 Vesting date of shares 9/23/2016 3/9/2017 3/7/2018 3/7/2019 End date of holding period 9/22/2017 3/8/2018 3/6/2019 3/6/2020 Performance conditions yes yes yes yes Number of shares acquired 950 950 1,475 1,575 corporate officers 950 950 1,425 1,575  Éric Trappier 500 500 750 850  Loïk Segalen 450 450 675 725  Cumulative number of canceled or expired shares 0 0 0 0 Table 10 Summary table of variable multi-year compensation for each Executive Director. N/A 162 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION Table 11 Other information on Executive Officer Compensation or benefits payable Employment Supplemental Compensation for nonCorporate officers or likely to be payable due to contract pension plan compete agreement termination or change of office Éric Trappier Chairman and Chief Executive (1) (2) yes yes no no Officer start of term: 1/9/2013 end of term: General Meeting of 2019 Loïk Segalen (1) (2) Chief Operating Officer yes yes no no start of term: 1/9/2013 end of term: General Meeting of 2019 (1) employment contract suspended as of January 9, 2013, (2) at the end of their terms of office, corporate officers receive retirement allowances according to the rules applicable to employees in their category 2.3 2019 report on executive compensation policy This report is prepared pursuant to Article L. 225-37-2 of the French Commercial Code, under Law No. 20161691 of December 9, 2016 known as “Sapin 2”. Its aim is to present you with the principles and criteria for determining, distributing and attributing the fixed, variable and exceptional elements that make up the total compensation and benefits in kind attributable to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and to the Chief Operating Officer because of their term of office. This compensation policy is subject to your approval (Resolutions No. 6 and 7). Pursuant to Article L. 225-37-2 paragraph 2 of the French Commercial Code, we confirm that the payment of variable and exceptional compensation elements is contingent on approval by the Ordinary General Meeting of the compensation elements of the person concerned in the terms and conditions stipulated in Article L. 225100 of the aforesaid Code. 2.3.1 Principles and rules used to determine compensation and benefits in kind granted to corporate officers The compensation of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and of the Chief Operating Officer, along with their benefits in kind, have been determined by the Board of Directors with reference to the recommendations of the AFEP/MEDEF Code. They are in accordance with the annual report of the AMF on corporate governance and the compensation of executives of listed companies. The compensation of the Chairman and CEO and of the Chief Operating Officer consists exclusively of fixed compensation. This compensation changes according to the increase policy for executives of the Company resulting from the Annual Mandatory Negotiations, unless decided otherwise by the Board of Directors. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 163 Report of the Board of Directors on Corporate Governance In 2019, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Operating Officer, by way of their corporate officer status, will not receive: any variable or exceptional compensation, any stock options, any private unemployment insurance, any severance packages, any special supplementary pensions. In 2019, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Operating Officer will receive bonus shares. On February 27, 2019, the Board of Directors decided to grant them 1,100 and 925 shares respectively. These shares will become vested provided the following performance criteria are met: parent Company net margin level, qualitative assessment of individual performance. Furthermore, the Board of Directors has determined the following additional conditions: a vesting period of one year, expiring on February 26, 2020 inclusive, presence in the workforce at the end of the vesting period, a one-year holding period, beginning on February 27, 2020 and ending on February 26, 2021 inclusive, starting on February 27, 2021, the retention by the corporate officers of 20% of those shares for the duration of their term. In addition, the 2019 Share plan prohibits executive officers who have been granted performance shares from not using risk hedging. The employment contracts of the Chairman and CEO and Chief Operating Officer have been suspended. Upon effective reinstatement of the contracts, they will recover the rights of salaried senior executives in their category, according to Company rules. For supplementary pensions, they benefit: from the supplementary pension plan backed by performance conditions, applicable to members of the Executive Committee and to the Company’s flight crew, from the rights acquired under the plan applicable to executives of the Company, which have been frozen as of December 31, 2017. 2.3.2 Presentation of resolutions submitted to shareholder vote The “Sapin 2” Law has implemented a new system relating to the consultation of shareholders with regard to the compensation of corporate officers. Shareholders are called upon to express an opinion in two stages: prior voting on the compensation policy (known as an “ex-ante vote”): the executive compensation policy is subject to annual shareholders’ approval, retrospective voting (known as an “ex-post vote”): elements of compensation paid or attributed to executives during the previous fiscal year are subject to shareholders’ approval. 164 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION Consequently, the following resolutions will be submitted for your approval: Approval of the elements of compensation due and attributed for fiscal year 2018 to Éric Trappier, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (Resolution No. 4), Approval of the elements of compensation due and attributed for fiscal year 2018 to Loïk Segalen, Chief Operating Officer (Resolution No. 5), Approval of the 2019 compensation policy for Éric Trappier, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (Resolution No. 6), Approval of the 2019 compensation policy for Loïk Segalen, Chief Operating Officer (Resolution No. 7). 3. Information mentioned in Article L. 225-37-5 of the French Commercial Code The information set forth in this Article is contained in paragraph 5.5 of the accompanying Directors’ Report, to which this report is attached. Both these reports are included in the 2018 Annual Financial Report that has been published electronically and filed with the AMF by our distributor, “HUGIN AS, part of NASDAQ OMX”. They are published online on our Company website in the Finance/Publications section. The Board of Directors 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 165 166 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 167 Consolidated Financial Statements ASSETS 01/01/2018 12/31/2017 01/01/2017 (in EUR thousands) Notes 12/31/2018 (2) (1) (1) Goodwill 3 14,366 14,366 14,366 14,366 Intangible assets 4 28,881 30,687 30,687 35,159 Property, plant and equipment 4 489,009 445,310 445,310 498,330 Equity associates 5 1,924,093 1,766,792 1,770,557 1,668,811 Available-for-sale securities 3,305,850 3,142,377 Other non-current financial assets 6 204,618 189,134 38,197 33,678 Deferred tax assets 20 378,728 323,291 323,291 544,082 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 3,039,695 2,769,580 5,928,258 5,936,803 Inventories and work-in-progress 7 3,403,278 3,471,434 3,471,434 3,863,741 Contract assets 14 16,967 0 0 0 Trade and other receivables 8 1,068,312 870,161 870,161 665,137 Advances and progress payments to suppliers 14 3,282,220 2,525,871 2,525,871 1,793,708 Derivative financial instruments 24 40,407 172,818 172,818 4,598 Other current financial assets 6, 9 3,211,968 3,154,913 Cash and cash equivalents 9 2,990,141 2,061,419 2,061,419 1,252,866 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 14,013,293 12,256,616 9,101,703 7,580,050 TOTAL ASSETS 17,052,988 15,026,196 15,029,961 13,516,853 (1) restated for the impact of the application of IFRS 15 (see Note 1.A). (2) restated for the impact of the application of IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 (see Note 1.A). 168 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 01/01/2018 12/31/2017 01/01/2017 (in EUR thousands) Notes 12/31/2018 (2) (1) (1) Capital 10 66,790 66,495 66,495 66,006 Consolidated reserves and retained earnings 4,237,360 3,716,436 3,720,201 3,088,996 Currency translation adjustments 8,317 -24,888 -24,888 99,122 Treasury shares 10 -36,432 -37,828 -37,828 -38,759 TOTAL ATTRIBUTABLE TO THE OWNERS 4,276,035 3,720,215 3,723,980 3,215,365 OF THE PARENT COMPANY Non-controlling interests 554 493 493 451 TOTAL EQUITY 4,276,589 3,720,708 3,724,473 3,215,816 Long-term borrowings and financial debt 11 335,306 980,265 980,265 1,094,504 Deferred tax liabilities 20 0 0 0 0 TOTAL NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 335,306 980,265 980,265 1,094,504 Contract liabilities 14 9,198,007 8,126,973 8,126,973 6,562,569 Trade and other payables 13 914,298 735,754 735,754 701,102 Tax and social security liabilities 13 309,191 237,616 237,616 237,102 Short-term borrowings and financial debt 11 656,070 114,910 114,910 90,598 Provisions for contingencies and charges 12 1,337,402 1,097,903 1,097,903 1,103,781 Derivative financial instruments 24 26,125 12,067 12,067 511,381 TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES 12,441,093 10,325,223 10,325,223 9,206,533 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 17,052,988 15,026,196 15,029,961 13,516,853 (1) restated for the impact of the application of IFRS 15 (see Note 1.A). (2) restated for the impact of the application of IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 (see Note 1.A). 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 169 Consolidated Financial Statements INCOME STATEMENT (in EUR thousands) Notes 2018 2017 (1) NET SALES 15 5,119,219 4,901,080 Other revenue 16 110,494 44,038 Change in work-in-progress -52,505 -108,296 Purchases consumed -3,287,081 -3,062,529 Personnel expenses (2) -1,204,926 -1,143,040 Taxes -68,935 -68,381 Depreciation and amortization 4 -82,211 -87,270 Allocations to provisions 12 -1,047,885 -948,321 Reversals of provisions 12 983,211 856,874 Other operating income and expenses 17 -2,852 -32,719 CURRENT OPERATING INCOME 466,529 351,436 Other non-current income and expenses 26 241,000 -133,501 OPERATING INCOME 707,529 217,935 Cost of net financial debt -86,507 -72,802 Other financial income and expenses -59,376 592,361 NET FINANCIAL INCOME 19 -145,883 519,559 Share in net income of equity associates 5 205,849 143,951 Income tax 20 -194,693 -251,363 NET INCOME 572,802 630,082 Attributable to the owners of the Parent Company 572,741 630,040 Attributable to non-controlling interests 61 42 Earnings per share (in EUR) 21 69.1 76.4 Diluted earnings per share (in EUR) 21 69.1 76.4 (1) restated for the impact of the application of IFRS 15 (see Note 1.A). (2) personnel expenses include incentive schemes and profit-sharing (EUR -139,713 thousand in 2018 and EUR -99,273 thousand in 2017) as well as contributions paid to French pension plans, comparable to defined contribution plans (EUR -89,957 thousand in 2018 and EUR -89,524 thousand in 2017). The tax credit for competitiveness and employment represented EUR 8,367 thousand in 2018 and EUR 9,545 thousand in 2017. In 2018, personnel expenses also include the purchasing power bonus for EUR 4,340 thousand. 170 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP STATEMENT OF RECOGNIZED INCOME AND EXPENSE 2018 Notes Fully consolidated (in EUR thousands) Equity associates 2018 companies NET INCOME 366,953 205,849 572,802 Derivative financial instruments (1) 5, 24 -108,511 -26,262 -134,773 Deferred taxes 5, 20 33,839 8,961 42,800 Currency translation adjustments 33,987 -782 33,205 Items to be subsequently recycled to P&L -40,685 -18,083 -58,768 Other non-current financial assets 6 -1,699 0 -1,699 Actuarial adjustments on pension benefit obligations 5, 12 49,818 72,434 122,252 Deferred taxes 5, 20 -9,862 -1,124 -10,986 Items that will not be recycled to P&L 38,257 71,310 109,567 Income and expense recognized directly through -2,428 53,227 50,799 equity RECOGNIZED INCOME AND EXPENSE 364,525 259,076 623,601 Owners of the Parent Company 364,464 259,076 623,540 Non-controlling interests 61 61 (1) the amounts stated represent the change in the market value over the period for instruments that qualify for hedge accounting. They are not representative of the actual gain/loss which will be recognized when the hedges are exercised. 2017 Fully consolidated (in EUR thousands) Notes Equity associates 2017 (1) companies NET INCOME 486,131 143,951 630,082 Available-for-sale securities -287,767 -1,913 -289,680 Derivative financial instruments (2) 5, 24 193,900 94,199 288,099 Deferred taxes 5, 20 38,879 -26,683 12,196 Currency translation adjustments -94,492 -29,518 -124,010 Items to be subsequently recycled to P&L -149,480 36,085 -113,395 Actuarial adjustments on pension benefit obligations 5, 12 10,801 14,473 25,274 Deferred taxes 5, 20 -9,520 718 -8,802 Items that will not be recycled to P&L 1,281 15,191 16,472 Income and expense recognized directly through -148,199 51,276 -96,923 equity RECOGNIZED INCOME AND EXPENSE 337,932 195,227 533,159 Owners of the Parent Company 337,890 195,227 533,117 Non-controlling interests 42 42 (1) restated for the impact of the application of IFRS 15 (see Note 1.A). (2) the amounts stated represent the change in the market value over the period for instruments that qualify for hedge accounting. They are not representative of the actual gain/loss which will be recognized when the hedges are exercised. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 171 Consolidated Financial Statements STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Consolidated reserves and retained earnings Total Additional attributable Derivative paid-in Currency to the Nonfinancial Treasury (in EUR thousands) Capital capital, translation owners of controlling Total equity instruments shares consolidated adjustments the Parent interests and retained Company available-forearnings and sale other securities reserves Published as of 66,006 2,834,810 355,732 99,122 -38,759 3,316,911 451 3,317,362 12/31/2016 IFRS 15 adjustments (1) -101,546 -101,546 -101,546 Restated as of 66,006 2,733,264 355,732 99,122 -38,759 3,215,365 451 3,215,816 01/01/2017 Capital increase 489 76,249 76,738 76,738 Net income for the year 630,040 630,040 42 630,082 Income and expense recognized 16,472 10,615 -124,010 -96,923 -96,923 directly through equity Recognized income and 646,512 10,615 -124,010 533,117 42 533,159 expense Dividend in shares -74,731 -74,731 -74,731 Dividend in cash -24,636 -24,636 -24,636 Dividends paid -99,367 -99,367 -99,367 Share-based payments 1,115 1,115 1,115 Movements on treasury -931 931 0 0 shares (2) Other changes (3) -2,988 -2,988 -2,988 Restated as of 66,495 3,353,854 366,347 -24,888 -37,828 3,723,980 493 3,724,473 12/31/2017 IFRS 9 adjustments (1) 262,196 -265,961 -3,765 -3,765 Restated as of 66,495 3,616,050 100,386 -24,888 -37,828 3,720,215 493 3,720,708 01/01/2018 Capital increase 295 60,937 61,232 61,232 Net income for the year 572,741 572,741 61 572,802 Income and expense recognized 109,567 -91,973 33,205 50,799 50,799 directly through equity Recognized income and 682,308 -91,973 33,205 623,540 61 623,601 expense Dividend in shares -59,675 -59,675 -59,675 Dividend in cash -66,929 -66,929 -66,929 Dividends paid -126,604 -126,604 -126,604 Share-based payments 1,689 1,689 1,689 Movements on treasury -1,396 1,396 0 0 shares (2) Other changes (3) -4,037 -4,037 -4,037 As of 12/31/2018 66,790 4,228,947 8,413 8,317 -36,432 4,276,035 554 4,276,589 (1) restated for the impact of the application of IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 (see Note 1.A). (2) see Note 10. (3) for Thales, this represents in particular the change in treasury shares, employee share issues and share-based payments. 172 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP CASH FLOW STATEMENT (in EUR thousands) Notes 2018 2017 (1) I – NET CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES NET INCOME 572,802 630,082 Elimination of net income of equity associates, net of dividends received 5 -108,111 -53,496 Elimination of gains and losses from disposals of non-current assets 17 4,444 709 Change in the fair value of derivative financial instruments 24 37,958 -473,634 Change in the fair value of other current financial assets 6 -4,820 Income tax (including deferred taxes) 20 194,693 251,363 Allocations to and reversals of depreciation, amortization and provisions (excluding 4, 12 361,123 112,964 those related to working capital requirement) Other items 10 1,689 1,115 Net cash from operating activities before working capital changes and taxes 1,059,778 469,103 Income taxes paid -222,409 -110,945 Change in inventories and work-in-progress (net) 7 68,156 392,307 Change in contract assets 14 -16,967 0 Change in advances and progress payments to suppliers 14 -756,349 -732,163 Change in trade and other receivables (net) 8 -199,941 -103,033 Change in contract liabilities 14 1,071,034 1,564,404 Change in trade and other payables 13 178,544 34,652 Change in tax and social security liabilities 13 71,575 514 Increase (-) or decrease (+) in working capital requirement 416,052 1,156,681 Total I 1,253,421 1,514,839 II – NET CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Acquisitions of intangible assets and property, plant & equipment 4 -140,206 -76,087 Increase in non-current financial assets 6 -17,542 -45,828 Disposals of or reductions in non-current assets 26,720 23,484 Total II -131,028 -98,431 III NET CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Net change, as acquisition cost, of other current financial assets 6 -52,235 -410,286 Capital increase and share premium 10 61,232 76,738 Increase in financial debt 11 70,866 61,044 Repayment of financial debt 11 -174,665 -150,971 Dividends paid during the year 22 -126,604 -99,367 Total III -221,406 -522,842 IV Impact of exchange rate fluctuations and others Total IV 27,735 -85,013 CHANGE IN NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (I+II+III+IV) 928,722 808,553 Opening net cash and cash equivalents 9 2,061,419 1,252,866 Closing net cash and cash equivalents 9 2,990,141 2,061,419 (1) restated for the impact of the application of IFRS 15 (see Note 1.A). 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 173 Consolidated Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW INCOME STATEMENT 1 Accounting principles 15 Net sales 2 Scope of consolidation 16 Other revenue 2.1 Scope as of December 31, 2018 2.2 2018 change in scope 17 Other operating income and expenses 18 Research and development costs ASSETS 19 Net financial income 3 Goodwill 20 Tax position 4 Intangible assets and property, 20.1 Net effect of taxes on net income plant and equipment 20.2 Net effect of taxes on income and expense 4.1 Geographic breakdown recognized directly through equity – fully 4.2 Intangible assets consolidated companies 4.3 Property, plant and equipment 20.3 Reconciliation of theoretical and actual tax expenses 5 Equity associates 20.4 Deferred tax sources 20.5 Deferred tax assets not recognized in balance 6 Other current and non-current financial sheet assets 21 Earnings per share 7 Inventories and work-in-progress ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 8 Trade and other receivables 22 Dividends paid and proposed 8.1 Details 8.2 Schedule 23 Financial instruments 8.3 Receivables relating to finance leases 23.1 Financial instruments (assets) 23.2 Financial instruments (liabilities) 9 Cash 9.1 Net cash 24 Financial risk management 9.2 Available cash 24.1 Cash and liquidity risks 24.2 Credit and counterparty risks LIABILITIES 24.3 Other market risks 10 Equity 25 Off-balance sheet commitments 10.1 Share capital 10.2 Treasury shares 26 Contingent assets and liabilities 10.3 Share-based payments 27 Related-party transactions 11 Borrowings and financial debt 27.1 Details of transactions 27.2 Compensation of corporate officers and benefits 12 Current provisions in kind 12.1 Provisions for contingencies and charges and for impairment 28 Average number of employees 12.2 Details of provisions for contingencies and charges 29 Environmental information 12.3 Provisions for retirement payments 30 Auditors’ fees 13 Operating liabilities 31 Subsequent events 14 Contract assets and liabilities 174 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP Note 1 Accounting principles A/ GENERAL PRINCIPLES On February 27, 2019, the Board of Directors closed and authorized the publication of the Dassault Aviation consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2018. These consolidated financial statements will be submitted for approval to the General Meeting on May 16, 2019.  A1 Reference standards A1-1 Basis for preparation of financial information Dassault Aviation Group consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS standards, amendments and interpretations as adopted by the European Union and applicable on the closing date. A1-2 Changes in 2018 to the accounting standards applicable to Dassault Aviation Standards, amendments and interpretations whose application has become mandatory as of January 1, 2018 Since January 1, 2018, the Group has applied the following standards, amendments, and interpretations: IFRS 15 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers”, clarifications to IFRS 15 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers”, IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments”, annual improvements to IFRS 2014-2016, IFRIC 22 “Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration”, IFRS 2 amendment “Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions”. The impacts of IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 application on the Group financial statements are detailed below. The other texts have no impact on the Group consolidated financial statements. Standards, amendments and interpretations whose application is mandatory after January 1, 2018 The texts presented below were not applied in advance by the Group when that option was offered. The texts adopted by the European Union, which must be applied after January 1, 2018, are as follows: IFRS 16 “Leases”, applicable as of January 1, 2019. The Group initiated its work of implementation. When a lease is signed, this standard requires the recognition of a right of use on the assets in counterpart of a liability corresponding to discounted future payments. The amount of the liability will depend substantially on the assumptions made regarding the discount rate and the commitments’ duration. The identification of leases and the collection of data necessary for an accurate estimate of the impact on the balance sheet of the first application of IFRS 16 are in progress. Impacts related to the implementation of IFRS 16 will mainly concern real estate leases. The Group has chosen the simplified retrospective transition method, IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatment , applicable as of January 1, 2019. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 175 Consolidated Financial Statements The main texts published by the IASB and not yet adopted by the European Union include: amendment to IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures , applicable as of January 1, 2019, annual improvements to IFRS 2015-2017, applicable as of January 1, 2019, amendments to IAS 19 “Employee Benefits”, applicable as of January 1, 2019, amendments to IFRS 3 “Business Combinations”, applicable as of January 1, 2020, amendments to IAS 1 “Presentation of Financial Statements” and IAS 8 “Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors”, applicable as of January 1, 2020, amendments to the conceptual framework, applicable starting January 1, 2020. The impacts of these texts on the Group financial statements are currently being assessed. Implementation of IFRS 15 IFRS 15, which is mandatory for fiscal years beginning on or after January 1, 2018, deals with the recognition of “Revenue from Contracts with Customers”. It replaces IAS 11 “Construction Contracts” and IAS 18 “Revenue”. More specifically, this standard requires: a segmentation of contracts into performance obligations, the factors to be taken into account in determining the transaction price, in particular a financing component when it is significant, criteria to demonstrate the progressive transfer of control of the assets and to recognize the revenue over time, a methodology to determine the stage of completion. In this respect, the Group will apply the cost-tocost method, new principles regarding the assessment whether an entity is a principal or an agent with respect to a contract, the notion of ‘transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations’, which is similar to the backlog. The impacts of IFRS 15 on Thales financial statements are presented in their financial statements. Due to the implementation of IFRS 15, the revenue from certain performance obligations will be recognized by the Group at a different pace than with the former standard. However, revenue and margin will only be deferred from one period to another; the economy of the contract remains the same. The implementation of IFRS 15 has therefore no impact on cash flow. Segmentation of contracts into performance obligations IFRS 15 requires the segmentation of contracts into performance obligations when certain criteria are fulfilled for promises identified in a contract, with differentiated margin rates per performance obligation. If the criteria are not fulfilled, the promises of the contract must be bundled until a separate performance obligation is identified. The provisions set out in the standard have brought the Group to combine certain obligations that it had previously recognized separately as revenue under the former standard. This is especially the case of program management services and certain development services that do not meet the criteria defined by the standard to qualify as separate performance obligations. However, the impact of this restatement on the financial statements, which generates time lags in revenue and margin recognition, is limited. 176 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP Determination of transaction price IFRS 15 specifies the elements to be taken into account when determining the transaction price. The standard provides, in particular, that the selling price be adjusted for the financing components deemed significant, to reflect a “cash sale price” for the service provided. The financing component exists when there is, for a given contract, a significant difference between the moment when the receipts are received and the moment when the revenue is recognized. For the Group, the financing component is significant for long-term Defense contracts (primarily Rafale sales contracts), whose financing plan provides for the payment of significant advance payments and whose revenue from the majority of the performance obligations is recognized upon delivery of the goods. Revenue, and therefore the operating income, from the relevant contracts are thus increased by this financing component, offset by a financial expense recognized over the term of the contract. This impact is, however, partially offset by the financing component recognized for advance payments to cocontractors, when the Group acts as principal on a contract, which is the case for Rafale Export contracts. Recognition of revenue over time or at a point in time According to the former standard, revenue from goods (representing around 80% of the Group’s revenue in 2017) was recognized when the good was delivered (generally upon transfer of ownership), whereas revenue related to services was recognized over time according to the milestones set forth in contract. IFRS 15 standard sets out criteria for determining whether the transfer of control of goods and services to the customer is progressive and, if necessary, recognizing revenue over time. In certain situations, it is necessary to demonstrate that the good sold has no alternative use and that the Group has an irrevocable right to payment (including a reasonable margin) for work carried out to date, in the event of termination of the contract for the convenience of the customer. The detailed analysis of the Group’s portfolio of contracts led to the confirmation that, for the majority of its contracts, the criteria of IFRS 15 for the recognition of revenue over time were not met, in particular for Rafale sales and sales of Falcon civil aircraft whose alternative use could be demonstrated. The reclassification of contracts recognized under the former standard at a point in time to be recognized using the percentage of completion method is thus limited. Revenue will continue to be recognized when the goods are delivered in the majority of cases. Revenue from performance of services is, as previously, recognized over time, if the criteria of IFRS 15 are met, as is the case for maintenance contracts. Services for which the criteria of IFRS 15 are not met, as is the case for certain development contracts, will continue to be recognized at the end of the service provided. Completion method Under the former standard, revenue from services recognized as a percentage of completion was generally recognized based on billing milestones that attested to the actual progress of part of the work or the performance of the services provided for by the contract. Under IFRS 15, the percentage-of-completion method used by the Group will be the cost-to-cost method: whereby revenue is recognized based on costs incurred at a given date divided by total costs expected at completion. For each contract, depending on the stage of completion and the type of milestones achieved and costs incurred during the period, this change in method may lead to defer the recognition of revenue and margin from one period to another. However, the impact of this on the Group’s financial statements is non-material. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 177 Consolidated Financial Statements Agent / principal IFRS 15, which defines when an entity is agent or principal, does not call into question the analysis that had been conducted with regard to the former standard, namely that the Group acts as principal for the Rafale Export contracts. The Group will continue to recognize the revenue from those contracts on a gross basis. Backlog IFRS 15 introduces the notion of “transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations”, which is similar to the backlog. For the Group, the implementation of the standard’s provisions results in the inclusion in the measurement of its backlog of contract price revisions (in connection with the application of the provisions regarding estimates of variable amounts) and the financing component for the contracts for which it was deemed significant. Transition method Given the Group has chosen the full retrospective method, the financial statements as of December 31, 2018 include the 2017 comparative financial statements restated for the effects of the application of this new standard. Implementation of IFRS 9 IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments” replaces IAS 39 “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement”. It covers accounting rules applicable to financial instruments in three main areas: classification and measurement of financial assets and liabilities, impairment, and hedge accounting. Classification and measurement of financial assets and liabilities IFRS 9 provides a single approach for the classification and measurement of financial assets based on the asset characteristics and the Group management intention. The main impact of this standard for the Group concerns the classification and valuation of financial assets classified as available-for-sale securities under the former standard. This means that: available-for-sale marketable securities are reclassified as other current financial assets. Changes in unrealized gains formerly recognized in income and expense recognized directly through equity that were recycled as profit or loss upon the disposal of securities will now be recognized in the financial income. Since IFRS 9 applies retrospectively, the amount of unrealized gains recorded as other income and expenses recognized directly in equity as of December 31, 2017 is reclassified as reserves as of January 1, 2018. The amount of reclassified unrealized gains is EUR 377 million before tax, unlisted equity securities and listed Embraer securities are reclassified as other non-current financial assets. Changes in fair value and gains or losses on disposal will be recognized under other income and expense directly recorded under equity, without any effect to profit or loss. Only dividends continue to be recognized in profit or loss. 178 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP Impairment of receivables The transition from an impairment of trade receivables based on recognized losses to a method based on expected losses has no material impact on the Group’s financial statements due to: the nature of customers (States) for military trade receivables, the fact that the majority of Falcon sales are made in cash, as credit sales receivables are otherwise covered by insurance or collateral, the provisioning methods already practiced by the Group for each kind of trade receivable. Hedge accounting The provisions of IFRS 9 on hedges have no significant impact on the Group’s financial statements. Hedging instruments not eligible for hedge accounting under IAS 39 remain not eligible under IFRS 9. Transition method IFRS 9 has been applied retrospectively as from January 1, 2018. Comparative figures for 2017 have not been restated in accordance with the standard. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 179 Consolidated Financial Statements Impact of IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 on the Group’s financial statements 2017 consolidated income statement 2017 Impact from 2017 (in EUR thousands) Published IFRS 15 Restated NET SALES 4,832,638 68,442 4,901,080 Other revenue 44,038 44,038 Change in work-in-progress -57,004 -51,292 -108,296 Purchases consumed -3,058,022 -4,507 -3,062,529 Personnel expenses -1,143,040 -1,143,040 Taxes -68,381 -68,381 Depreciation and amortization -87,270 -87,270 Allocations to provisions -943,893 -4,428 -948,321 Reversals of provisions 856,874 856,874 Other operating income and expenses -32,719 -32,719 CURRENT OPERATING INCOME 343,221 8,215 351,436 Other non-current income and expenses -133,501 -133,501 OPERATING INCOME 209,720 8,215 217,935 Cost of net financial debt -4,956 -67,846 -72,802 Other financial income and expenses 592,361 592,361 NET FINANCIAL INCOME/EXPENSE 587,405 -67,846 519,559 Share in net income of equity associates 178,924 -34,973 143,951 Income tax -267,055 15,692 -251,363 NET INCOME 708,994 -78,912 630,082 Share in net income of equity associates 708,952 -78,912 630,040 Income tax 42 42 Earnings per share (in EUR) 86.0 76.4 Diluted earnings per share (in EUR) 86.0 76.4 180 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP Consolidated balance sheet as of January 1, 2017 12/31/2016 Impact from 01/01/2017 (in EUR thousands) Published IFRS 15 Restated Goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 547,855 547,855 Equity associates 1,731,184 -62,373 1,668,811 Available-for-sale securities 3,142,377 3,142,377 Other non-current financial assets 33,678 33,678 Deferred tax assets 525,720 18,362 544,082 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 5,980,814 -44,011 5,936,803 Inventories and work-in-progress 4,006,466 -142,725 3,863,741 Contract assets 0 Trade and other receivables 646,041 19,096 665,137 Advances and progress payments to suppliers 1,793,708 1,793,708 Derivative financial instruments 4,598 4,598 Cash and cash equivalents 1,252,866 1,252,866 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 7,703,679 -123,629 7,580,050 TOTAL ASSETS 13,684,493 -167,640 13,516,853 Capital 66,006 66,006 Consolidated reserves and retained earnings 3,190,542 -101,546 3,088,996 Currency translation adjustments 99,122 99,122 Treasury shares -38,759 -38,759 TOTAL ATTRIBUTABLE TO THE OWNERS OF THE PARENT 3,316,911 -101,546 3,215,365 COMPANY Non-controlling interests 451 451 TOTAL EQUITY 3,317,362 -101,546 3,215,816 Long-term borrowings and financial debt 1,094,504 1,094,504 TOTAL NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 1,094,504 1,094,504 Contract liabilities 6,562,569 6,562,569 Trade and other payables 854,051 -152,949 701,102 Tax and social security liabilities 237,102 237,102 Customer advances and progress payments 6,439,014 -6,439,014 Short-term borrowings and financial debt 90,598 90,598 Provisions for contingencies and charges 1,140,481 -36,700 1,103,781 Derivative financial instruments 511,381 511,381 TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES 9,272,627 -66,094 9,206,533 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 13,684,493 -167,640 13,516,853 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 181 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated balance sheet as of January 1, 2018 12/31/2017 Impact from 12/31/2017 Impact from 01/01/2018 (in EUR thousands) Published IFRS 15 Restated IFRS 9 Restated Goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant 490,363 490,363 490,363 and equipment Equity associates 1,870,677 -100,120 1,770,557 -3,765 1,766,792 Available-for-sale securities 3,305,850 3,305,850 -3,305,850 Other non-current financial assets 38,197 38,197 150,937 189,134 Deferred tax assets 289,237 34,054 323,291 323,291 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 5,994,324 -66,066 5,928,258 -3,158,678 2,769,580 Inventories and work-in-progress 3,670,155 -198,721 3,471,434 3,471,434 Contract assets 0 0 Trade and other receivables 829,962 40,199 870,161 870,161 Advances and progress payments to suppliers 2,525,871 2,525,871 2,525,871 Derivative financial instruments 172,818 172,818 172,818 Other current financial assets 3,154,913 3,154,913 Cash and cash equivalents 2,061,419 2,061,419 2,061,419 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 9,260,225 -158,522 9,101,703 3,154,913 12,256,616 TOTAL ASSETS 15,254,549 -224,588 15,029,961 -3,765 15,026,196 Capital 66,495 66,495 66,495 Consolidated reserves and retained earnings 3,904,845 -184,644 3,720,201 -3,765 3,716,436 Currency translation adjustments -26,300 1,412 -24,888 -24,888 Treasury shares -37,828 -37,828 -37,828 TOTAL ATTRIBUTABLE TO THE OWNERS 3,907,212 -183,232 3,723,980 -3,765 3,720,215 OF THE PARENT COMPANY Non-controlling interests 493 493 493 TOTAL EQUITY 3,907,705 -183,232 3,724,473 -3,765 3,720,708 Long-term borrowings and financial debt 980,265 980,265 980,265 TOTAL NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 980,265 980,265 980,265 Contract liabilities 8,126,973 8,126,973 8,126,973 Trade and other payables 898,388 -162,634 735,754 735,754 Tax and social security liabilities 237,616 237,616 237,616 Customer advances and progress payments 7,968,995 -7,968,995 Short-term borrowings and financial debt 114,910 114,910 114,910 Provisions for contingencies and charges 1,134,603 -36,700 1,097,903 1,097,903 Derivative financial instruments 12,067 12,067 12,067 TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES 10,366,579 -41,356 10,325,223 10,325,223 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 15,254,549 -224,588 15,029,961 -3,765 15,026,196 182 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP Backlog as of December 31, 2017, in EUR thousands Backlog as of 12/31/2017 published 18,818,200 Financing component 446,068 Price revision 420,775 Pace of recognition of net sales -224,855 Backlog as of 12/31/2017 restated 19,460,188  A2 Key Management choices and estimates To prepare the Group’s financial statements, Management is required to make estimates and issue assumptions that could have an impact on the amounts entered in the balance sheet and in the income statement. These estimates concern in particular: the results of contracts in progress, the calculation of provisions for contingencies and charges and provisions for impairment, the calculation of development costs that meet capitalization criteria, the recoverability of deferred tax assets. These estimates are calculated by taking into account past experience, elements known at the closing date and any reasonable change assumptions. Subsequent results may therefore differ from such estimates.  A3 Presentation of consolidated financial statements Consolidated balance sheet items are presented as Current/Non-current. The Group’s activities have long operating cycles. As a result, the assets/liabilities generally realized/settled in the context of the operating cycle (inventories and work-in-progress, contract assets and liabilities, receivables, payables, etc.) are presented in the consolidated balance sheet as current assets and liabilities, without distinction between the amount due within one year and the amount due at more than one year. Consolidated income statement items are presented by nature. Net operating income represents all income and expenses not arising from financial activities, equity associates, discontinued operations or operations being sold, and income taxes. It is composed of two separate parts: current operating income and other non-current income and expenses. Only significant unusual items are recorded in other non-current income and expenses.  A4 Segment reporting IFRS 8, “Operating Segments”, requires the presentation of information according to internal management criteria. The activity of the Dassault Aviation Group relates entirely to the aerospace domain. The internal reporting made to the Chairman-Chief Executive Officer and to the Chief Operating Officer, which is used for strategy and decision-making, includes no performance analysis, as defined by IFRS 8, at a level lower than this sector. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 183 Consolidated Financial Statements B/ CONSOLIDATION PRINCIPLES AND METHODS  B1 Scope and methods of consolidation B1-1 Companies under exclusive control Companies over which Dassault Aviation exercises exclusive control, directly or indirectly, are fully consolidated if their significance justifies it. B1-2 Companies under significant influence Companies over which Dassault Aviation exercises significant influence, directly or indirectly, are consolidated using the equity method if their relative importance justifies it. B1-3 Companies under joint control Joint arrangements classified as joint venture are accounted for using the equity method if their relative size justifies it. B1-4 Consolidation thresholds For the application of the factor of relative significance, a company controlled by the Group or in which it has significant influence is included in the scope of consolidation if all of the following criteria are met: total assets and liabilities exceed 2% of the equivalent Group totals; total net sales exceed 2% of the Group total; equity exceeds 3% of the Group total. B1-5 Elimination of inter-company transactions All material inter-company transactions, and internal gains and losses included in non-current assets, are eliminated in the inventories and work-in-progress of consolidated companies.  B2 Closing date All consolidated companies close their fiscal years on December 31.  B3 Conversion of financial statements of subsidiaries outside the euro area The currency used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements is the euro. The financial statements of non-euro area subsidiaries are translated as follows: assets and liabilities are translated at the year-end rate; the income statement is translated at the average annual rate. Currency translation adjustments are recognized in equity and do not impact the income statement. 184 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP C/ VALUATION PRINCIPLES  C1 Goodwill and business combinations No business combinations have occurred since January 1, 2010, the date when revised IFRS 3 came into force. Business combinations prior to January 1, 2010 were recognized using the acquisition method as defined by IFRS 3 before revision. The assets and liabilities identified are recognized at their fair value on the acquisition date. Goodwill is the difference between the acquisition cost of investments and the share of the revalued net assets. Goodwill is recognized: if it is negative, in net income, if it is positive, in balance sheet assets as: “goodwill” if the company is fully consolidated, “equity associates” if the company is consolidated under the equity method. Goodwill can be adjusted within twelve months following the acquisition date to take into account the final estimate of the fair value of the purchased assets and liabilities. Goodwill is not amortized. It is subject to an impairment test at each year-end, or if an indication of impairment has been detected (see C3 Impairment value and recoverable value). When IFRS were initially applied, Dassault Aviation chose not to restate goodwill recognized prior to January 1, 2004. The goodwill recognized on this date represents the value net of any previously recognized amortization.  C2 Intangible assets and property, plant & equipment C2-1 Accounting principles Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are recognized at acquisition or production cost, less accumulated depreciation or amortization and impairment. Each identified component of an intangible asset or item of property, plant and equipment is recognized and depreciated or amortized separately. Depreciation and amortization are calculated using the straight-line method. No residual value is taken into account, except for aircraft. Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are depreciated and amortized over their estimated useful lives. Useful lives are reviewed at each year-end for material non-current assets. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 185 Consolidated Financial Statements In accordance with IAS 38 “Intangible Assets” concerning development costs, the Group determines the development phase of its programs that meets the criteria for capitalization. Development costs are capitalized if they satisfy the following three determining criteria: the technical criterion is met when the period for validation of results after the maiden flight has elapsed without calling the project into question; the economic criterion is validated by the orders placed or options obtained on the date the technical requirement is considered satisfied; the financial information reliability criterion is satisfied for significant programs because the information system differentiates research and development phases. If such a distinction cannot be made, as may be the case for minor developments (e.g. modification, improvement, etc.), those development costs are not capitalized. The asset must generate clearly identifiable future economic benefits attributable to a specific product. Capitalized development costs are valued at the production cost. They are amortized on the basis of the number of aircraft delivered during the year, divided by an estimated number of aircraft to be delivered under the program. C2-2 Useful lives Useful lives are as follows: Software 3-4 years Development costs depend on the number of units to be produced Industrial buildings 20-25 years Office buildings 20-25 years Fixtures and fittings 7-15 years Plant, equipment and tools 3-10 years Aircraft 4-15 years Rolling stock 4 years Other property, plant and equipment 3-10 years Used goods on a case-by-case basis The initial useful life of an asset is extended or reduced if the conditions in which the asset is used justify it. C2-3 Derecognition Any gain or loss arising from the derecognition of an asset (difference between the net disposal gain and the net carrying value) is included in the income statement in the year of derecognition.  C3 Impairment and recoverable value of tangible and intangible assets and goodwill In accordance with IAS 36 “Impairment of Non-Current Assets”, all non-current assets (tangible and intangible), and goodwill are subject to an impairment test when an indication of impairment is detected, and at least once a year on December 31 for goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life. Indications of impairment derive from significant adverse changes of a lasting nature, affecting the economic environment or the assumptions or objectives used by the Group. 186 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP Impairment tests consist of ensuring that the recoverable values of the tangible assets, intangible assets and cash-generating units to which the goodwill is assigned are at least equal to their net book value. Otherwise, impairment is recognized in net income and the net book value of the asset is reduced to its recoverable value. The recoverable value of a tangible or intangible asset is the higher value between its fair value, less the costs of disposal, and its value in use. The recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit corresponds to its value in use. Each consolidated company represents a cash-generating unit, i.e.: the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows and outflows. The value in use of an asset is calculated using the discounted future cash flow method, with a post-tax discount rate of 7.2% (compared to 7.5% as of December 31, 2017) and a 2% long-term growth rate (same as of December 31, 2017). The discount rate used includes the rates prevailing in the aviation industry and was calculated using the same method as in 2017. Post-tax cash flows are projected over a period not exceeding 5 years and the method takes into account a terminal value. These future cash flows result from the economic assumptions and projected operating conditions adopted by Management. When a cash-generating unit needs to be impaired, the impairment is first of all applied to the goodwill then, if appropriate, to the other assets of the cash-generating unit proportionate to their net book value amount. Impairments may be reversed, except for those relating to goodwill.  C4 Equity associates Investments in equity associates undergo an impairment test once there are objective indications of any long-term loss in value. Impairment is recognized if the recoverable value is lower than the carrying amount, with the recoverable value being equivalent to the value in use, as defined in paragraph C3, or the fair value net of transaction costs, whichever is higher. Concerning the equity investment in Thales, when an impairment test is carried out, the operational and financial assumptions used come directly from data provided directly by Thales Management. Impairment may be reversed if the recoverable value once again exceeds the carrying value.  C5 Non-current financial assets C5-1 Unlisted securities and Embraer shares For listed assets (Embraer shares), fair value corresponds to the market price as of the balance sheet date. These items are classified as level 1 (according to IFRS 13). For non-listed unconsolidated investments, in the absence of any external valuation elements, fair value represents the Group’s share in net assets plus any significant unrealized gains. Fair value is calculated on the basis of the most recent financial statements available at year-end. These items are classified as level 3 (according to IFRS 13). Changes in fair value and gains or losses on disposal for these shares will be recognized under other income and expense directly recorded through equity, without any effect to profit or loss. Only dividends continue to be recognized in profit or loss. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 187 Consolidated Financial Statements C5-2 Other financial assets Other financial assets mainly comprise guarantee deposits, loans granted to investments in non consolidated companies and loans granted to employees for a housing loan. Loans are recognized at amortized cost (historical cost less repayments). Other assets are recognized at their historical cost.  C6 Inventories and work-in-progress Incoming raw materials, semi-finished and finished goods inventories are measured at acquisition cost for items purchased and production cost for items produced. Outgoing inventories are valued at the weighted average cost, except for used aircraft which are stated at acquisition cost. Work-in-progress is stated at production cost. Inventories and work-in-progress are impaired when their net realizable value is less than their carrying amount. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less the estimated costs for completion and making the sale. It takes into account the technical or commercial obsolescence of articles and the risks associated with their low turnover.  C7 Receivables Trade and other receivables are presented separately on the balance sheet. They are systematically classified as current assets. Receivables resulting from finance leases are presented under “Trade and other receivables”. They represent the discounted amount of the expected lease revenues, plus the residual value of the aircraft at the end of the finance lease. A provision for impairment is recorded when the recoverable value of a receivable is lower than the book value. The recoverable amount of a receivable is estimated based on expected losses and takes into account the type of customer and the history of payments. The receivable is written down in the amount of the estimated risk for the portion not covered by credit insurance (Bpifrance Assurance Export or collateral). Non written-down receivables are recent receivables and/or receivables with no material credit risk. Foreign currency receivables, translated by each subsidiary into their local currency at the day’s rate, are revalued at each closing on the basis of the closing rate. Revaluation differences are recognized in operating income.  C8 Other current financial assets These mainly correspond to cash investments in the form of marketable securities. They are recognized at fair value, corresponding to the market price as of the balance sheet date. These items are classified as level 1 (according to IFRS 13). Changes in fair value and gains or losses on the sale of these securities are recognized as financial income. 188 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP  C9 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents satisfy the criteria set forth in IAS 7 “Statement of Cash Flows”: short-term investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are not subject to a material risk of changes in value. They are initially recognized at acquisition cost, and subsequently at fair value; this is the market price on the account closing date for listed securities. The changes in fair value and net disposal gains or losses are recognized in financial income as income from cash and cash equivalents.  C10 Treasury shares C10-1 Treasury shares Treasury shares are deducted from equity at their acquisition cost. Any gains or losses from the sale of treasury shares are recognized directly in equity and do not impact income for the period. C10-2 Share-based payments Dassault Aviation has plans in place to grant performance shares. These allotments are recognized as an expense representing the fair value of the services rendered by the beneficiaries. The fair value of the services is determined by reference to the fair value of the shares on the grant date, adjusted for dividends not received during the vesting period and the cost of non-transferability. The performance conditions are taken into account when estimating the number of shares to be granted at the end of the vesting period. The benefits granted constitute personnel expenses and are recognized on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. This expense is recognized against consolidated reserves.  C11 Provisions for contingencies and charges C11-1 Warranties Within the framework of sales or procurement contracts, Dassault Aviation has formal warranty obligations for the equipment, products and/or services (software development, systems integration, etc.) delivered. These obligations can be distinguished between: “current” warranty: repair of defective equipment during the contractual warranty period or by implicit obligations, handling hardware or software malfunctions identified following qualification and handover to users, etc. “regulatory” warranty: treatment by the manufacturer of any changes to the regulatory framework determined by the regulatory authorities or any regulatory non-compliance identified by the manufacturer or a user after delivery of materials or products. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 189 Consolidated Financial Statements Determining the amount of the warranty provisions is mainly done as follows: for the current equipment warranty: based on experience with recorded costs, depending on the warranty items covered contractually and the aircraft models in question; for handling of malfunctions or regulatory changes and nonconformities: based on estimates established by specialists from the business lines affected by the corrective actions to be implemented; these corrections have been identified in “technical files”. C11-2 Retirement costs Commitments to employees for retirement costs are provisioned for the obligations remaining. The commitments are estimated for all employees on the basis of vested rights and a projection of current salaries, after taking into account the mortality risk, employee turnover, and a discounting assumption. The rates have been determined based on the yield for top-ranking corporate long-term bonds, with maturity equivalent to the duration of the calculated liabilities. The Group applies revised IAS 19 which stipulates: the recognition of all actuarial adjustments in income and expense recognized directly through equity; immediate recognition of the cost of past services; alignment of the expected return from the plan’s assets to the discount rates; the recognition of only the administrative costs relating to management of the assets as a deduction from their actual return. The provision that appears in the balance sheet corresponds to the total commitment net of plan assets. The impact on the income statement is fully recognized in operating income.  C12 Borrowings and payables Foreign currency borrowings and payables, translated by each subsidiary into their local currency at the day’s rate, are revalued at each closing on the basis of the closing rate. Revaluation differences are recognized in operating income. Loans taken out by the Group are initially recorded at the amount received net of transaction costs, and subsequently at the amortized cost, calculated using the effective interest rate.  C13 Discounting of receivables, payables and provisions Receivables and payables are recognized for their discounted amounts when the payment date is more than one year and the effects of the discounting are significant. The provisions relating to the retirement costs and other long-term benefits are discounted in accordance with IAS 19 “Employee benefits”. Other provisions are stated at present value. In accordance with IFRS standards, deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted. 190 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP  C14 Derivative financial instruments C14-1 Derivative financial instruments subscribed by the Group The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to risks from fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and, more marginally, from fluctuations in commodity prices. These risks mainly arise from US dollar-denominated sales. The corresponding future cash flows are partially hedged using forward exchange contracts and currency options. Interest rate risks result from variable rate borrowings contracted by the Group. Interest rate risks are hedged using interest rate swaps. C14-2 Evaluation and recognition of derivatives Upon initial recognition, derivatives are booked at acquisition cost in the balance sheet under “Derivative Financial Instruments”. They are subsequently stated at fair value, calculated on the basis of the market price communicated by the relevant financial institutions and the market parameters observed on the closing date, taking into account any counterparty risks. The valuation of financial instruments is level 2 (according to IFRS 13). The Group applies hedge accounting when the criteria defined by IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments” are met. Foreign exchange derivatives are documented, on a case-by-case basis, on the basis of spot or forward prices. Derivatives eligible for hedge accounting are recognized as follows: changes in fair value of hedging instruments are posted, net of tax, to other income and expense recognized through equity, with the exception of the ineffective amount of the hedge, if any, which is recognized in income; when the cash flow is received, the gain or loss on the foreign exchange hedging instrument is recognized in income; interest on interest rate hedging instruments, for the elapsed period, is recognized as financial income. If a derivative, chosen for the effectiveness of the economic hedging it provides, does not meet the conditions required by the hedge accounting standard (foreign exchange options), then changes in its fair value are recognized in financial income.  C15 Net sales and key figures C15-1 Recognition of net sales and operating income The results on completion are based on estimates of net sales and costs at completion (taking into account the Program Departments’ forecasts) which are revised as the contract progresses and take into account the latest known events at the closing date. The potential losses on completion are recognized as soon as they are known. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 191 Consolidated Financial Statements Sale of goods Net sales and net income are recognized over time if the transfer of control of goods is progressive and at a given moment otherwise. For the majority of its contracts, the criteria of IFRS 15 for the recognition of revenue over time are not met, in particular for Rafale sales and sales of Falcon civil aircraft whose alternative use could be demonstrated. Revenue is therefore recognized when the goods are delivered in the majority of cases. Finance leases are recognized as credit sales in application of IAS 17 “Leases”. Sale of services Revenue from performance of services is recognized over time, if the criteria of IFRS 15 are met, as it is the case for maintenance contracts. The percentage-of-completion method used by the Group will be the costto-cost method: whereby revenue is recognized based on costs incurred at a given date divided by total costs expected at completion. Services for which the criteria of IFRS 15 are not met, as it is the case for certain development contracts, are recognized at the end of the service provided. Agent / principal Contracts involving co-contractors for which Dassault Aviation is the sole signatory are analyzed to determine the Company’s status as a principal or agent. If the analysis classifies the Company as an agent, only the proportionate share of net sales due to the agent is recognized. Otherwise, the entirety of net sales and related expenses (including the co-contractors’ parts) is recognized. The impacts of IFRS 15 on the Group’s financial statements are presented in Note A1-2. C15-2 Tax credits for competitiveness and employment and research tax credits The amounts acquired as tax credits for competitiveness and employment by the French companies of the Group are deducted from personnel expenses. Research tax credits are included in operating income in “other revenue” when obtaining them does not depend on the realization of a tax profit. C15-3 Net financial income Net financial income primarily represents: financial income related to cash and cash equivalents and other current financial assets; financial expenses related to loans taken out by the Group and locked-in employee profit-sharing funds; the financing component when there is, for a given contract, a significant difference between the moment when the receipts are received and the moment when the revenue is recognized, dividends from non-consolidated companies recognized when the Group – as shareholder – is entitled to receive payment; financial income from financial lease transactions; losses and gains on derivative instruments that do not meet the conditions required by the standard for hedge accounting. 192 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP  C16 Deferred taxes Deferred taxes linked to temporary differences are calculated per company. In accordance with the requirements of IAS 12 “Income Taxes”, deferred tax assets are only recognized, for each company, insofar as the estimated future profits are sufficient to cover these assets and their maturity does not exceed ten years. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realized or the liability is paid, based on local tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted by year-end. Taxes on items recognized directly through equity are charged or credited to equity. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset per entity for presentation on the balance sheet. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 193 Consolidated Financial Statements Note 2 Scope of consolidation 2.1 Scope as of December 31, 2018 The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of Dassault Aviation and the following entities: % Interest (1) Names Country 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Consolidation method (2) Parent Parent DASSAULT AVIATION (3) France company company DASSAULT FALCON JET United States 100 100 FC DASSAULT FALCON JET WILMINGTON United States 100 100 FC DASSAULT AIRCRAFT SERVICES United States 100 100 FC DASSAULT FALCON JET LEASING United States 100 100 FC AERO PRECISION United States 50 50 EM MIDWAY United States 100 100 FC DASSAULT FALCON JET DO BRAZIL Brazil 100 100 FC DASSAULT FALCON SERVICE France 100 100 FC FALCON TRAINING CENTER France 50 50 EM SOGITEC INDUSTRIES France 100 100 FC DASSAULT INTERNATIONAL INC. United States N/A 100 N/A THALES France 25 25 EM (1) the equity interest percentages are identical to the percentages of control for all Group companies except for Thales, in which the Group held 24,65% of the capital, 24,73% of the interest rights and 28,39% of the voting rights as of December 31, 2018. (2) FC: full consolidation, EM: equity method, N/A: non applicable. (3) identity of the parent company: Dassault Aviation, a Société Anonyme (limited company) with capital of EUR 66,789,624, listed and registered in France, Paris Trade Register No. 712 042 456 9, Rond-Point des Champs-Élysées Marcel Dassault 75008 Paris. 2.2 2018 change in scope Dassault International Inc. was absorbed by Dassault Falcon Jet in the second half of 2018. This change in scope has no impact on the Group’s consolidated financial statements. 194 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP Note 3 Goodwill Goodwill totaled EUR 14,366 thousand as of December 31, 2018 and as of December 31, 2017. As the tests performed in accordance with IAS 36 “Impairment of Assets” did not indicate any impairment loss, no provision for goodwill impairment was recognized. A 10% variation in the discount rate and the long-term growth rate does not affect the absence of goodwill impairment. Pursuant to IFRS, the goodwill for Thales, which is consolidated under the equity method, is included under “Equity associates” (see Note 5). Note 4 Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 4.1 Geographic breakdown (in EUR thousands) 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Net value France 341,131 320,612 United States 176,759 155,385 TOTAL 517,890 475,997 Intangible assets 28,881 30,687 Property, plant and equipment 489,009 445,310 4.2 Intangible assets Acquisitions Disposals (in EUR thousands) 12/31/2017 Other 12/31/2018 Allocations Reversals Gross value Development costs (1) 162,925 0 0 0 162,925 Software, patents, licenses and similar assets 121,048 4,489 -12 710 126,235 Intangible assets in progress; advances and 1,181 3,921 0 -776 4,326 progress payments 285,154 8,410 -12 -66 293,486 Amortization Development costs (1) -146,973 -3,344 0 0 -150,317 Software, patents, licenses and similar assets -107,494 -6,660 12 -146 -114,288 -254,467 -10,004 12 -146 -264,605 Net value Development costs (1) 15,952 12,608 Software, patents, licenses and similar assets 13,554 11,947 Intangible assets in progress; advances and 1,181 4,326 progress payments TOTAL 30,687 -1,594 0 -212 28,881 (1) see paragraph C2-1 of the accounting principles. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 195 Consolidated Financial Statements 4.3 Property, plant and equipment Acquisitions Disposals (in EUR thousands) 12/31/2017 Other (1) 12/31/2018 Allocations Reversals Gross value Land 35,421 3,091 -75 58 38,495 Buildings 519,529 39,530 -2,413 11,965 568,611 Plant, equipment and machinery 597,678 36,480 -13,734 12,072 632,496 Other property, plant and equipment 243,836 23,303 -29,528 8,323 245,934 Construction in progress; advances and 35,052 29,392 -13,234 -15,978 35,232 progress payments 1,431,516 131,796 -58,984 16,440 1,520,768 Depreciation Land -7,998 -780 66 0 -8,712 Buildings -307,824 -22,381 2,365 -3,879 -331,719 Plant, equipment and machinery -481,032 -35,015 12,571 -2,141 -505,617 Other property, plant and equipment -172,075 -14,031 16,519 -2,106 -171,693 -968,929 -72,207 31,521 -8,126 -1,017,741 Impairment (2) Other property, plant and equipment -17,277 -13,681 17,492 -552 -14,018 -17,277 -13,681 17,492 -552 -14,018 Net value Land 27,423 29,783 Buildings 211,705 236,892 Plant, equipment and machinery 116,646 126,879 Other property, plant and equipment 54,484 60,223 Construction in progress; advances and 35,052 35,232 progress payments TOTAL 445,310 45,908 -9,971 7,762 489,009 (1) this essentially represents currency translation adjustments. (2) impairment tests on property, plant and equipment (see paragraph C3 on accounting principles):  The impairment tests performed on cash-generating units did not reveal any impairment to be recognized as of December 31, 2018,  The provision for impairment of capitalized used business aircraft was revised to EUR 14,018 thousand as of December 31, 2018, compared with EUR 17,277 thousand as of December 31, 2017. 196 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP Note 5 Equity associates 5.1 Group share in net assets and net income of equity associates As of December 31, 2018, Dassault Aviation held 24.73% of the interest rights of the Thales Group, compared to 24.77% as of December 31, 2017. Dassault Aviation has significant influence over Thales, especially with regard to the shareholders’ agreement between Dassault Aviation and the public sector. Share in net income of Equity associates equity associates (in EUR thousands) 01/01/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2018 2018 2017 (2) (1) (2) Thales (3) 1,902,173 1,746,662 1,750,427 201,823 139,853 Other 21,920 20,130 20,130 4,026 4,098 TOTAL 1,924,093 1,766,792 1,770,557 205,849 143,951 (1) restated for the impact of the application of IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 (see Note 1.A). (2) restated for the impact of the application of IFRS 15 (see Note 1.A). (3) the value of the securities includes goodwill amounting to EUR 1,101,297 thousand. The Group share in Thales net income after consolidation restatements is detailed in Note 5.3. 5.2 Change in equity associates (in EUR thousands) 2018 (1) 2017 (2) As of January 1 1,766,792 1,668,811 Share in net income of equity associates 205,849 143,951 Elimination of dividends paid (3) -97,738 -90,455 Income and expense recognized directly through equity Securities at fair value 0 -1,913 Derivative financial instruments (4) -26,262 94,199 Actuarial adjustments on pensions 72,434 14,473 Deferred taxes 7,837 -25,965 Currency translation adjustments -782 -29,518 Share of equity associates in other income and expense recognized directly 53,227 51,276 through equity Other movements (5) -4,037 -3,026 At end of period 1,924,093 1,770,557 (1) restated as of January 1, 2018 for the impact of the application of IFRS 9 (see Note 1.A). (2) restated for the impact of the application of IFRS 15 (see Note 1.A). (3) in 2018, the Group received EUR 68,291 thousand in Thales dividends for 2017 and EUR 26,266 thousand in interim dividends for 2018. In 2017, Thales paid the Group EUR 63,038 thousand in dividends for 2016 and EUR 23,639 thousand in interim dividends for 2017. (4) the amounts stated correspond to the change in the market value of the portfolio over the period. They are not representative of the actual gain/loss, which will be recognized when the hedges are exercised. (5) for Thales, this represents in particular the change in treasury shares, employee share issues and share-based payments. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 197 Consolidated Financial Statements 5.3 Thales summary financial statements (100%) and share in net income of equity associates by Dassault Aviation Thales Group operates in the fields of aerospace, transport, defense and security and provides integrated solutions and equipment designed to increase reliability and secure, monitor and control, protect and defend (see http://www.thalesgroup.com). The headquarters of Thales Group is located at Tour Carpe Diem, 31, place des Corolles, 92098 Paris La Défense. (in EUR thousands) 2018 2017 (1) Non-current assets 8,531,900 8,620,300 Current assets (2) 16,973,900 14,829,400 Equity attributable to the owners of the Parent Company 5,699,600 4,921,700 Non-controlling interests 224,900 216,800 Non-current liabilities (3) 4,964,700 3,861,300 Current liabilities (4) 14,616,600 14,449,900 Total balance sheet 25,505,800 23,449,700 Net sales 15,854,700 15,227,500 Net income attributable to the owners of Parent Company (5) 981,800 679,800 Other comprehensive income attributable to the owners of the Parent Company 209,100 212,900 Total comprehensive income attributable to the shareholders of the Parent 1,190,900 892,700 Company (1) restated for the impact of the application of IFRS 15 (see Note 1.A). (2) including cash and cash equivalents: EUR 5,637,500 thousand in 2018 (EUR 4,282,700 thousand in 2017). (3) including non-current financial liabilities: EUR 2,421,600 thousand in 2018 (EUR 956,100 thousand in 2017). (4) including current financial liabilities: EUR 594,900 thousand in 2018 (EUR 887,000 thousand in 2017). (5) including depreciation and amortization: EUR -485,000 thousand in 2018 (EUR -504,100 thousand in 2017) including financial interest on gross debt: EUR -26,500 thousand in 2018 (EUR -16,300 thousand in 2017) including financial income related to cash and cash equivalents: EUR 19,600 thousand in 2018 (EUR 21,300 thousand in 2017) including income tax: EUR -314,200 thousand in 2018 (EUR -236,700 thousand in 2017). The breakdown between the Group share of net income published by Thales and that applied by Dassault Aviation appears in the table below: (in EUR thousands) 2018 2017 (1) Thales net income (100%) 981,800 679,800 Thales net income Dassault Aviation share 242,799 168,386 Post-tax amortization of the purchase price allocation (2) -39,580 -26,384 Other consolidation restatements -1,396 -2,149 Dassault Aviation share in net income of equity associates 201,823 139,853 (1) restated for the impact of the application of IFRS 15 (see Note 1.A). (2) amortization of identified assets for which the modes and periods of amortization are identical to those used for the year ended December 31, 2017. 198 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP 5.4 Impairment Based on the market price of the Thales share at December 31, 2018 (EUR 102 per share), Dassault Aviation’s investment in Thales is valued at EUR 5,358 million. In the absence of any objective indication of impairment, the Thales investment was not subject to an impairment test as of December 31, 2018. Note 6 Other current and non-current financial assets Non-listed equity investments and Embraer shares classified as other non-current financial assets are valued at their fair value, as are other current financial assets, which include cash investments of the Group in the form of listed marketable securities. It should be noted that other marketable securities are classified under “Cash equivalents” (see Note 9). The risk analysis relating to all other non-current and current financial assets of the Group is described in Note 24. Change in (in EUR thousands) 01/01/2018 Acquisitions Disposals Other 12/31/2018 fair value Non-listed securities (1) 117,352 2,761 0 -661 -9 119,443 Embraer shares (1) 33,585 0 0 -1,038 0 32,547 Other financial assets (2) 38,197 14,781 -350 0 0 52,628 Receivables from equity investments 4,000 12,863 0 0 0 16,863 Advance lease payments 33,199 708 -85 0 0 33,822 Housing loans and other 998 1,210 -265 0 0 1,943 Other non-current financial 189,134 17,542 -350 -1,699 -9 204,618 assets Other current financial assets 3,154,913 52,235 0 4,820 0 3,211,968 (3) (1) following the application of IFRS 9, these shares have been measured at fair value against other income and expenses recognized directly through equity, which will not be recycled to P&L. The risk analysis for Embraer shares is described in Note 24. (2) maturing at more than one year: EUR 51,950 thousand. (3) this essentially represents marketable securities. Given their liquidity, the latter could be disposed of in the short-term. In application of IFRS 9, these securities are measured at fair value through profit or loss. The corresponding risk analysis is described in Note 24. An analysis of the performance of listed marketable securities is conducted at each balance sheet date. The investment portfolio does not present, line-by-line, any objective indication of significant impairment as of December 31, 2018 (as it was the case on December 31, 2017). 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 199 Consolidated Financial Statements Historical costs of current and non-current assets and related unrealized gains are presented below: 12/31/2018 01/01/2018 (in EUR thousands) Unrealized Unrealized Historical Historical capital Asset value capital Asset value cost cost gain/loss gain/loss Non-listed securities 92,711 26,732 119,443 89,959 27,393 117,352 Embraer shares 32,120 427 32,547 32,120 1,465 33,585 Other financial assets 52,628 0 52,628 38,197 0 38,197 Other non-current financial 177,459 27,159 204,618 160,276 28,858 189,134 assets Other current financial 2,830,032 381,936 3,211,968 2,777,797 377,116 3,154,913 assets Note 7 Inventories and work-in-progress 12/31/2017 12/31/2018 (in EUR thousands) (1) Gross Impairment Net Net Raw materials 186,424 -88,610 97,814 99,063 Work-in-progress 2,840,675 -17,434 2,823,241 2,637,910 Semi-finished and finished goods 771,311 -289,088 482,223 734,461 Inventories and work-in-progress 3,798,410 -395,132 3,403,278 3,471,434 (1) restated for the impact of the application of IFRS 15 (see Note 1.A). The decline in inventories and work-in-progress resulting from the Falcon activity was partially offset by the increase of work-in-progress related to Rafale Export contracts. On December 31, 2017, the Group has assessed a first impact of the end of the Falcon 5X program on its assets and liabilities. Following the cancellation in 2018 of the last Falcon 5X customers’ orders, the Group carried out a new evaluation of these impacts. As a consequence, the Group has notably reduced the net value of inventories and work-inprogress relating to the F5X program to zero. 200 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP Note 8 Trade and other receivables 8.1 Details 12/31/2017 12/31/2018 (in EUR thousands) (1) Gross Impairment Net Net Trade receivables (2) 606,731 -72,293 534,438 451,895 Corporate income tax receivables 87,271 0 87,271 125,343 Other receivables 340,721 0 340,721 280,613 Prepayments 105,882 0 105,882 12,310 Trade and other receivables 1,140,605 -72,293 1,068,312 870,161 (1) restated for the impact of the application of IFRS 15 (see Note 1.A). (2) see Note 8.3 for receivables relating to finance leases. The percentage of outstanding receivables not written-down at year-end is subject to regular individual monitoring. The exposure of Dassault Aviation to the credit risk is presented in Note 24.2. 8.2 Schedule 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 (1) (in EUR thousands) Within 1 More than Within 1 More than Total Total year 1 year year 1 year Trade receivables (2) 606,731 417,090 189,641 532,788 340,615 192,173 Corporate income tax receivables 87,271 87,271 0 125,343 125,343 0 Other receivables 340,721 245,587 95,134 280,613 247,668 32,945 Prepayments 105,882 27,555 78,327 12,310 12,310 0 Trade and other receivables 1,140,605 777,503 363,102 951,054 725,936 225,118 (1) restated for the impact of the application of IFRS 15 (see Note 1.A). (2) see Note 8.3 for receivables relating to finance leases. 8.3 Receivables relating to finance leases (in EUR thousands) 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Minimum lease receivables 193,181 120,486 Unearned financial income -22,116 -11,427 Provisions for impairment -5,484 -10,067 Net value 165,581 98,992 The amount due within one year of minimum lease receivables is EUR 25,144 thousand as of December 31, 2018. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 201 Consolidated Financial Statements Note 9 Cash and cash equivalents 9.1 Net cash (in EUR thousands) 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Cash equivalents (1) 1,923,547 1,656,383 Cash at bank and in hand 1,066,594 405,036 Cash and cash equivalents in assets 2,990,141 2,061,419 Bank overdrafts 0 0 Net cash in the cash flow statement 2,990,141 2,061,419 (1) primarily time deposits and cash equivalent marketable securities. The corresponding risk analysis is described in Note 24.1. 9.2 Available cash The Group uses a specific indicator, referred to as “Available cash”, which reflects the total liquidities available to the Group, net of any financial debt. It is calculated as follows: (in EUR thousands) 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Other current financial assets (market value) (1) 3,211,968 3,154,913 Cash and cash equivalents (market value) 2,990,141 2,061,419 Subtotal 6,202,109 5,216,332 Borrowings and financial debt (2) -991,376 -1,095,175 Available cash 5,210,733 4,121,157 (1) see Note 6. (2) see Note 11. 202 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP Note 10 Equity 10.1 Share capital The share capital amounts to EUR 66,790 thousand and consists of 8,348,703 common shares of EUR 8 each as of December 31, 2018. As of December 31, 2017, the share capital amounted to EUR 66,495 thousand and consisted of 8,311,921 common shares. In 2018, 36,782 new common shares were created following the option offered to shareholders to receive all or part of the 2017 dividend in shares. The distribution of share capital as of December 31, 2018 is as follows: % Voting Shares % Capital rights GIMD (1) 5,196,076 62.2% 76.8% Float 2,289,624 27.4% 17.1% Airbus 825,828 9.9% 6.1% Dassault Aviation (treasury shares) 37,175 0.5% Total 8,348,703 100% 100% (1) the Parent Company, Groupe Industriel Marcel Dassault (GIMD), located at 9, Rond-Point des Champs-Élysées 75008 Paris, fully consolidates the Group financial statements. The Group regularly distributes dividends. 10.2 Treasury shares Movements on treasury shares are detailed below: (in number of shares) 2018 2017 Treasury shares as of January 1 38,600 39,550 Purchase of shares 0 0 Cancellation of shares 0 0 Share-based payments (see Note 10.3) -1,425 -950 Treasury shares as of December 31 37,175 38,600 The impact of treasury shares on the Group’s consolidated financial statements is detailed in the statement of changes in equity. The 37,175 treasury shares held as of December 31, 2018 (EUR 980 per share) were allocated to potential allocations of performance shares plans and a potential liquidity contract to guarantee market activity. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 203 Consolidated Financial Statements 10.3 Share-based payments The Group grants performance shares to corporate officers. The characteristics of these allocation plans are described in the Directors’ report. Number of Balance of Number of Share price Number of Vesting shares performance Grant date shares on the grant shares period delivered in shares as of allocated date canceled (1) 2018 12/31/2018 03/07/2017 03/07/2017 1,425 1,080 1,425 0 0 to 03/06/2018 03/07/2018 03/07/2018 1,575 1,405 0 0 1,575 to 03/06/2019 (1) shares canceled in the event of partial or total non-achievement of performance conditions. The Group did not grant any stock option plans to its employees and corporate officers. 2017 plan An expense of EUR 842 thousand was recorded in 2018 under this plan, the fair value of which totaled EUR 1,425 thousand (average value of EUR 1,000 per share). 2018 plan An expense of EUR 847 thousand was recorded in 2018 under this plan, the fair value of which totaled EUR 2,068 thousand (average value of EUR 1,313 per share). 204 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP Note 11 Borrowings and financial debt Amount Amount due in more than one year Total as of due Total more Maturing (in EUR thousands) Maturing 12/31/2018 within than one > 1 year and one year > 5 years year < 5 years Bank borrowings (1) 874,565 624,557 250,008 250,008 0 Other financial debt (2) 116,811 31,513 85,298 85,223 75 Borrowings and financial debt 991,376 656,070 335,306 335,231 75 Amount Amount due in more than one year Total as of due (in EUR thousands) Total more Maturing 12/31/2017 within Maturing than one > 1 year and one year > 5 years year < 5 years Bank borrowings (1) 948,823 75,512 873,311 873,311 0 Other financial debt (2) 146,352 39,398 106,954 106,879 75 Borrowings and financial debt 1,095,175 114,910 980,265 980,190 75 (1) initially at a variable rate, loans taken out by the Group were swapped at fixed rate. These loans are denominated in euros and EUR 625 million is repayable in 2019 and EUR 250 million in 2020. There were no bank overdrafts as of December 31, 2018, as was the case on December 31, 2017. (2) as of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, other financial debt mainly includes locked-in employee profit-sharing funds. Employee profit-sharing corresponds to “other long-term benefits”, and should be valued and discounted according to the principles of revised IAS 19. However, in view of the low historical differences between remuneration rate and discount rate, we consider that the evaluation method by cost less repayments constitutes a satisfactory approximation of the profit-sharing liability. The change in borrowings and financial debt between 2017 and 2018 breaks down as follows: Reclassifi(in EUR thousands) 12/31/2017 Cash flow 12/31/2018 cation Long-term borrowings and financial debt 980,265 11,111 -656,070 335,306 Short-term borrowings and financial debt (1) 114,910 -114,910 656,070 656,070 Borrowings and financial debt 1,095,175 -103,799 0 991,376 (1) EUR 75 million in bank borrowings were repaid in 2018. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 205 Consolidated Financial Statements Note 12 Current provisions 12.1 Provisions for contingencies and charges and for impairment 12/31/2017 (in EUR thousands) Allocations Reversals Other (2) 12/31/2018 (1) Provisions for contingencies and charges Operational 1,097,903 549,738 -267,015 -43,224 1,337,402 1,097,903 549,738 -267,015 -43,224 1,337,402 Provisions for impairment Financial assets 154 0 0 0 154 Property, plant and equipment 17,277 13,681 -17,492 552 14,018 On inventories and work-in-progress 596,064 412,222 -617,794 4,640 395,132 Trade receivables 80,893 72,244 -80,910 66 72,293 694,388 498,147 -716,196 5,258 481,597 Provisions for contingencies and 1,792,291 1,047,885 -983,211 -37,966 1,818,999 charges and for impairment (1) restated for the impact of the application of IFRS 15 (see Note 1.A). (2) including foreign exchange differences and actuarial adjustments recognized directly through equity. 12.2 Details of provisions for contingencies and charges 12/31/2017 (in EUR thousands) Allocations Reversals Other 12/31/2018 (1) Warranties (2) 622,011 341,147 -61,044 1,658 903,772 Services (2) 152,888 159,500 -89,068 2,703 226,023 Retirement payments (3) 300,614 45,966 -104,827 -47,738 194,015 French companies 224,506 31,707 -70,569 -21,175 164,469 US companies 76,108 14,259 -34,258 -26,563 29,546 Others (4) 22,390 3,125 -12,076 153 13,592 Provisions for contingencies and 1,097,903 549,738 -267,015 -43,224 1,337,402 charges (1) restated for the impact of the application of IFRS 15 (see Note 1.A). (2) warranty provisions are updated to reflect changes to the fleet in service and contracts delivered. In 2018, this change is mainly related to the military contracts delivered (see accounting principles C11-1). (3) actuarial gains and losses contributed to the decrease in the provision for retirement costs in the amount of EUR -49,818 thousand. They are distributed as follows: French companies -21,175 US companies -28,643 Total actuarial adjustments -49,818 (4) as of December 31, 2018, the other long-term benefits relating to long-service awards amounted to EUR 3,608 thousand, compared to EUR 3,676 thousand at the end of 2017. The workforce adjustment measures (including early retirement) are accrued at the end of 2018 in the amount of EUR 5,317 thousand. They represented EUR 15,908 thousand as of the end of 2017. 206 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP 12.3 Provisions for retirement payments 12.3.1 Calculation methods (defined benefit plans) Retirement payment commitments are calculated for all Group employees using the projected unit credit method. They are provisioned in full for the remaining obligations. Employment projections are weighted using French insurance code mortality rates and the recorded employee turnover rate (this may vary according to age). The obligation is estimated and prorated to the employee’s length of service at the end of the period in relation to their total career expectancy. Note that no Group companies have commitments for medical insurance plans. 12.3.2 Assumptions used France United States 2018 2017 2018 2017 Inflation rate 2.00% 2.00% 2.25% 2.15% Discount rate 1.60% 1.50% 4.55% 3.85% Weighted average salary increase rate 3.80% 3.90% 2.22% 2.25% The discount rates were based on the yield for top-ranking corporate long-term bonds (rated AA) corresponding to the currency and the maturity of the commitments. 12.3.3 Change in commitments and plan assets Changes in commitments and plan assets over the last five years are as follows: (in EUR thousands) 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Commitment 794,245 800,621 800,609 741,037 700,535 Plan assets 600,230 500,007 525,740 446,435 213,908 Unfunded status 194,015 300,614 274,869 294,602 486,627 Changes over the year of commitments break down as follows: 2018 2017 (in EUR thousands) France United States Total France United States Total As of January 1 494,020 306,601 800,621 504,301 296,308 800,609 Current service cost 26,452 11,686 38,138 28,110 11,372 39,482 Past service cost (1) 0 0 0 18,344 0 18,344 Interest expense 7,808 11,878 19,686 5,325 12,580 17,905 Benefits paid -20,569 -10,088 -30,657 -19,788 -9,804 -29,592 Actuarial adjustments -16,623 -30,912 -47,535 -42,272 34,863 -7,409 Foreign exchange differences 0 13,992 13,992 0 -38,718 -38,718 As of December 31 491,088 303,157 794,245 494,020 306,601 800,621 (1) in 2017, the change in the statutory severance pay scale included in the “Labor Market Modernization Act” (“Loi de Modernisation du Marché du Travail”) contributed to the increase in the provision for retirement costs of EUR 18,344 thousand. A 0.50 point decrease in the discount rate would increase the total commitment by EUR 61,442 thousand, while a 0.50 point increase in the discount rate would decrease the total commitment by EUR 54,923 thousand. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 207 Consolidated Financial Statements Changes in investments during the period are as follows: 2018 2017 (in EUR thousands) France United States Total France United States Total As of January 1 269,514 230,493 500,007 261,678 264,062 525,740 Expected return on plan assets 2,553 9,305 11,858 1,178 10,927 12,105 Actuarial adjustments 4,552 -2,269 2,283 6,658 -3,266 3,392 Employer contributions 50,000 34,258 84,258 0 446 446 Benefits paid 0 -10,088 -10,088 0 -9,804 -9,804 Foreign exchange differences 0 11,912 11,912 0 -31,872 -31,872 As of December 31 326,619 273,611 600,230 269,514 230,493 500,007 The costs for defined benefit plans can be analyzed as follows: 2018 2017 (in EUR thousands) France United States Total France United States Total Current service cost 26,452 11,686 38,138 28,110 11,372 39,482 Past service cost 0 0 0 18,344 0 18,344 Interest expense 7,808 11,878 19,686 5,325 12,580 17,905 Expected return on plan assets -2,553 -9,305 -11,858 -1,178 -10,927 -12,105 Cost for defined benefit plans 31,707 14,259 45,966 50,601 13,025 63,626 Plan assets are invested as follows: 2018 2017 France United States France United States Bonds and debt securities 86% 99% 85% 97% Real estate 8% 0% 7% 0% Shares 6% 0% 8% 0% Liquidities 0% 1% 0% 3% Total 100% 100% 100% 100% The fund invests largely in bonds with a minimum guaranteed annual yield. 208 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP Note 13 Operating liabilities 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 (1) (in EUR thousands) Within 1 More than 1 Within 1 More than 1 Total Total year year year year Trade payables 738,873 738,873 0 600,758 600,758 0 Other liabilities 173,015 173,015 0 131,886 131,886 0 Deferred income 2,410 542 1,868 3,110 700 2,410 Trade and other payables 914,298 912,430 1,868 735,754 733,344 2,410 Income tax liabilities 6,257 6,257 0 0 0 0 Other tax and social security liabilities 302,934 302,934 0 237,616 237,616 0 Tax and social security liabilities 309,191 309,191 0 237,616 237,616 0 (1) restated for the impact of the application of IFRS 15 (see Note 1.A). Note 14 Contract assets and liabilities Contract assets Contract liabilities (in EUR thousands) (1) (1) Contract assets / liabilities as of January 1 0 -8,126,973 Customer advances and progress payments 0 -7,968,995 Other contract assets / liabilities 0 -157,978 Change in customer advances and progress payments 16,553 -1,336,132 Change in other contract assets / liabilities 75,798 189,714 Reclassification -75,384 75,384 Contract assets / liabilities as of December 31 16,967 -9,198,007 Customer advances and progress payments -57,433 -9,231,141 Other contract assets / liabilities 74,400 33,134 (1) following the implementation of IFRS 15 (see Note 1.A). The increase in contract liabilities is mainly the result of the progress payments received under the Rafale Export contracts. As Dassault Aviation is principal on the Rafale Egypt, Qatar and India contracts, the advances received include the cocontractors’ parts. The progress payments paid reflect the transfer of these parts to the co-contractors as shown in the table below: (in EUR thousands) 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Customer advances and progress payments -9,288,574 -7,968,995 Advances and progress payments to suppliers 3,282,220 2,525,871 Customer advances and progress payments net of advances and -6,006,354 -5,443,124 progress payments to suppliers 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 209 Consolidated Financial Statements Note 15 Net sales The breakdown of net sales by geographical area is as follows: (in EUR thousands) 2018 2017 (1) France (2) 1,132,841 541,877 Export (3) 3,986,378 4,359,203 Net sales 5,119,219 4,901,080 (1) restated for the impact of the application of IFRS 15 (see Note 1.A). (2) mainly the French state, with whom the Group realized more than 10% of its total net sales in 2018, as in 2017. (3) more than 10% of Group net sales were made with the Egyptian government in 2018, as in 2017. The net sales from Rafale Export contracts are recognized on a gross basis (including the co-contractors parts). By activity, net sales break down as follows: (in EUR thousands) 2018 2017 (1) Falcon 2,634,824 3,025,920 Defense 2,484,395 1,875,160 Net sales 5,119,219 4,901,080 (1) restated for the impact of the application of IFRS 15 (see Note 1.A). By type, net sales break down as follows: (in EUR thousands) 2018 2017 (1) Finished goods 3,797,398 3,954,627 Services 1,321,821 946,453 Net sales 5,119,219 4,901,080 (1) restated for the impact of the application of IFRS 15 (see Note 1.A). By origin, net sales break down as follows: (in EUR thousands) 2018 2017 (1) France 4,037,389 3,796,997 United States 1,081,830 1,104,083 Net sales 5,119,219 4,901,080 (1) restated for the impact of the application of IFRS 15 (see Note 1.A). 210 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP Note 16 Other revenue (in EUR thousands) 2018 2017 Research tax credits 32,443 32,643 Interest on arrears 2,073 370 Capitalized production 0 129 Other operating income 75,978 10,896 Other revenue 110,494 44,038 Note 17 Other operating income and expenses (in EUR thousands) 2018 2017 Gains/losses from disposals of non-current assets -4,444 -709 Foreign exchange gains or losses from business transactions (1) 2,323 -27,402 Other operating expenses -731 -4,608 Other operating income and expenses -2,852 -32,719 (1) particularly foreign exchange gains and losses on trade receivables and payables. Note 18 Research and development costs Non-capitalized research and development costs are recognized as expenses for the year in which they are incurred and represent: (in EUR thousands) 2018 2017 Research and development costs -391,775 -312,539 The Group’s research and development strategy and initiatives are described in the Directors’ Report. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 211 Consolidated Financial Statements Note 19 Net financial income (in EUR thousands) 2018 2017 (1) Income from cash and cash equivalents 3,374 6,948 Change in fair value of other current financial assets 4,820 Cost of gross financial debt (1) -94,701 -79,750 Cost of net financial debt -86,507 -72,802 Dividends and other investment income 305 1,425 Interest income and gains/losses on disposal of other financial assets 8,724 297,330 (excluding cash and cash equivalents) (2) Foreign exchange gain/loss (3) -68,405 293,804 Other 0 -198 Other financial income and expenses -59,376 592,361 Net financial income -145,883 519,559 (1) restated for the impact of the application of IFRS 15 (see Note 1.A). The financial expense recognized for the financing component of long-term Defense contracts was EUR -84,273 thousand in 2018, and EUR -67,846 thousand in 2017. (2) of which gain from sale of marketable securities for EUR 292,385 thousand in 2017. (3) foreign exchange gains or losses for the period include the gains or losses associated with the exercise of foreign exchange hedging instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting under IFRS 9 “Financial instruments” and the change in the market value of foreign exchange hedging instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting (which amounts are not representative of key figures, which will be recognized when the hedges occur). In 2017, it included the restructuring costs of the currency hedging portfolio, necessitated by the decline in commercial flows related to the Falcon activity. 212 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP Note 20 Tax position 20.1 Net effect of taxes on net income (in EUR thousands) 2018 2017 (1) Corporate tax -222,409 -110,945 Deferred tax income/expense 27,716 -140,418 Income tax -194,693 -251,363 (1) restated for the impact of the application of IFRS 15 (see Note 1.A). 20.2 Net effect of taxes on income and expense recognized directly through equity fully consolidated companies (in EUR thousands) 2018 2017 Derivative financial instruments 33,839 -62,108 Other current and non-current financial assets 376 100,987 Actuarial adjustments -10,238 -9,520 Taxes recognized directly in equity 23,977 29,359 20.3 Reconciliation of theoretical and actual tax expenses (in EUR thousands) 2018 2017 (1) Net income 572,802 630,082 Cancellation of the income tax 194,693 251,363 Cancellation of the Group share of net income of equity associates -205,849 -143,951 Income before tax 561,646 737,494 Theoretical tax expenses calculated at the current rate (2) -193,375 -327,669 Effect of tax credits (3) 14,805 19,579 Effect of differences in tax rates (4) -24,922 40,555 Other 8,799 16,172 Taxes recognized -194,693 -251,363 (1) restated for the impact of the application of IFRS 15 (see Note 1.A). (2) a rate of 34.43% applies for 2018, compared to a rate of 44.43% in 2017, for the Parent Company of the Group. (3) the amount of the research tax credit, which is recognized in other revenue, is EUR 32,443 thousand for 2018 and EUR 32,643 thousand for 2017. The tax credit for competitiveness and employment, which is recognized as a deduction from employee costs, represented EUR 8,367 thousand in 2018 and EUR 9,545 thousand in 2017. (4) in 2018, the impact of the decrease in the corporate income tax rate in France is a deferred tax expense of EUR -28,898 thousand. In 2017, the impact on the deferred tax rate of the decrease in the corporate income tax rate in France and in the United States was a deferred tax expense of EUR -24,552 thousand. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 213 Consolidated Financial Statements 20.4 Deferred tax sources Consolidated income Balance sheet statement (in EUR thousands) 12/31/2017 12/31/2018 2018 2017 (1) (1) Temporary differences on provisions (profit-sharing, pension, etc.) 301,429 268,074 42,062 33,174 Other current and non-current financial assets and cash equivalents -2,567 -3,906 -827 -430 Derivative financial instruments -3,921 -48,352 10,592 -160,842 Other temporary differences 83,787 107,475 -24,111 -12,320 Deferred tax income/expense 27,716 -140,418 Net deferred taxes 378,728 323,291 Deferred tax assets 378,728 323,291 Deferred tax liabilities 0 0 (1) restated for the impact of the application of IFRS 15 (see Note 1.A). 20.5 Deferred tax assets not recognized in balance sheet (in EUR thousands) 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Deferred tax assets not recognized 10,948 11,854 These are temporary differences for which reversal is not expected for ten years. 214 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP Note 21 Earnings per share Earnings per share 2018 2017 (1) Net income attributable to the owners of the Parent Company (in EUR thousands) (2) 572,741 630,040 Average number of shares outstanding 8,293,441 8,244,507 Diluted average number of shares outstanding 8,294,229 8,245,220 Earnings per share (in EUR) 69.1 76.4 Diluted earnings per share (in EUR) 69.1 76.4 (1) restated for the impact of the application of IFRS 15 (see Note 1.A). (2) net income is fully attributable to income from continuing operations (no discontinued operations). Earnings per share are calculated by dividing net income attributable to the owners of the Parent Company by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the year, minus treasury shares. Diluted earnings per share correspond to net income attributable to owners of the Parent Company divided by the diluted weighted average number of shares. This corresponds to the weighted average number of common shares outstanding, increased for performance shares granted. Note 22 Dividends paid and proposed Dividends 2018 2017 Decided and paid during the year (in EUR thousands) (1) 126,604 99,367 i.e. per share (EUR) 15.30 12.10 Proposed to the Annual General Meeting for approval, not recognized as a liability as 176,993 127,172 of December 31 (in EUR thousands) i.e. per share (EUR) 21.20 15.30 (1) net of dividends on treasury shares. Note 23 Financial instruments The valuation method on the balance sheet (cost or fair value) of financial instruments (assets or liabilities) is detailed in the tables below. The Group used the following hierarchy for the fair value valuation of the financial assets and liabilities: Level 1: quoted prices on an active market; Level 2: valuation techniques based on observable market data; Level 3: valuation techniques based on non-observable market data. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 215 Consolidated Financial Statements 23.1 Financial instruments (assets) Balance sheet value as of 12/31/2018 Cost or Fair value (in EUR thousands) amortized cost Through net Total (1) Through equity income Non-current assets Other non-current financial assets 52,628 151,990 204,618 Current assets Trade and other receivables 1,068,312 1,068,312 Derivative financial instruments 7,984 32,423 40,407 Other current financial assets 3,211,968 3,211,968 Cash equivalents (2) 1,923,547 1,923,547 Total financial instruments (assets) 1,120,940 5,143,499 184,413 6,448,852 Level 1 (2) 5,135,515 32,547 Level 2 7,984 32,423 Level 3 0 119,443 (1) the carrying amount of the financial instruments (assets) recognized at cost or amortized cost corresponds to a reasonable approximation of the fair value. (2) including time deposits as of December 31, 2018: EUR 1,884,827 thousand. As of January 1, 2018, the data were as follows: Balance sheet value as of 01/01/2018 (1) Cost or Fair value (in EUR thousands) amortized cost Through net Total (2) Through equity income Non-current assets Other non-current financial assets 38,197 150,937 189,134 Current assets Trade and other receivables 870,161 870,161 Derivative financial instruments 33,358 139,460 172,818 Other current financial assets 3,154,913 3,154,913 Cash equivalents (3) 1,656,383 1,656,383 Total financial instruments (assets) 908,358 4,844,654 290,397 6,043,409 Level 1 (3) 4,811,296 33,585 Level 2 33,358 139,460 Level 3 0 117,352 (1) restated for the impact of the application of IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 (see Note 1.A). (2) the carrying amount of the financial instruments (assets) recognized at cost or at amortized cost corresponds to a reasonable approximation of the fair value. (3) including time deposits as of December 31, 2017: EUR 1,487,529 thousand. 216 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP 23.2 Financial instruments (liabilities) Balance sheet value as of 12/31/2018 Cost or Fair value (in EUR thousands) amortized cost Through net Total (1) Through equity income Non-current liabilities Bank borrowings 250,008 250,008 Other financial debt (2) 85,298 85,298 Current liabilities Bank borrowings 624,557 624,557 Other financial debt (2) 31,513 31,513 Trade and other payables 914,298 914,298 Derivative financial instruments 18,218 7,907 26,125 Total financial instruments (liabilities) 1,905,674 18,218 7,907 1,931,799 Level 1 0 0 Level 2 18,218 7,907 Level 3 0 0 (1) the carrying amount of the financial instruments (liabilities) recognized at cost or at amortized cost corresponds to a reasonable approximation of the fair value. (2) primarily locked-in employee profit-sharing funds. As of December 31, 2017, the data were as follows: Balance sheet value as of 12/31/2017 (1) Cost or Fair value (in EUR thousands) amortized cost Through net Total (2) Through equity income Non-current liabilities Bank borrowings 873,311 873,311 Other financial debt (3) 106,954 106,954 Current liabilities Bank borrowings 75,512 75,512 Other financial debt (3) 39,398 39,398 Trade and other payables 735,754 735,754 Derivative financial instruments 5,634 6,433 12,067 Total financial instruments (liabilities) 1,830,929 5,634 6,433 1,842,996 Level 1 0 0 Level 2 5,634 6,433 Level 3 0 0 (1) restated for the impact of the application of IFRS 15 (see Note 1.A). (2) the carrying amount of the financial instruments (liabilities) recognized at cost or at amortized cost corresponds to a reasonable approximation of the fair value. (3) primarily locked-in employee profit-sharing funds. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 217 Consolidated Financial Statements Note 24 Financial risk management 24.1 Cash and liquidity risks 24.1.1 Financial debt The Group has no significant risk in relation to its financial debt. The contracts for these loans include the usual default clauses and restrictions in terms of security conditions and merger or sale transactions. One of the loan clauses stipulates an early repayment would be demanded if GIMD were to hold less than 50% of the capital of Dassault Aviation before the loan maturity date. These loans do not contain any accelerated repayment or prepayment clauses based on rating or financial ratios. The features of these loans are described in Note 11. 24.1.2 Cash, cash equivalents and other current financial assets The Group investment portfolio is primarily composed of money market investments with no significant risk of impairment. 12/31/2018 (in EUR thousands) Unrealized Historical cost Asset value As % capital gain Cash at bank, money market investments and time 4,862,784 2,024 4,864,808 79% deposits Investments in bonds (1) 340,941 38,396 379,337 6% Unspecified investments (1) 614,332 343,632 957,964 15% Total 5,818,057 384,052 6,202,109 100% (1) investments in bonds subscribed by the Group are investments with a short-term management horizon and unspecified investments as defined by the AMF classification are invested in short-term bond and money market funds. In addition, most of them are backed by guarantees, which limits the risk of loss of value. The Group can therefore meet its commitments without any liquidity risk due to its cash resources and its portfolio of marketable securities. The Group is not faced with restrictions with regard to the availability of its cash and its portfolio of marketable securities. Fair values classification: 12/31/2018 (in EUR thousands) Through net Through equity Total income Cash at bank, money market investments and time deposits 4,864,808 0 4,864,808 Investments in bonds 379,337 0 379,337 Unspecified investments 957,964 0 957,964 Total 6,202,109 0 6,202,109 218 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP 24.2 Credit and counterparty risks 24.2.1 Credit risk on bank counterparties The Group allocates its investments and performs its cash and foreign exchange transactions with recognized financial institutions. The Group has no investments or accounts with financial institutions presenting a significant risk of default. 24.2.2 Customer default risk The Group limits counterparty risk by performing most of its sales in cash and ensuring that the loans are secured by export insurance guarantees (Bpifrance Assurance Export) or collateral. The share of receivables not covered by these procedures is subject to regular individual monitoring and, if necessary, a provision for impairment. Given the arrangements in risk mitigation that are in place, and the provisions made in its accounts, the Group’s residual exposure to the risk of default by a customer in a country subject to uncertainties is limited. The amount of export insurance guarantees and collateral obtained and not exercised at year-end appear in the table of off-balance sheet commitments (see Note 25). The manufacturing risk is also guaranteed with Bpifrance Assurance Export for major military export contracts. 24.3 Other market risks 24.3.1 Market risks The Group covers risks from exchange rates, interest rates and changes in the price of raw materials using derivative financial instruments whose book value is presented below: 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 (in EUR thousands) Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Exchange rate derivatives 40,407 22,043 172,782 4,705 Interest rate derivatives 0 4,082 0 7,362 Commodity derivatives 0 0 36 0 Derivative financial instruments 40,407 26,125 172,818 12,067 Net derivative financial instruments 14,282 160,751 Exchange rate derivatives The Group is exposed to a foreign exchange risk through the Parent Company in relation to its Falcon sales, which are virtually all denominated in US dollars. This risk is partially hedged by using forward currency contracts and foreign exchange options. The Group partially hedges its cash flows that are considered highly probable. It ensures that the initial future cash flows will be sufficient to use the foreign exchange hedges in place. The hedged amount may be adjusted as a function of changes over time in expected net cash flows. The derivative financial instruments used by the Group (foreign exchange hedging instruments) along with their recognition under hedge accounting principle as defined by IFRS 9 “Financial instruments” are defined in paragraph C14 of the accounting principles. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 219 Consolidated Financial Statements The foreign exchange derivatives subscribed by the Group are not all eligible for hedge accounting under IFRS 9 “Financial instruments”. The breakdown is presented in the table below: Market value Market value (in EUR thousands) as of as of 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Instruments which qualify for hedge accounting 27,990 139,460 Instruments which do not qualify for hedge accounting -9,626 28,617 Foreign exchange derivatives 18,364 168,077 The counterparty risk for foreign exchange derivatives (CVA/DVA) is based on the current exposure method and on the historical default probabilities per rating class communicated by the rating agencies. As of December 31, 2018, this counterparty risk is insignificant. The breakdown of the fair value of the financial instrument derivatives per maturity rate is as follows: Less than More than one (in EUR thousands) Total one year year Foreign exchange derivatives -8,012 26,376 18,364 Interest rate derivatives The Group is exposed to the volatility of interest rates through loans taken out at a variable rate (see Note 11). The loans were swapped at a fixed rate to limit this risk. Commodity derivatives The Group marginally uses derivatives to hedge its exposure to changes in kerosene prices. The Group no longer has any commodity derivatives in its portfolio as of December 31, 2018. 24.3.2 Impacts of derivatives on the Group’s financial statements The impact on net income and equity of the changes in fair value in hedging instruments over the period is as follows: Impact on Impact on (in EUR thousands) 12/31/2017 net financial 12/31/2018 equity (1) income (2) Exchange rate derivatives 168,077 -111,470 -38,243 18,364 Interest rate derivatives -7,362 2,959 321 -4,082 Commodity derivatives 36 0 -36 0 Net derivative financial instruments 160,751 -108,511 -37,958 14,282 (1) recognized directly under income and expenses recognized directly through equity, share of fully consolidated companies. (2) change in fair value of foreign exchange hedging instruments which do not qualify for hedge accounting under the terms of IFRS 9 “Financial instruments”. 220 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP 24.3.3 Sensitivity test for foreign exchange derivatives A sensitivity analysis was conducted to determine the impact of 10 cent increase or decrease in US dollar/Euro exchange rate. Market Value of the Portfolio 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 (in EUR thousands) Net balance sheet position 18,364 168,077 Closing US dollar/ euro exchange rate 1.1450 $/€ 1.1993 $/€ Closing dollar/ euro exchange rate +/10 cents 1.2450 $/€ 1.0450 $/€ 1.2993 $/€ 1.0993 $/€ Change in net balance sheet position (1) +157,947 -190,721 +208,996 -247,822 Impact on net income +35,209 -44,496 +98,185 -116,850 Impact on equity +122,738 -146,225 +110,811 -130,972 (1) data calculated based on existing market conditions on the balance sheet dates. They are not representative of the actual gain/loss to be recognized when the transactions are made. 24.3.4 Risks related to Embraer shares On December 31, 2018, the Embraer shares were valued at EUR 32,547 thousand (see Note 6). The Group is exposed to a currency risk on its stake in Embraer, which is listed in reals on the Brazilian market, and a price risk related to the fluctuation in the share price. A 10% upward or downward variation in the exchange rate and/or share price would have no significant impact on the Group’s equity and results. Note 25 Off-balance sheet commitments The off-balance sheet commitments of the Group relate essentially to its operational activities and can be analyzed as follows: (in EUR thousands) 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Commitments given under commercial contracts 12,142,096 11,587,348 Guarantees and deposits 46,458 55,366 Commitments given secured by bank guarantees 1,688,860 1,526,242 Commitments given 13,877,414 13,168,956 12/31/2017 (in EUR thousands) 12/31/2018 (1) Transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations 19,375,871 19,460,188 Other commitments received under commercial contracts 1,633,129 1,633,129 Collateral 71,029 80,508 Bpifrance Assurance Export guarantees 62,854 66,043 Commitments received secured by bank guarantees 11,684 8,720 Commitments received 21,154,567 21,248,588 (1) restated for the impact of the application of IFRS 15 (see Note 1.A). 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 221 Consolidated Financial Statements The breakdown of the backlog by maturity is as follows: Less Between one More than (in percentage) Total than one year and four years four years Transaction price allocated to the remaining 35% 58% 7% 100% performance obligations Lease commitments as of December 31, 2018 are as follows: Within one More than one Operating leases TOTAL year year Minimum future payments not subject to cancellation 222,192 49,165 173,027 (not discounted) The Group’s main operating leases concern real estate leases. Note 26 Contingent assets and liabilities At the end of 2017, Dassault Aviation initiated negotiations with Safran Aircraft Engines to obtain compensation for its damages as part of the termination process of the Silvercrest contract leading to the end of the Falcon 5X program. In 2018, Dassault Aviation signed an amicable agreement with Safran that settled their dispute over the Silvercrest engine that was expected to equip the Falcon 5X. Under the terms of this agreement, Dassault Aviation received an indemnity of USD 280 million from Safran. The corresponding income was recognized as a non-current operating income in the Group financial statements as of December 31, 2018. There are no more contingent assets or liabilities as of December 31, 2018. 222 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP Note 27 Related party transactions The Group’s related parties are: Groupe Industriel Marcel Dassault and its subsidiaries, Thales Group and its subsidiaries, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and the Chief Operating Officer of Dassault Aviation, the directors of Dassault Aviation. Terms and conditions of related-party transactions Sales and purchases are made at market prices. Balances outstanding at year-end are not guaranteed and payments are made in cash. No guarantees were provided or received for related-party receivables. For 2018, the Group did not recognize any provisions for bad debts relating to amounts receivable from related parties. The need for provisions is assessed each year by examining the financial position of the related parties and the market in which they operate. 27.1 Details of transactions (in EUR thousands) 2018 2017 Sales 5,662 57,954 Purchases 465,564 411,819 Trade receivables 3,501 1,762 Customer advances and progress payments 1,834 3,921 Trade payables 40,508 69,911 Advances and progress payments to suppliers 1,938,151 1,538,824 Advance lease payments 31,879 31,359 27.2 Compensation of corporate officers and benefits in kind The compensation and benefits in kind paid by the Dassault Aviation Group to the corporate officers can be analyzed as follows: (in EUR thousands) 2018 2017 Fixed compensation 2,865 2,791 Directors’ fees 580 593 Benefits in kind 17 17 Performance shares 1,425 894 Other 4 9 Compensation of corporate officers and benefits in kind 4,891 4,304 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 223 Consolidated Financial Statements Note 28 Average number of employees 2018 2017 Managers 5,744 5,713 Supervisors and technicians 2,275 2,325 Employees 1,025 1,054 Workers 2,351 2,466 Average number of employees 11,395 11,558 Note 29 Environmental information The Dassault Aviation Group recognized environmental capital expenditures amounting to EUR 2,480 thousand and posted approximately EUR 1,110 thousand in expenses related to risk, impact and regulatory compliance analyses in 2018. The Group did not have to recognize any environmental liabilities. Note 30 Auditors’ fees The statutory auditors’ fees recognized as expenses for 2018 and 2017 are as follows: DELOITTE & ASSOCIES MAZARS (in EUR thousands) 2018 2017 2018 2017 Certification of accounts (1) 311 283 634 557 Other audit services (2) 50 41 26 53 Auditor’s fees 361 324 660 610 (1) these fees primarily include the review and certification of the Group’s consolidated financial statements, certification of the financial statements of the parent company Dassault Aviation and its subsidiaries and compliance with local regulations. (2) these fees are mainly for services relative to non-financial performance declaration, drafting of specific certifications, technical consultations and services rendered for possible disposals or acquisitions of entities. In addition, the fees from fully consolidated subsidiaries paid to statutory auditors other than Deloitte & Associés and Mazars must be added to the above amounts: EUR 52 thousand in 2018 as in 2017, paid to Gerec. Note 31 Subsequent events No events likely to have a material impact on the financial statements occurred between December 31, 2018 and the date the financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors. 224 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP Statutory auditors' report on the consolidated financial statements Year ended December 31, 2018 ________ To the Annual General Meeting of Dassault Aviation Company, Opinion In compliance with the engagement entrusted to us by your annual general meeting we have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Dassault Aviation Company for the year ended December 31, 2018. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities and of the financial position of the Group as at December 31, 2018 and of the results of its operations for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union. The audit opinion expressed above is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee. Basis for Opinion Audit Framework We conducted our audit in accordance with professional standards applicable in France. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Statutory Auditors' Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements section of our report. Independence We conducted our audit engagement in compliance with independence rules applicable to us, for the period from January 1, 2018 to the date of our report and specifically we did not provide any prohibited non-audit services referred to in Article 5 paragraph 1 of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 or in the French Code of Ethics (Code de déontologie) for statutory auditors. Observation Without qualifying the opinion expressed above, we draw your attention to Note “A1-2 Change in 2018 in the accounting standard applicable to Dassault Aviation” of the notes to the consolidated financial statements which sets out changes in accounting methods relating to the application, as from January 1, 2018 of IFRS 15 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” and IFRS 9 “Financial instruments”. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 225 Consolidated Financial Statements Justification of Assessments Key Audit Matters In accordance with the requirements of Articles L. 823-9 and R. 823-7 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) relating to the justification of our assessments, we inform you of the key audit matters relating to risks of material misstatement which, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period, as well as how we addressed those risks. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on specific items of the consolidated financial statements. 226 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP Risk identified Our response Adoption of IFRS 15 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (Notes A1-2, C15 items 14, 15 and 25 to the Our work consisted of: consolidated financial statements)  revenue recognition to assess compliance of the new principles with IFRS 15 and methods of IFRS 15, which is mandatory as from January 1, revenue recognition described in notes A1-2 2018, replaces IAS 11 “Construction Contracts” and and C15 to the financial statements. IAS 18 “Revenue”, and is applied by the Group using  based on a selection of the most significant the full retrospective method. contracts in terms of revenue, assessing the relevance of the analyses carried out by the This new standard modifies and clarifies the criteria Group and carry out a critical review on: for recognizing revenue, either gradually or at a o the identification of performance obligations; given time, with the introduction of 3 specific o the evaluation of the materiality or otherwise criteria, the last of which concerns the determination of the financing components by assessing of an alternative use to the property sold and the their impact on the economics of the irrevocable right to payment including a reasonable contracts and also by corroborating the margin. The standard also introduces new financial payment schedule with the contractual data reporting requirements. and rates used in the calculations; The Group has carried out a detailed analysis of its o the allocation of the transaction price by contract portfolio in order to determine the revenue examining the contracts; recognition method to be adopted under this new o the rate of revenue recognition based in framework and to assess its impact on its financial particular on (i) technical analyses statements. documenting the notion of alternative use, (ii) contractual clauses and analyses prepared The impact of the retrospective application of the by the Group to document the notion of standard on the Group's shareholders' equity was €reasonable margin in the event of 102 million at January 1, 2017 and €-183 million at termination for customer convenience; January 1, 2018.  reconciling the basic data used to determine the impacts of IFRS 15 on the financial statements The adoption of IFRS 15 is a key point of the audit with accounting and contractual data; since the analysis of contracts required a significant  validating the accounting consequences of the amount of judgment in: analyses carried out both on shareholders'  the identification of performance obligations; equity and on other aggregates of the balance  the assessment of whether or not the financing sheet and income statement as at January 1, component is significant for determining the 2017 and for 2017 on the order book as at transaction price; December 31, 2017 by reconciling the data  the allocation of the transaction price to each of used to determine the impacts with accounting the performance obligations; and and contractual data.  the determination of the revenue recognition rate (progressively or at a given time). We also assessed the appropriateness of the information given in Notes A1-2, C15, items 14, 15 and 25 of the consolidated financial statements. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 227 Consolidated Financial Statements Risk identified Our response Defense contract monitoring (Notes C11-1, C15, items 12.2, 14 and 15 of the On the basis of discussions with the relevant consolidated financial statements.) Operational Departments, we took note of the procedures to identify the costs and valuation of For Defense contracts, Dassault Aviation operates margins at completion. We also tested the through contracts for which net sales and the margin functioning of internal key controls that we is now recognized in accordance with IFRS 15. considered relevant to our audit. As part of our audit, our work consisted of: IFRS 15 provides for criteria for determining, for each performance obligation (sale of aircraft or  testing controls for net sales and cost forecasts services), whether the transfer of control to the with respect to contracts; customer is progressive (revenue by percentage of  conducting interviews with program monitoring completion) or at a given time. managers and carry out tests on sampled documents for a selection of the contracts that contributed most to the results of the period, in Earnings from contracts, and any provisions for loss order to: on completion at the closing date, depend on the o confirm the performance of the contract entity's ability: when the revenue is recognized at a given  to measure the costs incurred on a contract, time; and o test the costs and thus corroborate their  to reliably estimate the costs yet to be incurred degree of progress as revenue is gradually until the end of the contract. recognized; The Group’s Management believes that the program  reconciling the accounting data with their monitoring process conducted by experienced operational analytical monitoring for these employees in Program Departments and the Finance contracts; and Department through management control is  verifying the correct analytical allocation of sufficiently robust to make reliable estimates of costs. earnings of contracts at completion given the items known at the end of the year. For a selection of contracts, for which there was a significant change in margin of the estimated margin For the 2018 financial year, Defense net sales level compared with previous estimates, we sought recognized by the Group increased to €2,484 million. to explain the origin of the changes observed in order to corroborate these with technical and The monitoring of Defense contracts is a key point of operational justifications for the basis of our the audit due to: experience and interviews with the relevant  the level of estimates required to determine management; earnings upon the completion of contracts,  and their amount. We also assessed the appropriateness of the information given in Notes C11-1, C15, items 12.2, 14 and 15 of the consolidated financial statements. 228 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP Risk identified Our response Valuation of warranty provisions (Note C11-1 and item 12.2 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements) Dassault Aviation provides “regular” warranties for On the basis of discussions with the relevant its aircraft deliveries against hardware or software Operational Departments, we took note of the defects and is required to remedy any regulatory procedures to identify the risks to be guaranteed and non-compliance identified after the delivery of the the procedures put in place to determine the costs necessary equipment. These warranties therefore and other data used as a basis for the valuation of constitute a commitment for the Company. The costs provisions for guarantees. We also tested the of this commitment must be provisioned upon functioning of internal key controls that we delivery of the airplane. considered relevant to our audit. The estimated amount of the provisions is based on In addition, our work consisted of: the data and expenses recorded by airplane model  assessing the adequacy of the funding and type of transactions taken as collateral and on methodology used by the Group’s management estimated costs, in particular cost estimates for and the judgments exercised by it, specialists, handling of malfunctions and regulatory  assessing, through discussions with the relevant non-compliance. Given the fleet in service and the Operational Departments, the reasonableness variety of costs potentially incurred, provisions for of the assumptions used to determine warranties are determined by complex models that provisions for guarantees, require judgments by several Operational  randomly testing the observed data and costs Departments. used for the valuation of the provisions and the calculations made. Management’s valuation of these commitments caused Dassault Aviation to recognize provisions for We also assessed the appropriateness of the warranties of €904 million as at December 31, 2018. information given in Note C11-1 and item 12.2 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. The valuation of these provisions is a key point of the audit due to:  the level of judgment required for their determination,  the complex nature of their valuation,  their amount,  and, consequently, the potentially significant impact on earnings and consolidated equity if their estimates vary. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 229 Consolidated Financial Statements Specific Verifications As required by law, we have also verified in accordance with professional standards applicable in France the information pertaining to the Group presented in the management report of the Board of Directors. We have no matters to report as to its fair presentation and its consistency with the consolidated financial statements. We attest that the consolidated non-financial performance declaration required by Article L.225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) is included in the Group management report, being specified that, in accordance with the provisions of Article L.823-10 of the Code, we have not verified the fair presentation and the consistency with the consolidated financial statements of the information contained therein and should be reported on by an independent insurance services provider. Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements Appointment of the Statutory Auditors We were appointed as statutory auditors of Dassault Aviation Company by the General Meeting held on April 25, 2002 for cabinet Deloitte & Associés and held on June 19, 1990 for cabinet Mazars. As at December 31, 2018, audit firm Deloitte & Associés and audit firm Mazars were in the 17 th year and 29th year of total uninterrupted engagement respectively. Responsibilities of Management and those charged with governance for the consolidated financial statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless it is expected to liquidate the Company or to cease operations. The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the financial reporting process and the effectiveness of internal control and risks management systems and where applicable, its internal audit, regarding the accounting and financial reporting procedures. The consolidated financial statements were closed by the Board of Directors. 230 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP Statutory Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements Objectives and audit approach Our role is to issue a report on the consolidated financial statements. Our objective is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with professional standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements. As specified in Article L. 823-10-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), our statutory audit does not include assurance on the viability of the Company or the quality of management of the affairs of the Company. As part of an audit conducted in accordance with professional standards applicable in France, the statutory auditor exercises professional judgment throughout the audit and furthermore:  Identifies and assesses the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, designs and performs audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtains audit evidence considered to be sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for his opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.  Obtains an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the internal control.  Evaluates the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management in the consolidated financial statements.  Assesses the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. This assessment is based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of his audit report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern. If the statutory auditor concludes that a material uncertainty exists, there is a requirement to draw attention in the audit report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are not provided or inadequate, to modify the opinion expressed therein.  Evaluates the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements and assesses whether these statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.  Obtains sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. The statutory auditor is responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audit of the 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 231 Consolidated Financial Statements consolidated financial statements and for the opinion expressed on these consolidated financial statements. Report to the Audit Committee We submit a report to the Audit Committee which includes, in particular, a description of the scope of the audit and the audit program implemented, as well as the results of our audit. We also report, if any, significant deficiencies in internal control regarding the accounting and financial reporting procedures that we have identified. Our report to the Audit Committee includes the risks of material misstatement that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and which are therefore the key audit matters, that we are required to describe in this report. We also provide the Audit Committee with the declaration provided for in Article 6 of Regulation (EU) N°537/2014, confirming our independence within the meaning of the rules applicable in France such as they are set in particular by Articles L.822-10 to L.822-14 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) and in the French Code of Ethics (Code de déontologie) for statutory auditors. When appropriate, we discuss with the Audit Committee the risks that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and the related safeguards. Paris-La Défense and Courbevoie, March 7, 2019 The Statutory Auditors Deloitte & Associés Mazars Jean-François Viat Mathieu Mougard This is a free translation into English of the statutory auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements issued in the French language and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking users. The statutory auditors’ report includes information specifically required by French law in such reports, whether modified or not. This information is presented below the opinion on the consolidated financial statements and includes explanatory paragraphs discussing the auditors’ assessments of certain significant accounting and auditing matters. These assessments were made for the purpose of issuing an audit opinion on the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole and not to provide separate assurance on individual account captions or on information taken outside of the consolidated financial statements. This report also includes information relating to the specific verification of information given in the management report. This report should be read in conjunction with, and is construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. 232 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 233 Company Financial Statements ASSETS 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 (in EUR thousands) Notes Depreciation, Gross amortization Net Net and provisions Intangible assets 2 119,209 -103,926 15,283 14,913 Property, plant and equipment 2 1,132,737 -786,045 346,692 294,370 Financial assets 3 2,282,903 -3,578 2,279,325 2,259,353 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 3,534,849 -893,549 2,641,300 2,568,636 Inventories and work-in-progress 4 3,663,770 -296,216 3,367,554 3,263,074 Advances and progress payments to 3,421,666 0 3,421,666 2,670,370 suppliers Trade receivables 6 744,796 -57,122 687,674 435,484 Other receivables and prepayments 6 611,049 0 611,049 503,731 Marketable securities and cash instruments 9 2,870,659 -150 2,870,509 2,958,670 Cash at bank and in hand 2,126,277 0 2,126,277 1,188,629 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 13,438,217 -353,488 13,084,729 11,019,958 TOTAL ASSETS 16,973,066 -1,247,037 15,726,029 13,588,594 234 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION – PARENT COMPANY EQUITY AND LIABILITIES (in EUR thousands) Notes 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Capital 10, 13 66,790 66,495 Share premiums 13 137,186 76,249 Reserves 12 2,206,360 2,023,463 Net income for the year 442,438 309,500 Investment subsidies 2,410 3,110 Regulated provisions 14 118,521 118,270 TOTAL EQUITY 13 2,973,705 2,597,087 PROVISIONS FOR CONTINGENCIES AND CHARGES 14 1,223,800 940,321 Borrowings and financial debt (1) 15 988,785 1,093,046 Customer advances and progress payments on orders 9,179,471 7,841,142 Trade payables 16 758,997 627,517 Other liabilities, cash instruments, accruals and deferred income 17 601,271 489,481 TOTAL LIABILITIES 11,528,524 10,051,186 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 15,726,029 13,588,594 (1) including bank overdrafts: 0 0 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 235 Company Financial Statements INCOME STATEMENT (in EUR thousands) Notes 2018 2017 NET SALES 20 4,398,911 4,184,368 Change in work-in-progress 136,476 38,797 Reversals of provisions, depreciation and amortization, charges 774,127 607,306 transferred Other income 105,051 49,913 OPERATING INCOME 5,414,565 4,880,384 Purchases consumed -2,852,156 -2,605,931 Personnel expenses (1) -758,718 -726,312 Other operating expenses -435,693 -363,745 Taxes and social security contributions -59,693 -58,183 Depreciation and amortization 2 -57,776 -53,760 Allocations to provisions 14 -852,465 -697,750 OPERATING EXPENSES -5,016,501 -4,505,681 NET OPERATING INCOME 398,064 374,703 NET FINANCIAL INCOME 22 92,689 231,006 CURRENT INCOME 490,753 605,709 Non-recurring items 23 240,523 -133,278 Employee profit-sharing and incentive schemes -130,835 -94,019 Income tax 24 -158,003 -68,912 NET INCOME 442,438 309,500 (1) incl. tax credit for competitiveness and employment (CICE) (see Note7): 7,695 8,737 purchasing power bonus: 3,879 0 236 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION – PARENT COMPANY CASH FLOW STATEMENT (in EUR thousands) Notes 2018 2017 I NET CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES NET INCOME 442,438 309,500 Elimination of gains and losses from disposals of non-current assets 23 -21 -161 Net allocations to and reversals of depreciation, amortization and provisions (excluding 2, 3, 14 336,708 46,887 those related to working capital requirement) Net cash from operating activities before working capital changes 779,125 356,226 Change in inventories and work-in-progress (net) 4 -104,480 183,543 Change in advances and progress payments to suppliers -751,296 -764,722 Change in trade receivables (net) 6 -252,190 -47,159 Change in other receivables, cash instruments and accrued income 6 -98,450 -29,805 Change in customer advances and progress payments 1,338,329 1,507,862 Change in trade payables 131,480 48,930 Change in other payables and deferred income 17 111,790 73,938 Increase (-) or decrease (+) in working capital requirement 375,183 972,587 Total I 1,154,308 1,328,813 II NET CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Purchases of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 2 -118,697 -104,718 Increase in financial assets 3 -21,242 -74,783 Change in investment subsidies -700 -616 Disposals of or reductions in non-current assets 2, 3, 23 14,469 33,646 Total II -126,170 -146,471 III NET CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Change in capital 13 295 489 Increase in other equity items 13 60,937 76,249 Increase in financial debt 15 69,020 58,897 Repayment of financial debt 15 -173,281 -149,410 Dividends paid during the year 33 -126,604 -99,367 Total III -169,633 -113,142 CHANGE IN NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (I + II +III) 858,505 1,069,200 Opening net cash (1) 4,134,236 3,065,036 Closing net cash (1) 4,992,741 4,134,236 (1) Cash comprise the following balance sheet items: [cash at bank and in hand] + [gross marketable securities] – [bank overdrafts] 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 237 Company Financial Statements NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GENERAL 15 Borrowings and financial debt 1 Accounting rules and methods 16 Maturity of borrowings BALANCE SHEET 17 Other liabilities, cash instruments, accruals 2 Intangible assets and property, and deferred income plant and equipment 2.1 Intangible assets 18 Accrued expenses 2.2 Property, plant and equipment 19 Notes on affiliated companies and equity associates 3 Financial assets INCOME STATEMENT 4 Inventories and work-in-progress 5 Interest on assets 20 Net sales 6 Trade and other receivables 21 Research and development costs 6.1 Details 22 Net financial income 6.2 Age debtor schedule 23 Non-recurring items 7 Accrued income ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 8 Prepaid expenses and deferred income 24 Analysis of corporate income tax 9 Difference in measurement of 25 Off-balance sheet commitments marketable securities 10 Share capital and treasury shares 26 Contingent assets and liabilities 10.1 Share capital 10.2 Treasury shares 27 Financial instruments: dollar foreign 10.3 Share-based payments exchange transaction portfolio 11 Identity of the consolidating 28 Impact of tax valuations by derogation Parent Company 29 Increases and reductions in deferred tax 12 Reserves 12.1 Reserves 30 Compensation of corporate officers 12.2 Revaluation reserves 31 Average number of employees 13 Statement of changes in equity during the year 32 Environmental information 14 Provisions 33 Five-year results summary 14.1 Provisions 14.2 Details of provisions for contingencies and charges 238 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION – PARENT COMPANY DASSAULT AVIATION 9, ROND-POINT DES CHAMPS-ÉLYSÉES MARCEL DASSAULT75008 PARIS A French Société Anonyme (Corp.) capitalized at EUR 66,789,624, publicly traded and registered in France Paris Trade Register number 712 042 456 Note 1 Accounting rules and methods A/ GENERAL PRINCIPLES The financial statements of the Parent Company as of December 31, 2018 were closed by the Board of Directors on February 27, 2019, and will be submitted for approval to the Annual General Meeting on May 16, 2019. The company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with ANC Regulation 2017-03 approved by the Decree of November 3, 2017, and subsequent notices and recommendations of the French Accounting Standards Authority (ANC). The methods used to present the financial statements are comparable year-on-year. The general accounting conventions have been applied, in compliance with the principle of prudence, and in line with the following basic assumptions: going concern of operations, permanence of the accounting methods from one year to the next, independence of fiscal years, and in line with the general rules for the establishment and presentation of annual financial statements. The individual financial statements have been prepared on the basis of historical cost. The preparation of the company’s financial statements leads management to make estimations and assumptions that could have an impact on the amounts reported in the balance sheet and in the income statement. These estimations concern notably: the results of contracts in progress, the calculation of the amount of provisions for contingencies and charges and provisions for impairment. These estimations are calculated by taking into account past experience, elements known at the closing date and any reasonable change assumptions. Results realized subsequently may therefore differ from such estimations. B/ VALUATION PRINCIPLES  B1 Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are recognized at acquisition or production cost, less accumulated depreciation or amortization and impairment. Interest expense is not capitalized. Each identified component of an intangible asset or item of property, plant and equipment is recognized and depreciated or amortized separately. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 239 Company Financial Statements Depreciation and amortization are calculated using the straight-line method. No residual value is taken into account, except for aircraft. Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are depreciated and amortized over their estimated useful lives. Useful lives are reviewed at each year-end for material non-current assets. Initial useful lives are extended or reduced depending on the conditions in which the assets is used. Initial useful lives are determined as follows: Software 3-4 years Industrial buildings 20-25 years Office buildings 20-25 years Fixtures and fittings 7-15 years Plant, equipment and tools 3-10 years Aircraft 10-15 years Rolling stock 4 years Other property, plant and equipment 3-10 years Used goods on a case-by-case basis  B2 Impairment of assets The Company conducts an impairment test if an indication of loss of value has been detected. Indications of impairment come from significant long-term adverse changes that affect the economic environment or the assumptions or objectives used by the Company. Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are impaired by the Company when the net carrying amount exceeds their current value. The amount of impairment recognized in income is equal to the difference between the net carrying amount and current value. The current value of an asset is the higher of its market value (less selling costs) and its value in use. The value in use of an asset is calculated using the discounted future cash flow method, with a post-tax discount rate of 7.2% (compared to 7.5% as of December 31, 2017) and a 2% long-term growth rate (same as of December 31, 2017). The discount rate used includes the rates prevailing in the aviation industry and was calculated using the same method as in 2017. Post-tax cash flows are projected over a period not exceeding 5 years and the method takes into account a terminal value. These future cash flows result from the economic assumptions and projected operating conditions adopted by the Management. Concerning the equity investment in Thales, when an impairment test is carried out, the operational and financial assumptions used come directly from data provided by Thales.  B3 Equity investments, other non-current and marketable securities Gross values are represented by the purchase cost excluding incidental charges, except in the case of those subject to the 1976 legal revaluation. A provision for depreciation is recorded when the book value is lower than the gross value. The book value is the higher of its market value and its value in use. Dassault Aviation evaluates the inventory value for listed investment securities based on the quotation for the reporting month and for unlisted securities, in the absence of any external valuation elements, according to the share in net assets.  B4 Inventories and work-in-progress Incoming raw materials, semi-finished and finished goods inventories are measured at acquisition cost for items purchased and production cost for items produced. Outgoing inventories are valued at the weighted average cost, except for used aircraft which are stated at acquisition cost. Work-in-progress is measured at production cost and does not include interest expense. 240 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION – PARENT COMPANY Inventories and work-in-progress are impaired when their net realizable value is less than their carrying amount. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less the estimated costs for completion and making the sale. It takes into account the technical or commercial obsolescence of articles and the risks associated with their low turnover.  B5 Receivables Receivables are stated at nominal value. A provision for impairment is recorded when the recoverable value is lower than the carrying amount.  B6 Borrowings Borrowings are recorded at the amount received. Transaction costs are posted to expenses for the year.  B7 Regulated tax provisions Regulated tax provisions appearing on the balance sheet include provisions for price increases and depreciation by derogation.  B8 Provisions for contingencies and charges B8-1 Warranty provisions Within the framework of sales or procurement contracts, Dassault Aviation has formal warranty obligations for the equipment, products and/or services (software development, systems integration, etc.) delivered. These obligations can be distinguished between: “current” warranty: repair of defective equipment during the contractual warranty period or by implicit obligations, handling hardware or software malfunctions identified by the user following qualification and handover to users, etc. “regulatory” warranty: treatment by the manufacturer of any changes to the regulatory framework determined by the regulatory authorities or any regulatory non-compliance identified by the manufacturer or a user after delivery of materials or products. Determining the amount of the warranty provisions is mainly done as follows: for the current equipment warranty: based on experience with recorded costs, depending on the warranty items covered contractually and the aircraft models in question; for handling of malfunctions or regulatory changes and nonconformities: based on estimates established by specialists from the business lines affected by the corrective actions to be implemented; these corrections have been identified in “technical files.” B8-2 Retirement payments and related benefits Commitments to employees for retirement payments and related benefits are provisioned in full for the obligations remaining. The commitments are estimated for all employees on the basis of vested rights and a projection of current salaries, after taking into account the mortality risk, employee turnover, and a discounting assumption. The rates have been determined based on the yield for top-ranking corporate long-term bonds, with maturity equivalent to the duration of the calculated liabilities. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 241 Company Financial Statements Actuarial gains or losses, or those gains or losses that are analyzed as such, are fully recognized in operating income in the period during which they are incurred. The provision that appears in the balance sheet is the amount of the total commitment net of outsourced amounts.  B9 Hedging instruments The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to risks from fluctuations in exchange rates, interest rates and, more marginally, from fluctuations in commodity prices. Exchange rates risks mainly arise from US dollar-denominated sales. The corresponding future cash flows are partially hedged using forward exchange contracts and currency options. Interest rate risks result from variable rate borrowings contracted by the Group. Interest rate risks are hedged using interest rate swaps. The effects of the hedge, including the carrying forward / backwardation, are recorded at the rhythm of the hedged item and follow the same classification as the hedged item, i.e. the operating profit. Premiums paid or received on the purchase or potential sale of options are recognized as income only at the expiration of these options, with the exception of the premiums relating to “zero premium” hedging strategies, which are immediately recognized as income to avoid temporary timing differences. Hedging instruments are off-balance sheet commitments with the exception of those that hedge balance sheet positions that are accounted for in cash instruments.  B10 Foreign currency transactions Expenses and income in foreign currencies are recognized at their equivalent value in euros on the date of the payment or settlement transaction, with the exception of the net flows associated with global foreign exchange hedging, which are recorded at the hedge rate for the year. Currency receivables and payables outstanding at year-end are revalued into euros at the closing rate of exchange. When the application of the translation rate on the closing date has the effect of modifying the amounts in euros previously recognized, the currency translation differences are booked to suspense accounts: unrealized translation losses to assets, unrealized translation gains to liabilities. An overall foreign exchange position is calculated by maturity of unhedged receivables and debts. When an overall foreign exchange position by maturity is a latent loss, a provision is set up for that risk. Translation gains and losses arising on cash at bank and in hand as of December 31 are recognized on the income statement.  B11 Net sales and key figures The results on completion are based on estimations of net sales and costs at completion (taking into account the Program Departments ’ forecasts) which are revised as the contract progresses and take into account the latest known events at the closing date. The potential losses on completion are recognized as soon as they are known. 242 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION – PARENT COMPANY Sales of goods and development contracts: Net sales and net income are recognized when Dassault Aviation has transferred the main risks and benefits of ownership to the buyer, and it is probable that the future economic benefits will benefit the company. As a general rule, net sales are recognized upon delivery of goods or development services. The corresponding costs are valued on the basis of net income at completion estimated in the contract. If the estimated costs are lower than the actual costs, the difference is classified as work-in-progress. If the estimated costs are higher than the actual costs, a provision for services and work still to be performed is recognized at closing. Other service contracts: Income from sales of services is recognized under the percentage of completion method according to the millestones set forth in contracts. Income or loss is recognized at each stage of completion if it can be reliably measured. Contracts involving co-contractors for which Dassault Aviation is the only signatory are recognized for the entire amount of net sales and related expenses (including the co-contractors’ share).  B12 Unrealized capital gains on marketable securities Unrealized capital gains on marketable securities are not recognized in the income statement until effectively realized. The tax charge relating to unrealized gains is recorded under prepayments until the gain is recognized in financial income. This method, which constitutes a departure from the general principle of full recognition of deferred taxes, has been adopted to provide a fairer presentation of the results of the Company.  B13 Treasury shares The book value of treasury shares at year-end is determined by the average market price in the month before closing. If the market price is lower than the purchase value, an impairment is recorded, with the exception of securities being canceled or shares held for allotment under a defined plan. C/ TAX CONSOLIDATION The Company opted for the tax consolidation scheme in 1999, pursuant to Articles 223-A and following of the French General Tax Code. As of January 1, 2012, the tax consolidation scope of the Group includes Dassault Aviation, Dassault Aéro Service and Dassault Aviation Participations. This tax consolidation arrangement is tacitly renewable per period of five fiscal years. By agreement, it does not have an impact on the results of consolidated companies: tax liabilities are borne by the tax group companies as if no tax consolidation existed. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 243 Company Financial Statements Note 2 Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 2.1 Intangible assets Acquisitions Disposals (in EUR thousands) 12/31/2017 Other 12/31/2018 Allocations Reversals Gross value Software, patents, licenses and similar assets 110,531 3,588 -12 776 114,883 Construction in progress; advances and 1,181 3,921 0 -776 4,326 progress payments 111,712 7,509 -12 0 119,209 Amortization Software, patents, licenses and similar assets -96,799 -7,139 12 0 -103,926 -96,799 -7,139 12 0 -103,926 Net value Software, patents, licenses and similar assets 13,732 10,957 Construction in progress; advances and progress payments 1,181 4,326 Total 14,913 370 0 0 15,283 244 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION – PARENT COMPANY 2.2 Property, plant and equipment Acquisitions Disposals (in EUR thousands) 12/31/2017 Other 12/31/2018 Allocations Reversals Gross value Land 35,140 3,091 -75 58 38,214 Buildings 298,361 4,362 -1,351 2,431 303,803 Plant, equipment and machinery 506,114 32,700 -10,665 7,215 535,364 Other property, plant and equipment 185,571 46,248 -6,943 2,417 227,293 Construction in progress; advances and 24,944 24,787 -9,547 -12,121 28,063 progress payments 1,050,130 111,188 -28,581 0 1,132,737 Amortization Land -7,998 -780 66 0 -8,712 Buildings -206,457 -11,691 1,304 0 -216,844 Plant, equipment and machinery -423,346 -26,440 10,481 0 -439,305 Other property, plant and equipment -110,583 -11,726 6,360 0 -115,949 -748,384 -50,637 18,211 0 -780,810 Impairment (1) Other property, plant and equipment -7,376 -5,235 7,376 0 -5,235 -7,376 -5,235 7,376 0 -5,235 Net value Land 27,142 29,502 Buildings 91,904 86,959 Plant, equipment and machinery 82,768 96,059 Other property, plant and equipment 67,612 106,109 Construction in progress; advances and 24,944 28,063 progress payments Total 294,370 55,316 -2,994 0 346,692 (1) impairment tests on property, plant and equipment (see Paragraph B2 of the Accounting rules and methods):  A provision of EUR 5,235 thousand was recognized in 2018 on capitalized aircraft.  The impairment tests carried out on property, plant and equipment did not indicate any other impairment to be recognized as of December 31, 2018. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 245 Company Financial Statements Note 3 Financial assets Acquisitions Disposals (in EUR thousands) 12/31/2017 Other 12/31/2018 Allocations Reversals Equity associates (1) 2,191,238 6,488 -3,726 0 2,194,000 Receivables from equity investments 4,000 12,863 0 0 16,863 Other investment securities 37,387 0 0 0 37,387 Loans 1,152 1,210 -266 0 2,096 Other financial assets 31,962 681 -86 0 32,557 Total 2,265,739 21,242 -4,078 0 2,282,903 Provisions -6,386 -3,424 6,232 0 -3,578 Net value 2,259,353 17,818 2,154 0 2,279,325 (1) inc. Thales: EUR 1,984,272 thousand. Market price of Thales shares and impairment test: Based on the market price of the Thales share as of December 31, 2018 (EUR 102.00 per share), Dassault Aviation’s stake in Thales is valued at EUR 5,358 million. In the absence of any objective indication of impairment, the Thales investment had not been subject to an impairment test as of December 31, 2018. The absorption of Dassault International Inc. by Dassault Falcon Jet during the second half of 2018 led to an exchange of Dassault International Inc. investment securities by Dassault Falcon Jet with no impact on the result. Maturity of financial assets More than (in EUR thousands) Total Within 1 year 1 year Receivables from equity investments 16,863 33 16,830 Loans 2,096 180 1,916 Other financial assets 32,557 0 32,557 Total 51,516 213 51,303 246 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION – PARENT COMPANY Note 3 Financial assets (continued) A. List of subsidiaries and associates with a gross value exceeding 1% of the company’s share capital and in which the Company holds at least 10% of the shares Amount Book value of securities of Net Dividends Loans deposits income received Companies or groups Share of and Net sales of and (+)/loss by the Equity other the advances the most of companies Capital guaran(-) of the Company than capital capital granted recent fiscal (in EUR thousands) held (%) Gross Net by the tees year most during provided recent the fiscal Company by the fiscal year year Company 1. Subsidiaries (more than 50% owned) a. French subsidiaries Dassault Falcon Service 3,680 100,392 99.99 59,453 59,453 0 0 172,483 5,519 0 Dassault International 1,529 25,388 99.63 19,236 19,236 0 0 586 5,311 0 Dassault Réassurance 10,459 8,761 99.99 10,133 10,133 0 0 1,055 26 0 Dassault Aviation Participations 4,037 -54 100.00 4,037 4,037 0 0 0 -4 0 Sogitec Industries 4,578 216,359 99.80 25,446 25,446 0 0 196,549 34,533 0 Total 118,305 118,305 0 0 0 b. Foreign subsidiaries Dassault Falcon Jet 9,919 793,911 100.00 40,459 40,459 0 46,458 1,256,621 27,001 0 Dassault Falcon Business Services 1,487 874 100.00 2,294 2,294 0 0 2,332 224 0 (China) Total 42,753 42,753 0 46,458 0 Total Subsidiaries 161,058 161,058 0 46,458 0 2. Equity associates (between 10 and 50% owned) a. French associates Corse Composites Aéronautiques (1) 1,707 9,652 24.81 996 996 0 0 67,494 1,444 0 Eurotradia International (1) 3,000 24,263 16.53 3,099 3,099 0 0 29,860 -4,960 0 Thales (2) 639,300 6,330,100 24.65 1,984,272 1,984,272 0 0 228,600 453,400 94,557 Total 1,988,367 1,988,367 0 0 94,557 b. Foreign associates (1) Dassault Reliance Aerospace Limited 1,725 -498 49.00 3,717 3,717 16,863 0 78 -492 0 Reliance Airport Developers Limited 895 7,984 34.79 39,962 39,962 0 0 7 -13 0 Total 43,679 43,679 16,863 0 0 Total associates 2,032,046 2,032,046 16,863 0 94,557 (1) information available: Corse Composites Aéronautiques and Eurotradia International 12/31/2017 Dassault Reliance Aerospace Limited and Reliance Airport Developers Limited 03/31/2018. (2) Parent company financial statements. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 247 Company Financial Statements Note 3 Financial assets (continued) B. Other subsidiaries and associates Book value of securities Amount of Dividends Loans and Global information deposits and received by advances guarantees the Company (in EUR thousands) Gross Net granted by provided by during the the Company the Company fiscal year 1. Subsidiaries a. French subsidiaries 570 570 0 0 0 b. Foreign subsidiaries 0 0 0 0 0 Total 570 570 0 0 0 2. Associates a. French associates 5,540 2,545 0 0 0 b. Foreign associates 32,172 31,743 790 0 306 Total 37,712 34,288 790 0 306 C. General information on securities (A+B) Book value of securities Amount of Dividends Loans and Global information deposits and received by advances guarantees the Company (in EUR thousands) Gross Net granted by provided by during the the Company the Company fiscal year 1. Subsidiaries a. French subsidiaries 118,875 118,875 0 0 0 b. Foreign subsidiaries 42,753 42,753 0 46,458 0 Total 161,628 161,628 0 46,458 0 2. Associates a. French associates 1,993,907 1,990,912 0 0 94,557 b. Foreign associates 75,851 75,422 17,653 0 306 Total 2,069,758 2,066,334 17,653 0 94,863 Grand total 2,231,386 2,227,962 17,653 46,458 94,863 248 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION – PARENT COMPANY Note 4 Inventories and work-in-progress 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 (in EUR thousands) Gross Impairment Net Net Raw materials 182,032 -86,591 95,441 97,025 Work-in-progress 2,878,344 0 2,878,344 2,613,868 Semi-finished and finished goods 603,394 -209,625 393,769 552,181 Total 3,663,770 -296,216 3,367,554 3,263,074 On December 31, 2017, the Company has assessed a first impact of the end of the Falcon 5X program on its assets and liabilities. Following the cancellation in 2018 of the last Falcon 5X customers’ orders, the Company carried out a new evaluation of these impacts. As a consequence, the Company has notably reduced the net value of inventories and work-inprogress relating to the F5X program to zero. Note 5 Interest on assets No interest is included in the value of inventories and work-in-progress. Note 6 Trade and other receivables 6.1 Details 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 (in EUR thousands) Gross Impairment Net Net Trade receivables Trade receivables 744,796 -57,122 687,674 435,484 744,796 -57,122 687,674 435,484 Other receivables and prepayments Other receivables 346,704 0 346,704 330,809 Prepayments 246,409 0 246,409 149,499 Sundry accounts 17,936 0 17,936 23,423 611,049 0 611,049 503,731 Total 1,355,845 -57,122 1,298,723 939,215 The percentage of outstanding receivables not written-down at year-end is regularly monitored individually. 6.2 Age debtor schedule 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 (in EUR thousands) Within More than Within More than Total Total 1 year 1 year 1 year 1 year Trade receivables (1) 744,796 616,112 128,684 500,848 395,910 104,938 Other receivables 346,704 277,704 69,000 330,809 330,623 186 Prepayments 246,409 168,082 78,327 149,499 149,499 0 Sundry accounts 17,936 17,936 0 23,423 23,423 0 Total 1,355,845 1,079,834 276,011 1,004,579 899,455 105,124 (1) including receivables represented by commercial paper: EUR 66,162 thousand as of December 31, 2018 and EUR 69,519 thousand as of December 31, 2017. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 249 Company Financial Statements Note 7 Accrued income Accrued income included in the following balance sheet items 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 (in EUR thousands) Trade receivables 452,110 230,512 Other receivables and prepayments (1) 76,702 18,132 Marketable securities 201 5 Cash at bank and in hand 952 527 Total 529,965 249,176 (1) including tax credit for competitiveness and employment (CICE): EUR 7,695 thousand in 2018 and EUR 8,737 thousand in 2017. On the income statement, it is recorded as a deduction from personnel expenses. In 2018, it was used to improve production tools through the acquisition and replacement of equipment, particularly in relation to the implementation of projects to maintain operating conditions, improve working conditions, improve productivity and reduce costs. Note 8 Prepaid expenses and deferred income (in EUR thousands) 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Operating income 157,327 137,541 Operating expenses (1) 246,409 149,499 (1) income tax on unrealized capital gains 142,756 140,966 Note 9 Difference in measurement of marketable securities Marketable securities and cash instruments 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 (in EUR thousands) Marketable securities and cash instruments gross balance sheet value 2,834,227 2,920,842 Marketable securities and cash instruments market value 3,216,163 3,297,958 250 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION – PARENT COMPANY Note 10 Share capital and treasury shares 10.1 Share capital The share capital amounts to EUR 66,790 thousand and consists of 8,348,703 common shares of EUR 8 each as of December 31, 2018. As of December 31, 2017, share capital amounted to EUR 66,495 thousand and consisted of 8,311,921 shares. In 2018, 36,782 new common shares were created following the option offered to shareholders to receive all or part of the 2017 dividend in shares. 10.2 Treasury shares Movements on treasury shares are detailed below: (in number of shares) 2018 2017 Treasury shares as of January 1 38,600 39,550 Purchase of treasury shares 0 0 Cancellation of shares 0 0 Share-based payments -1,425 -950 Treasury shares as of December 31 37,175 38,600 The 37,175 treasury shares held as of December 31, 2018 are allocated to potential allocations of performance shares and to a potential liquidity contract to guarantee market activity. 10.3 Share-based payments Performance shares were granted to corporate officers at the Board of Directors meetings of March 7, 2017 and March 7, 2018 (characteristics are described in paragraph 5.5 of the Director’s Report). A total of 1,425 performance shares were acquired by corporate officers on March 07, 2018, as the performance conditions set by the Board of Directors on March 07, 2017 were achieved. Shares granted and not yet vested are subject to performance conditions. Balance of Number of shares Number of shares Number of shares performance Grant date Vesting period allocated delivered in 2018 canceled (1) shares as of 12/31/2018 From 03/07/2017 03/07/2017 1,425 1,425 0 0 to 03/06/2018 From 03/07/2018 03/07/2018 1,575 0 0 1,575 to 03/06/2019 (1) shares canceled in the event of partial or total non-achievement of performance conditions. Note 11 Identity of the consolidating Parent Company % of control GROUPE INDUSTRIEL MARCEL DASSAULT (GIMD) 9, Rond-Point des Champs-Élysées Marcel Dassault 62.52% 75008 PARIS 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 251 Company Financial Statements Note 12 Reserves 12.1 Reserves (in EUR thousands) 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Revaluation difference 4,136 4,136 Legal reserve 6,650 6,601 Retained earnings 2,195,574 2,012,726 Total 2,206,360 2,023,463 12.2 Revaluation reserves Change in revaluation reserves (in EUR thousands) 2018 movements 12/31/2017 Decreases due 12/31/2018 Other changes to disposals Land 3,615 0 0 3,615 Equity investments 521 0 0 521 Total 4,136 0 0 4,136 Revaluation reserve (1976) 4,136 0 0 4,136 Note 13 Statement of changes in equity during the year 1/ Income for the year 2018 2017 Accounting income In EUR thousands 442,438 309,500 In EUR per share 52.99 37.24 Change in equity excluding net income for the year In EUR thousands 60,783 76,061 In EUR per share 7.28 9.15 Dividends In EUR thousands 176,993 (1) 127,172 (2) In EUR per share 21.20 (1) 15.30 (2) (1) proposed by the Board of Directors to the Shareholders’ Meeting. (2) dividends of EUR 126,604 thousand were paid for the year ended December 31, 2017, net of dividends on treasury shares. 252 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION – PARENT COMPANY 2/ Statement of changes in equity excluding net income for the year (in EUR thousands) Before After appropriation appropriation of 2017 result of 2017 result 12/31/2018 12/31/2018 A1. 2017 closing equity excluding net income for the year 2,287,587 2,287,587 2. 2017 net income before appropriation 309,500 3. Appropriation of 2017 net income to net equity by the 182,897 Shareholders’ Meeting 4. 2018 equity at opening 2,597,087 2,470,484 B Additional paid-in capital, effective retroactively to beginning 0 of 2018 1. Change in capital 0 2. Change in other items 0 C (= A4 + B) Equity at 2018 opening 2,470,484 D Changes during the year excluding 2018 net income 60,783 1. Change in capital (1) 295 2. Change in additional paid-in capital, reserves, retained earnings (1) 60,937 3. Revaluation offsetting entries – Reserve 4. Change in tax provisions and investment subsidies -449 5. Other changes 0 E 2018 closing equity excluding 2018 net income before AGM 2,531,267 (= C + D) F Total change in equity in 2018 excluding 2018 net income 60,783 (= E C) (1) the General Meeting of May 24, 2018 proposed an option for payment in shares for the 2017 dividend to each shareholder. As a result, on June 27, 2018, the Company’s capital was increased to EUR 66,790 thousand and a share premium of EUR 60,937 thousand was recorded in the financial statements. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 253 Company Financial Statements Note 14 Provisions 14.1 Provisions (in EUR thousands) 12/31/2017 Allocations Reversals Other 12/31/2018 Regulated provisions For price increases 65,834 9,293 (3) -11,434 (3) 0 63,693 Depreciation by derogation 52,418 14,206 (3) -11,814 (3) 0 54,810 Realized gains reinvested 18 0 (3) 0 (3) 0 18 118,270 23,499 -23,248 0 118,521 Provisions for contingencies and charges Operating 940,321 493,892 (1) -210,413 (1) 0 1,223,800 Financial 0 0 (2) 0 (2) 0 0 Non-recurring 0 0 (3) 0 (3) 0 0 940,321 493,892 -210,413 0 1,223,800 Provisions for impairment On intangible assets 0 0 (1) 0 (1) 0 0 On property, plant and equipment 7,376 5,235 (1) -7,376 (1) 0 5,235 On financial assets 6,386 3,424 (2) -6,232 (2) 0 3,578 On inventories and work-in-progress 490,186 296,216 (1) -490,186 (1) 0 296,216 Trade receivables 65,364 57,122 (1) -65,364 (1) 0 57,122 On marketable securities 0 150 (2) 0 (2) 0 150 569,312 362,147 -569,158 0 362,301 Total 1,627,903 879,538 -802,819 0 1,704,622 { Operating 852,465 (1) -773,339 (1) Allocations and reversals { Financial 3,574 (2) -6,232 (2) { Non-recurring 23,499 (3) -23,248 (3) 879,538 -802,819 254 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION – PARENT COMPANY 14.2 Details of provisions for contingencies and charges (in EUR thousands) 12/31/2017 Allocations Reversals Other 12/31/2018 Operating Retirement payments and related 211,409 25,596 -85,360 0 151,645 benefits (1) Early retirement (2) 15,908 0 -10,591 0 5,317 Warranty (3) 594,000 324,600 -47,300 0 871,300 Services and work to be performed (3) 114,456 139,611 -62,614 0 191,453 Foreign exchange losses 4,548 4,085 -4,548 0 4,085 940,321 493,892 -210,413 0 1,223,800 Financial Other 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Non-recurring Other 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total provisions for contingencies 940,321 493,892 -210,413 0 1,223,800 and charges (1) provisions for retirement payments and related benefits: Retirement payment commitments are calculated for all employees using the projected unit credit method. They are provisioned in full for the remaining obligations. Employment projections are weighted using French insurance code mortality rates and the recorded employee turnover rate (this may vary according to age). The obligations is estimated and prorated to the employee’s length of service at the end of the period in relation to his total career expectancy (see Accounting principles B8-2). The calculation takes into account the following annual assumptions: salary increase of 3.93% and discount rate of 1.6%. The Company decided to outsource a portion of its commitments by purchasing an insurance policy for EUR 300,000 thousand, of which EUR 50,000 thousand in 2018. As of December 31, 2018, the balance of the provision for long-service awards was EUR 3,248 thousand. (2) provision for early retirement: The provision corresponds to the expenditures expected for the funding of the period of inactivity of the relevant employees until the age of retirement. (3) provisions for warranties, services and work to be performed: Provisions are updated to reflect changes to the fleet in service and contracts delivered. For 2018, this change is mainly related to the military contracts delivered. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 255 Company Financial Statements Note 15 Borrowings and financial debt (in EUR thousands) 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Bank borrowings (1) 875,421 950,529 Other financial debt (2) 113,364 142,517 Total 988,785 1,093,046 (1) initially variable rate, loans subscribed by the company were swapped at a fixed rate. The contracts for these loans include the usual default clauses and restrictions in terms of security conditions and merger or sale transactions. One of the loan clauses stipulates an early repayment would be demanded if GIMD were to hold less than 50% of the capital of Dassault Aviation before the loan maturity date. These loans do not contain any accelerated repayment or prepayment clauses based on rating or financial ratios. These loans are denominated in euros, and EUR 625 million is repayable in 2019 and EUR 250 million in 2020. (2) as of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, other financial debt mainly includes locked-in employee profit-sharing funds. There are no participating loans. Note 16 Maturity of borrowings Between More than (in EUR thousands) Total Within 1 year 1 and 5 years 5 years Bank borrowings (1) 875,421 625,413 250,008 0 Other financial debt (1) 113,364 31,160 82,129 75 Trade payables (2) 758,997 758,997 0 0 Tax and social security liabilities 252,743 252,743 0 0 Liabilities on fixed assets and related accounts 5,448 5,448 0 0 Other liabilities 160,675 160,675 0 0 Total 2,166,648 1,834,436 332,137 75 (1) see Note 15. (2) including liabilities represented by commercial paper: EUR 77,484 thousand. Note 17 Other liabilities, cash instruments, accruals and deferred income (in EUR thousands) 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Tax and social security liabilities 252,743 200,498 Liabilities on fixed assets and related accounts 5,448 5,440 Accruals and deferred income 160,675 115,224 Translation gains to liabilities 157,327 137,541 Accruals and deferred income 15,622 20,703 Cash instruments 9,456 10,075 Total 601,271 489,481 256 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION – PARENT COMPANY Note 18 Accrued expenses Accrued expenses included in the following balance sheet items 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 (in EUR thousands) Borrowings and financial debt (1) 1,116 1,319 Trade payables 570,945 521,910 Other payables and deferred income 279,444 218,007 Total 851,505 741,236 (1) including accrued interest on loans from credit institutions: EUR 405 thousand as of December 31, 2018 and EUR 499 thousand as of December 31, 2017. Note 19 Notes on affiliated companies and equity associates Amount relating to (in EUR thousands) affiliated Companies with a companies shareholding link Equity investments 161,889 2,032,111 Receivables from equity investments 0 16,863 Loans and other financial assets 31,879 0 Advances and progress payments to suppliers 149,955 1,932,505 Trade receivables 165,835 4,086 Other receivables 790 0 Customer advances and progress payments on orders 155,954 107 Trade payables 206,899 20,095 Note 20 Net sales (in EUR thousands) 2018 2017 A) By product: Finished goods 3,163,609 3,225,924 Services 1,235,302 958,444 Total 4,398,911 4,184,368 B) By geographic region: France 1,075,301 568,918 Export (1) 3,323,610 3,615,450 Total 4,398,911 4,184,368 (1) the net sales realized as part of Rafale Export contracts are recognized on a gross basis (including the co-contractors parts). 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 257 Company Financial Statements Note 21 Research and development costs Research and development costs are recognized in expenses as incurred and represent: (in EUR thousands) 2018 2017 Research and development costs -371,771 -281,679 The Company’s research and development strategy and initiatives are described in the Director’s Report. Note 22 Net financial income (in EUR thousands) 2018 2017 Investment income (1) 94,666 86,774 Income from other securities and assets 329 1,351 Other interest and similar income 12,726 1,137 Reversals of provisions for foreign exchange losses 0 11,886 Reversals of provisions for equity investments 6,232 4,313 Net gains on sale of marketable securities 0 292,385 Financial income 113,953 397,846 Allocation to provisions for equity investments -3,424 -6,232 Allocations to provisions for marketable securities -150 0 Interest and similar expenses -9,679 -11,118 Foreign exchange losses (2) 0 -149,490 Net losses on sales of marketable securities -8,011 0 Financial expenses -21,264 -166,840 Net financial income 92,689 231,006 (1) in 2018, the Company received EUR 68,291 thousand in Thales dividends for 2017 and EUR 26,266 thousand in interim dividends for 2018. In 2017, Thales paid the Company EUR 63,038 thousand in dividends for 2016 and EUR 23,639 thousand in interim dividends for 2017. (2) in 2017, foreign exchange losses for the period include the restructuring costs of the currency hedging portfolio, necessitated by the decline in commercial flows related to the Falcon activity. 258 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION – PARENT COMPANY Note 23 Non-recurring items (in EUR thousands) 2018 2017 Gains on sales of assets Property, plant and equipment 844 487 Financial assets 3,726 28,965 4,570 29,452 Other non-recurring income (1) 241,050 63 Reversals of regulated provisions For price increases 11,434 6,564 For medium-term credit risks 0 211 Depreciation by derogation 11,814 12,358 Realized gains reinvested 0 0 23,248 19,133 Non-recurring income 268,868 48,648 Non-recurring expenses on operating activities 0 -12 Carrying value of assets sold Intangible assets 0 0 Property, plant and equipment -822 -326 Financial assets -3,727 -28,965 -4,549 -29,291 Other non-recurring expenses -296 -133,551 Allocations to regulated provisions For price increases -9,293 -7,718 Depreciation by derogation -14,207 -11,354 -23,500 -19,072 Other non-recurring provisions 0 0 Non-recurring expenses -28,345 -181,926 Non-recurring items 240,523 -133,278 (1) see Note 26. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 259 Company Financial Statements Note 24 Analysis of corporate income tax Income Corporate Long-term (in EUR thousands) Income after tax before tax income tax capital gains tax Current income 490,753 -107,518 0 383,235 Non-recurring items (including profit-sharing and 109,688 -50,485 0 59,203 incentive schemes) Net income 600,441 -158,003 0 442,438 -158,003 (1) (1) including Research Tax Credit: EUR 31,198 thousand. Note 25 Off-balance sheet commitments The Company’s off-balance sheet commitments essentially concern its operating activities and break down as follows: Commitments given (in EUR thousands) 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Commitments in connection with the performance of operating contracts 12,142,096 11,552,953 Guarantees and deposits 46,458 55,366 Commitments guaranteed with bank deposits 1,688,860 1,526,242 Total 13,877,414 13,134,561 Commitments received (in EUR thousands) 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Backlog 18,425,600 18,505,400 Other commitments in connection with the performance of operating agreements 1,633,129 1,633,129 Collateral 71,029 80,508 Bpifrance Assurance Export guarantees 62,854 66,043 Commitments guaranteed with bank deposits 11,684 8,720 Total 20,204,296 20,293,800 Operating leases (in EUR thousands) Total Within 1 year More than 1 year Minimum future payments not subject to cancellation 113,598 40,436 73,162 (not discounted) The Company’s main operating leases concern industrial office buildings. Note 26 Contingent assets and liabilities At the end of 2017, Dassault Aviation initiated negotiations with Safran Aircraft Engines to obtain compensation for its damages as part of the termination process of the Silvercrest contract leading to the end of the Falcon 5X program. In 2018, Dassault Aviation signed an amicable agreement with Safran that settled their dispute over the Silvercrest engine that was expected to equip the Falcon 5X. Under the terms of this agreement, Dassault Aviation received an indemnity of USD 280 million from Safran. The corresponding income was recognized in other non-recurring income as of December 31, 2018. There are no more contingent assets or liabilities as of December 31, 2018. 260 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION – PARENT COMPANY Note 27 Financial instruments: dollar foreign exchange transaction portfolio Dassault Aviation is exposed to a foreign exchange risk on its Falcon sales that are almost all denominated in US dollars. This risk is partially hedged by using forward currency contracts and foreign exchange options. The financial instruments held by Dassault Aviation are valued below at market value. Market value represents the amounts received or paid in the event of total liquidation of the portfolio; the equivalent in euros is calculated on the basis of the price of the dollar at year-end. This is not representative of the actual gain/loss which will be recognized when the transactions are made. The portfolio market value is therefore provided for information only. All derivatives subscribed by the Company are for hedging purposes. The subscribed options are derivatives with an optimization component without additional risk taking. 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Market value In USD thousands In EUR thousands In USD thousands In EUR thousands Foreign exchange options -11,022 -9,626 34,320 28,617 Forward transactions 32,049 27,990 167,254 139,460 Total 21,027 18,364 201,574 168,077 Sensitivity testing of foreign exchange derivatives A sensitivity analysis was conducted to determine the impact of a 10 cent increase or decrease in US dollar/Euro exchange rate. Market value of the portfolio 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 (in EUR thousands) Net balance sheet position 18,364 168,077 Closing US dollar/euro exchange rate 1 EUR = 1.1450 USD 1 EUR = 1.1993 USD Closing dollar/ euro exchange rate +/10 cents 1.2450 $/€ 1.0450 $/€ 1.2993 $/€ 1.0993 $/€ Change in net balance sheet position (1) +157,947 -190,721 +208,996 -247,822 (1) data calculated based on existing market conditions on the balance sheet dates. They are not representative of the actual gain/loss to be recognized when the transactions are made. Note 28 Impact of tax valuations by derogation (in EUR thousands) 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Net income for the year 442,438 309,500 Income tax 158,003 68,912 Income before tax 600,441 378,412 Depreciation by derogation 2,392 -1,004 Provision for price increases -2,141 1,154 Provision for medium-term risks 0 -211 Increase in regulated provisions 251 -61 Net income excluding tax valuations by derogation (before tax) 600,692 378,351 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 261 Company Financial Statements Note 29 Increases and reductions in deferred tax (in EUR thousands) 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Regulated provisions: For price increases 63,693 65,834 Depreciation by derogation 54,810 52,418 Realized gains reinvested 18 18 Basis for increases 118,521 118,270 Increases in deferred tax 40,807 52,547 Items not deductible in the current year: Employee profit-sharing 110,835 74,019 Retirement payments and related benefits 147,610 207,365 For early retirement 5,317 8,052 Other temporary timing differences 782,236 667,513 Basis for reductions 1,045,998 956,949 Reductions in deferred tax 360,137 425,172 Long-term capital losses 0 0 Tax rate as of December 31, 2018 of 34.43% compared to 44.43% as of December 31, 2017. Note 30 Compensation of corporate officers Total compensation received by corporate officers, as detailed in the report of the Board of Directors on Corporate Governance, amounted to EUR 4,735,292 for 2018. Note 31 Average number of employees Salaried employees Managers 4,854 Supervisors and technicians 1,980 Employees 393 Workers 881 2018 total 8,108 2017 total 8,155 262 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION – PARENT COMPANY Note 32 Environmental information Dassault Aviation recognized environmental capital expenditures amounting to EUR 2,480 thousand and posted approximately EUR 637 thousand in expenses allocated to risk, impact and regulatory compliance analyses. Dassault Aviation did not have to recognize any environmental liabilities. Note 33 Five-year results summary Nature of information (in EUR thousands except 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 for point 3, stated in EUR/share) 1/Financial position at year-end a. Share capital 73,710 72,980 66,006 66,495 66,790 b. Number of shares outstanding 9,213,754 9,122,538 8,250,785 8,311,921 8,348,703 2/Summary of operating results a. Net sales, excluding tax 3,194,910 3,325,998 3,161,147 4,184,368 4,398,911 b. Earnings before tax, depreciation, amortization 308,162 216,355 324,766 513,312 734,937 and provisions c. Corporate income tax 64,837 42,327 29,954 68,912 158,003 d. Earnings after tax, depreciation, amortization 272,135 283,254 256,696 309,500 442,438 and provisions e. Dividends paid (1) 92,138 110,383 99,834 127,172 176,993 (2) 3/Earnings per share in euros a. Earnings after tax, but before depreciation, 26.4 19.1 35.7 53.5 69.1 amortization and provisions b. Earnings after tax, depreciation, amortization 29.5 31.0 31.1 37.2 53.0 and provisions c. Dividend paid per share 10.0 12.1 12.1 15.3 21.2 (2) 4/Personnel a. Average number of employees during the year 8,106 8,284 8,396 8,155 8,108 b. Total personnel expenses 449,978 472,158 472,939 475,416 492,506 c. Social security and other staff benefits 241,998 252,729 253,882 250,896 266,212 5/Employee profit-sharing 63,367 66,629 59,895 74,019 110,835 6/Incentive payments 20,000 21,000 20,000 20,000 20,000 (1) dividends of EUR 126,604 thousand were paid for the year ended December 31, 2017, of EUR 99,367 thousand for the year ended December 31, 2016, of EUR 105,422 thousand for the year ended December 31, 2015, and of EUR 87,126 thousand for the year ended December 31, 2014, net of dividends on treasury shares. (2) proposed by the Board of Directors to the Annual General Meeting, subject to the dividend not paid to treasury shares at the time of payment. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 263 Company Financial Statements Statutory auditors' report on the financial statements Year ended December 31, 2018 ________ To the General Meeting of Dassault Aviation Company, Opinion In compliance with the engagement entrusted to us by our annual General Meeting, we have audited the accompanying financial statements of Dassault Aviation Company for the year ended December 31, 2018. In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities and of the financial position of the Company as at December 31, 2018 and of the results of its operations for the year then ended in accordance with French accounting principles. The audit opinion expressed above is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee. Basis for opinion Audit Framework We conducted our audit in accordance with professional standards applicable in France. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Statutory Auditors' Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. Independence We conducted our audit engagement in compliance with independence rules applicable to us, for the period from January 1, 2018 to the date of our report and specifically we did not provide any prohibited non-audit services referred to in Article 5 paragraph 1 of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 or in the French Code of ethics (Code de déontologie) for statutory auditors. 264 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION – PARENT COMPANY Justification of Assessments Key Audit Matters In accordance with the requirements of Articles L. 823-9 and R. 823-7 of the French Commercial Code relating to the justification of our assessments, we inform you of the key audit matters relating to risks of material misstatement which, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period, as well as how we addressed those risks. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on specific items of the financial statements. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 265 Company Financial Statements Risk identified Our response Valuation of warranty provisions (Note B8-1 and item 14.2 of the notes to the annual financial statements) On the basis of discussions with the relevant Operational Departments, we took note of the Dassault Aviation provides warranties for its aircraft procedures to identify the risks to be guaranteed deliveries against hardware or software defects and and the procedures put in place to determine is required to remedy any regulatory non-compliance the costs and other data used as a basis for the identified after the delivery of the necessary valuation of provisions for guarantees. We also equipment. These warranties therefore constitute a tested the functioning of key internal controls commitment for the Company. The costs of this that we considered relevant to our audit. commitment must be provisioned upon delivery of the airplane. In addition, our work consisted in:  assessing the adequacy of the funding The estimated amount of the provisions is based on methodology used by the Company’s the data and expenses recorded by airplane model management and the judgments exercised and type of transactions taken as collateral and on by it, estimated costs, in particular cost estimates for specialists, handling of malfunctions and regulatory  assessing, through discussions with the non-compliance. Given the fleet in service and the relevant Operational Departments, the variety of costs potentially incurred, warranty reasonableness of the assumptions used provisions are determined by complex models that to determine provisions for guarantees, involve the judgment of several Operational  randomly testing the observed data and Departments. costs used for the valuation of the provisions and the calculations made. Management’s valuation of these commitments caused Dassault Aviation to recognize warranty We also assessed the appropriateness of the provisions of €871.3 million as at December 31, information given in Note B8-1 and item 14.2 2018. of the notes to the annual financial statements. The valuation of these provisions is a key point of the audit due to:  the level of judgment required for their determination,  the complex nature of their valuation,  their amount,  and, consequently, the potentially significant impact on earnings and equity if their estimates vary. 266 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION – PARENT COMPANY Risk identified Our response Defense contract monitoring (Note B11 and item 20 of the notes to the annual Based on discussions with the relevant financial statements) Operational Departments, we took note of the procedures to identify the costs and valuation of For Defense contracts, Dassault Aviation operates margins at completion. We also tested the through contracts for which net sales and the margin functioning of key internal controls that we are recognized: considered relevant to our audit.  upon completion, during the transfer to the purchaser of the principal risks and benefits As part of our audit, our work consisted in: for sales of goods and for certain development services; or  Testing controls for net sales and cost  as a percentage depending on the stage of forecasts with respect to contracts; progress of the costs incurred for the other  Corroborating the stage of progress service contracts; used in the recognition of net sales by examining in particular the technical and Earnings from contracts, and any provisions for loss contractual documentation available; on completion at the closing date, depend on:  Selecting a random sample of contracts,  the ability of the entity to measure the costs for which we met with the program incurred on a contract and monitoring managers,  the ability to reliably estimate the costs yet  Assessing the reasonableness of future to be incurred until the end of the contract. cost estimates;  Reconciling the accounting data with The Company’s Management believes that the their operational analytical monitoring; program monitoring process conducted by  Verifying the correct analytical allocation experienced employees in the Program Departments of costs; and the Finance Department through management  For a selection of contracts whose control is sufficiently robust to make reliable estimated margin level experienced a estimates of earnings of contracts at completion certain change in the margin compared given the items known at the end of the year. to previous estimates, we sought to explain the origin of the changes For 2018, Defense net sales recognized by the observed in order to corroborate those company amounted to €2,373 million. changes with technical and operational justifications on the basis of our The monitoring of defense contracts is a key point of experience and interviews with the audit due to: management;  the level of estimates required to determine earnings upon the completion of contracts, We also assessed the appropriateness of the  and their amount. information given in Note B11 and item 20 of the notes to the annual financial statements. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 267 Company Financial Statements Specific Verifications We have also performed, in accordance with professional standards applicable in France, the specific verifications required by French law. Information given in the management report and in the other documents provided to shareholders with respect to the financial position and the financial statements We have no matters to report as to the fair presentation and the consistency with the financial statements of the information given in the management report of the Board of Directors and in the other documents provided to shareholders with respect to the financial position and the financial statements. We attest the fair presentation and the consistency with the financial statements of the information relating to payment deadlines mentioned in Article D.441-4 of the French Commercial Code. Report on corporate governance We attest that the Board of Directors report on corporate governance sets out the information required by Articles L. 225-37-3 and L. 225-37-4 the French Commercial Code. Concerning the information given in accordance with the requirements of Article L. 225-37-3 of the French Commercial Code relating to remunerations and benefits received by the directors and any other commitments made in their favour, we have verified its consistency with the financial statements, or with the underlying information used to prepare these financial statements and, where applicable, with the information obtained by your Company from controlling and controlled companies. Based on this work, we attest the accuracy and fair presentation of this information. Other Information In accordance with French law, we have verified that the required information concerning the identity of the shareholders and holders of the voting rights has been properly disclosed in the management report. Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements Appointment of the Statutory Auditors We were appointed as statutory auditors of Dassault Aviation Company by the General Meeting held on April 25, 2002 for cabinet Deloitte & Associés and held on June 19, 1990 for cabinet Mazars. As at December 31, 2018, audit firm Deloitte & Associés and audit firm Mazars were in the 17th year and 29th year of total uninterrupted engagement respectively. Responsibilities of Management and those Charged with Governance for the Financial Statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with French accounting principles, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 268 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION – PARENT COMPANY In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless it is expected to liquidate the Company or to cease operations. The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the financial reporting process and the effectiveness of internal control and risks management systems and where applicable, its internal audit, regarding the accounting and financial reporting procedures. The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors. Statutory Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements Objectives and audit approach Our role is to issue a report on the financial statements. Our objective is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with professional standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. As specified in Article L. 823-10-1 of the French Commercial Code, our statutory audit does not include assurance on the viability of the Company or the quality of management of the affairs of the Company. As part of an audit conducted in accordance with professional standards applicable in France, the statutory auditor exercises professional judgment throughout the audit and furthermore:  Identifies and assesses the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, designs and performs audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtains audit evidence considered to be sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for his opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.  Obtains an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the internal control.  Evaluates the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management in the financial statements.  Assesses the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. This assessment is based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of his audit report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern. If the statutory auditor concludes that a material uncertainty exists, there is a requirement to draw attention in the audit report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are not provided or inadequate, to modify the opinion expressed therein. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 269 Company Financial Statements  Evaluates the overall presentation of the financial statements and assesses whether these statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation Report to the Audit Committee We submit a report to the Audit Committee that includes in particular a description of the scope of the audit and the audit program implemented, as well as the results of our audit. We also report, if any, significant deficiencies in internal control regarding the accounting and financial reporting procedures that we have identified. Our report to the Audit Committee includes the risks of material misstatement which, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and which are therefore the key audit matters that we are required to describe in this report. We also provide the Audit Committee with the declaration provided for in Article 6 of Regulation (EU) N°537/2014, confirming our independence within the meaning of the rules applicable in France such as they are set in particular by Articles L. 822-10 to L. 822-14 of the French Commercial Code and in the French Code of Ethics (Code de Déontologie) for statutory auditors. Where appropriate, we discuss with the Audit Committee the risks that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and the related safeguards. Paris-La Défense and Courbevoie, March 7, 2019 The Statutory Auditors Deloitte & Associés Mazars Jean-François Viat Mathieu Mougard This is a free translation into English of the statutory auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking users. The statutory auditors’ report includes information specifically required by French law in such reports, whether modified or not. This information is presented below the opinion on the financial statements and includes an explanatory paragraph discussing the auditors’ assessments of certain significant accounting and auditing matters. These assessments were considered for the purpose of issuing an audit opinion on the financial statements taken as a whole and not to provide separate assurance on individual account captions or on information taken outside of the financial statements. This report also includes information relating to the specific verifications of information given in the management report and in the documents addressed to shareholders. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. 270 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION – PARENT COMPANY Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated agreements and commitments General Meeting to approve the financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018 ________ Dear Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of your Company, we are submitting our report on the regulated agreements and commitments. We are required to inform you, on the basis of the information provided to us, of the principal terms and conditions of those agreements and commitments, as well as the reasons justifying their interest for the Company, indicated to us, or that we may have identified in the performance of our engagement. We are not required to comment as to whether they are beneficial or appropriate or to ascertain the existence of any other agreements and commitments. It is your responsibility, pursuant to Article R. 225-31 of the French Commercial Code (Code de Commerce), to assess the interest attached to the performance of these agreements and commitments for the purpose of their approval. Moreover, it is our duty, where applicable, to provide you with the information specified in Article R. 225-31 of the French Commercial Code relating to the performance, during the past year, of agreements and commitments already approved by the General Meeting. We performed those procedures which we considered necessary to comply with professional guidance issued by the National Order of the Accountants (Compagnie Nationale des Commissaires aux Comptes) relating to this type of engagement. Those standards require that we check that the information provided to us is consistent with the relevant source documents. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 271 Company Financial Statements I. AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS SUBMITTED TO THE GENERAL MEETING FOR APPROVAL Agreements and commitments authorized and/or entered into during the past fiscal year In accordance with Article L. 225-40 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), we have been advised of the following agreement, entered into after closing, which was subject to the prior approval of your Board of Directors in the past financial year. With Sogitec Industries SA (Sogitec), a subsidiary in which Dassault Aviation holds 99.99% Persons concerned Eric Trappier (Chief Executive Officer), Loïk Segalen (Chief Operating Officer) and Charles Edelstenne (Director), also Directors of Sogitec. Type and purpose Termination of all agreements with Sogitec as a result of the transfer of the Documentation and Training activities to Dassault Aviation Terms and conditions On December 13, 2018, the Board of Directors authorized the signature of an agreement between Dassault Aviation and Sogitec terminating all agreements with Sogitec due to the transfer of the Documentation and Training activities to Dassault Aviation that Sogitec carried out almost exclusively for Dassault Aviation. This agreement provides for the payment by Dassault Aviation to Sogitec of (i) compensation of €5,000,000 for the termination of the commercial relationship established between the two companies, and (ii) an amount of €304,154 for the acquisition by Dassault Aviation of assets related to this activity, at their carrying amount as at March 1, 2019. This agreement was entered into on February 11, 2019 on the terms set out above. Reasons justifying your Company’s interest in this agreement The Board of Directors believed that this operation of bringing together the activities and teams of Documentation and Training in your Company with those of design and development of digital tools could optimize processes and increase competitiveness. II. AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS ALREADY APPROVED BY THE GENERAL MEETING 1. Agreements and commitments approved in previous fiscal years which continued over the past fiscal year In accordance with Article R. 225-30 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), we were informed that the performance of the following agreements and commitments, already approved by the General Meeting in previous fiscal years, continued during the past fiscal year. 272 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION – PARENT COMPANY a. With Groupe Industriel Marcel Dassault (GIMD), majority shareholder of Dassault Aviation Persons concerned Serge Dassault (Director until May 28, 2018), also Chairman and Member of the Supervisory Board of GIMD until May 28, 2018, Charles Edelstenne (Director), also Chairman and Member of the Supervisory Board of GIMD, Marie-Hélène Habert (Director), also Chairwoman of the Supervisory Board of GIMD, as well as Olivier Dassault, also Member of the Supervisory Board of GIMD. Rental of premises, land and industrial installations Type and purpose Dassault Aviation has continued to rent from GIMD a certain number of premises, land and industrial facilities under commercial leases that came into force on January 1, 2009 and March 11, 2016. Terms and conditions Their main conditions are as follows: a 12-year firm term expiring on December 31, 2020 (except for the Saint-Cloud building, formerly La Mondiale, which expires on July 9, 2025, and the Le Vinci building, which expires on March 10, 2028); rent payable quarterly or semi-annually and indexed to the evolution of the INSEE construction cost index; a security deposit of two rent terms (except for the Saint-Cloud building, formerly La Mondiale, and the Le Vinci building in an amount equal to a rent term). In 2018, the rental costs under these leases amounted to a total of €37,602,729.00, excluding tax. As said rents have increased compared to 2017, due to the increase in the reference indices used for certain rents, Dassault Aviation has paid GIMD the amount of €516,902.50 as a security deposit. Acquisition of land in Mérignac Type and purpose Dassault Aviation has acquired two parcels of land in Mérignac from GIMD. Terms and conditions On March 7, 2017, the Board of Directors previously authorized the acquisition by Dassault Aviation of two parcels of land in Mérignac from GIMD. This acquisition of land, covering 4.28 hectares and 11.42 hectares, respectively, was completed on April 23, 2018 under the terms authorized by the Board of Directors, for a total price of €2.9 million. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 273 Company Financial Statements b. Concerning all the Executives and Corporate Officers of your Company Type and purpose An “Executives and Corporate Officers' Liability” insurance policy was taken out with effect from July 1, 1999 with Axa Global Risks, now called Axa Corporate Solutions. A second line of coverage was taken out with Zurich with effect from January 1, 2015, in excess of the first line. In 2018, these policies covered all executives and corporate officers of your Company and its subsidiaries up to an annual limit of €50,000,000, including €25,000,000 under the first line of coverage and €25,000,000 under the second. Terms and conditions The total amount of annual premiums in 2017 was €125,502.60 including VAT, of which 78,087.60 euros under the first line of coverage and €47,415.00 under the second. 2. Agreements and commitments approved in previous fiscal years, not performed over the past fiscal year As stated in the Sections above, we were also informed of the following commitments, already approved by the General Meeting in previous years, which have not been performed during the past year. With regard to Eric Trappier, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Loïk Segalen, Chief Operating Officer Type and purpose Continued benefit from the supplementary pension plan for the senior executives of your Company, benefiting the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Operating Officer. Terms and conditions Eric Trappier and Loïk Segalen will benefit from the collective supplementary defined benefits pension schemes for the Executive Committee and for the Company’s Flight Crew. It has been established that a new supplementary retirement scheme would be created as from January 1, 2018, for members of the Management Committee (including corporate officers) and for Flight Crew, which follows the old scheme for which the rights were frozen on December 31, 2017. Eric Trappier and Loïk Segalen will receive an additional annual pension of respectively €392,000 and €355,000 representing 26% of their gross fixed compensation, on the basis of retirement at age 65. 274 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION – PARENT COMPANY The new supplementary pension scheme provides for the annual acquisition of additional pension benefits equal to 2% of annual gross compensation (i.e. €30,574 for Eric Trappier and €27,067 for Loïk Segalen for 2018), subject to the condition that the corporate officers reach a net margin level defined each year by the parent company. In order to comply with the provisions of the Macron Law of 2015 and the requirements of the AFEPMEDEF Code, the payment of the pension is conditional, for retiring corporate officers, on the determination by the Board of Directors that the annual conditions have been met in at least two-thirds of the years of the term. The pension paid under the old and the new plan will be capped at 45% of gross annual compensation for the corporate officer’s last year. Paris-La Défense and Courbevoie, March 7, 2019 The Statutory Auditors Deloitte & Associés Mazars Jean-François Viat Mathieu Mougard This is a free English translation of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional standards applicable in France. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 275 276 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION COMBINED ORDINARY AND EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING OF MAY 16, 2019 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 277 278 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION Resolutions COMBINED ORDINARY AND EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING OF MAY 16, 2019 DRAFT RESOLUTIONS RESOLUTIONS UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF THE ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING FIRST RESOLUTION Approval of the parent company financial statements for 2018 The General Meeting, acting under the conditions of quorum and majority of Ordinary Meetings, having reviewed the reports of the Board of Directors including the Directors’ Report, its report on corporate governance and its report on performance shares, the report of the Statutory Auditors on the parent company financial statements and their report referred to in Article L.225-235 of the French Commercial Code, approves in their totality and without reservation the parent company financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2018 as presented, which resulted in a net income of EUR 442,437,677.28, as well as all transactions reported in said financial statements or summarized in these reports. SECOND RESOLUTION Approval of the consolidated financial statements for 2018 The General Meeting, acting under the conditions of quorum and majority of Ordinary Meetings, having noted that the report on Group management is included in the Directors’ Report and after having reviewed the report of the Statutory Auditors on the consolidated financial statements, approves in their totality and without reservation the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2018 as presented, which result in a net income for the consolidated group of EUR 572,802 thousand (of which EUR 572,741 thousand is attributable to the owners of the parent company) as well as all transactions reported in said financial statements or summarized in these reports. THIRD RESOLUTION Allocation and distribution of the net income of the Parent Company The General Meeting, acting under the conditions of quorum and majority of Ordinary Meetings, decides, on the proposal of the Board of Directors, to allocate the net income of: EUR 442,437,677.28 plus retained earnings of: EUR 2,195,573,880.46 i.e. a total of: EUR 2,638,011,557.74 as follows:  allocation to the legal reserve: EUR 29,425.60  dividend distribution of: EUR 176,992,503.60  with the remaining balance to retained earnings: EUR 2,460,989,628.54. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 279 Resolutions As a result of the above allocations, a dividend of EUR 21.2 per share is distributed. This dividend will be paid in cash on May 24, 2019. It will be paid directly to holders of shares in “pure registered” form and through authorized intermediaries for holders of “administered registered” or “bearer” shares. The amount of dividends which, in accordance with the provisions of the 4th paragraph of Article L.225-210 of the French Commercial Code, may not be paid in relation to the treasury shares held by the Company, will be reallocated to retained earnings. Note that the net dividends distributed for the three preceding years and the corresponding allowance were as follows: Net dividend Fiscal paid out Allowance (1) year (in euros) 2015 12.1 40% 2016 12.1 40% 2017 15.3 (1) allowance for individuals FOURTH RESOLUTION Approval of the elements of compensation due or attributed for fiscal year 2018 to Mr. Éric Trappier, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The General Meeting, acting under the conditions of quorum and majority of Ordinary Meetings, having reviewed the report on the corporate governance of the Board of Directors, approves the elements of compensation due or attributed for the financial year ended December 31, 2018 to Mr. Éric Trappier, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, as set out in the report on corporate governance in Sections 2.2.3 Compensation of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and 2.2.6 Summary tables of compensation (Tables 1, 2, 6, 9 and 11). FIFTH RESOLUTION Approval of the elements of compensation due or attributed for fiscal year 2018 to Mr. Loïk Segalen, Chief Operating Officer The General Meeting, acting under the conditions of quorum and majority of Ordinary Meetings, having reviewed the report on the corporate governance of the Board of Directors, approves the elements of compensation due or attributed for the financial year ended December 31, 2018 to Mr. Loïk Segalen, Chief Operating Officer, as set out in the report on corporate governance in Sections 2.2.4 Compensation of the Chief Operating Officer and 2.2.6 Summary tables of compensation (Tables 1, 2, 6, 9 and 11). SIXTH RESOLUTION Approval of the 2019 compensation policy for Mr. Éric Trappier, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The General Meeting, acting under the conditions of quorum and majority of Ordinary Meetings, having reviewed the report on corporate governance of the Board of Directors, approves the principles and criteria for determining the fixed, variable and exceptional elements of the total compensation and benefits of any kind relating to Mr. Éric Trappier, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, for fiscal year 2019, as contained in the report on corporate governance in Section 2.3. 280 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION SEVENTH RESOLUTION Approval of the 2019 compensation policy for Mr. Loïk Segalen, Chief Operating Officer The General Meeting, acting under the conditions of quorum and majority of Ordinary Meetings, having reviewed the report on corporate governance of the Board of Directors, approves the principles and criteria for determining the fixed, variable and exceptional elements of the total compensation and benefits of any kind relating to Mr. Loïk Segalen, Chief Operating Officer, for fiscal year 2019, as contained in the report on corporate governance in paragraph 2.3. EIGHTH RESOLUTION Renewal of term as director of Ms. Lucia Sinapi Thomas The General Meeting, acting under the conditions of quorum and majority of Ordinary Meetings and declaring that the term of office of Ms. Lucia Sinapi Thomas expires at the end of this General Meeting, decides, on the proposal of the Board of Directors, to renew said term for four years, until the end of the General Meeting called to decide in 2023 on the financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022. NINTH RESOLUTION Renewal of term as director of Mr. Charles Edelstenne The General Meeting, acting under the conditions of quorum and majority of Ordinary Meetings and declaring that the term of office of Mr. Charles Edelstenne expires at the end of this General Meeting, decides, on the proposal of the Board of Directors, to renew said term for four years, until the end of the General Meeting called to decide in 2023 on the financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022. TENTH RESOLUTION Renewal of term as director of Mr. Olivier Dassault The General Meeting, acting under the conditions of quorum and majority of Ordinary Meetings and declaring that the term of office of Mr. Olivier Dassault expires at the end of this General Meeting, decides, on the proposal of the Board of Directors, to renew said term for four years, until the end of the General Meeting called to decide in 2023 on the financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022. ELEVENTH RESOLUTION Renewal of term as director of Mr. Éric Trappier The General Meeting, acting under the conditions of quorum and majority of Ordinary Meetings and declaring that the term of office of Mr. Éric Trappier expires at the end of this General Meeting, decides, on the proposal of the Board of Directors, to renew said term for four years, until the end of the General Meeting called to decide in 2023 on the financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022. TWELFTH RESOLUTION Approval of a regulated agreement relating to the transfer of the documentation and training activities of Sogitec Industries to Dassault Aviation The General Meeting, acting under the conditions of quorum and majority of Ordinary Meetings, having reviewed the Directors’ Report and the special report of the Statutory Auditors on the regulated agreements and commitments referred to in Articles L.225-38 et seq. of the French Commercial Code, approves the regulated 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 281 Resolutions agreement relating to the transfer to Dassault Aviation of the documentation and training activities of its subsidiary Sogitec Industries, authorized by the Board of Directors on December 13, 2018. THIRTEENTH RESOLUTION Authorization to be given to the Board of Directors to allow the Company to purchase its own shares under a share buyback program The General Meeting, acting under the conditions of quorum and majority of Ordinary Meetings, having reviewed the Directors’ Report and the description of the share buyback program, authorizes the Board of Directors to purchase or arrange for the purchase of a number of shares representing up to 10% of the share capital of Dassault Aviation (with the limit of 10% applying to an amount of Company capital that will, if necessary, be adjusted to take into account transactions on its capital) in accordance with Articles L.225-209 et seq. of the French Commercial Code and European Regulation No. 596/2014 of April 16, 2014. This authorization may be used by the Board of Directors for the following objectives: 1) canceling shares in order to increase the profitability of shareholders’ equity and earnings per share, subject to the adoption of the Fourteenth Resolution, 2) ensuring market trading or liquidity of Dassault Aviation stock through an investment services provider via a liquidity contract compliant with an ethics charter recognized by the French Financial Markets Authority, 3) transferring or allocating shares to Company employees and executive officers and/or associated companies under the conditions and in accordance with the law, particularly in case of the exercising of stock options or allocations of existing shares, or by granting and/or subscription of existing shares in an employee stock ownership scheme, 4) retaining shares with a view to subsequent use, to hand them over as payment or in exchange for potential external growth transactions or other purposes, within the limit of 5% of the share capital, 5) remitting shares upon exercise of rights attached to securities convertible to Dassault Aviation shares, 6) implementing any market practice that would be recognized by the law or by the French Financial Markets Authority. Shares may, within the limits imposed by the regulations, be acquired, sold, traded or transferred by any means, on whatever market (regulated or not), on a multilateral trading facility (MTF), via a systematic internalizer as part of negotiated or over-the-counter transactions through buyback of blocks of shares or otherwise, at times that the Board of Directors or the person acting in a subdelegated capacity decides, in accordance with the provisions provided for by law. These means include the use of available cash as well as recourse to any derivative financial instruments, including the use of options or warrants, and without limitations. Dassault Aviation may, within the limit of 10% of its capital, buy its own shares for a maximum unit price of EUR 1,700 excluding acquisition costs, subject to adjustments relating to transactions on its capital, in particular by incorporation of reserves and the free allocation of shares and/or stock splits or reverse stock splits, provided that the Company may not purchase shares at a price higher than the greater of the following two values: the most recent listed price resulting from the performance of a transaction in which the Company was not a party, or the independent bid in progress on the trading platform where the purchase will have been made. The maximum amount of the funds intended for the buyback of Company shares may not exceed EUR 1,419,279,000, this condition being cumulative with the cap of 10% of the Company’s share capital. 282 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION This authorization is valid for a period of 18 months from the date of this General Meeting. It will enter into force as of the next Board of Directors meeting that decides to implement the new buyback program. The General Meeting confers all powers to the Board of Directors, with an option to subdelegate where authorized by the law, to place any stock market or off-market orders, sign any agreements, draw up any documents including information documents, set the terms for the Company’s market or off-market dealings, as well as the terms and conditions for acquisition and disposal of shares, to make any declarations including to the French Financial Markets Authority, fulfill any formalities and, in general, do whatever is necessary to complete these transactions. The General Meeting also grants all powers to the Board of Directors if the law or the French Financial Markets Authority were to extend or add to the objectives authorized for the share buyback program, in order to bring to public attention, within applicable legal and regulatory terms and conditions, any amendments with regard to the program’s objectives. In accordance with the provisions of Articles L.225-211 and R.225-160 of the French Commercial Code, the Company or the person responsible for securities services shall maintain registers of the purchase and sale of shares acquired and sold under the scope of such program. This authorization will terminate the unused portion of the share buyback program previously authorized by the Ordinary and Extraordinary General Meeting of May 24, 2018 as of the day of the next Dassault Aviation Board of Directors meeting that will decide on the entry into force of the new share buyback program. RESOLUTIONS UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF THE EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING FOURTEENTH RESOLUTION Authorization to be given to the Board of Directors to reduce the Company’s share capital by cancellation of shares purchased or to be purchased under the scope of a share buyback program The General Meeting, acting under the conditions of quorum and majority of Extraordinary General Meetings, having reviewed the Directors’ special report and the special report of the Statutory Auditors, authorizes the Board of Directors, in accordance with Article L.225-209 of the French Commercial Code, to: reduce its share capital by way of cancellation, in one or more stages, of all or some of the shares acquired by the Company under the scope of its own share buyback program, and limited to 10% of the capital per 24-month period, allocate the difference between the buyback value of canceled shares and their nominal value to premiums and available reserves. More generally, for this purpose, the General Meeting gives all powers to the Board of Directors to set the terms and conditions of such capital reductions resulting from the cancellations authorized by this resolution, note the completion of such reductions and subsequently amend, with the option to subdelegate, the Articles of Association of the Company, to make all declarations with the French Financial Markets Authority or any other body, carry out all formalities and, more generally, do whatever is necessary. As of this date, this authorization shall render ineffective the unused portion of the authorization of same kind granted by the Combined General Meeting of Shareholders of May 24, 2018. This new authorization is granted for a period starting at the end of the annual Ordinary General Meeting called to approve the financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019. 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION 283 Resolutions RESOLUTION UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF THE ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING FIFTEENTH RESOLUTION Powers to perform formalities The General Meeting, acting under the conditions of quorum and majority of Ordinary Meetings, hereby grants all full powers to holders of a copy or an extract of the minutes of this meeting in order to fulfill all legal filing or publication formalities. 284 2018 annual report | DASSAULT AVIATION Photos Published by Online Cover: Dassault Aviation – V. Almansa Dassault Aviation This document can be consulted P. 2: Dassault Aviation – V. Almansa Communications department online in PDF form at P. 4 left: Dassault Aviation – C. Cosmao www.dassault-aviation.com. Publication director: P. 4 right: Dassault Aviation – A. Daste Camille Cadoret P. 5 top: Dassault Aviation – C. Cosmao Contacts P. 5 lower left: Dassault Aviation – V. Almansa Written by: P. 5 lower right: Groupe Dassault – S. Dulud Thomas Brotel Chief Communication Officer P. 6: Dassault Aviation – X. Bejot Copy editor: Stéphane Fort P. 12 top: Dassault Aviation – A. Daste Sandrine Henry Tel.: + 33 (0)1 47 11 86 90 P. 12 center: Dassault Aviation – A. Daste P. 12 bottom: Dassault Aviation – Execujet Translated by: Investor Relations: P. 13 top: Dassault Aviation – A. Daste Don Siegel Armelle Gary P. 13 bottom: Dassault Aviation – V. Almansa Tel.: + 33 (0)1 47 11 84 24 P. 14 top: Dassault Aviation – S. Randé Design and production P. 14 bottom: Dassault Aviation – C. Cosmao P. 15 top: Dassault Aviation – C. Coiffier-Colas Agence Marc Praquin P. 15 bottom: Dassault Aviation 5, rue du Coq-Héron P. 16 top: Dassault Aviation – A. Pecchi 75001 Paris P. 16 lower left: Dassault Aviation P. 16 lower right: Dassault Aviation – S. Randé P. 17 top: Dassault Aviation – V. Almansa Printed in April 2019 P. 17 bottom: Dassault Aviation – V. Almansa P. 18-19: Dassault Aviation – S. Randé Galaxy Imprimeurs P. 20: Dassault Aviation – A. Pecchi 205 à 213, rue de Beaugé P. 23: Dassault Aviation – V. Almansa ZAC du Ribay, CS 22105 P. 24: Dassault Aviation – X. Béjot 72021 Le Mans Cedex 2 P. 26: Dassault Aviation – V. Almansa P. 27: Dassault Aviation – A. Daste P. 28: Dassault Aviation – C. Coiffier-Colas P. 30-31: Dassault Aviation – V. Almansa P. 32: Dassault Aviation – V. Almansa This document was printed P. 33: Dassault Aviation – S. Randé by an ecologically responsible P. 34: Dassault Aviation – S. Randé printing company on 100% P. 36: Dassault Aviation – A. Daste recyclable and biodegradable P. 37: Dassault Aviation – S. Randé paper, made from bleached P. 38-39: Dassault Aviation – V. Almansa ECF (Element Chlorine Free) P. 40: Dassault Aviation pulp in a European factory P. 41: Dassault Aviation – A. Pecchi certified to ISO 9001 (for P. 42: Dassault Aviation – A. Pecchi quality management) and P. 43: Dassault Aviation – A. Pecchi ISO 14001 (for environmental P. 44: Armée de l’air – Malaury BUIS management), CoC FSC P. 45: Dassault Aviation – V. Almansa (for the use of paper from P. 46-47: Rafale Air C and B, Rafale Marine, sustainably managed forests) Mirage 2000-5 and 2000 D, and nEUROn and EMAS accredited (for profiles: Dassault Aviation – F. Fisher, environmental performance). Falcon 8X, 7X, 6X, 900LX, 2000LXS, 2000S, ATL2 and Falcon MRA/MSA profiles: Dassault Aviation. Page 48-49: Dassault Aviation – A. Pecchi Registered trademarks Rafale©, Mirage© and nEUROn© are registered trademarks of Dassault Aviation. Falcon© is a registered trademark of Dassault Aviation and Dassault Falcon Jet Corp. 78, quai Marcel-Dassault – 92552 Saint-Cloud Cedex 300 – France Tel.: +33 (0)1 47 11 40 00 Headquarters: 9, rond-point des Champs-Élysées-Marcel-Dassault – 75008 Paris – France Limited company (société anonyme) with capital of €66,789,624 – 712 042 RCS Paris www.dassault-aviation.com ETHICAL CHARTER A MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN & CEO HIGHER TOGETHER Founded almost a century ago, the Dassault Aviation Group is now one of the world’s major players in civil and military aeronautics. Renowned for its technical and industrial expertise, buttressed by employees who are passionate about what they do, offering outstanding products, innovative processes and working in synergy with its partners, the Group looks to the future with confidence. The Dassault Aviation Group also nurtures and projects a clear identity, strong values and strict ethical principles. Since 2001, the Group has stated these principles in this very document, its Ethical Charter. The Charter comprises two sections. The first section is entitled “Our values” and describes our five main guiding principles. The second section is called “Our code of conduct” which pragmatically illustrates daily conduct flowing from these values. The Ethical Charter aims to rally the men and women in our Group around these values and is intended to inspire their actions and convey Dassault Aviation’s image to our customers, partners and suppliers. This Charter represents a collective commitment which will come into its own as long as everyone is on board. Higher together! Éric Trappier Ethical charter | 1 CUSTOMER SPIRIT Satisfying the customer is both our philosophy and our guideline: • being a good listener, understanding his/her needs, acting in a manner which efficiently serves him/her; keeping our word; • offering excellent technical performance, confidentiality when needed and customized follow-up while optimizing the control of business expenses and response times. OUR VALUES 2 | Dassault Aviation HUMAN ECONOMIC QUALITIES PERFORMANCE People are the heart of our Group. We We regard creating value as an essential promote team spirit, the sharing of goal: it guarantees our profitability, our knowledge and know-how, creative initiative, financial stability, and our long-term future. and respect for ethics. In a context of intense international We favor united action at all levels, competition, we must be flexible, adaptable, mutual respect, the search for professional and responsive in dealings with our self-realization, and, from a human customers, our suppliers, and our partners. perspective, the feeling of being part of a successful, innovative business enterprise. TECHNOLOGICAL OPENNESS EXCELLENCE TO THE WORLD AND INNOVATION To reach these goals, we are engaged in sustained programs of scientific, technological, This is our Group’s spirit, passion, history, technical, and industrial cooperation and motto. in France, the U.S. and abroad, in a spirit We ensure the quality, reliability, and safety of partnership. of our aircraft through a dynamic of We are active in national and international constant innovation combined with our aviation and defense organizations. project management capability and Our internal and external communication our mastery of complex systems. We take is open and transparent. constant care of controlling and reducing the environmental signature of our activities and products. Ethical charter | 3 OUR CODE OF CONDUCT Our Code of Conduct translates the 5 professional and ethical values expressed bythe Dassault Aviation Group into pragmatic and operational terms. Its purpose is to unite the Group’s personnel around these principles. The code of conduct is both a collective commitment and an individual imperative. It does not substitute for the national and international legislation in force. It is not a contractual document, but an ethical commitment which must be known and applied by all. It focuses on 5 key values. 4 | Dassault Aviation CUSTOMER SPIRIT The Dassault Aviation Group Respecting the customer also builds long-standing relationships means that the Dassault Aviation with customers based on trust Group acts in conformity with the and honesty. national and international laws Satisfying the customer is the priority which are in force. We will comply of all. scrupulously with the commercial ethics and principles of the OECD This presupposes: convention of December 17th, 1997, which has been ratified by France • listening attentively to his/her which, in particular, prohibit offering needs and requirements in or granting any undue benefits, order to foster a business reladirectly or indirectly, to any tionship which is precise, apgovernment employee, in propriate, and customized; exchange for acting, or refraining • keeping promises made concerto act, in the performance of his ning delivery times, cost, quality, duties or mandate, so as to favor performance, specifications, rethe Dassault Aviation Group. liability, and confidentiality; • personalized follow-up to ensure satisfactory performance of the The Dassault Aviation Group also aircraft, and its systems, and our complies with applicable export services. control rules. The commercial relations of our employees and agents with customers must be grounded on the principles of integrity, professionalism, and the interest of the Group. Any actions directed at a customer – invitations, entertainment, travel, and gifts – must remain appropriate in nature and within accepted limits, in both amount and frequency. Ethical charter | 5 HUMAN QUALITIES The continued successful growth The Group is deeply concerned of the Dassault Aviation Group with enforcement of human rights is based on the quality and and fair labor practices; it gives commitment of the men and women special care to the implementation who make it up. They are its of essential principles such as: main asset. • working in a spirit of truth; • freedom from discrimination Accordingly the Group strives based on national origin, lifestyle, to maintain harmonious human marital status, sex, race, physical relations: handicaps, political or religious beliefs, or union membership; • by favoring professional self• respecting the individual and realization, initiative, and creatihis/her private life; vity; • maintaining a professional • by practicing an open and work environment and working constructive dialogue based conditions; on trust, mutual respect, • he availability of vocational and information about objectives training and the prevention of and challenges; health and occupational risks. • by encouraging team spirit, which entails solidarity, willingness to The personnel of the Dassault help, exchanges of experience, Aviation Group owe the Group the sharing of knowledge and undivided loyalty. It is, for example, the transmission of know-how. prohibited to work, without the Group’s express permission, for an actual or potential competitor. 6 | Dassault Aviation TECHNOLOGICAL EXCELLENCE AND INNOVATION The technical and technological The Group’s assets must be excellence of the Dassault Aviation preserved – both material assets Group’s aircraft is one of the pillars like buildings and equipment of its national and international and such intangibles as patents, reputation. manufacturing secrets, customer lists and software. Each employee This excellence is founded must see to it that there is no on a constant concern for quality, illicit or fraudulent use thereof for anticipating needs, for and take all necessary measures innovation, creativity, and the to prevent theft, sabotage, development of effective and espionage, and piracy. reliable new products and services. In connection with his/her duties Throughout its search for new our employees may be required materials and processes, the Group to handle or possess information takes the environmental aspects of a confidential or privileged into account. It is committed character concerning our customers to actively protect the environment or the Group or other information during the whole aircraft lifecycle, which has a national, international, right from the design stage. industrial, or commercial character or other value. He/she must be When conducting research and prudent, discreet, and honest with development, the Group is mindful such data at all times. of the environmental impact of new processes and materials which may be adopted for industrial use. The Group must always encourage the taste for challenge, favor professional commitment, responsiveness, and the transmission of the experience and know-how of its engineers, managers, technicians, skilled workers, and employees. Ethical charter | 7 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE In the context of keen international Economic performance is also competition and the globalization relevant to dealings with suppliers. of the worldwide economy, the The Group works consistently sustained growth of the Dassault to promote competition between Aviation Group requires a rational, suppliers. flexible and responsive organization, effective operating methods, and The selection criteria applied a sound financial policy. for suppliers are comparative in nature and are based on Creating value is a prime duty: it performance, cost, delivery time, ensures the Group’s independence quality, and reliability. and longterm future; it helps enable continuous improvements The Group maintains relations to our product line and more of mutual cooperation and efficient processes and cost savings. fair treatment with its suppliers; these relations are based on The Group provides true and reciprocal square dealing and the accurate information to its mutual meeting of commitments. shareholders and to the financial markets, in a sustained policy The Group’s employees owe of transparency. it loyalty. This includes not requesting or accepting gifts All of the Group’s personnel must or benefits which exceed take care, when in possession of standard business practice privileged information, concerning or which might influence the Group’s situation or plans, the employee’s behavior. Offers not to use it or disclose it illicitly, of travel, junkets, and participation particularly when it has not in non-professional events must yet been made known to the be declined. As a general rule, marketplace. a conflict between one’s own personal or financial interest, whether direct or indirect, and the group’s interests must be avoided. 8 | Dassault Aviation OPENNESS TO THE WORLD As information becomes more As a corporate citizen, it maintains global in nature, the Dassault the strictest political, religious, and Aviation Group has acquired philosophical neutrality; it does not means of communication, internal finance political parties, elected and external, that favor constructive officials, or candidates unless dialogue, trust, and transparency. such activities fully comply with existing laws. The Group is open to the scientific and academic community and In the business world, it takes participates in occupational training care to act in conformity with and professional education, laws, regulations, and established in research and development, practices, in a spirit of integrity, and in international exchanges ethics, and professionalism. of knowledge, techniques, and know-how. The Group does care about the impact of its activities on the citizen’s community, as well as the good implementation of fundamental principles of environment protection and respect. It has therefore voluntarily committed itself, since the year 2000, towards the ISO 14001 certification of all its production units. 78, quai Marcel Dassault – Cedex 300 – 92552 Saint-Cloud – France www.dassault-aviation.com Tél. : + 33 (0)1 47 11 40 00 Photos: © Dassault Aviation – Ph. Stroppa – A.Février Design and production: Agence Marc Praquin – Dassault Aviation – 2013
