OUR COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR 2018 UN GLOBAL COMPACT STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT To our Stakeholders: Since March 14, 2018, we have been proud to This is our first Communication On Progress. adhere to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Even though it has always been a part our Global Compact. Our aim is to succeed sustainably. vision, values, and way of doing business, it is our first attempt to formalize our approach This starts with respecting and supporting our through the prism of sustainability. You will find employees by ensuring a safe, enjoyable and information on what we have identified as the nurturing working environment. We value each most salient issues as well as the main actions and every person who works for our company we are working on to improve the integration and contributes to making it a “good place of the Global Compact and its Ten Principles for all who touch it, where quality of work, in our daily business and company culture. product, and relationships are a priority”. This COP will be shared with our shareholders, As a manufacturing Company, we are conscious employees, and major stakeholders through of our impact on the environment and act to company meetings, intranet, internet and minimize our footprint. We aim to reduce our whenever the opportunity arises. waste and consider the use of renewable energies in our decision-making process. We welcome your feedback and support to continuously improve ourselves. In 2018, we issued our first Employee Code of Ethics that aims to ensure global alignment Sincerely, on key issues of integrity in our daily business, such as: human and workers’ rights, protection of the environment, prohibition of corruption, fair competition, respect of intellectual property, data protection, and confidentiality in general. In our activities, we are guided not only by Christophe Carré our vision, values, and our Shareholders’ Chief Executive Officer expectations, but also by the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. 2 Global Compact Our Communication on Progress for 2018 OUR VALUES “TO BE A GOOD PLACE FOR ALL WHO TOUCH IT WHERE HONESTY & CREATIVITY, CONSISTENCY & SUCCESS DEFINED RESPECT INNOVATION & FAIRNESS IN OUR OWN QUALITY OF WORK, We are honest with all people in our ENTREPRENEURIAL We make every effort to be fair TERMS PRODUCT AND organization and all people we come SPIRIT with people and consistent in Always underlying our business in contact with from outside the By sharing information, seeking input application of our policies. decisions is the understanding RELATIONSHIPS ARE organization. and collaborating together, we create an that growth without corresponding We are reliable to our word. exceptional entrepreneurial environment profit is not healthy. A PRIORITY.” We are respectful of others. where people put ideas to work. We work to build trusting relationships. AUTHORITY, PRIDE IN IMPORTANCE OF GOOD CITIZEN IN RESPONSIBILITY & BELONGING OUR PARTNER OUR COMMUNITIES OBLIGATION We acknowledge the uniqueness of each RELATIONSHIPS We respect our environment and TO LISTEN person and the value that each brings to We recognize the vital importance encourage efforts to make the We align authority with responsibility. our organization. of our outside partner relationships, communities in which we operate Where decision authority ultimately We recognize individual and team efforts which include our customers, suppliers, better places for all who live in them. resides depends on who has made toward answering our challenges advisors, alliance partners, and other responsibility to achieve results. and achieving our objectives. stakeholders. It is in our long-term We expect decisions and actions to We take time to celebrate best interest that our partners are be consistent with our overall strategy our successes. successful, just as it is in their interests and in concert with our values. that our Company remains strong. Global Compact Our Communication on Progress for 2018 3 COMPANY OVERVIEW OUR ACTIVITIES OUR PEOPLE KEY FIGURES L&L Products is a global, family-owned, and At the heart of the organization are our people technology driven business-to-business company that has unique expertise in static sealing, acoustics, vibration reduction, structural who focus on what is important to the customer. L&L Products is a reliable partner that provides value to its customers, with people highly Date of foundation 1958 reinforcements and composite components for automotive, aerospace, commercial vehicle and other industrial applications. skilled in material science, superior engineering, customer service and manufacturing. Employees 1300 18 Members of L&L Products management and We simply do not subscribe to the mantra that shareholders are responsible for ensuring that the company is in a position to meet new Locations “one size fits all.” We start by understanding a +200 customer’s specific needs and requirements. challenges, while adopting a long-term view This is then distilled by our application engineers that is both profitable and sustainable. Patents into a detailed briefing document from which the most appropriate solution can be developed. In addition to our standard product range, we are ideally placed to provide customer specific Shareholders L&L families solutions. To this end we continually invest in Research & Development efforts that span material science, computer aided design, finite element analysis, Chief Executive prototyping, testing and manufacturing technology. Officer www.llproducts.com Regional President, Regional President, Americas India Regional President, Regional President, EMEA APAC VP Global Marketing Global Chief & Corporate Financial Officer Development 4 Global Compact Our Communication on Progress for 2018 LOCATIONS & CERTIFICATIONS CLOSE TO OUR CUSTOMERS With 18 strategically-located operating subsidiaries and production facilities in Americas, Europe, India and Asia, we are extremely well positioned to provide local support to our global customer base. HIGH QUALITY AND SUSTAINABILITY CERTIFICATIONS L&L Products plants operate in compliance with Quality, Environment and Health & Safety Management systems, which guarantee that risks are controlled Key and that we are committed to improving our results. Office location QUALITY: Production location 100% of our facilities are IATF 16949 (Automotive sector) and ISO 9001 certified. AMERICAS EMEA INDIA APAC Our facility in France is AS/EN 9100 (Aviation, Space, and Defense sector) certified. Creation: 1958 Creation: 1996 Creation: 2010 Creation: 1997 Production: Production: Production: Production: ENVIRONMENT: Romeo, MI, USA Altorf, France Pune, India Qingpu, China 75% of our facilities are ISO 14001 certified. West Columbia, SC, USA Rudna, Czech Republic HEALTH & SAFETY: São Paulo, Brazil Bursa, Turkey One facility is OHSAS 18001 certified. Office: Offices: Office: Offices: We plan to have four facilities Mexico Kehl, Germany Mumbai, India Seoul, South Korea ISO 45001 certified by 2020. Barcelona, Spain Melbourne, Australia Birmingham, UK Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Milan, Italy Singapore Global Compact Our Communication on Progress for 2018 5 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1: Human rights are universal and every Anti-Retaliation Policy person around the world deserves to L&L Products is committed to creating an Businesses should support be treated with dignity & fairness. Basic environment where people can freely share concerns rights include freedom of speech, privacy, & respect the protection of without fear of retaliation, especially regarding safety health, life, liberty and security, as well issues, and any illegal or unethical behaviour. internationally proclaimed as an adequate standard of living. human rights. Health & Safety Policy COMMITMENTS ON L&L Products is committed to ensuring a safe PRINCIPLE 2: HUMAN RIGHTS environment for all workers in its facilities, and developing responsible behaviour from L&L Products will respect & protect human Businesses should be certain everyone. We clearly aim for zero accidents – by rights. Our aim is to make a contribution towards they are not complicit in supporting human rights within the sphere prevention, and providing adequate control of health & safety risks arising from work activities. human rights abuses. of influence of our company – our business activities, the protection of our employees, and relationships with our stakeholders. IMPLEMENTATION We comply with international principles AND OUTCOMES and guidelines including: Working Conditions the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, We provide our employees with an environment free the UN Guiding Principles on of discrimination & harassment and treat everyone Business & Human Rights. equally, regardless of ethnic origin, religion, political Employee Code of Ethics or union affiliation, gender or sexual orientation, Our Employee Code of Ethics clarifies how we age or disability. We comply with local laws and will uphold human rights principles. The Code provide a living wage that enables our employees was issued in 2018 and applies to all L&L to meet their and their dependents’ basic needs. locations. It is a guide to help our employees make ethical choices in the workplace, and to act with integrity with our stakeholders. 6 Global Compact Our Communication on Progress for 2018 Fair Treatment Health and Safety Initiatives Behaving ethically is fundamental to establishing & To achieve our zero accident target, we aim to FOCUS sustaining legitimate & productive relationships. We identify risks and take action required to protect the In the US our onsite health clinic is available encourage open communications, feedback, and health & safety of our employees. To maintain the to our employees and their families insured discussions. Our employees are free to talk with highest vigilance level, and highlight our initiatives, through the L&L insurance program. Directed any manager, or meet with the CEO at any time. we have implemented a number of actions: by a certified nurse, it is free of charge. All workers are provided with protective equipment & training necessary to Due Diligence perform their tasks safely. Our Employee Code of Ethics gives meaningful guidance to employees to help identify, prevent, An annual health & safety action plan is created. and address actual or potential human rights Each plant makes monthly reports indicating impacts resulting from their activities. All employees the number and severity of any accidents. are encouraged to report compliance issues or An L&L worldwide project named TEAM was misconduct through internal channels (Managers, HR, or Legal Department). Alternatively, concerns launched in 2018 to improve our safety performance, update our #LIVINGOUTOURVALUES can be reported through the Speak-up Line put risk analyses & best practices. in place during 2018 (both web and phone). This project materialized in various ways in each region. For example, FOCUS in EMEA, we developed, in this In India, the L&L team decided to support context a Safe Behaviour Guide. education by contributing funds for a school bus to help students with disabilities get to and from school everyday. 100% 13 Roll-out of Number of accidents Speak-Up with lost days Line to all our (Global) employees (Global) #LIVINGOUTOURVALUES Global Compact Our Communication on Progress for 2018 7 LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3: L&L Products could not exist without the men IMPLEMENTATION and women that bring it to life. They are an Businesses should uphold the essential component of our approach, and AND OUTCOMES we owe them a safe workplace, and career & Distribution of Workforce by Region, freedom of association, and skills development opportunities so that they Gender and Age (Global) the effective recognition of the find their place and have the means to thrive. 1300 right to collective bargaining. Improving workplace practices beyond legal compliance results in higher morale & job satisfaction, and fosters creativity & innovation. PRINCIPLE 4: employees Businesses should uphold the COMMITMENT ON LABOUR elimination of all forms of forced We comply with the ILO (International and compulsory labour. Labour Organisation) Conventions, and promote opportunities for men and women to 50% Americas obtain decent & productive work, in conditions 33% EMEA 10% APAC of freedom, equity, security, and dignity. 7% India PRINCIPLE 5: Businesses should uphold the 30% 70% effective abolition of child labour. Women Men PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment 19% <30 years 27% 31-40 years 29% 41-50 years 25% >51 years and occupation. 8 Global Compact Our Communication on Progress for 2018 Cultural Diversity Equal Opportunities Attractiveness & Loyalty L&L Products is a global group with strong regional We prohibit discrimination in all aspects of We emphasize good relationships between teams to better understand our customers and employment (recruitment, promotion, wages, employees, and cooperate with universities and address local markets. We strongly support our dismissal, assignment of duties, etc.) based research institutions to attract qualified students people to work in cross-cultural teams on an on race, nationality, age, religion, disability, and graduates. Many students come and visit everyday basis. We also have an annual employee background, gender, and sexual orientation or our offices and facilities to better understand exchange program that helps employees share any other reason. We ensure that employmentour mission and meet with our people. knowledge and explore each other’s cultures. related decisions are based on relevant and On a regular basis, that may vary by region, we Participants are able to work, side by side with objective criteria, and we always select the conduct employee satisfaction or employee their foreign counterparts, share best practices, candidate that best matches our requirements. engagement surveys to assess our company discover a new culture & language, and their 10.2% culture. In all regions we take the time to engage colleagues’ work & daily lives. These stays with our employees and have direct discussions typically last two weeks. It is often the first time with them, either individually or in focus groups. in their lives that the chosen employees travel Women in Senior We listen to their expectations for themselves overseas, and as a global company we believe Executive positions and the company. In December 2018, Intertek that it is a strong asset that everyone in the (a total quality assurance expert) conducted an organization has the opportunity to be exposed (Global) on-site social audit in Altorf, France, highlighting to various cultures and foreign colleagues. that employees feel comfortable giving feedback, In 2018, 11 workers, technicians, and managers but also raising concerns or making suggestions benefited from this exchange program: one French knowing they will receive a response. We group travelled to China and one US Group to believe that good communication in a trusting 103 France. We are looking at expanding the program environment is one of our strong assets. to other facilities in the near future. L&L France 2.01% also welcomed a Chinese and an American R&D colleagues respectively for 3 weeks and 6 months. Number of apprentices 12 and trainees (Global) Voluntary termination rate 45 Americas Languages spoken at (Global) L&L Products (Global) 22 EMEA 1 APAC 34 India Global Compact Our Communication on Progress for 2018 9 LABOUR Employee Training and Employability Working Conditions Investing in education is essential to developing a skilled workforce for the future. L&L has set31% No Forced or Child Labour We adhere to provisions of national laws and up partnerships with the academic world and People trained regulations concerning forced and child labour, offers in-house training. The challenge is great: by a qualified and where national law is insufficient, we take to promote universal access to education, and external training account of international labour standards. We prepare our employees for the jobs of tomorrow. ensure the voluntary nature of employment and agency the freedom to leave, and we verify the ages all We believe that training encourages the (Global) new recruits by requesting their identity cards. employability of all workers and ensures their longterm expertise. We encourage our employees to participate in training in both hard & soft Freedom of Association skills. Training takes place in all our regions. FOCUS We fully comply with all application regulations in In the USA, L&L Products supports the countries where we operate and respect our Multiskilling & Multitasking education by providing robotic equipment employees’ right to form and join an association. used for training purposes at a group of We create a corporate environment that enables To make our organization more flexible and charter schools in Detroit, Michigan. our employees to freely discuss improvements also to allow employees to carry out essential to working conditions with management. functions and to improve their skills, we encourage multidisciplinary training provided within and outside the company. We publish all available jobs on our global intranet to foster internal mobility. Where needed, we develop skills that can be transferred to other areas of activity, or other countries. #LIVINGOUTOURVALUES 10 Global Compact Our Communication on Progress for 2018 Work-Life Balance Adapted and Protected Sectors Social Commitment We provide a variety of opportunities to help our When possible, we work with integration companies Globally, we engage with a large number of projects employees achieve a good work-life balance. In and organizations or companies employing in the vicinity of our business locations, focusing particular and when possible, these include flexible disabled workers in specially adapted and primarily on education. Additionally, we support working models, part-time work, and teleworking. protected sectors. For example, in France we a variety of initiatives relating to health & safety. work with external organizations that support work We provide on-site company restaurants and/ Our employees also demonstrate their engagement for disabled people. Typical tasks are: assembly or financial support for lunch in all our facilities. with their community by carrying out voluntary work. of parts, cutting, sorting, and repackaging. In France, we also have the following services: a concierge service helps employees with shopping, laundry, shoe repair, FOCUS FOCUS Our foundations are L&L USA employees volunteered their and other conveniences; the result of personal time & energy to help Life Remodeled, an exercise room, because sport and investments of our a non-profit organization that re-builds conversations amongst diverse employees shareholders who set, and improves Detroit neighborhoods. can have a positive impact on improving inspire, and live our mood, health, and motivation; corporate values. Since a child nursery is shared with other 1987, the L&L Educational companies in the same area. Foundation helps L&L employees’ families in the USA with financial In India and China, we provide shuttle grants to fund education and career preparation. bus service to most of our employees to In 2018, the L&L Products Foundation was facilitate their daily commute to work. created to extend this support to the families of L&L employees based outside of the USA. #LIVINGOUTOURVALUES #LIVINGOUTOURVALUES Global Compact Our Communication on Progress for 2018 11 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7: We are facing unprecedented and IMPLEMENTATION interconnected environmental challenges AND OUTCOMES Businesses should support in areas including resources, climate change, energy, water, and biodiversity. Materials Selection a precautionary approach to To be sustainable in the long term, we need Both our Safety and R&D departments environmental challenges. to develop a holistic and comprehensive across the world approve the use of any new strategy to become part of the solution. chemical, and keep an updated database with material safety data sheets. PRINCIPLE 8: ENVIRONMENTAL In Europe, we ask our suppliers to deliver Businesses should undertake products that comply with the REACH regulation COMMITMENTS regime, that aims to gradually eliminate the most initiatives to promote greater L&L Products is committed to making a contribution hazardous chemicals from the European Union. environmental responsibility. toward environmental protection. We focus particularly on our facilities, the transportation of our products, and their use by customers, as well as PRINCIPLE 9: storage & transportation of hazardous materials. Businesses should encourage FOCUS the development and Environmental Policy In Turkey, the L&L team donated diffusion of environmentally We are committed to continuous improvement, 100 tree samplings to combat soil regulatory compliance, and prevention of erosion and desertification. friendly technologies. pollution related to our activity. We concentrate on minimizing our environmental impact, as well as efficient use of energy, resources, and materials. #LIVINGOUTOURVALUES 12 Global Compact Our Communication on Progress for 2018 Waste Reduction and Recovery Energy and Carbon Emissions Reduction The best waste is the waste we don’t produce, FOCUS In EMEA, our transportation partners so L&L carefully designs products and operating With the aim of improving materials mainly operate with Euro5 or Euro6 trucks processes so material consumption is optimized. recovery, the L&L team in China devised a designed to further reduce emissions. customised solution to separate aluminum L&L has initiatives to reduce our waste to from an L&L formula – two components We continuously analyze traffic flows to optimize landfill, with a global objective of zero waste of our HEDC parts (High Expandable Die routes, reducing our carbon footprint. to landfill. To achieve this objective, we sort Cut). The solution was rolled out globally In France, we replaced all gas heaters with about a dozen different types of waste in so that materials are properly separated heat pumps requiring less energy. We are receptacles spread over our plants. and recovered instead of being burned. currently analyzing our energy consumption per piece of equipment to prioritize actions next year. We reduced by temperature of -43% heaters in the production area by 2°C. Waste to Water landfill reduction L&L operates with closed cooling systems, (Global) requiring little pumping, and low water Between January and consumption. Nevertheless, we monitor our December 2018 plants’ processes to reduce consumption in accordance with our ISO 14001 certifications. #LIVINGOUTOURVALUES 2.19% ZERO Waste to landfill Environmental (Global) incident Total weight of waste (Global) to landfill over total weight of parts produced Global Compact Our Communication on Progress for 2018 13 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10: The overarching aim of Anti-Corruption and IMPLEMENTATION Anti-Trust rules is to fight corruption around Businesses should work against the world to enable fair competition, eliminate AND OUTCOMES the damage corruption does to society, Compliance Training corruption in all its forms, and improve conditions for everyone. The Code of Ethics was introduced to including extortion and bribery. all employees worldwide in 2018 during COMMITMENTS ON our monthly employee meetings. ANTI-CORRUPTION The following topics were outlined: Employee Code of Ethics Human rights & respect for people; As we grow, and are now present in countries Business integrity: fair competition and that are more exposed to the risk of corruption, conflict of interest, anti-corruption & antiwe want to achieve global alignment to ensure bribery, gifts & invitations, donations & that everyone in the organization has the same sponsorship, export control, protection understanding of ethics. In 2018, we drafted and of assets – including intellectual property deployed our Employee Code of Ethics to all rights, confidentiality and data protection; L&L Products employees around the world. The environment; Speak-Up line. Gift & Invitation Policy In addition to the introduction to the Code of L&L Products is committed to the highest Ethics, we conducted in-person Anticorruption level of integrity. Our Gift & Invitation Policy, & Antitrust training to all employees that were along with the Employee Code of Ethics, identified as the most exposed to these risks provide guidance to L&L employees on what is (including Sales, Engineers, Buyers, Managers). considered an acceptable gift or invitation. We plan to conduct one compliance training per year in all regions where we operate. 100% = 25% Targeted employees attended Of all L&L Products Anticorruption & Antitrust Training (Global) population 14 Global Compact Our Communication on Progress for 2018 RESPONSIBLE PROCUREMENT We are conscious that our company’s entire IMPLEMENTATION This preparatory work on responsible procurement supply chain can make a significant impact in was conducted in 2018 and established a strong promoting human rights, fair labour practices, AND OUTCOMES basis for global implementation in 2019. environmental progress, and anti-corruption Along with the Supplier Code of Conduct, we L&L sent the Supplier Code of Conduct and the policies. This is the reason why we work with have created a Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Questionnaires and we will evaluate our our suppliers and our suppliers’ suppliers (CSR) questionnaire to evaluate our suppliers. direct suppliers in 2019, with the objective to to ensure that the materials and services We use a radar chart to visualise their answers, partnering with them to continuously improve their they provide meet our strict standards for evidence submission, continuous improvement performance in areas outlined within the Code. quality, performance, and sustainability. plan, and management effort, providing a graphic representation of their CSR performance. COMMITMENTS 100% ON RESPONSIBLE 1. General PROCUREMENT 100 80 Supplier Code of Conduct 6. Supply 60 2. Health & Targeted suppliers We expect our suppliers to comply with all Chain 40 Safety received our applicable laws, regulations, international 20 Supplier Code of 0 expectations and industry standards. Conduct and CSR To set consistent standards globally, we Questionnaire communicate our expectations through a 5. Environment 3. Social Responsibility (Global) Supplier Code of Conduct in which we have set out requirements in the following areas: 4. Fair Business • Health & Safety at Work Practice • Social Responsibility • Business Ethics • Environment • Reporting Non-Compliance Global Compact Our Communication on Progress for 2018 15 Icons sourced www.flaticon.com Cover image www.freepik.com This report is based on information and indicators for the year 2018. It is just the beginning of what we hope is an ongoing conversation. Please share your feedback and sustainability ideas with us at sustainability@llproducts.com Follow us: L&L Products – Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 AUSTRALIA BRAZIL CHINA CZECH REPUBLIC FRANCE GERMANY INDIA ITALY KOREA MALAYSIA MEXICO SINGAPORE SPAIN TURKEY UNITED KINGDOM USA
