Communication on Progress Submission to the United Nations Global Compact January 2019 www.cardno.com/internationaldevelopment 2 Cardno > Australian owned and operated Introduction Cardno is a social and physical infrastructure development firm dedicated to social, economic and physical infrastructure globally. Strengthened by our geographic and market diversity, we are committed to providing innovative and integrated solutions that create opportunities for significant, lasting change in emerging economies. We partner with multilateral and bilateral institutions, private clients, governments and communities to develop sustainable solutions to complex challenges in Australia, Asia Pacific, Africa and North America. Communication on Progress 3 4 Cardno > Australian owned and operated Statement from the President At Cardno we are committed to making a difference for the people we work with and the communities we operate in. We have been delivering practical, innovative and sustainable solutions in international development for 50 years. Our success hinges on our ability to create commercial and social value for all our stakeholders while being cognizant of the complex interplay of social, environmental, economic and political factors in the world today. We are dedicated to delivering high quality international development services to a diverse client base across the globe. We are striving towards meaningful designs and responsible implementation, while taking a holistic approach to problem solving. Our association with the United Nations Global Compact is driven by this agenda. Alignment with the United Nations Global Compact ten principles is core to the success of our business, often demanded by our clients, and an important operational risk management strategy. I am therefore pleased to reaffirm our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact and the Ten Principles. We are delighted to present or first annual Communication on Progress. Our report provides a summary of the actions we undertake to improve the integration of the ten principles into our daily operations and business strategy. We have made measurable progress towards this goal over the past year, and we look forward to strengthening our alignment against the ten principles in the years to come. With best wishes, Marian Boreland President, Cardno International Development Communication on Progress 5 Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect Inclusion and Diversity Policy: this Policy details the protection of internationally proclaimed human Cardno’s ongoing commitment to celebrate diversity rights. and it ensures our workplaces promote respect, fairness and equity for all. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Due Diligence Checklist for Partner Organisations: all subcontractors and suppliers must complete a due Assessment, policy & goals diligence checklist to ensure they conform to all of At Cardno we are committed to respecting and Cardno’s policies and procedures. protecting the human rights of stakeholders and communities we live and work in. We recognise the Measurement of outcomes complex nature of the environments we operate in As part of continuous improvement focus, we have and are cognizant of the heightened operational risk reviewed and updated our Child Protection Policy faced by our business as a result of human rights and Procedure. Additionally, we have updated our violations. We have aligned our policies, procedures, Corporate Social Responsibility Policy, it specifically values and culture with internationally recognised addresses our commitment to upholding human rights proclamations and frameworks on human rights. and not remaining complicit in human rights abuses. This will be implemented in 2019. Implementation We have also developed and rolled out a Due Our commitment to human rights is embedded Diligence Checklist for our partner organisations. in a number of policies and procedures, which are Suppliers and contractors must tick off all items on the reviewed and updated on a regular basis to ensure checklist before we will engage their services. accuracy and relevancy. All Cardno personnel must commit and adhere to these policies and procedures, Cardno has been working in the anti-trafficking and which are listed below: modern slavery space for over 15 years. We currently manage the ASEAN—Australia Counter Trafficking Child protection policy and procedure: reflects a zero program, which supports the improvement of criminal tolerance approach to all forms of child exploitation justice sector responses to human trafficking in the and abuse including those that constitute human ASEAN region. rights abuses. All personnel including employees, contractors, subcontractors and suppliers are required During the previous reporting period, we developed to have awareness of child protection matters and a comprehensive Modern Slavery Policy. It will be commit to our Child Protection Policy and Procedure, implemented in 2019, and we will determine how which also deals with how to report incidents if they it needs to be actualised in our business, and we’re occur. committed to providing training in this area for our staff. Child Protection Risk Assessment: all projects must undergo Child Protection Risk Assessments, which Next steps are documented and submitted for retention. Our commitment to upholding human rights is Corporate Responsibility Policy: this Policy reflects ongoing. In 2019 or 2020, we will seek to further our commitment to behave transparently and ethically, integrate human rights considerations in our business contributing to equitable, sustainable development strategy and daily operations. The currently planned within our workforce and the communities in which actions include implementing the aforementioned we live and work. Modern Slavery policy, developing a statement on human rights, and undertaking an internal review of The Cardno Way: The Cardno Way is our Code of modern slavery practices. Conduct Policy which details our commitment to our four core values of Safety, Integrity, People and Excellence. 6 Cardno > Australian owned and operated Communication on Progress 7 Labour Principles Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of Diversity and inclusion in the workplace is actively association and the effective recognition of the right promoted and celebrated. Regular events are held to collective bargaining. for staff members to promote social cohesion and inclusion in the workplace. Cardno actively promotes Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and equal employment opportunity throughout every compulsory labour. stage of the employment relationship. We do not Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour. discriminate and ensure all employees are treated fairly and equitably. Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Cardno has 130 corporate offices around the globe, and every effort is made to hire local staff and support them in their training and development. Assessment policy & goals Cardno recognises the integral role of our employees Below are some of the key policies and procedures and understands the value their diversity brings to that we implement relevant to the Labour Principles. our business. We firmly believe that all employees Workplace Behaviours Policy: Cardno is committed have the right to a fair, inclusive and safe working to providing a working environment that is safe and environment. Cardno supports that employees free from inappropriate and negative behaviours such maintain the right to freedom of association and as discrimination, workplace harassment, workplace collective bargaining. bullying, sexual harassment, vilification, workplace We strive to ensure that everyone associated violence and any other form of victimisation. This with Cardno’s business and daily operations are policy provides guidance on recognising these types free from all forms of compulsory and forced of behaviours and reporting them if they occur. labour. Furthermore, we take the utmost care and Global HSE Framework: outlines our structured HSE precautions in safeguarding against the use of child program which is implemented throughout all facets labour. of the business to ensure we achieve our goal of Zero Additionally, we have a Zero Harm goal incorporated Harm on every job, every day. in to our Health Safety and Environment (HSE) Policy Employee Assistance Program: with the goal of and Framework. We value safety above economic assisting the resolution of personal and work related considerations at all times and commit to Zero Harm problems, Cardno offers a confidential and voluntary on every job, every day for our people, clients and counselling service to our employees and their communities. immediate family members. Our labour policies and procedures are aligned with Global Privacy & Record Retention Policy for internationally recognised standards of labour laws. Employees: Cardno is committed to safeguarding the Additionally, Cardno abides by all labour legislations in privacy of personal information we gather concerning the jurisdictions we operate in. our prospective, current and former employees for management, human resources and payroll purposes. Implementation This policy applies to any worker engaged to perform All employees, contractors, subcontractors and work or services on behalf of Cardno. suppliers must read and acknowledge Cardno’s Child Protection Policy and Procedure: outlines policies and procedures including those setting Cardno’s commitment to preventing all forms of child out our standards across the labour principles. abuse and exploitation including those related to child Additional training is provided for those particularly labour. The procedure also provides a mechanism for sensitive areas such as child protection. Training is reporting violations of this policy where they occur. designed to equip personnel with the knowledge and mechanisms to recognise and report incidences of Inclusion and Diversity: this policy details Cardno’s child labour if they occur. ongoing commitment to celebrate diversity and 8 Cardno > Australian owned and operated ensure our workplaces promote respect, fairness and Measurement of outcomes equity for all. In line with our commitment to achieving ‘Zero Harm’ by continually improving our health, safety and Purchased Leave Policy: Cardno acknowledges environmental performance, over the last reporting the value of flexible working arrangements to period we upgraded our incident reporting and enable employees to strike a balance between work management system (SHIELD). This new reporting responsibilities and personal commitments. This mechanism is a more comprehensive system that policy provides guidance for staff to purchase leave in will be utilised to manage all types of incidents, addition to their legislative leave requirements. including environmental, security, property damage, Domestic & Family Violence Leave Policy: this vehicle, near misses, hazards and also injury and policy recognises that domestic violence is a illness; greatly improving efficiency. widespread issue that does not discriminate in who Lastly, we are committed to the engagement of it can affect. In addition to the support services Indigenous Australians in our line of business. To provided through our Employee Assistance Program that end, we actively work with Aboriginal owned (EAP), this Policy enables staff affected by domestic and managed businesses in our international violence to access additional leave if necessary. development supply chain. Parental Leave Policy: This policy outlines the entitlements to parental leave for eligible Cardno Next steps employees, as well as the requirements for Moving forward, we will continue to address the notification and application for parental leave. issues of modern slavery and child protection. Grievance Policy and Procedure: Cardno actively and work towards bolstering our implementation strives to provide a workplace that is free from efforts in these areas. Further to this, a Gender Pay negative behaviours such as discrimination, Gap Review for the organisation was commissoned harassment, bullying and other inappropriate with the initial results distributed internally to all behaviour which creates discomfort to employees, Cardno employees in December 2018. It will be followed up with the development of a Gender Pay contractors or any person who associates with our Gap Action Plan and a more detailed analysis. organisation. This policy and procedure provides a process for employees to follow for employment Our CEO also became a member of Consult related grievances. Australia’s Male Champion of Change (CAMCC) network in December 2018. The network works Women in Cardno: Cardno aspires to be a global collaboratively to increase the representation and leader in terms of how women are engaged in the influence of women within their firms and across the workforce. As such, Cardno created an ambitious built environment. program that provides opportunities for women across the business to advance and grow their This is all part of Cardno’s continuing efforts to create careers in a supportive environment. a more equitable workplace for everyone at Cardno. Communication on Progress 9 Environment Principles Principle 7: businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment policy & goals At Cardno we value environmental sustainability and have embedded it across all of our operations. We are continuously striving to lessen our environmental footprint by finding new ways to protect, conserve and enhance our physical, social, economic and cultural environment, while also responsibly managing the resources and ecosystems that future generations depend on. Our clients, including the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade, mandate the implementation social and environmental safeguards in our program for comprehensive approaches to mitigating and delivery practices. As such, Cardno is committed managing climate risks. to maintaining high standards to meet our client’s Our policies and procedures reflecting our requirements as well as our own. commitment to environmental sustainability are listed Over the next year we will continue to look for ways below: to integrate further environmental and sustainable Corporate Responsibility: we are committed to solutions into our business and daily operations. applying the principles of sustainable environmental management in the work we do and in the way we Implementation operate our business. We are committed to avoiding, reducing, re-using and recycling goods to minimise the waste we produce. Global Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) We implement in-office recycling initiatives and Framework: Cardno is committed to protection of energy efficient office spaces, and reduce and control the environment and full compliance with applicable environmental hazards to limit negative impacts on environmental laws and regulations. Our HSE our local communities. Framework provides details on ensuring compliance with the laws of the jurisdictions in which we We work closely with our clients and advocate for operate. responsible management of environmental impacts throughout a project’s lifecycle. We support them Measurement of outcomes to identify risks to the natural environment, develop Awareness raising and implementation of in-office plans to protect onsite resources, and undertake recycling initiatives have also resulted in staff restoration activities. becoming more conscious of the importance of Recognising that climate change is one of the recycling and waste minimisation, and segregation of greatest challenges facing our generation, we are waste. We continue to be engaged by a diverse client serious about our role in monitoring and reducing base for projects sensitive to environmental impacts, contributions to global warming. Our International reflecting Cardno’s reputation for rigorous compliance Development Physical Infrastructure group with the environmental safeguards mandated by provides world-class support to clients looking our clients. 10 Cardno > Australian owned and operated Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against subcontractors and suppliers relating to the corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery. prevention, detection, and reporting of fraud. Anti-Corruption Policy: outlines Cardno’s zero Assessment policy & goals tolerance approach to all forms of corruption and Cardno’s commitment to anti-corruption is core to provides guidance on recognising and reporting our business and mandated by our clients. As such, corruption when it occurs. we continue to maintain a stringent zero tolerance approach to all forms of corruption including extortion Global Anti-Bribery Policy: sets out Cardno’s and bribery. We are committed to conducting our responsibilities and those of our staff, contractors, operations ethically, with integrity and in compliance subcontractors and suppliers in observing and with the legislation of the country which we upholding Cardno’s zero tolerance position on bribery operate in. and corruption. Blocked Parties Screening Policy: this is Cardno’s Implementation vetting Policy. The objective of this Policy is to We are focused on awareness raising and training to provide guidance for the proactive screening of ensure that Cardno staff, contractors, subcontractors all potential recipients of funds to ensure Cardno and suppliers are equipped with the knowledge and actively manages and mitigates risk, and meets its tools to recognise corruption in all forms if it occurs contractual obligations with all donors, private and and processes to report them using the appropriate public sector clients and charitable foundations. channels. Due Diligence Checklist for Partner Organisations: All Cardno personnel are required to undertake all subcontractors and suppliers must complete a due mandatory online fraud and anti-bribery training on a diligence checklist to ensure they conform to all of yearly basis. Training programs are updated regularly Cardno’s policies and procedures. to ensure ongoing relevance. We have several reporting mechanisms in place that Measurement of Outcomes personnel can utilise. One of these is the WhistleCompliance with mandatory anti-corruption training blower Hotline, through which reports can be made is reported on a monthly basis to the board. It is our anonymously. This process is guided by our Whistlegoal to consistently have 100 per cent compliance blower Policy. in this area. Over the past reporting period we have seen a steady improvement in the number of We have several policies and procedures in place to personnel completing the formal online training. In ensure compliance with our zero tolerance approach addition to compliance reports, Cardno also conducts to all forms of corruptions. These are listed and regular internal and external audits in our financial and summarised below: operational processes. Whistle-blower Results from these Policy and Hotline: audits have indicated staff, contractors, a high standard of subcontractors commitment to antiand suppliers are corruption. all encouraged to In 2018, we also report acts of fraud or achieved ISO 9001 corruption if they occur. certification for our Fraud Policy: provides Quality Management guidance and outlines System, reflecting our the obligations of all impeccable standards Cardno staff, contractors, in compliance and risk management. Communication on Progress 11 About Cardno Cardno is an international firm dedicated to the social, economic and physical development of communities. We engage in international development as a holistic, multidisciplinary and integrated process. Strengthened by our geographic and market diversity, we are committed to providing innovative and integrated solutions that create opportunities for significant, lasting change in emerging economies. Partnering with multilateral and bilateral donors, private clients, governments and communities to develop sustainable solutions to complex challenges, we work with local counterparts to achieve meaningful impact. 50 Cardno’s commitment to Zero Harm Cardno’s goal is to always conduct our business in a way that protects our people, clients, visitors and members of the public from harm. In an effort to move toward the ultimate objective of zero harm, we are committed to implementing safety systems and awareness throughout our operations globally. Australia • Belgium • Canada • Colombia • Ecuador • Germany • Indonesia • Kenya • Myanmar • New Zealand • Nigeria • Papua New Guinea • Peru • Philippines • Singapore • Timor-Leste • United Kingdom • United States • Operations in over 100 countries international.development@cardno.com www.cardno.com/internationaldevelopment 12 Cardno > Australian owned and operated
