Sustainability Report 2018 2019 • Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 2 Contents Environmental 3 Welcome 27 Goals 51 Impacts Message from 6 29 Impact on Health 59 Society the Leadership Patient Health GRI Standards 9 Highlights 36 64 and Safety Content Index 11 Profile 39 Healthcare Professionals 77 Credits 18 Governance and Ethics 43 Employees Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 3 1 Welcome Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 4 Welcome GRI 102-1 / 102-40 / 102-42 / 102-43 / 102-46 / 102-47 / 102-50 / 102-53 / 102-54 This is Daiichi Sankyo Brasil’s Sustainability Report. Stakeholders In this document, we present how the Company’s activities focused on health and quality of life generaSustainability te value for patients, health professionals, employespecialists es, society and the environment. The information reported covers all of our business Employees throughout the fiscal year from April 1st, 2018 to March 31st, 2019. The report is based on the Global ReporDaiichi Sankyo Brasil ting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, the voluntary standard for the most widely adopted sustainability reporting in the world. To define this report scope, we conducted a process Suppliers to understand in which topics our Company has the Internal axis: External axis: greatest potential to generate negative and positive Relevance to Relevance to impacts for our internal and external stakeholders. the strategy stakeholders The chosen stakeholders were those which we routinely relate with, because they have a greater capacity to impact and to suffer impacts from our business. Pharmaceutical Patients Industries Sector organization Healthcare professionals Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 5 The priority topics for Daiichi Sankyo Brasil, the pharmaceutical industry, sector The full description of the survey result, relevance and limits of each topic can be organizations and sustainability specialists were identified through studies in pufound on page 66. blic documents. Employees, suppliers, health professionals and patients opinions were gathered through an online survey with 260 participants. Following the GRI guidelines, in its Core option, we used the material topics as the basis for choosing and reporting a series of indicators, which can be identified As a result, we defined seven material topics: throughout the report by the acronym “GRI”. The full list of indicators can be found in the GRI Content Index (page 67). In the GRI Index, we also signaled how the reported indicators relate to the UN-defined Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) for the purpose of guiding national Impact on communities policies and engaging companies and organizations around the world towards sustainable development. In doing so, we map our impacts on sustainability acHealth cording to a metric globally adopted, demonstrating how we generate value throuimpact ghout the year. Environmental impacts Relationship with health professionals Ethics Contact To submit questions, suggestions or request Employee development more information about the report, contact us Sustainability in the at responsabilidadesocial@dsbr.com.br supply chain Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 6 2 Message from the Leadership Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 7 Message from the Leadership GRI 102-14 and internal processes, betting on the continued Thinking about the continuity of our growth, we growth of our Company in the upcoming years. continue investing in research and development of new medicines that should increase our potential The main milestone of this process was the launch to positively impact the health of Brazilians in the of two new products: Lixiana ® (edoxabana) and Lashort, medium and long term. For Daiichi Sankyo Brasil it tuda ® (lurasidone hydrochloride). is a joy and a responsibility In the midst of this process, we also focus our into release this 2018/2019 Lixiana ® is an oral anticoagulant indicated for stroke vestment in the training of health professionals, Sustainability Report to prevention in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillawhere we disseminate scientific information about our stakeholders. In this tion (AF) and for the treatment and secondary preour medicines, the pathologies they fight against vention of venous thromboembolism. Through it, and their therapeutic areas. In this way, we contridocument, we show how we have increased our impact on the population bute to the generation of knowledge in society and our strategy, management health, since AF affects between 0.5% and 1% of the updating of physicians and researchers. and operation have created the population. value for society and for Another important action to support our future devethe environment throughout Latuda®, is an atypical antipsychotic indicated to treat lopment is Total Quality Project, which improves our the last fiscal year, besides schizophrenia and type I bipolar depression, disorders processes in order to meet customer requirements, affecting approximately 2% and 1% of the population, achieve corporate goals and improve our financial ensuring our business respectively. results. With it, we implemented the Profitability Prosustainability. ject, which seeks to more efficiently invest resources, Another important highlight in this process was the cut costs and optimize corporate processes. inauguration of our new administrative and commercial office in the city of São Paulo. The space presents a modern and bold architecture, allowing a more collaWe have achieved these results amidst a challenborative, innovative and inclusive work environment. ging economic scenario characterized by political Simultaneously, we updated our dress code, defining and economic uncertainties resulting in a feeble a more informal style, adopted flexible hours and contiGDP growth. Nevertheless, we remain investing in nued offering home office options, bringing an innovathe innovation of our product line, our management tion and engagement environment to our employees. Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 8 We have done all this following the guidelines of our Integrity Program, which seeks to ensure ethical conduct and the fight against corruption in our business. Through it, we reviewed our Code of Conduct and Anti-Corruption Policy, in addition to launching the new Code of Conduct for Business Partners. In doing so, we established the pillars that will sustain our Company in the coming years. Our focus on the future is also present in the care with the environment. In 2018/2019, we switched the Sales Force fleet fuel from gasoline to ethanol, contributing to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. This initiative, along with the purchase of renewable energy in the Free Market, has reduced our emissions by 68%. Since April 1st, 2018, I have been the CEO of Daiichi Sankyo Brasil, in order to continue the work that the former CEO, Eloi Bosio, has performed in recent years. After all, by focusing on the continuity of the Company’s growth and innovation process, we intend to bring health and quality of life to more and more people through our actions and our medicines. Marcelo Gonçalves Daiichi Sankyo Brasil CEO Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 9 3 Highlights Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 10 2018/2019 Highlights Change of administrative Adherence to Interfarma’s and commercial medicine reverse logistics plan. office. Launch of Lixiana® and Latuda® medicines. Updating of the Code of Conduct and Anti-Corruption Policy. 68% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. Implementation of the Total Launch of the Code Quality Program. Exchanged the of Conduct for Sales Force Business Partners. Sales Force fuel to Ethanol. restructuring. Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 11 4 Profile Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 12 Profile Who we are Daiichi Sankyo is a global pharmaceutical organization, with origin in Japan, established in 2005, through the merger of two large Japanese pharmaceutical companies, with more than one hundred years of history: Daiichi and Sankyo. The name Daiichi means “first”. Sankyo comes from the word san (three, in Japanese) and kyo (working together), referring to the fact that the company was founded by three friends. Today, the Organization is present in more than 20 countries around the world, with more than 15,000 employees dedicated to the creation and supply of pharmaceuticals to meet diverse medical needs. In 2006, Daiichi Sankyo Brasil was created and, since then, has maintained a line of products focused on specialties such as cardiology, psychiatry and orthopedics, marketed in all regions of the country and also exported to 12 other countries in Latin America. The main way we generate value is by producing, promoting and selling medicines that promote the population’s health and quality of life. Commitment to patients has been part of the Organization essence since our centenary roots in Japan and is present in our daily lives, focusing on the medicines’ quality and innovation. Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 13 Timeline Sankyo acquires Luitpold Werk GmbH, a German mid-sized pharmaceutical In Brazil, Luitpold Produtos Foundation of Sankyo Shoten, company with operations in Farmacêuticos Ltda.becomes predecessor of Sankyo Co. several European countries Sankyo Pharma Brasil in Japan Sankyo discover the first HMG-CoA Sankyo discovers reductase inhibitor, creating the Sankyo Pharma Brasil vitamin B1 class of statins launches Benicar® 1899 1915 1918 1980 1997 2005 2010 2017 1910 1916 1973 1990 2004 2006 2016 Foundation of Arsemin Shokai, Creation of Daiichi Daiichi Sankyo and Daiichi announce Launched Launched predecessor of Daiichi in Japan Pharmaceutical Pharmaceutical a joint holding company, Effient® Daisan® and Corporation in is founded in founding Daiichi Sankyo Co. Inovaflex New York, USA Japan Ltd in Japan Daiichi launches Neo-Arsemin® for the treatment of syphilis Creation of Daiichi Sankyo Dissemination of Brasil Farmacêutica Ltda. the new vision of the Organization: “Be a global pharma innovator company with competitive advantage in Oncology” Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 14 Mission, Vision and Core Values GRI 102-16 Mission COMMITMENTS: Accountability 1. To create innovative medicines changing the It is our culture. We eagerly accept our duties and To contribute to the enrichment of quality of life standard of care: universally applied best trehonor our commitments with all those who depend around the world through the creation of innovative atment practice in today’s medical science; on us so that we can provide innovative medicines pharmaceuticals, and through the provision of pharfor patients all over the world. maceuticals addressing diverse medical needs. 2. To take a global perspective, and respect regional values; COMMITMENTS: 7. To be accountable for achieving our goals; 3. To foster intellectual curiosity and strategic inVision 2025 sight. 8. To demonstrate professionalism, respect for others and teamwork. Be a global pharma innovator company with competitive advantage in Oncology. Integrity It is our strength and a fundamental feature of our character. We always work so that our activities are Core Values and done correctly and transparently, in order to improCommitments ve the patients’ health and well-being. COMMITMENTS: Innovation 4. To provide the highest quality medical informaIt is our essence as well as a fundamental requiretion; ment aimed at creating innovative medicines that stand out at global level. Each and every employee 5. To provide a stable supply of top-quality pharat Daiichi Sankyo shares this innovation spirit. maceutical; 6. To be an ethical, trusted, and respectful partner. Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 15 Products GRI 102-2 Our medicines Psychiatry and Neurology • Latuda® (lurasidone hydrochloride) Food product • Inovaflex (hydrolyzed collagen + vitamin C) Cardiology • Benicar® (olmesartan medoxomil) • Benicar Anlo® (olmesartan medoxomil + amlodipine) Gastroenterology • Benicar HCT® (olmesartan medoxomil + hydrochlorothiazide) • Lactulona® (lactulose) • Dainitre® (propatylnitrate) • Effient® (prasugrel hydrochloride) • Lixiana® (edoxabana) Orthopedics and Pain • Daisan® (tramadol hydrochloride + paracetamol) • Euflexxa® (sodium hyaluronate) • Hirudoid® (mucopolysaccharide polysulfate) • Loxonin® (sodium loxoprofen) Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 16 National and international presence GRI 102-3 / 102-4 / 102-6 / 102-7 During fiscal year 2018/2019, our Company sold approximately 17 million packaging units serving Brazilian and Latin American markets. They are widely used by physicians and patients in clinics, public and private hospitals and physician offices throughout the country. The Company has an administrative and commercial office located in São Paulo SP, and a productive plant in Barueri (SP), which produces the medicines: Benicar®, Benicar HCT®, BenicarAnlo®, Lixiana®, Loxonin® and Hirudoid®. In addition to these, Daiichi Sankyo Brasil also imports and directly markets the products: Lactulona®, Latuda® and Effient®. We also sell Daisan®, Dainitre®, Euflexxa® and Inovaflex, which are produced through local partners. The promotion of medicines among Brazilian healthcare professionals is carried out by the Sales force’s demand team. Their commercialization are done through the commercial area with distributors and large pharmaceutical networks in all Brazilian states, as well as participation in bids. Today, 26% of all production from the Brazilian factory is exported. Exports take place both in the direct model, in which the Company negotiates directly with an importing customer, and in the indirect model, in which the business occurs through another company located in Brazil. In 2018/2019, we changed the countries which we export directly. According to this model, we now export only to Guatemala and Mexico, which serve other countries in Latin America. In the indirect model, the shipments are sent to Colombia and Ecuador. Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 17 Economic performance GRI 102-7 During 2018, the Brazilian economy kept its gradual In this context, during the fiscal year 2018/2019, we Revenue (R$ million) growth recovery, impacted by the uncertainties arirecorded a 16.3% increase in our net sales in the sing from the political scenario and consequent imlocal market, slightly higher than the 15.6% recorded precision in the economic policy to be adopted by in the previous fiscal year. The main factors respon395.3 the government. As a result, GDP grew by 1.1% in sible for the result in the Brazilian market were the 2018, same as the previous year. launch of new products, which expanded our portfo332.3 342.4 lio, and Benicar® performance, which continued to be our highlight in terms of sales growth, increasing 294.2 our impact on population health. Since the Company markets 2017/2018 2018/2019 products that directly impact the In the international market, we were impacted by the ongoing economic crisis affecting part of Latin population health and quality Gross Revenue America countries, which was offset by increased Net Revenue of life, the pharmaceutical exports to Mexico. As a result of these factors and sector was less affected by the favorable exchange rate, our exports grew 21% the crisis when compared do over last year. other segments. Even so, its performance was impacted by In addition to the increase in our sales, another initiative that impacted our results throughout the year the high unemployment rate was the Profitability Project, which brought greater and by the restriction in the efficiency to the local operation, reducing costs, population purchasing power. avoiding waste and investing in priority projects (leIn 2018, the sector grew 9.8%, arn more on page 26). As a result, we generated reregistering a growth close to venues of R$ 342.4 million, 16% higher than in 2017. that of 2017 (10.1%). Therefore, we demonstrated our capacity in maintaining financial sustainability while promoting population health, generating value for our stakeholders. Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 18 5 Governance and Ethics Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 19 Governance and Ethics Governance GRI 102-10 / 102-18 / 102-22 / 102-23 Our Corporate Governance defends a transparent Executive Committee and ethical stance in the relationship with all stakeholders, promoting business sustainability and generating long-term value. The company governance structure is formed by the Board of Directors, the organization’s highest body, and by the Executive Committee. The President is President the professional who represents the company legally and is member of the Board. At the beginning of the fiscal year, we had a change in the company leadership: Eloi Bosio, our former President, announced his retirement. The position was taken up by Marcelo José Gonçalves, former Financial Regulatory Medical Industrial Marketing Human Sales Marketing and Sales Director. Director Affairs Affairs Operations Director Resources Executive LATAM Director Executive Director Management Eloi Bosio continues as a member of the Board of Director Management Directors, which also has the presence of the current President and two employees from Daiichi Sankyo, who hold executive positions in Japan. In addition to the Executive Committee, our goverThe Committees allow us to be attentive to current The Executive Committee is composed of the Presinance model is structured in Committees, responsible world changes and to alter the course of decisions dent, five directors and two managing directors, orfor defining the strategy and actions to ensure smooth if necessary. They are: Executive Committee, Results ganized according to the organization chart: company operation, transparency and implementaMeeting and Budget Review, New Business Committion of strategic planning. tee LRR Committee (Launch Readiness Review), Labor Committee, S&OP Committee, Ethical Conduct Committee, Manufacturing Committee, Quality Committee and New Business Committee. Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 20 Ethics GRI 102-16 / 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 ties and functioning of the body in decision making, always seeking to strengthen our commitment to a At Daiichi Sankyo Brasil, we culture of ethics, transparency and integrity. conduct our business in an We have a Code of Conduct, which describes the ethiDaiichi Sankyo Brasil ethical and responsible manner, cal and moral principles that should guide our actions. always seeking to be attentive The document integrates the Innovation, Integrity and to the transparency of our Responsibility values to the activities performed daily actions and to the fulfillment of by all our employees, in addition to formalizing our our legal obligations. commitment to the Integrity Program implementation (learn more on page 23) and disseminating ethical culture throughout our value chain. P R O G R A M A D E During fiscal year 2018/2019, our Code of Conduct The main body to deliberate on these topics is the COMPLIANCE Ethical Conduct Committee, composed of three memwas updated, and its content was reviewed and bers of the Executive Committee: Presidency, Human approved by the Executive Committee. In addition to Resources Department and Financial Department. It revising its guidelines, the new version of the Code of is responsible for promoting initiatives to raise awaConduct brought new features to its layout, having reness among internal and external audiences and to the “Blue Tree” as the main feature, the official symanalyze complaints on conduct inconsistent with the bol of the Daiichi Sankyo Global Integrity Program. Company principles, as well as recommending the application of any educational or punitive measures We deliver a hard copy of the Code of Conduct to that may be necessary. all employees, at the time of their admission, making the document available online in our intranet. After In 2018, we approved the Internal Regulation of the reading it, employees must sign a consent form, Ethical Conduct Committee, a document that aims to where they confirm their understanding and commit regulate the attributions, competencies, responsibilito comply with the guidelines. Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 21 In addition, we have an Anti-Corruption Policy, whiBlue Tree ch establishes the guidelines and clarifies concepts related to the subject, presenting measures to preIn 2018, Daiichi Sankyo Group crevent corruption while instructing on how to report ated a new visual identity for comviolations of these standards. In 2018, the Anti-Corpliance matters, showing a commitruption Policy was also revised and updated. After ment to preventing and detecting publication and disclosure through internal commuviolations of laws, regulations, ponication, all employees signed the consent form with licies and internal procedures, as the guidelines established by the policy. well as unethical conduct from its employees, representatives or exeDuring the year, we also launched the Code of Concutives. The image used to repreduct for Business Partners, a document that ranks sent our commitment to transpathe general principles of conduct that must be incorrency was the “Blue Tree”, which porated by all third parties and partners acting in the presents the following symbolism: name, interest or benefit of our Company. The document aims to positively stimulate the dissemination • Blue color: blue represents the of ethical culture in society and in the business enviconfidence that our company has ronment in which we conduct our activities. Through cultivated, with a strong sense of a clause in the signed agreements, our suppliers and direction and responsibility. business partners undertake to comply with all the directives of this Code. • Tree: represents strength and endurance. Each of its branches makes the tree is bigger and stronger. Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 22 Conflict of Interests GRI 102-25 The Code of Conduct establishes that the interests of Conflict of Interests the Company should not be adversely affected over personal interests of its managers and employees. In the document, we point out some practices that may favor the occurrence of conflict of interest and, given their importance, deserve specific orientation, such as: External Kinship and Gifts and Events and professional affective relationship presents Hospitality activities Upon hiring, any new employee must inform our their situation. In case of any conflict, the Comleadership about possible conflicts of interest and pliance area evaluates the case, issuing an opinion renew the report whenever there is a change in for risk mitigation. Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 23 Integrity Program GRI 102-17 / 205-2 / 205-3 In order to ensure that our ethical, transparent and to our employees, featuring online trainings compocorrect culture is properly communicated to all emCode of Ethical Conduct, sed of short videos followed by a content memoployees and is part of their daily lives, we have an Applicable Policies and rization question. During fiscal year 2018/2019, we Integrity Program. The Program began in 2017 and Legislation conducted communications on the Code of Conduct was drawn up based on our Anti-Corruption Policy and the Promotional Practices Guidelines at least and the Code of Conduct. twice per quarter. In 2018, we updated our Code of Conduct and During 2018, we expanded the Program’s initiatives, Anti-Corruption Policy and launched the Code of The “Did You Know?” Newsletters are sent to emstructured into five pillars: Conduct for Business Partners and the Internal Reployees on a monthly basis to emphasize the integrity gulations of the Ethical Conduct Committee, docuculture, addressing issues such as “Corruption and ments that guide the ethical way we conduct our the Health Sector”, “Petty Corruption”, “Communibusiness (learn more about them on page 20). We cation Channels”, “Fraud and Money Laundering.” also created the Third-Party Hiring Policy and launTop Management In December 2018, we held the 2nd edition of the ched the of DSBR Medicines Donation and Subsidy Support to Employees Policy. Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Ethics Week, in celebration of the International Day against Corruption, celebrated on December 9. To open the week, CEO Marcelo The pillar aims to ensure the involvement of manaGonçalves recorded a message for all employees, gers, especially the Executive Committee, to align reinforcing our commitment to the theme. the way we conduct our business. During the year 2018, the Compliance area, responsible for the ProTraining and gram, began reporting to the Financial Department, Communication reinforcing our governance on the subject. All our employees participate annually in an anti-corruption classroom training, to reinforce the main concepts related to the Integrity Program. Besides classroom training, Knowledge Pills are also shared Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 24 • Compliment: it is possible to recognize positive attitudes from co-workers or related areas. Hotline Monitoring and Auditing These messages are routed to the HR Board; • Suggestions: if the user has some contribution to the improvement of routines and the In fiscal year 2017/2018, we performed a ComplianAny violation of our ethical values and the principles work environment, he/she may also access the ce Risk Assessment in our operation. Currently, the of the Code of Conduct may be reported by our emchannel so that the message is directed to the process is used to monitor the most risky issues and ployees, customers and business partners through appropriate area. to improve our internal processes. the Confidential Channel. All reports must be made through the Company official In addition to this mapping, we also perform a routiThe Channel is managed by an outsourced, indechannel, which is accessed by the following mean: ne risk assessment, inherent to the company’s propendent and specialized company that manages the cesses, which includes monitoring the Confidential reports received. All complaints are analyzed and Channel and monitoring conflicts of interest aspects. forwarded by the Compliance area and the Ethical Conduct Committee. The reports received are confidential and can be made anonymously. In 2018, in order to strengthen transparency and communication with employees and third parties, Accessing the Confidential Channel the Confidential Channel now has a new external partner and new functionalities: Website: www.helloethics.com/daiichisankyo • Report complaints: if there is a real or susAvailable 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. pected violation of the Code of Conduct, internal policies or current legislation, all employees Telefone: 0800 761 1632 are required to report it through the Confidential Contact the clerk from 7AM to 7PM. Channel; For other times, weekends and holidays • Questions: if there is any doubt regarding comit is possible to leave a message in the pliance issues, they may be registered anonyvoicemail. mously or identified and will be answered by the Compliance Area; E-mail: compliance@dsbr.com.br Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 25 Commitments GRI 102-12 Our commitment to ethics and the fight against corThe program was implemented in August in the adruption is reflected in the commitments we endorse: ministrative office with the aim of increasing corporate value, seeking excellence in processes and alignment with the Daiichi Sankyo Group goals and objectives. As a member of the Pharmaceutical Research & DeveThrough it, we introduced a management model foculopment Companies Association (Interfarma), we follow sed on improving procedures and quality development, the Interfarma Code of Conduct, a document that goto meet not only the customers’ requirements, but also verns the daily practice of the pharmaceutical industry. the entire Company, including its departments and suppliers, boosting financial results. Since 2010, the company is a signatory to the GloQuality In addition to the administrative office, the program has already taken place in our factory in Barueri since bal Compact, an initiative of the United Nations (UN) 2011, through the Kaizen projects. to mobilize the business community to adopt prinCommitment to product In order to implement the Total Quality Program, we ciples that reflect core values in the areas of human quality and internal have adopted the LEAN SIX SIGMA methodology, whirights, labor relations, environment and anti-corruption. From 2018, through the decision of the Daiichi processes has been part of ch includes a set of methods and tools that bring imthe Daiichi Sankyo Group’s provements at all levels of the Company. Sankyo Group, we elect our degree of engagement as a “participant”, which ensures greater represenculture since its origins To do so, we count on the engagement of the entire tativeness and visibility in events and committees, as in Japan over 100 years Executive Committee, which collaborated with the diswell as other counterparts. ago. In order to further semination of the concept at all levels of the Company engage our Company and and held meetings and training with our employees. employees in this direction, As a result, we defined eight projects to be implemenwe established our Total ted in the office and another eight in the factory, which Quality Program during include improvements in the Company’s processes. fiscal year 2018/2019. Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 26 Profitability was another important project, which, in line with the corporation global objectives, sought to review non-priority projects, renegotiate contracts and cut costs, allowing to efficiently invest resources, optimizing business processes while increasing profitability. Therefore, we are preparing our Company to continue to grow in the long term, in a sustainable way, with a focus on innovation and competitive advantage in oncology. Meeting on Quality In September, we held the 10th edition of our Meeting on Quality, whose theme was “The Art of Quality”. During the event, we call on employees to reflect on the processes and activities performed from the artwork point of view and how they can be responsible for quality in their day to day, always pursuing perfection. Just like in art, we know that the standards are always high, but it should be our goal throughout the work routine. The event took place in Barueri and was attended by 170 employees. One of the lectures was made by Japanese ceramics artist Hideko Honma, who highlighted the importance of quality in art, showing how the artist seeks perfection through the small details in her work. Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 27 6 Goals Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 28 Goals COMMITMENTS MADE IN 2018 WHAT WAS DONE STATUS COMMITMENTS FOR 2019 1. Develop and implement a total quality program The program was Increase access to Latuda® and Lixiana® products. focused on process excellence. launched in 2018. 2. Expand the product portfolio through partnerships, Launched Latuda® and Maintain the organizational climate with an licenses, lines extension and acquisition of new Lixiana® medicines. employee satisfaction rate of at least 80%. products and launch two new products. Trainings continued 3. Maintain the training for the year 2018 through the Integrity Program. Increase financial sustainability of local business. throughout the fiscal year. Global Compact Global Compact Water consumption: Water: Reduce or Result: 0.0397 m³ Support a precautionary keep or reduce keep at 0.041 m³ approach to consumption at 37.9 Support a precautionary approach environmental challenges liters/thousand units to environmental challenges produced. Energy: Reduce or Result: 0.0204 MWh keep at 0.0210 MWh Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 29 7 Impact on Health Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 30 Impact on Health Health promotion GRI 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 / 203-2 The major way our Dainitre® is indicated in the treatment of acute epiCompany creates value Cardiology sodes of angina (angina pectoris) and in the prevention of acute angina attacks caused by exercise in for patients and society • Benicar® patients with chronic coronary insufficiency. in general is through the • Benicar Anlo® production and sale of • Benicar HCT® Effient® is a platelet antiaggregant indicated for the innovative medicines that • Effient® reduction of atherothrombotic events (such as carcontribute to increase the • Dainitre® diovascular death, myocardial infarction and stroke) • Lixiana® in acute coronary syndromes (ACS). population’s life expectancy and quality. Our products focus on five lines: NEW PRODUCT The Cardiology line concentrates most of our proCardiology, Psychiatry, ducts and represents our greatest tradition. These Lixiana® is an oral anticoagulant which acts by reGastroenterology, ducing the chances of forming blood clots in the medicines represent a relevant positive impact on heart and treating clots in the veins of the legs or Orthopedics and Pain the Brazilian population health, since, according to lungs. It is indicated for the prevention of stroke in and Food. the Ministry of Health, more than 300 thousand pepatients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation and in ople die each year from cardiovascular diseases in the treatment and secondary prevention of venous Brazil¹, which still is the leading cause of death in thromboembolism. Non-valvular atrial fibrillation afthe country. fects between 0.5% and 1% of the world populaThe Benicar® franchise is intended to treat hypertion³, while venous thromboembolism affects 15% of tension. The medicine has presentations developed the population with cancer. to treat patients according to the different disease profiles. Currently, hypertension is prevalent in more than 30% of the Brazilian adult population². Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 31 Daisan® is a combination of a central-acting analgePsychiatry and Neurology Orthopedics and Pain sic, tramadol, with paracetamol, widely used analgesic. This combination has a synergistic analgesic • Latuda® • Euflexxa® effect, in which paracetamol potentiates the action of • Hirudoid® tramadol, allowing to decrease dosage of each active • Loxonin® principle while maintaining the same effectiveness in NEW PRODUCT • Daisan® the treatment of moderate to severe pain. In Psychiatry, we work with Latuda®, an atypical anAs for Orthopedics and Pain, Euflexxa® is a medicitipsychotic indicated to treat type I bipolar disorder ne given through intra-articular injections to treat pain and schizophrenia. Bipolar disorder affects about caused by osteoarthritis, a degenerative disease of 2% of world population5 and schizophrenia approxithe knee joint. The solution applied aims to restore Food product mately 1% of the population6. joint hydration, providing immediate protection, lubri• Inovaflex cation and shock absorption to the affected knee. Finally, in our Food line, Inovaflex is a powder to Hirudoid® acts by reducing inflammation, with pain prepare drink (lemon and green tea flavors), based Gastroenterology relief and reduction in swelling and redness in areas on hydrolyzed collagen and vitamin C. As a structuwith varicose veins or purple spots resulting from brui• Lactulona® (lactulose) ral component of cartilage, ensuring collagen levels ses (bumps and traumas), surgeries, or similar condiis essential to keep joints healthy and flexible. Ascortions. It is indicated for adult and pediatric patients. In the Gastroenterology area, we work with Lactubic acid (vitamin C) plays a key role in the collagen The product has been in the market since 1955, being lona®, indicated to treat the symptoms of intestinal synthesis, associated to potent antioxidant action. one of the oldest and well-known brands from Daiichi constipation, regulating the bowel movements, as it Sankyo. intensifies the accumulation of water in the stool. ¹ Source: http://bit.ly/2KczW4k Loxonin® is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug ² Source: http://bit.ly/2MKBi8B (NSAID) presenting peripheral analgesic action, anti³ Source: Brazilian Guidelines for Atrial Fibrillation. Accessed on 06/11/2019. -inflammatory action and anti-thermal action. It preDisponível em: http://bit.ly/2ZgNK14 sents a subtle gastric activity and avoids direct ac4 Source: Agnelli G, Verso M. J Thromb Haemost. 2011;9 tions on the digestive mucosa, reducing common Suppl 1:316-324 gastrointestinal side effects in NSAID treatments. 5 Source: http://bit.ly/31l7tyu 6 Source: Mari JJ, et al. The epidemiology of schizophrenia. Available at: http://bit.ly/31tUlqL Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 32 Launches Access to medicines GRI 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 Our portfolio expansion is one of the main ways we have to ensure our Company sustainability and the continuous value creation for our stakeholders. Internally, the In order to increase the use of our medicines and consequently our impact on the arrival of new products means an increase in revenues and our long-term financial health of the Brazilian population, we created our Access area in 2018. It aims to support. For health professionals, it represents one more treatment option availastrengthen our relationships with public authorities, hospitals, insurance compable in their specialty. For patients and society in general, it means a new possibility nies and medical and patient associations, creating institutional relationships that to treat a disease and improve their quality of life. facilitate access to our products. Therefore, we seek to continuously develop new molecules (learn more on page The creation of such area is part of a strategic movement from our Company to 34) while seeking the approval of new medicines by Anvisa (page 33), in order to increase the knowledge about the population medical needs and their behavior accelerate its arrival in the market. As a result of these efforts, during fiscal year during treatment, seeking to develop solutions that increase medicines commer2018/2019, we introduced two new medicines: Lixiana® and Latuda®. cialization, allowing greater and better access by patients. Lixiana® came to strengthen our cardiology line portfolio. Launched in Japan in The Access area becomes even more important in a moment when we are in2011, it had a global strategy for its worldwide launch, which centralized research, vesting in the development of Oncology-targeted medicines as set forth in our submissions and marketing decisions, with large investments in its development. Vision 2025 (learn more on page 14). Because cancer is a disease that has a major impact on population health, whose treatment requires a high degree Latuda® is part of a new treatment line for Daiichi Sankyo Brasil: psychiatry. Theof specialization, our relationship with medical and patient associations and the refore, in the years prior to the launch, we have strengthened our relationship partnership with several paying sources has the potential to increase our value with the professionals of this specialty, training our sales force to act in this new creation for these patients. therapeutic line. During the fiscal year, we focused our efforts on the promotion of new products, with dissemination at congresses and scientific events and restructuring the Sales Force itself, creating two teams dedicated to these therapeutic classes (learn more on page 41). Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 33 Regulatory agencies GRI 417-2 The relationship with the regulatory agencies in the countries where we operate is essential for business continuity. Therefore, careful evaluation of local regulations and technical planning to better serve them are central to our growth strategy in Latin America. We rely on local consultants in some countries, who provide support to the submission of new medicines in accordance with local legislation. In other countries, we operate through partner companies. In Brazil, Daiichi Sankyo interacts directly with the Anvisa (National Sanitary Surveillance Agency). Even before submitting the medicines for approval, we hold meetings with all relevant departments to ensure that all information and documents needed by health authorities to evaluate the medicines are developed with excellence. During the medicine evaluation stage by regulatory agencies, we monitor the Price of medicines evaluation status by official means, providing additional information whenever reGRI 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 quested, in the shortest time possible. Through these actions, we ensure that the information provided present the highest quality and that regulatory agencies may One factor that can directly impact our ability to improve the population quality of complete their analysis as quickly as possible, ensuring patients’ access to new life is the price of our medicines. To ensure its fair pricing, we rely on the Daiichi treatments. Sankyo Group’s global pricing strategy, which seeks to provide the population with broad access to medicines while ensuring our financial sustainability. As a result of our efforts with the Latin America regulatory agencies, during fiscal year 2018/2019, we approved the registration of Lixiana® in three new countries: In order to define the final price, we strictly follow the rules of CMED (Medication Guatemala, Nicaragua and Honduras. Market Regulation Chamber), which take into account factors such as patent-protected innovation, the effectiveness of proven treatment through clinical trials, and As a consequence of its commitment to local laws, there was no case of non-comthe existence of similar drugs on the market. pliance with regulations and voluntary codes relating to products information and labeling during the fiscal year. Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 34 Research and innovation GRI 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 Investing in research and development of molecules that can lead to new treatments for patients is one of the Daiichi Sankyo Group priorities. To this end, the Organization Bioethics in clinical research GRI 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 seeks, besides investing in laboratory and clinical research, to carry out epidemiological studies to understand the main public health trends in the future, as well as to In our clinical research, we follow the strictest ethical and legal parameters, residentify the medical needs of the population that are currently not assisted. pecting the rights of all participants. In Brazil, since the 1990s, the conduct of clinical research is regulated by the responsible agencies. At Daiichi Sankyo Brasil, we are involved in global research on the new medicines efficacy and we also conduct local clinical studies in order to validate the research results Currently, the Good Clinical Practices (BPC) document, built by the International conducted abroad to the Brazilian reality. Currently, we have a planned investment of Conference on Harmonization, is the heart of clinical research around the world, R$ 4.3 million in local clinical research. including in Brazil. In addition to the BPC, other global regulations that we follow to ensure the proper conduct of these are the Declaration of Helsinki and The DoThe Daiichi Sankyo Group established, in its Vision 2025, the objective of being a cument of the Americas. global pharma innovator company with competitive advantage in oncology. Concerning ethical aspects, we respect the various resolutions of the National To this end, we are investing in the research of these new medicines in several researResearch Ethics Commission (CONEP), including those that ensure that studies ch centers around the world, including Brazil. conducted on humans protect research participants, safeguard their safety, ensure the confidentiality of their personal information as well as their rights. Regarding the sanitary aspect, which includes the importation of medicines and materials for studies, the requirements to be fulfilled by sponsors, researchers and other parties are set forth in the Directors’ Collegiate Resolution (RDC) 09/2015, as amended by Resolution 205/2017,from ANVISA. In addition, in our research within the oncology line, we participate in Experimental Drug Access Programs, regulated by Resolution -RDC 38/2013. Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 35 Membership in Associations GRI 102-13 We participate in the discussion and proposal of public policies that contribute to the development of the pharmaceutical sector in Brazil by participating in the following associations: • Interfarma: entity that represents Brazilian and foreign companies and researchers responsible for innovation in health and for promoting the development of the scientific and technological research industry in Brazil, especially for the production of pharmaceutical inputs, raw materials, medicines and related. One of the Association’s main activities is to establish a constant channel of communication among the society, the pharmaceutical sector and federal, state and municipal governments. Daiichi Sankyo Brasil participates in 11 of 13 Interfarma committees with the aim of discussing industry issues. • Sindusfarma: Pharmaceutical Industry Union, whose role is to defend the causes of this industry in the State of São Paulo, providing services to its associates. • ABIMIP (Brazilian Association for the Nonprescription Medicines Industry): brings together national and multinational industries that operate in the manufacturing, importing or marketing of prescription-free medicines. Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 36 8 Patient Health and Safety Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 37 Patient Health and Safety Product quality and safety GRI 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 / 416-1 / 416-2 At Daiichi Sankyo Brasil, we know about our responWe have a Pharmacovigilance Quality and Regulasibility for the health of patients who use our medicitory Affairs area, with the purpose of reducing risks nes. Therefore, our products’ quality and safety is a in those areas. Daiichi Sankyo Brasil was the first unit central concern in our operation. of the Organization outside Japan, the United States and Europe to have a team dedicated to this theme. During the manufacturing process, all our medicines are constantly evaluated for their health and safety The Pharmacovigilance area is responsible for monitoReporting on Pharmacovigilance impact. To do so, we have a Quality Management ring the safety profile of products during the post-sale. System (SGQ) established in accordance with the In Brazil, the main source of information on adverse During fiscal year 2018/2019, we run the resanitary legislation in force in all the countries we effects comes from reports of the patients themselcycling training on pharmacovigilance, offemarket our products. The System ensures comves, collected by the Customer Service Department red to all our employees. pliance with the highest regulatory standards, while (SAC) or by the Company’s own employees. following Daiichi Sankyo Group global guidelines. At the end of the process, we launched the This information is collected locally and compiled into Pharmacovigilance Wiki, an online channel Among the prescribed practices is the supply chain a global database, allowing the Organization to idendedicated to informing and answering the quality control through audits and testing of each tify any changes in the safety profile of medicines. If main doubts from employees on the subject. material received and destined for production or any possible risk is identified, the Company analyzes marketing. We also seek the highest evaluation acthe subject with maximum scientific technical rigor in curacy in the production processes conducted at the order to substantiate the necessary preventive and / Barueri factory and the analysis of each batch accoror corrective actions. ding to its critical Quality attributes. As a result of all these efforts, during fiscal year After selling the products, we continue to apply qua2018/2019 we did not record any cases of nonlity controls, such as conducting stability studies and -compliance with regulations and voluntary codes sample retention. related to the impacts of the products on the health and safety of customers. Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 38 Patient care GRI 102-43 We are mindful of our direct impact on our products end consumers’ health and well-being; therefore we consider a central part of our management to provide care to patients through the Customer Service (SAC). Through it, patients can submit questions, complaints and opinions, request information about medicines, request products that are not available in their geograSAC phical area and record information about adverse effects. The Company’s Customer Service (SAC) is offered by phone 08000 55 65 96, In Brazil, the SAC department also ends up supplying a lack of information for the Contact Us on the institutional website or by the e-mail sac@dsbr.com.br. patients, who seek the service to request technical advice on the correct use of the medicines, including for information on their dosage, precautions during pregnancy and actions to be taken in case of over dosage. As all this information needs to be provided directly by the employee, we conConsultations handled by the SAC sider essential that trained pharmacists perform this service. During fiscal year 3% 1% 2018/2019, the team underwent several training on technical topics, including 7% updates on the new medicines launched by the Company. Throughout the year, we implemented the Audible Response Unit (URA) in the 9% Information SAC, a system that allows the automation of the first service stages, streamlining the process and forwarding calls to the appropriate teams. Pharmacovigilance Other In fiscal year 2018/2019, the SAC handled 10,873 consultations. Of these, 10% 10% Opinion were related to pharmacovigilance and 70% related to information requests, which Request included questions about technical information and doubts about the existence of Complaint Discount Programs and the Logistic Support Service. 70% Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 39 9 Healthcare Professionals Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 40 Healthcare Professionals Relationship with healthcare professionals GRI 102-16 / 102-43 / 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 Healthcare professionals and different types of treatments to these professioIn our relationship with health professionals, we enincluding physicians, nals. The program includes events and lectures with sure that relationships are conducted in an ethical, national and international experts, bringing the main responsible and correct manner. They should always dentists and pharmacists, are novelties within their specialties. guarantee the autonomy of the professional when responsible for prescribing prescribing medicines, always prioritizing the paour medicines to the patients The Company also has a Medical Information Detients’ health. and monitoring the outcome partment, which is responsible for ensuring that the of the treatments. This is information provided to physicians in promotional In order to guide this relationship, we rely on our Proan essential stakeholder materials or in demand to requests for information motional Practices Guidelines based on the Interfaris scientifically accurate. During the fiscal year, the ma Code of Conduct, on the Daiichi Sankyo Global for our business, because Department received 2,323 spontaneous inquiries. Marketing Code of Conduct and on the ABIMIP Code it is through them that our of Conduct. The document establishes the principles products reach the end The Medical Scientific Liaison gathers consultants and guidelines for interactions with health professioconsumer. and medical managers who work in relationships with nals, medical institutions and patient rrganizations, researchers, professors and other opinion leaders in as well as the Promotion of Pharmaceutical Products the medical field, discussing and sharing scientific and is aimed at all employees who interact with theupdates. In 2018/2019 our team visited 360 opinion se publics. Therefore, we consider it paramount to approach leaders, among cardiologists, oncologists, vascular, and transmit scientifically proven information about hematologists and psychiatrists. our products and their therapeutic areas to this public. This communication is also relevant to our value The close relationship with health professionals becreation, as through it that we can disseminate the came even more important in fiscal year 2018/2019, scientific knowledge generated in our research actidue to the need to disclose the features of the new vities to society as a whole. Lixiana® and Latuda® medicines. In the case of Latuda®, because it is a new therapeutic class for the With that purpose, we have the Continued Medical Company, it was necessary to develop relations with Education Program, which brings up-to-date scientia new medical specialty: psychiatry. fic information about diseases, innovative medicines Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 41 Sales Force Our Sales Force aims Our Promotional Practices Guidelines defines that to maintain a close and the relation with sales representatives with health care professionals must be based on ethics and daily relationship with transparency, supporting the doctor in his/her final health professionals, decision on which medicine to prescribe to the paputting into practice our tients, not making recommendations. promotional strategy. It is comprised of employees The materials and promotional agenda used by the who are fully dedicated to Sales Force are developed by the Marketing and Training departments, supported by the Medical Afvisiting doctors’ offices, fairs and Regulatory Affairs areas. All are approved hospitals, clinics and by the Compliance area, in order to ensure their aligpharmacies to bring upnment with internal policies and standards. to-date information about our products and their During fiscal year 2018/2019, the area underwent therapeutic areas. By some structural changes aimed at preparing the Sales Force for Daiichi Sankyo Brasil’s current and doing so, we disseminate future growth. We now have an Executive Sales Mascientific knowledge nagement, which added the sales, demand and saamong the medical les training areas. The Marketing Department is now community and increase responsible for the marketing, events and productipatients’ access to the vity areas, allowing for a smoother work on each of treatments we offer. these themes. With the launches of Lixiana® and Latuda®, we now also have teams fully dedicated to the promotion of these two medicines. Its members were selected from among the Sales Force’s own employees and received training focused on the new products and Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 42 their therapeutic areas. In addition to these two teams, we have a regular team that works with the dissemination of our other products. In order to ensure that the information transmitted to the health professionals is the most up to date, we conduct fortnightly training with Sales Force employees. They are offered through the University of Daiichi Sankyo Brasil, an online platform that allows technical training of all sales representatives, regardless the country region they are located. We also hold the Sales Force National Meeting, where we bring together employees to exchange information, receive training and learn about our results. In 2018, it was held twice in the city of Mogi das Cruzes, during the launches of Latuda®, and Lixiana®. In addition to these trainings, during the fiscal year, the Human Resources Department focused on training Sales Force managers, seeking to work on ethics and leadership issues. In that connection, we qualify the leaderships for the advances that are being implemented in the area and must follow our next years, along with the continued growth of our operation. Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 43 Events Another important tool we have to bring updated In 2018/2019, we participated in the main national, international and regional congresses in the areas of cardioscientific knowledge to a large number of healthlogy, psychiatry and orthopedics, including: care professionals is the participation, organization and sponsorship of medical events. In fiscal year 2018/2019, we participated in 142 events: Name Medical specialty Location OARSI 2018 Osteoarthritis Research Society International Orthopedics England APA 2018 American Psychiatric Association Psychiatry USA 17 International Events Congresso da Sociedade de Cardiologia do Estado de São Paulo SOCESP 2018 (Congress of São Paulo Cardiology Society) Cardiology Brazil Big Meeting Franchise Movement Orthopedics Brazil 52 Domestic Events (large size) Launch of Latuda® RMC Effient® Psychiatry Cardiology Brazil Colombia Launch of Lixiana® FA Cardiology Brazil 31 Regional Events (small size) ESC Congress 2018 European Society of Cardiology Cardiology Germany 73º CBC Congresso Brasileiro Cardiologia Cardiology Brazil (Brazilian Congress of Cardiology) 42 Exclusive Events from Launch of Lixiana® TEV Brazilian Congress of Psychiatry 2018 Angiology and Vascular Surgery Psychiatry Brazil Brazil Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Masterclass Hypertension Cardiology Brazil Big Meeting Latuda® Psychiatry Brazil Big Meeting Lixiana® Cardiology Brazil Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 44 10 Employees Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 45 Employees Profile GRI 102-8 At Daiichi Sankyo Brasil, we are aware that the engaged work of our employees is a key factor, so that we continue to promote health while improving the population quality of life. For this reason, we seek to value their effort and dedication through an inclusive environment in which their individuality and talent are valued, and the payment of salaries and benefits are compatible with the market. On March 31, 2019, we had 394 own employees, divided as follows: Employees by gender Female Male 43% 57% Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 46 Factory and administrative office employees are based in the State of São Paulo, In addition to its own employees, we also have three trainees and 77 outsourced while the Sales Force team is present in other states of the Country: employees, all based in São Paulo, distributed as follows: Distribution of own employees* TYPE OF MALE FEMALE TOTAL CONTRACT RR AP Full time 223 171 394 AM PA MA CE Interns 0 3 3 RN PB PI PE AC AL RO TO SE Third-party 32 45 77 BA MT DF GO Total 255 219 474 MG ES MS SP RJ States with Daiichi Sankyo Brasil PR employees SC *the Company considers the RS distribution of its employees by state as strategic information and does not disclose this data. Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 47 Evolving organizational culture GRI 102-10 During fiscal year 2018/2019, we focused our investments to transform our organizational culture, creating a more inclusive, flexible, welcoming and collaborative work environment. The main transformation milestone in how we work was the inauguration of our new administrative and commercial office in São Paulo. The new space features 1,530 square meters of living space (double the previous one), accommodating up to 146 people, allowing for future expansion. In doing so, we are preparing ourselves for our growth continuity in the next years. The new location allows easy access to public transportation and services such as restaurants, shopping malls and banks, which means better quality of life to employees. The architecture project was developed by the company LPA Leonetti Piemonte Arquitetura, inspired by the Japanese architect Toyo Ito. The spaces’ decoration aims to convey the Mission, Vision and Corporate Values of Daiichi Sankyo. In order to demonstrate the Innovation value, we provided a creative environment; for Integrity, we have the luminosity and transparency; and for Responsibility, we have created an environment that encourages collaborative work. In this sense, the coexistence area is versatile and can be used for conversations, meals, integration, celebrations and informal works. It also has a collaborative panel where employees can interact, leave messages and illustrations. Our new office vibrant colors provide a harmonious and informal We have also installed open spaces, which provide interaction between employeatmosphere, reflecting the passion, es and their teams, and Phone Booths rooms, ideal for conferences and telephone happiness, enthusiasm and energy calls that require higher privacy. from our employees. Credit: Sara de Santis Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 48 The more modern environment of the new office brought a more informal tone to the work environment, reflected in our dress code change. Since the publication of our Good Coexistence Guide, we have established a more flexible and casual dress code. We also adopted the concept of flexible working hours and maintained our home office option. At the same time, we try to establish closer and more interactive communication channels among the Company’s areas and leadership. The Coffee with the President, for example, brings together employees to participate in a conversation on various topics with the President. In 2018, it began to be carried out in a more systematic manner, addressing all employees, not just new hires. By investing in an open, collaborative and participatory culture that values each employee opinion and talent, we believe we are preparing our Company to focus on GPTW innovation that should guide our business in the upcoming years. Daiichi Sankyo Brasil was recognized as one of the “Best Places to Work in the Pharmaceutical companies’ category, according to the Great Place To Work® (GPTW) Health. This is the third time that we are present in the ranking, conducted in partnership between GPTW and Live Healthcare (the first time was in 2014).In 2018, we were also recognized by the Great Place to Work® (GPTW) award Barueri and ReCredit: Sara de Santis gion. We had already participated in the ranking in 2016. Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 49 Career GRI 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 / 404-2 / 404-3 At Daiichi Sankyo Brasil, we know that our ability to research, produce and market In addition, during fiscal year 2018/2019, we conducted a 90-degree Performance innovative medicines that improve the population quality of life is directly related to Evaluation with all employees, in which each person was evaluated by their manaour employees’ talents. Therefore, we focus our management in updating our team’s ger and performed a self-assessment based on their competencies. In doing so, knowledge, keeping them abreast of the latest in the market and in the pharmaceuthey were able to track how they have evolved in their career and to outline growth tical sector. and professional development plans. With that in mind, we have a series of programs and initiatives aimed at developing the skills necessary for the Company’s good performance, prioritizing the training of future leaders aligned to our strategic objectives. During fiscal year 2018/2019, we had the following programs: • Leadership School: behavioral training with the objective of develop and enhance the essential management and leadership skills in hired and newly promoted managers. During fiscal year, 18 leaders were trained. • Administrative and Operational Group: to develop the behavioral skills and communication skills of all Company employees using the same methodology as the Leadership School. 37 employees were trained. • Internship Program: has the goal of developing and enhancing the trainees’ abilities, aiming at a higher performance in their professional career. During the year, three trainees were trained. • Integration Program: encompasses the new employees with the objective of receiving them, providing a smooth adaptation and understanding of the processes, HR management philosophy and organizational culture. 58 employees were trained during the year. Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 50 Training GRI 103-3 / 404-1 / 404-2 In addition to programs to engage and develop the career of employees, we also conduct training aimed at developing specific talents: • Continued Education Program: aims to train, recycle and develop employees who need knowledge and specific technical improvement to develop their activities immediately or in the short term. 119 employees were trained. • Educational Training Program: aims to provide the professional development and improve the knowledge of the employee for the exercise of their current role or for future challenges that require specialized technical training. Six employees went through the training. • Language Educational Incentive Program: provides foreign language learning (English, Spanish or Japanese). Seven employees received the benefit. • Self-development: partnerships with institutions for undergraduate, graduate, MBA and Languages courses, offering discounts to all employees and their dependents. • Job Rotation: professional development tool consisting in the exchange of employees between the various areas of the organization. During 2018/2019, two employees went through the experience. Besides these, during 2018/2019 training on ethics and quality topics were applied as part of the Total Quality Program (described on page 25). Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 51 The Sales Force team receives specific technical training through the University Category (sales area) Average hours of training per employee of Daiichi Sankyo Brasil (page 42) and factory employees use the PIER system (Remote Education Integrated Program), in order to develop their technical skills. Gender Male 52.6 During the fiscal year, we invested R$ 2,096.6 thousand in the training of our Female 36.6 employees, resulting in a total of 18,000 training hours for the sales area and Functional category 2,572 training hours for other areas. As a result, each employee in the sales area received an average of 117.6 training hours, while the other employees received Sales Representative 105.9 an average of 6.5 training hours, broken down as follows: Sales Manager 211.8 Total sales employees 117.6 Category (non-sales areas) Average hours of training per employee Gender Male 5.3 Female 8.1 Functional category Interns 3.7 Operational 1.6 Administrative 11.6 Coordinator 8.6 Manager 18.7 Total employees 6.5 Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 52 11 Environmental Impacts Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 53 Environmental Impacts Environmental management GRI 102-11 In our operation, we are focused on the continuous reduction of our environmental impact and on the consumption of natural resources, either by means of more efficient processes or training employees to reduce the waste. To do so, we follow the Daiichi Sankyo Group environmental guidelines registered in the Global Environmental Management Policy. Annually, we set environmental goals (learn more on page 28), which become the focus of our operation. In our factory, we have implemented an Environmental Management System (SGA) based on the ISO 14001 methodology, which monitors a series of indicators, such as electricity and water consumption, solid waste generation, black smoke emisGreen Line sion and effluents and waste generation. In addition to all tools to In October 2018, the factory was audited by the EHS Global Audit, held by rereduce our environmenpresentatives of Daiichi Sankyo Japan, which found a solid environmental manatal impact, we have an gement. In January 2019, the SGA underwent an audit process to maintain ISO open channel so that all 14001 certification, which resulted in the recertification of the system. stakeholders may voice their alerts and complaints We also have an area responsible for Kaizen Program and Project Management, about our environmental which promotes actions for continuous process improvement, waste reduction, practices. The channel can stimulating the analytical view of routines and leading to constant improvements in be accessed at the e-mail environmental indicators. linhaverde@dsbr.com.br. During the fiscal year, no complaints were received by the channel. Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 54 Emissions GRI 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 / 305-1 / 305-2 Greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions represents one CO2 Emissions (in tCO2e) CO2 emission by source of the main environmental risks in our operation, contributing to the climate changes that affect not 0.08% 946 only our Company sustainability, but the planet as a whole. 29.14% 680 Therefore, every year we monitor our GHG emissions following the GHG Protocol guidelines, while conti-28% nuously reducing the indicator. As of June 2017, we began to buy all energy used in our plant from the Free Market, starting to consume energy exclusively 220 -68% from renewable sources. As a result, during fiscal year 2018/2019, we emitted 220 tCO2, 68% lower than the amount emitted 2016/2017 2017/2018 2018/2019 70.78% in 2017/2018. Stationary combustion (Boiler and Generators Scope 1) Mobile Combustion (Sales Force fleet Scope 1) Energy consumption (Scope 1) Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 55 Another factor contributing to this reduction was the exchange of fuel used in the Sales Force fleet. As part Energy GRI 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 / 302-1 / 302-3 / 302-4 of our effort to reduce our emissions, we have defined that the team must fill their cars with ethanol, which has less potential to contribute to climate change, rather Energy consumption in our operation is the main factor contributing to climate change. Therefore, we contithan gasoline. As a result, we have reduced fleet emisnuously monitor and control this indicator in our factory through the Environmental Management System (SGA). sions by 85% over the year. In fiscal year 2018/2019, we consumed 35,167 GJ of energy, 36% lower than the total recorded in the previous In 2018/2019, we emitted 508 tCO2e of biogenic CO2. fiscal year. This amount refers to emissions from biomass burning (ethanol) in our operation. This emission is monitored separately, as the emitted CO2 was withdrawn from the atmosphere by photosynthesis. When it is Energy consumption (GJ) burnt, it simply goes back to its natural cycle, not causing any additional impact on the GHG concentration in the atmosphere. +13% 55,061 48,807 -36% 35,167 35,434 29,051 +22% -67% 15,297 -1% 19,756 19,627 19,870 Eletricity +1% Others sources 2016/2017 2017/2018 2018/2019 Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 56 Of this amount, 19,870 GJ was consumed as electricity to supply the factory, a value The electricity consumption increase in our factory was caused by the expansion 1% higher than that of 2017/2018. Other sources consumption decreased by 67%, in production. Nevertheless, we have developed a series of initiatives that have remainly because of the increase in ethanol consumption by the Sales Force, which has duced our energy consumption, such as the project to reduce the air conditioning a consumption factor lower than gasoline. flow in productive rooms, started in January 2019. As a consequence, the factory energy intensity was 0.0936 GJ per thousand units produced, 0.7% lower than in the previous year. Energy consumption by source Energy intensity (GJ per thousand units produced) 13% 0.0943 0.0936 -0.7% +9.7% 0.0860 21% 56% 3% 2016/2017 2017/2018 2018/2019 7% Electricity (factory) LPG (factory) Diesel (factory) Ethanol (Sales Force fleet) Gasoline (Sales Force fleet) Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 57 Effluent and Waste GRI 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 / 306-1 / 306-2 When manufacturing our medicines, we use a large In our waste management, we follow the requireWeight in quantity of chemicals, which may generate a signiments of the National Solid Waste Policy. During the Type of waste Destination 2018/2019 ficant environmental impact if not disposed of profiscal year 2018/2019, the Company generated 130.1 (tons) perly. Therefore, effluents and waste management is tons of waste, 16% lower than in the previous year. Hazardous waste a central concern addressed by our Environmental Coprocessing/ InciSolid waste 21.4 Management System (SGA). neration Machine oil Recovery 200 (liters)* Throughout fiscal year 2018/2019, the Company Disposal of waste (in tons) Non-hazardous waste discarded 7,267 m³ of water in the public sewage system, a volume 20% lower than in the previous Paper Recycling 32.2 154.3 year. The disposal process complies with the paraBoxes Recycling 7.0 +27% meters established by State Decree 8468/76A, and 23.3 -16% 130.1 Plastic Recycling 8.1 the water discarded has no significant number of 121.9 Blister Recycling 3.7 chemical components. 21.4 18.2 Metal Recycling 5.4 65.6 Glass Recycling 0.2 46.8 57.1 Electronic waste Recycling 0.2 Effluents (m3) Lamps Recovery 0.3 9,514 65.4 9,040 Gardening Landfill 7.5 56.9 51.6 -5% Rubble/wood** Landfill 21.1 7,267 -20% Organic Landfill 23.0 2016/2017 2017/2018 2018/2019 Total 130.1 Coprocessing/Incineration Recycling/Recovery * because it is calculated in liters, the discard of machine oil is not 2016/2017 2017/2018 2018/2019 Landfill included in the calculation of the total weight of waste. ** in the previous report, disposed wood and rubble weight was reported separately. Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 58 Reverse logistics for medicines GRI 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 / 301-3 One of the main environmental impacts originated from the pharmaceutical industry is caused by incorrect disposal of medicines after use by patients. Because they contain chemicals that act on the human body and on the environment, expired or unused medicines should not be disposed of in the regular waste or in the sewage system, but should be sent for incineration. At Daiichi Sankyo Brasil, we believe that the best way to reduce this impact is through a joint action of the entire industry including its value chain. In 2018, we joined an initiative led by Interfarma, with the participation of other pharmaceutical companies, which creates a reverse logistics plan for medicines in the State of São Paulo. Through it, collection points were installed in different regions of the State, where patients can dispose of end-of-life products. Waste is then collected and sent for incineration. Created to meet a decision from the Environmental Company of the State of São Paulo (CETESB), the plan is still in its early stages and collection data will be available from fiscal year 2018/2019. Other states in the country are discussing the implementation of similar reverse logistics plans. Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 59 Water GRI 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 / 303-1 / 303-2 / 303-3 Water is one of the main inputs we use in our factory to produce quality medicines. We do not affect water sources with our water withdrawal, since 85.3% of the voluOur Environmental Management System (SGA) provides a strict consumption conme we consume comes from water supply companies. Moreover, 1,200 m³ comes trol, seeking to reduce waste year by year. from our reuse system, representing 10.0% of the total. During fiscal year 2018/2019, we consumed 12,048 m³ of water, 6% higher than in the previous year. The figure is in line with the production increase in the factory. Water withdrawal sources 4.8% 10.0% Water consumption (m³) Supply companies +6% Reuse system 12,048 11,337 +19% Rainwater* 9,514 85.3% * Rainwater consumption began to be measured in January 2019. The total value is an 2016/2017 2017/2018 2018/2019 estimate of annual consumption based on February and March average. Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 60 12 Society Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 61 Society Sustainability in the supply chain GRI 102-9 / 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 / 204-1 / 308-1 / 414-1 At Daiichi Sankyo Brasil, we consider the correlation of a sustainable relationship with In total, we paid R$ 249.2 million to suppliers. Of this amount, 52% were spent on our supply chain as one of the main ways to generate value for society. Therefore, we local suppliers, creating value to the Brazilian economy. seek to establish processes and initiatives that help promote good management and sustainability practices in the supply chain. Amount paid to suppliers (R$) During fiscal year 2018/2019, we had 10,273 suppliers registered in its system, diviInternational suppliers 119.4 ded as follows: Local suppliers 129.8 Total 249.2 Suppliers by type To ensure the money spent is invested in responsible partners, that create value for 0.1% 1.2% society and the environment, we rely on a Supplier Qualification Program. It carries 20.6% 23.3% Fixed Assets out audits regarding the quality of materials and compliance with the regulations Freelance pertinent to the sector. The audits involve the analysis of legal documents and visits Raw Material to its operation and are carried out by the Quality and EHS areas, contemplating the Packaging Material following scopes: 0.7% Consumables 0.5% Marketing Material Maintenance Equipment • Quality: with a strict focus on quality aspects following Good Manufacturing 4.7% Laboratory Supplies Practices (GMP). During the fiscal year 2018/2019, the area audited 14 suppliers. 1.3% 2.0% Service Provider 0.9% Other • EHS: focus on Environment, Health and Safety at Work, verifying the validity Finished Product of CETESB (Environmental Company of the State of São Paulo) and IBAMA 44.7% (Brazilian Institute of Environment and Renewable Natural Resources) licenses. During the period, EHS area has audited four suppliers. Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 62 Social Impact GRI 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 Also, our contracts require compliance with all legal Throughout fiscal year 2018/2019 we established obligations from suppliers, including anti-corruption and continued a series of initiatives aimed at increand slave labor laws. One of the clauses describes asing our value creation to society. the Company’s Code of Ethical Conduct (see page 20), requiring prior knowledge of its guidelines. The Our Social Responsibility area aims to contribute contractor must also demonstrate commitment to to non-profit entities that assist in social causes, the Global Compact, recognizing its commitment to promote knowledge exchange or improve people’s the principles proposed in the document (described quality of life. Among the projects supported during on page 25). In that sense, the agreement serves the fiscal year, we highlight: not only to describe practices that are not accepted • Associação Amigos do Coração Friends of by the Company, but also to make our supply chain the Heart Association (AAC): an organization aware about the best practices in the market. that has the objective of humanizing the hospiDuring fiscal year 2018/2019, we introduced the tal environment and promoting better quality of Code of Conduct for Business Partners, which eslife for patients with heart diseases hospitalized in tablishes the principles to be followed by all third the Heart Institute. Instituto do Coração (InCor). parties, suppliers and business partners (learn more on page 21). The document should be implemented Throughout the year, we maintained our volunteer over the next fiscal year. program in partnership with AAC, which allows employees to visit inpatients, and we also continued our monthly donations, which totaled R$ 24 thousand. Besides, we carried out a campaign with the employees to support the “Father’s Day Bazaar”, where we collected clothes, shoes and miscellaneous items. For more information, visit the link: http://www.amigosdocoracao.org.br Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 63 • General Project in Health: an initiative from Interfarma focused on health education, developed and executed by the Oficina de Ideias. Over the year, we continued to financially support the project, contributing with R$ 12.9 thousand. • Global Environmental Contest: motivated to stress the importance of environmental preservation and the commitment to improving the quality of life, the Daiichi Sankyo Group promotes an annual contest about the topic, in which employees may compete with ideas and works. In 2018, more than 500 works from all over the world have been registered. A Brazilian employee ranked at 9th place, in the Graphic Works category. • Christmas Social Action 2018: in 2018, we supported Interfarma to hold the Christmas Party at the institution “A Mão Branca, Associação Beneficente de Amparo aos Idosos” “The White Hand, Beneficent Association to Support the Elderly”, reference in the assistance and welcome to the elderly. We counted on employees’ help to collect personal hygiene products, invited everyone to the Christmas party at the institution and we took a group of volunteers who sang and played songs to cheer the elderly. • Recicladora Urbana: we kept our partnership with Recicladora Urbana, a company specializing in the reverse logistics of discarded electronic computers and telecommunications equipment. The Information Technology department donated waste such as cell phones, desktops, mice, monitors, telephones and keyboards. Altogether, more than 337 kg of equipment was donated. For more information, visit the link: http://www.recicladoraurbana.com.br Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 64 Communication for health We also consider an essential aspect in our value creation for society the use of our communication channels to disseminate information about health and quality of life for patients: • Social networks (Facebook, LinkedIn and YouTube): we continue to use our posts on social networks to disseminate information and tips on health and quality of life. In 2018/2019, we posted messages on healthy eating, fight against smoking, stroke prevention and the benefits of meditation, among other topics. • Bipolar depression: it’s time to talk about it: campaign carried out in our social networks and disseminated in the media, with the aim of raising public awareness about bipolar depression, a disorder that affects more than six million Brazilians and depends on better diagnosis and appropriate treatment. The campaign had the support of ABRATA Brazilian Association of Relatives, Friends and Affective Disorders Patients. For more information, visit the link: http://estanahoradefalar.com.br • Pink October, Blue November and Red December: through our Internal Accident Prevention Committee (CIPA), we joined the Pink October and Blue November global campaigns to raise awareness on the importance of prevention and early diagnosis of breast and prostate cancer. In December, we also supported the Red December campaign for HIV and AIDS prevention. Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 65 13 GRI Standards Content Index Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 66 GRI Standards Content Index Material topics GRI 102-44 / 102-46 / 102-47 /102-49 / 103-1 Our materiality survey has reached 17 material aspects. From the survey carried out with internal and external relevance publics, we defined the following materiality matrix: Material aspects matrix RESULTS: 1 Material Aspects are those that have relevance in at least one of the axes. 1. Promoting ethics and fighting corruption 10. Bioethics in clinical research 9 7 6 2. Ethical and responsible marketing 11. Promotion of health population 8 3. Fair pricing of medicines 12. Access to medicines 4. Innovation in medicines 13. Scientific training for health professionals 17 11 5 3 2 5. Emissions of greenhouse gases 14. Social development 4 6. Water consumption 15. Energy consumption 7. Quality and safety of medicines 16. Proper disposal of medicines 15 13 10 Relevance to the strategy¹ 8. Sustainability in the supply chain 17. Effluent and waste generation 14 12 9. Employee development Legend: High relevance aspects Low relevance aspects 16 Relevance to stakeholders² ¹ Included Public: Daiichi Sankyo Brasil, Market Peers, Sector Organizations ² Included Public: Sustainability Specialists, Employees, Suppliers, Health Professionals and Patients Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 67 For purposes of content organization and clarity, the 17 aspects were organized into seven material topics. Each aspect and the material topics boundaries are described below: Material topic Material aspect Relevance Related SDG Boundaries Internal boundaries: Procedures to ensure that medicines sales and marketing efforts follow 3 – Good health and well-being Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Ethical and responsible • ethical principles and legal determinations, including relationships with health 16 – Peace, justice and strong marketing professionals, medical institutions, and patient associations. institutions External boundaries: • Patients Relationship with • Health professionals health professionals • Employees • Market peers Scientific training for health Programs and training initiatives aimed at deepening health professionals 3 – Saúde e bem-estar • Government professionals knowledge about new scientific research and therapeutic possibilities. 4 – Educação de qualidade • Regulatory Agencies • Society A strategy used to ensure the fair price of medicines, ensuring patient access 3 – Good health and well-being Fair pricing of medicines to treatment, while supporting the Company’s financial sustainability. 10 – Reduced inequalities 3 – Good health and well-being Internal boundaries: Research and development of new molecules that may lead to new treatment Innovation in medicines 9 – Industry, innovation and • Grupo Daiichi Sankyo possibilities for patients. infrastructure • Daiichi Sankyo Brasil External boundaries: • Patients Quality and safety of Procedures to ensure patient safety and the quality of medicines marketed by Impact on health 3 – Good health and well-being • Health professionals medicines the Company, specially aimed at the pharmacovigilance operation. • Market peers • Sector Organizations • Government Ability to impact population health by providing treatments that reduce mortality • Regulatory Agencies Promotion of health and improve their quality of life. The theme may include research and production 3 – Good health and well-being • Society population of medicines to combat neglected diseases or with high mortality rates. • Suppliers Initiatives that help ensure patients' access to treatments developed by the Company. These may include efforts to get medicines approval by the 3 – Good health and well-being Access to medicines regulatory body, processes to ensure a regular supply, opening of new 10 – Reduced inequalities markets and incorporation of the medicines by the public health system. Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 68 Material topic Material aspect Relevance Related SDG Boundaries Internal boundaries: • Grupo Daiichi Sankyo Promoting ethics and fighting 16 – Peace, justice and strong Procedures to ensure ethical business conduct and prevent corruption. • Daiichi Sankyo Brasil corruption institutions External boundaries: • Health professionals Ethics • Employees • Market peers Procedures to ensure that clinical research conducted to develop that 3 – Good health and well-being • Sector Organizations Bioethics in clinical research new medicines follows scientific, ethical and legal principles, respecting 16 – Peace, justice and strong • Government participants’ free consent and results’ transparency. institutions • Regulatory Agencies • Society 12 – Responsible consumption and Emissions of greenhouse Ability to manage greenhouse gas emissions, using renewable energy production gases sources, efficient consumption and adoption of green technologies. 13 – Climate action 6 – Clean water and sanitation Water consumption Water consumption management by the Company's operations. 12 – Responsible consumption and Internal boundaries: production • Daiichi Sankyo Brasil External boundaries: 7 – Affordable and clean energy • Patients Environmental Operations energy consumption management, including the factory and Energy consumption 12 – Responsible consumption and • Employees impacts vehicles’ fleet. production • Market peers • Sector Organizations • Government 12 – Responsible consumption and • Regulatory Agencies Initiatives to ensure the collection and correct disposal of medicines not used production • Society Proper disposal of medicines by patients. 14 – Life below water 15 – Life on land 12 – Responsible consumption and Management of effluents and wastes used in the Company's production production Effluent and waste generation processes, including those that came in contact with the medicines. 14 – Life below water 15 – Life on land Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 69 Material topic Material aspect Relevance Related SDG Boundaries Internal boundaries: • Grupo Daiichi Sankyo 3 – Good health and well-being • Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Employee Focus on employees’ development in order to update their skills, abilities and 4 – Quality education Employee development development knowledge about the products offered. 9 – Industry, innovation and External boundaries: infrastructure • Health Professionals • Employees • Society Internal boundaries: • Daiichi Sankyo Brasil 8 Decent work and economic External boundaries: Sustainability in the Sustainability in the supply Ability to manage the environmental and social impacts of suppliers, ensuring growth • Patients supply chain chain the compliance and sustainability of the chain. 12 – Responsible consumption and • Market peers production • Society • Suppliers • Government External boundaries: • Patients Impact on Social projects developed or supported by the Company, whether through Social development 3 – Good health and well-being • Health Professionals communities donations, volunteering or financial support. • Employees • Society Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 70 GRI Standards Content Index GRI 102-44 / 102-46 / 102-47 /102-49 / 103-1 Disclosures Reference (pg.) / Direct Answer Impacted SDG General Disclosures Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization Pg. 4 102-2 Primary brands, products, and services Pg. 15 3 – Good health and well-being 102-3 Location of the organization’s headquarters Pg. 16 102-4 Number of countries where the organization operates Pg. 16 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form Daiichi Sankyo Brasil Farmacêutica Ltda. 102-6 Markets served Pg. 16 102-7 Scale of the organization Pgs. 16 and 17 Daiichi Sankyo Brasil employees’ profile can be found on page 45. The total number of employees can also be classified by type of employment: 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Employment Type Male Female Total 8 Decent work and economic growth Full time 254 212 466 Part Time 1 7 8 102-9 Description of the organization’s supply chain Pg. 61 Significant changes to the Organization’s size, 102-10 Pgs. 19 e 47 structure, ownership, or supply chain Whether and how the organization applies the 102-11 Pg. 53 Precautionary Principle or approach Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 71 GRI Standards Content Index GRI 102-44 / 102-46 / 102-47 /102-49 / 103-1 Disclosures Reference (pg.) / Direct Answer Impacted SDG List of externally developed economic, environmental and 102-12 social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which Pg. 25 the organization subscribes, or which it endorses List of the main memberships of industry or other associations, 102-13 Pg. 35 and national or international advocacy organizations Strategy Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the 102-14 organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) Pg. 7 about the relevance of sustainability to the organization Ethics and Integrity Description of the organization’s values, principles, 102-16 Pgs. 14, 20 and 40 16 – Peace, justice and strong institutions standards, and norms of behavior 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Pg. 23 16 – Peace, justice and strong institutions Governance 102-18 Governance structure of the organization, including committees Pg. 19 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Pg. 19 Report whether the chair of the highest governance 102-23 Pg. 19 16 – Peace, justice and strong institutions body is also an executive officer in the organization Processes for the highest governance body to ensure 102-25 Pg. 22 16 – Peace, justice and strong institutions conflicts of interest are avoided and managed Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Pg. 4 Percentage of total employees covered by 100% of Daiichi Sankyo Brasil employees are 102-41 8 Decent work and economic growth collective bargaining agreements covered by collective bargaining. Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 72 GRI Standards Content Index GRI 102-44 / 102-46 / 102-47 /102-49 / 103-1 Disclosures Reference (pg.) / Direct Answer Impacted SDG 102-42 Basis for identifying and selecting stakeholders with whom to engage Pg. 4 In addition to the engagement undertaken for materiality survey, described on page 4, Daiichi Sankyo Brasil also engages its stakeholders at other times: Physicians: periodic, in congresses and visits by sales representatives and scientific consultants, described on page 40; Employees: daily and on demand by the Confidential Channel; The organization’s approach to stakeholder 102-43 Suppliers: on demand; engagement, including frequency of engagement Patients: contacts received by the SAC, described on page 38; Distributors: periodic; Anvisa and other regulatory bodies: on demand; Interfarma: monthly; Sindusfarma: on demand. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through 102-44 stakeholder engagement and how the organization has Pg. 66 responded to those key topics and concerns Reporting Practices List of all entities included in the organization’s consolidated Daiichi Sankyo Brasil has no subsidiary companies, therefore 102-45 financial statements or equivalent documents it is the only entity included in its financial statements. An explanation of the process for defining the 102-46 Pgs. 4, 66 and 70 report content and the topic Boundaries List of the material topics identified in the 102-47 Pgs. 4, 66 and 70 process for defining report content The effect of any restatements of information given in 102-48 There were no restatements of information provided in previous reports. previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements Significant changes from previous reporting periods in 102-49 Pgs. 66 and 70 the list of material topics and topic Boundaries 102-50 Reporting period for the information provided Pg. 4 Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 73 GRI Standards Content Index GRI 102-44 / 102-46 / 102-47 /102-49 / 103-1 Disclosures Reference (pg.) / Direct Answer Impacted SDG 102-51 Date of the most recent previous report The previous report covered the fiscal year from 04/01/2017 to 03/31/2018. 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Pg. 4 Claim made by the organization, if it has prepared a 102-54 Pg. 4 report in accordance with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index Pg. 70 A description of the organization’s policy and current practice 102-56 The report was not submitted to external assurance. with regard to seeking external assurance for the report DMA 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pgs. 20, 30, 32, 33, 34, 37, 40, 49, 54, 55, 57, 58, 59, 61, 62, 66 and 70 103-2 The management approach and its components Pgs. 20, 30, 32, 33, 34, 37, 40, 49, 54, 55, 57, 58, 59, 61 and 62 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pgs. 20, 30, 32, 33, 34, 37, 40, 49, 50, 54, 55, 57, 58, 59, 61 and 62 Economic Disclosures Indirect Economic Impacts 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Pg. 30 3 – Good health and well-being Procurement Practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Pg. 61 8 Decent work and economic growth Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 74 GRI Standards Content Index GRI 102-44 / 102-46 / 102-47 /102-49 / 103-1 Disclosures Reference (pg.) / Direct Answer Impacted SDG Anti-corruption Total number and percentage of operations assessed for During fiscal year 2018/2019 Daiichi Sankyo Brasil was not cited in 205-1 risks related to corruption and significant risks related to 16 – Peace, justice and strong institutions any public judicial process or investigation related to corruption. corruption identified through the risk assessment Communication and training about anti205-2 Pg. 23 16 – Peace, justice and strong institutions corruption policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Pg. 23 16 – Peace, justice and strong institutions Environmental Disclosures Materials 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials Pg. 58 12 – Responsible consumption and production Energia Energy consumption is described on page 55. The energy, LPG and diesel (stationary sources) data are extracted from the maintenance 7 – Affordable and clean energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization management of the factory. Ethanol and gasoline consumption 12 – Responsible consumption and production data for vehicles are extracted from the fuel consumption 13 – Climate action management of the sales force fleet provided by HR. 7 – Affordable and clean energy 302-3 Energy intensity Pg. 55 12 – Responsible consumption and production Amount of reductions in energy consumption achieved as 7 – Affordable and clean energy 302-4 Pg. 55 a direct result of conservation and efficiency initiatives 12 – Responsible consumption and production Water 6 – Clean water and sanitation 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Pg. 59 12 – Responsible consumption and production Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 75 GRI Standards Content Index GRI 102-44 / 102-46 / 102-47 /102-49 / 103-1 Disclosures Reference (pg.) / Direct Answer Impacted SDG 6 – Clean water and sanitation 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water The organization does not affect water sources with its withdrawal of water. 12 – Responsible consumption and production 6 – Clean water and sanitation 303-3 Water recycled and reused Pg. 59 12 – Responsible consumption and production Emissions Data in page 54 was calculated according to the FGV GHG Protocol 12 – Responsible consumption and production 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions spreadsheet tool, based on the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program. 13 – Climate action Also, we emitted 3.9 tons of CH4 and 3.3 tons of N2O. The data on page 54, were calculated according to the FGV GHG Protocol 12 – Responsible consumption and production 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions spreadsheet tool, based on the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program. 13 – Climate action The emission intensity of greenhouse gases was 12 – Responsible consumption and production 305-4 GHG emission intensity 0.00083 tCO2e per thousand units produced. 13 – Climate action Effluents and Waste 6 – Clean water and sanitation 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Pg. 57 12 – Responsible consumption and production 14 – Life below water The weight of the waste is described on page 57. 12 – Responsible consumption and production 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method The data come from SGA indicators. 15 – Life on land 6 – Clean water and sanitation 12 – Responsible consumption and production 306-3 Total number and total volume of recorded significant spills There were no significant spills during fiscal year 2018/2019. 14 – Life below water 15 – Life on land Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 76 GRI Standards Content Index GRI 102-44 / 102-46 / 102-47 /102-49 / 103-1 Disclosures Reference (pg.) / Direct Answer Impacted SDG Supplier Environmental Assessment 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Pg. 61 12 – Responsible consumption and production Currently, we do not assess environmental impacts in the 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken supply chain, we only evaluate and document if the supplier meets the legal requirements and its conditions. Social Disclosures Training and Education Average hours of training that the organization’s 404-1 employees have undertaken during the reporting Pg. 50 4 – Quality education period, by gender and employee category Competency management and continuous learning programs are Programs for upgrading employee skills and 404-2 described on pages 49 and 50. We do not have Programs that support 8 Decent work and economic growth transition assistance programs the continuity of employees’ employability in preparation for retirement. Percentage of total employees by gender and by employee 404-3 category who received a regular performance and career Pg. 49 8 Decent work and economic growth development review during the reporting period Supplier Social Assessment We do no select new suppliers based on social criteria. Our contracts, 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 8 Decent work and economic growth however, present clauses that address the issue, as described on page 61. We do not currently carry out assessment on 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken social impacts in the supply chain. Customer Health and Safety Assessment of the health and safety impacts 416-1 Pg. 37 3 – Good health and well-being of product and service categories Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 77 GRI Standards Content Index GRI 102-44 / 102-46 / 102-47 /102-49 / 103-1 Disclosures Reference (pg.) / Direct Answer Impacted SDG Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health 3 – Good health and well-being 416-2 Pg. 37 and safety impacts of products and services 16 – Peace, justice and strong institutions Marketing and Labeling Incidents of non-compliance concerning product 417-2 Pg. 33 16 – Peace, justice and strong institutions and service information and labeling Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019 Message from Governance Impact on Patient Health Healthcare Environmental Welcome the Leadership Highlights Profile and Ethics Goals Health and Safety Professionals Employees impacts Society GRI Credits 78 Credits Coordination Human Resources Department | Communication Editorial project, content writing, GRI consulting and translation RICCA Sustentabilidade Graphic design, illustrations and layout RICCA Sustentabilidade Photos Daiichi Sankyo Image Bank Contact responsabilidadesocial@dsbr.com.br Access: Linkedin.com/company/daiichi-sankyo-brasil-ltda Facebook.com/DaiichiSankyoBrasil Youtube.com/user/daiichisankyobrasil Daiichi Sankyo Sustainability Report 2018 | 2019
