TREASURY WINE ESTATES LIMITED 2019 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PRINCIPLES SUMMARY OF ACTIONS 2019 PAGE REF. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Maintained a policy framework designed to protect human rights, including 6 and 17–19 Protection of TWE’s Code of Conduct and Whistleblower, New Market Entry, and Workplace human rights Health, Safety and Wellbeing Policies. Principle 2 Established a human rights roadmap detailing how TWE plans to enhance 19 No complicity its response to potential and actual human rights and labour impacts within in human its operations and supply chain. rights abuse Maintained reporting to the Board via the Audit and Risk Committee 19 on matters that have been raised through the whistleblower process. Maintained Human Resources assistance channels across four operating 19 regions with matters being investigated and resolved through TWE’s People and Capability function. Continued to commit suppliers to uphold human rights through TWE’s 19 Responsible Procurement Code (RPC). Undertook a desktop review of the TWE supply chain to identify suppliers who 19 pose an elevated level of human rights risk. Engaged a third party to assess TWE’s current and potential supplier and 19 customer network to identify and evaluate third party risk. LABOUR Principle 3 Upheld the right to freedom of association of TWE people. 19 Freedom of association and Recognise the right to collective bargaining. 19 right to collective bargaining Committed suppliers to uphold freedom of association and collective bargaining 19 rights through the RPC. Principle 4 Adhered to local laws and regulations. 18–19 Elimination of forced and Maintained a policy framework designed to prevent and protect against the 19 compulsory labour use of forced and child labour within TWE operations and its supply chain, including TWE’s RPC and Global Payroll, Employing and Engaging Minors, Principle 5 and Whistleblower Policies. Abolition of Engaged a third party to assess TWE’s current and potential supplier and 19 child labour customer network to identify and evaluate third party risk. Principle 6 Maintained a policy framework and implemented key initiatives that encourage 20 Elimination of diversity and inclusion and are designed to prevent and protect against discrimination discrimination, harassment and bullying. TWE’s Executive Leadership Team, including the Chief Executive Officer, 20 continued to support the achievement of diversity and inclusion measures and targets as part of their annual key performance objectives. Development and measurement of inclusive leadership across senior leadership 20 roles through capability offering and annual performance review processes. 1 | TREASURY WINE ESTATES LIMITED 2019 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS TREASURY WINE ESTATES LIMITED 2019 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PRINCIPLES SUMMARY OF ACTIONS 2019 PAGE REF. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Updated TWE’s Environment Policy to reflect the revised Corporate 11 Precautionary Responsibility framework, broaden its scope to include the business’ whole value approach to chain, and clearly define the role of management and the Board in driving environmental environmental sustainability. challenges Continued to drive improved environmental performance and measurement 11 through the Sustainable Future program. Maintained a record of zero incidents, fines or penalties related to breaches 11 of environmental regulations. Principle 8 Retained 100% third party sustainability certification of company-owned or 11 Environmental leased vineyards and wineries. responsibility Participated in environmental conservation activities in local communities 21 during the Company’s annual Global Volunteering Week. Identified several best practices through the Sustainable Future program, 11 which were shared across the Company’s supply and non-supply network. Assessed and optimised selected glass and plastic product packaging 27 through lightweighting. Assessed and prepared an internal roadmap in response to the recommendations 9 of the Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Principle 9 Invested in water, energy and waste efficient technology and processes 12–15 Environmentally for vineyards, wineries and packaging centres. friendly technologies Deployed drone technology to complement existing aerial imagery at 14 selected vineyards to easily and accurately locate zones of water stress, leeks and soil variation. Continued to install pigging and pulse cooling infrastructure across winery 12–13 and packaging networks to conserve water and/or energy. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Complied with the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX) Corporate Governance 6 Work against Principles and Recommendations. corruption Maintained a policy framework that supports TWE’s commitment to a zero 6 tolerance approach to bribery and corruption, including TWE’s Code of Conduct and Whistleblower, Share Trading, Anti-bribery and Corruption, Gifts, and Entertainment, Government Engagement and Unacceptable Payments Policies. Updated TWE’s Share trading and Anti-bribery and Corruption Policies. 6 Implemented a Government Engagement Policy, which amongst other areas, 11 confirms that TWE does not make donations to political organisations. Maintained reporting to the Board via the Audit and Risk Committee 19 on matters that have been raised through the whistleblower process. 2 | TREASURY WINE ESTATES LIMITED 2019 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS
