AB InBev annual report 2018 2018 Annual Report Shaping the future. 3 Bringing People Together for a Better World. We are building a company to last, brewing beer and building brands that will continue to bring people together for the next 100 years and beyond. Who is AB InBev? We have a passion for beer. We are constantly Dreaming big is in our DNA innovating for our Brewing the world’s most loved consumers beers, building iconic brands and Our consumer is the boss. As a creating meaningful experiences consumer-centric company, we are what energize and are relentlessly committed to inspire us. We empower innovation and exploring new our people to push the products and opportunities to boundaries of what is excite our consumers around possible. Through hard the world. work and the strength of our teams, we can achieve anything for our consumers, our people and our communities. Beer is the original social network With centuries of brewing history, we have seen countless new friendships, connections and experiences built on a shared love of beer. We connect with consumers through culturally relevant 8/10 movements and the passion points of music, sports and entertainment. Our portfolio now offers more than 500 brands and eight of the 8 out of the 10 most top 10 most valuable beer brands valuable beer brands worldwide, according to BrandZ™. worldwide according to BrandZ TM. We want every experience with beer to be a positive one We work with communities, experts and industry peers to contribute to reducing the harmful use of alcohol and help ensure that consumers are empowered to make smart choices. We are doing this by supporting innovation, providing more noand low-alcohol beer options, piloting local programs and campaigns around the world, investing in social marketing, rolling out initiatives to create safer roads and more. 50 Sustainability is our business Operations in nearly 50 countries Brewing quality beer starts with the best ingredients. Without a healthy and sustainable environment, we would not be able to brew the highest quality beers. That is why we have made global commitments focused on smart agriculture, water stewardship, circular packaging and climate action, to help contribute to a healthy natural environment and thriving communities, so we can continue to brew beers that bring Our 10 Brewing Principles people together for the next 100+ years. We are all Heritage brewers We protect the Passion for beer heritage and integrity is our life of our brands We are proud to be truly global Preservatives Stakeholders We strive for We value and address Our global footprint zero added external stakeholder is one of our key preservatives perspectives strengths. In October 2016, we completed a transformational combination with SAB, making us a stronger, Ingredients Consumer choice more diversified company We only select We respect the ingredients that meet consumer desire for that is better poised for our standards choice sustainable future growth. Transparency Sustainability We believe in We preserve our Honoring the past, building transparency natural resources towards the future We are all brewers. By combining over 600 years of brewing heritage with constant innovation, we protect the heritage of our much-loved brands Quality Freshness while constantly innovating and creating new and We never Fresh beer tastes exciting beers and occasions for consumers. compromise on better quality AB InBev annual report 2018 Contents Letter to shareholders 2 Key figures 2018 6 Highlights of the year 8 What we do 10 Where we operate 12 Market context 14 Business model 16 Dream-people-culture 18 Strategy 24 Performance 28 Innovation 32 Smart drinking & road safety 36 Sustainability 40 Ethics 48 Report scope 50 Financial report 53 Corporate governance statement XX 1 Letter to shareholders Becoming a stronger company. To our shareholders: 2018 was another step forward in our company’s transformational journey. We had many successes to celebrate, though the year was not without its challenges. Our focus this year was to continue to drive the organic growth of our business while deleveraging towards our optimal capital structure. Today we are a stronger, more diversified company applying our learnings across our global business. While there is more work to be done, we are confident in our strategy and plans to grow our business by creating value from seed to sip and delivering sustainable top and bottom line growth in 2019 and beyond. 2 AB InBev annual report 2018 #1 global brands were our Reflecting on our performance #1 growth engine in 2018 Our business delivered consistent top-line growth with margin expansion and EBITDA acceleration throughout the year. Revenue growth of 4.8% was driven by own beer volume growth of 0.8% (total volume up 0.3%) as well as continued premiumization and revenue management initiatives. Revenue per hl growth on a constant geographic basis was 4.7%, of which we estimate more than 100 bps was driven by positive mix in line with our premiumization strategy. EBITDA grew 7.9% on a full year basis with margin expansion of 118 bps to 40.4%, with consistent acceleration each quarter in line with our guidance. However, we faced challenging macroeconomic environments in many emerging markets, especially Brazil, Argentina and South Africa, and unfavorable currency volatility has slowed our deleveraging pace. Highlights from the year include: H ealthy volume, revenue and market share growth in important markets including Mexico, China, Western Europe, Colombia and several African countries including Nigeria. Launched our 2025 Sustainability Goals, our most ambitious Each of these markets delivered strong performances in their set of sustainability commitments yet, focused on smart respective premium portfolios while simultaneously evolving agriculture, water stewardship, circular packaging and climate their core portfolios in line with the category expansion action. framework. The following aspects of the year held us back: In the US, achieving our best market share trend performance since 2012. This was driven by the evolution of our Top and bottom line performances were below our commercial strategy, led by premiumization and innovation. expectations in Argentina, Brazil and South Africa, largely as a result of a weak macroeconomic environment putting C  ontinued global growth of our High End Company (revenue pressure on the consumer in all three markets. Additionally, up 18.3%) and global brand portfolio (revenue up 9.0% in South Africa we were adversely affected by out of stocks, globally and 13.1% outside of the brands’ home markets). The unexpected tax increases and segment mix shift. brands within the High End Company command a premium and contribute higher margins to our overall results. Unfavorable currency volatility in emerging markets impacted our cash flows and slowed our anticipated deleveraging path. Z  X Ventures, our growth and innovation group, delivered As a result, we proactively rebased our dividend payout by robust revenue and EBITDA growth in the year with strong 50% in October to accelerate deleveraging in line with our commercial momentum. In craft and specialties, our portfolio capital allocation priorities. of brands grew well ahead of the total company and broader industry with double digit revenue growth. Our eCommerce Headwinds to our cost base, especially with respect to and brand experience platforms also each grew revenue aluminum globally and the freight market in the US. double digits, and our share online is now greater than our We have always said that we are never completely satisfied with share in traditional channels. Our ZX Ventures platforms allow our results, and 2018 is no exception. We will build upon the us to engage with consumers more than ever before and we learnings of this year to ensure we continue opening and closing are using this consumer proximity to drive more meaningful gaps to create sustainable, long-term, profitable growth. interactions and solutions. B  udweiser was the most “talked about” brand on digital Evolving our commercial strategy and social media during the 2018 FIFA World Cup Russia™, We made significant progress in 2018 executing on many with an estimated five billion social media impressions. It was intellectual synergies from the combination with SAB. These the biggest commercial campaign in our company’s history, intellectual synergies are anchored around three interlocking with activations across more than 50 markets and 565 000 strategic frameworks: the market maturity model, the category points-of-consumption. We were successful in building expansion framework and growth champions. brand awareness in many of our new markets and are using this awareness to propel the brand toward future growth. We Our market maturity model allows us to group markets into further maximized this sponsorship by activating more than 40 clusters based on maturity level, enabling us to develop our of our local brands in more than 40 markets. portfolio to meet the needs of a range of markets around the D  elivering profitable growth, with EBITDA margin expansion world as they mature and evolve. of 118 bps to 40.4%, driven by premiumization, cost discipline Our category expansion framework helps us find opportunities and continued synergy capture. We achieved further for growth. It allows us to address consumer preferences across synergies from the combination with SAB, with 805 million occasions, share best practices and adopt a new way of looking USD in 2018 and over 2.9 billion USD captured to date out at the category that recognizes different market maturities and of our commitment to deliver 3.2 billion USD by the end of the role of brand portfolios in each of our markets. 2019. 3 Letter to shareholders Finally, our growth champions approach is used to identify the Portfolio enhancing: Lastly, by mapping our portfolio of brands right time to expand our portfolios and commercial practices within each market, we are identifying opportunities to in the most efficient and impactful manner. This process is introduce existing brands into new markets. Examples of this modeled after one of our most successful systems, efficiency practice include Argentina’s Patagonia in certain regions of the champions, and allows us to benchmark our strategy to open US, Australia’s Pure Blonde by Jupiler in Belgium and the US’ gaps, execute on them deliberately and track performance to Michelob Ultra in the UK. deliver increasing efficiencies. We believe these frameworks position us well to find Leveraging our global brands opportunities and address consumer needs. We utilize them Our global brands continued to deliver great results, to offer the best beer at price points ranging from affordable to representing more than one third of our total net revenue premium, and to continually innovate with the best pipeline of growth. For the full year, our global brands grew revenue by new products and offerings. 9.0% globally and 13.1% outside of their home markets. Budweiser revenue grew 5.3% globally and 10.0% outside of Leading the growth of the the US, driven by continued expansion into new geographies global beer category as well as our activation during the 2018 FIFA World Cup As the world’s leading brewer, we take responsibility for shaping Russia™, which was our largest and most successful campaign the future of the beer category, its health and sustainable growth ever. Stella Artois continued to see strong, balanced growth, globally. Our category has grown over the past 10 years, both in up 5.2% globally, driven by its increased penetration of the terms of volume (+1.0%) and value (+3.7%). Our estimated share meal occasion. Corona leads the way as the most premium of throat as a company has increased within total beer by 60 bps brand amongst the three, growing double digits for the fourth and within total alcohol by 10 bps over the past five years. consecutive year, with revenue up 17.6% globally and 28.5% outside of Mexico. Premiumization: We see a significant opportunity for premiumization around the world and we have the best We believe in offering a customized portfolio of brands to lead portfolio to lead this trend. Compared to wine and spirits, beer the premium segment in order to reach more consumers in is in its early stages of premiumization globally, providing us different occasions. Our complementary global brands give with the opportunity to capture beer’s fair share. For instance, consumers premium options defined by occasion, taste profile Corona currently has a market share of 3% or higher in just three and price point. countries where we own the brand. With the brand growing double digits globally, we believe it is still far from reaching its full Innovating to share our passion for beer potential and see an opportunity for further growth. We expect As a consumer-centric company, we are relentlessly committed the premium segment to grow about five times faster than core to exploring new products and opportunities to excite and value in the years to come. Our High End Company is well consumers around the world. We have a robust innovation positioned to capitalize on this trend and deliver high growth pipeline, including the launch of Corona Ligera in Australia, and profitability. Stella Artois Gluten Free in the UK and Michelob Ultra Pure Gold Differentiate & extend the core: Our portfolio of core brands is (organic light lager) in the US. focused on sharpening brand positions to create meaningful emotional and functional differentiation by celebrating the Our noand low-alcohol beer (NABLAB) portfolio continues authenticity of our brands along with beer’s natural ingredients to cultivate new opportunities in many of our markets by and its simplicity. addressing the growing consumer trends of moderation and health and wellness. With these trends becoming ever more Emerging markets and affordability: We also see a clear important to consumers around the world, we are committed opportunity for volume growth in emerging markets, where per to leading innovation in this space. For example, we have capita consumption volumes are considerably lower than those successfully launched brands such as Castle Free in South Africa, of developed markets. We believe we are uniquely positioned Carlton Zero in Australia, Aguila Cero in Colombia and, most to lead that growth in a responsible manner, given our diverse recently, Leffe Blonde 0.0% in Belgium. portfolio of brands tailored to a variety of consumer price points and occasions. Leveraging technology to better Category expansion is enhanced in our lowand middleengage with consumers maturity markets through affordability initiatives, as it is crucial to Our focus on technology and innovation goes beyond what have a portfolio of affordable options to engage our consumers consumers see every day. ZX Ventures is continuing to find new at accessible price points. Two prime examples in 2018 were the ways to respond to consumer trends through eCommerce, craft launches of Nossa and Magnífica in Brazil—beers brewed with and brand experiences, and today represents more than 10% of local cassava and offered to consumers at a considerably lower our total growth. price point while providing comparable margins to our core brands. This affordability initiative was a best practice in some Beer Garage, our home for innovation, emerging technology of our African markets and showcases how we are leveraging and enterprise technology, is utilizing enterprise-level intellectual synergies across different markets. technology to transform our supply chain and bring us closer 4 AB InBev annual report 2018 The Budweiser campaign for the 2018 FIFA World Cup Russia™ was our largest and most successful campaign ever. successfully adding 12 new products, reaching approximately 8% of our global beer volume within this segment. We also continued our ongoing efforts to address road safety with our Together for Safer Roads coalition and a new partnership with the United Nations Institute for Training and Research (UNITAR) to help improve road safety worldwide. Deleveraging to our optimal to consumers with initiatives such as using Point of Sale (PoS) capital structure technology to gather consumer insights from around the About two years ago, we completed a transformational world. Our Global Innovation and Technology Center (GITeC) combination with SAB. We believe the total company is greater is focused on enhancing our brewing processes, as well as and stronger than the sum of its parts, and we remain disciplined product and package development. One example is Canvas, a and focused on deleveraging to our optimal capital structure sustainable plant-based barley beverage produced with saved of around 2x net debt to EBITDA. We expect our net debt to grain from our brewing process. EBITDA ratio to be below 4x by the end of 2020. Our debt portfolio and liquidity position provide our business Organizing ourselves for future growth with operating and financial flexibility. We have addressed large In July, we created two new senior leadership positions to near-term maturities to eliminate refinancing needs and will capture organic growth opportunities within our existing continue to proactively manage our debt portfolio. Our debt business. Our Chief Non-Alcohol Beverages Officer is focusing portfolio is comprised of a diverse currency mix that provides on accelerating growth in our existing non-alcohol business, access to liquid debt markets, and 94% of the portfolio holds a which represents more than 10% of our current volumes. Our fixed-interest rate. Additionally, our 16 billion USD of liquidity far Chief Owned-Retail Officer will manage and grow our existing exceeds our debt maturities in any given year. owned-retail business by coordinating cross-marketing initiatives Considering this year’s currency volatility and consistent with our and sharing best practices. capital allocation priorities, in October we proactively rebased To continue our focus on staying ahead of market and consumer our dividend payout by 50% to accelerate deleveraging. In trends, we brought Marketing and ZX Ventures under a doing so, we continue to prioritize investments in organic common global lead, our Chief Marketing Officer. This change growth opportunities and create greater financial flexibility. will allow us to adopt ZX Ventures’ innovative approach more broadly within our company. Achieving results together Thank you to our shareholders for your continued support, as Contributing to a sustainable future we remain focused on delivering solid organic growth while In March 2018, we launched our ambitious 2025 Sustainability deleveraging toward our optimal capital structure. We are a Goals, which will help us brew great beers for the next 100 years company of owners who take results personally, and we are and beyond. We have already begun to create change—every never completely satisfied with our results, including in 2018. Budweiser sold in the US is now brewed with 100% renewable As we begin 2019, we firmly believe that with our commercial purchased electricity, with plans to roll out to other markets strategy, robust portfolio of brands, diverse geographic around the world. 2018 also marked the launch of our 100+ footprint, unparalleled efficiency and, most importantly, our Accelerator, which mobilizes the world’s brightest minds to strong pipeline of committed and talented people, we can solve some of the most pressing global sustainability challenges. deliver on these objectives now and in the future. Fostering a culture of Smart Drinking We are committed to responsible drinking and road safety. Our programs include our six city pilots to create innovative evidence-based programs to reduce the harmful use of alcohol and a global internal competition to help promote Smart Drinking messaging through commercial communications using social norms marketing. Additionally, as part of our commitment to reach 20% of our volumes from NABLAB by 2025, we Carlos Brito Olivier Goudet continue to expand our portfolio with high quality options. In Chief Executive Officer Chairman of the Board 2018, we expanded our NABLAB portfolio to 76 offerings by 5 Key figures 2018 Key Figures. Performance Brands +4.8% >500 brands revenue growth 22,080 +1/3 million USD 2018 normalized EBITDA Revenue of our three global brands represented more than one-third of our 377 377 beer awards won at 16 major growth in 2018 international competitions in 2018 567 million hl 2018 beer volumes 8/10 8 out of the 10 most valuable 40.4% beer brands worldwide according to BrandZ™ EBITDA margin expansion of 118 bps to 40.4% Operations 50 Operations in nearly 227 13,000 breweries owned retail locations 50 countries 150+ Beers sold in 150+ countries 6 AB InBev annual report 2018 Dream-People-Culture Sustainability 175,000 colleagues 7,000 farmers participated in our SmartBarley 100+ Program globally and smallholder skills programs implemented in Colombia, nationalities represented across India, Mexico, Uganda and our company Zambia 16 Minimum 16 weeks gender -8.0% neutral primary caregiver leave Our total water usage has globally Nearly half of our breweries in the decreased 8.0% since US are led by female brewmasters 2017 and global strategic partnerships launched with World Wildlife Fund for Nature (WWF) and The Nature Conservancy (TNC) Smart Drinking & Road Safety Community Support 43.5% 6 City Pilots in 6 cities around the world >1.4 million of our volume is in returnable packaging cans of emergency drinking water donated across the US Recycled content in our primary packaging: 64.7% in Cans 18,500+ 41% in Glass 15.7% in PET 8% retailers supported via our small retailer development program 4.5% of our global beer volume is noor low-alcohol 4.5 million reduction in emissions (Scope 1, 2 and 3) across our >135 value chain since 2017 liters of water per day to support million USD Cape Town, South Africa in its invested in dedicated social marketing campaigns and related programs over pressure management project during major drought 16% To date, we have contracted the past two years 50% of our electricity from renewables sources, End of 2020 202,000+ volunteers engaged in Colombia, and 16% of this is already operational Target year to place a Guidance Peru, Ecuador and Mexico via Label on all of our beer products in volunteering programs #MeUno all markets and Voluntarios Modelo 13% reduction in fatalities in the state of Sao 62,000+ Paulo, Brazil between 2015 and 2017, colleagues engaged worldwide accounting for over 496 lives saved on Global Be(er) Responsible Day 7 Highlights of the year Highlights of the year. Jan. Stella Artois debuted a Super Bowl ad to kick off our fourth annual campaign in partnership with Water.org. The ad brought attention to the global water crisis and announced our 2018 limited-edition chalices available for purchase. Since the start of our partnership in 2015, we have sold more than 460,000 chalices and helped over 1.5 million people gain access to clean water. Budweiser revealed a renewable electricity symbol at the World Economic Forum in Davos to champion its commitment to brew with 100% renewable electricity. The symbol was launched in the United States and Chile and will continue to roll out into other markets around the world by 2025. Apr. We introduced a new patent that is Feb. estimated to reduce our operational emissions by 5% where implemented. We signed a partnership agreement The technology creates gas bubbles with the United Nations Institute for without needing a lot of heat and Training and Research (UNITAR) to water, reducing energy usage at our collaborate to improve road safety. breweries. Together we will create a road safety management toolkit that will be available worldwide, enabling governments to better address road safety. May We announced our new Global Parental Leave Standard, extending parental leave to more people and Mar. ensuring a global minimum standard parental leave of 16 weeks for primary We launched our new 2025 caregivers and 2 weeks for secondary Sustainability Goals, which are aligned caregivers, regardless of gender. with the UN Sustainable Development Goals. They focus on making ambitious progress in four areas: smart agriculture, We reacquired the rights to the water stewardship, circular packaging, Budweiser brand in Argentina. and climate action. We completed a 50:50 merger with Turkey’s leading brewer Anadolu Jun. Efes’ existing businesses in Russia and In 2018, we were among the best-inUkraine. Following the closing of the class for our marketing campaigns at transaction, the operations of our and the prestigious International Festival of Anadolu Efes’ businesses in Russia Creativity in Cannes, France, winning a and Ukraine are now combined under total of 23 Lions and two Grand Prix, AB InBev Efes. the highest honor. 8 AB InBev annual report 2018 Jul. Budweiser was the most talked about brand on digital and social media during the 2018 FIFA World Cup Russia™, with Oct. an estimated five billion social media We appointed our company’s first Global impressions. Eight million Red Light Director of Diversity & Inclusion. Cups amplified the euphoric energy of the game across the world. It was the biggest commercial campaign in our company’s history, with activations across more than 50 markets and 565,000 Nov. points-of-consumption. Our sponsorship We announced the winners of our contributed to 2Q18 net revenue +10.1% “Smartest Smart Drinking Campaign outside of the US and sustained top-line Competition,” an internal competition growth of 9.3% outside of the US in that challenged our marketing teams 3Q18. around the world to promote smart drinking messaging through social norms marketing and innovative We announced a new organizational consumer-facing campaigns. structure for future growth, simplifying our structure from nine to six management regions and creating Our BrewRight technology was two new senior leadership positions to recognized at the 2018 Financial capture organic growth opportunities in Times Intelligent Business Awards. no-alcohol portfolio and owned-retail. This innovative in-house tool helps us be proactive against corruption, fraud and money laundering by using data analytics and risk scoring to help identify Aug. patterns in everyday transactions that may require more investigation or We launched the 100+ Sustainability oversight. Accelerator to host and fund startups that are solving challenges to create a more sustainable world for all. In Our beers won six awards at the its first year, our accelerator program internationally-renowned European received over 650 applications from Beer Star Awards, with the winning startups across 20 countries around the beers including an English bitter from our globe. 21 companies were selected Sydney-based brewers at 4 Pines and the to participate in the inaugural cohort Belgian-style ales of our Dutch brewers at and are being piloted in 12 countries. Hertog Jan. The winners were crowned Each will receive up to 100,000 USD at the BrauBeviale fair in the Bavarian city investment and the opportunity for of Nuremberg, Germany. further partnership and/or investment from our company as well as external partners at a demo day in 2019. Dec. We announced a deal with Europe’s Sep. largest solar energy company, Lightsource BP, to purchase 100% We took part in Global Be(er) renewable energy for Budweiser Responsible Day, engaging more operations in the UK. than 62,000 colleagues worldwide to promote awareness about Smart Drinking. Together, we spread Smart Labatt, our Canadian subsidiary, Drinking messages to more than announced a research partnership 3.6 million consumers on one day with Tilray, a global player in cannabis through direct interactions. production and distribution, to research non-alcohol beverages containing tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and Our CEO Carlos Brito joined Mike cannabidiol (CBD) in Canada. The Bloomberg at a press conference to research partnership is limited to promote the 2019 Gender Equality Canada and no decisions regarding the Index at the Bloomberg Global commercialization of beverages have Business Forum in New York. been made. 9 What we do Brewing a better future. More than 600 years ago, we began revolutionizing beer. Here’s to the next 100 and beyond! We unite nearly 175,000 exceptional people and more than 500 iconic brands around a passion for brewing the highest quality beer. With a robust portfolio of beers including affordable, premium, easy drinking, flavored beers, near beer options and more, our Dream is bringing people together for a better world. We are a truly global brewer, embedded in communities around the world as a family of local companies. Leading the way for the beer category According to Euromonitor, we brew more than a quarter of the world’s beer, with a far greater share of the industry’s EBITDA. As the world’s leading brewer, we take responsibility for the health and growth of the global beer category. We have adopted a new way of looking at the beer category that recognizes different market maturities and the role of brand portfolios in driving growth. As we look forward, we are excited about the growth opportunities in our expanded footprint for both developed and developing markets. Adapting our product mix to meet evolving tastes We are continually diversifying and innovating our beers to offer more choice with the highest quality. Our goal is to create beers that consumers can enjoy in a variety of occasions. Our category expansion framework allows us to anticipate changing consumer habits and trends so we can define the optimal portfolio for any market to drive growth. We are positioned to not only ensure that we are bringing new consumers into the beer category through our brands, but also to offer existing customers new ways to engage with a wide range of beer offerings to meet different occasions. 10 AB InBev annual report 2018 Spotlight On: Our Global Brands Our global brands expanded into a number of new markets over the last year. We saw successful scale ups of the global brand portfolio, especially in Australia, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru and South Africa. In 2018, our global brands were our number one growth engine, representing more than one third of our total net revenue growth vs. 2017. Here are some other highlights of our global brands over the past year. Budweiser We are also working to invigorate core lager through brand Budweiser revenue grew 5.3% globally and 10% outside of extensions, like Bud Light Lime and Orange that appeal to the US, behind a strong FIFA World Cup Russia™ campaign and continued expansion into new geographies. younger, legal drinking age consumers, and both men and women. Another way we elevate core lager is through pack Leveraged one of the world’s biggest platforms, the innovation, such as our ring pull Harbin bottles in China that 2018 FIFA World Cup Russia™, to activate Budweiser in more than 50 countries. This was our largest and most have an easy open bottle format with a distinctive opening successful campaign ever. Budweiser was the most talked sound. about brand on digital and social media channels during the tournament. Successfully launched the third series of Budweiser’s Delivering growth through Reserve Collection, Copper Lager. The collaboration with premiumization Jim Beam became one of our top 15 share gainers in the US The most immediate substantial growth opportunity for our in 2018. business is through premiumization. We recognize this as a Launched a renewables platform at the World Economic global trend, and beer as a category significantly underForum in Davos, Switzerland in January 2018. Every indexes in premium share versus other categories. Budweiser sold in the US is now brewed with renewable electricity. The growth in premium can only be achieved by having a Had a remarkable year in China, with geographic strong portfolio strategy. We have today a robust portfolio expansion into new territories beyond Guangdong and of brands to drive the premium segment and we are Fujian, plus channel expansion into Chinese restaurants accomplishing this with our High End Company. We have and traditional trade. identified 11 brands that make up our global premium portfolio and, together with other local Stella Artois brands, allow us to play in all relevant Stella Artois continued to see strong, balanced growth, up beer styles. So far, we have successfully 5.2% globally, driven by its increased penetration of the rolled out the High End Company in meal occasion. 22 countries, with overall revenue growth Continued a successful partnership with Water.org, selling up 25.6% vs. 2017. more than 460,000 chalices, and helping over 1.5 million people gain access to clean water since 2015. Successfully launched new brand campaign Joie de Bière #1 across 15 markets, inspiring people to bring enjoyment to every day. UK Stella Artois grew double digits through a Wimbledon Global brands were campaign featuring limited edition packaging and a ticket giveaway. our #1 growth engine in 2018 Corona Corona grew double digits for the fourth consecutive year, with revenue up 17.6% globally and 28.5% outside of Mexico. China has become the number one export market +1/3 for the brand in the world in markets where we operate. Expanded the Corona SunSets franchise, a worldwide series of music festivals, with 11,000 SunSets events activated in 25 of Corona’s biggest countries in 2018. Revenue of our Introduced a new lower alcohol variant, Corona Ligera, three global brands which became the number one premium imported midrepresented more strength beer in Australia in 2018. than one-third of our We continued our Corona X Parley Partnership to address marine plastic pollution, conducting over 300 cleanups in growth in 2018 over 15 countries, including the Maldives, Palau, Mexico, Dominican Republic, Chile, Indonesia, Italy, South Africa and Australia, with over 7,000 volunteers collecting more than 3 million pounds of plastic waste. 11 Where we operate Sharing our passion for beer with the world. We are geographically diversified with a balanced exposure to developed and developing markets, operating in nearly 50 countries worldwide. North America In North America, total volume was down 2.5%, revenue declined 0.8% and Normalized EBITDA was down 2.4%. vs. 2017. Normalized EBITDA margin contracted by 68 bps to 39.7%. Latin America West In Latin America West, total volume was up 4.5%, revenue increased by 9.5% Latin America North and Normalized EBITDA was up 16.4%. In Latin America North, total volume was vs. 2017. Normalized EBITDA margin down 3.5%, revenue increased by 3.0% expanded by 306 bps to 52%. and Normalized EBITDA was up 5.2%. vs. 2017. Normalized EBITDA margin expanded by 95 bps to 43.7%. Latin America South In Latin America South, total volume was down 1.0%, revenue increased by 21.3% and Normalized EBITDA was up 30.8%. vs. 2017. Normalized EBITDA margin expanded by 369 bps to 48.2%. 12 AB InBev annual report 2018 TOTAL VOLUMES 2018 TOTAL REVENUE 2018 DEVELOPED MARKET 30% DEVELOPED MARKET 43% EMERGING MARKET 70% EMERGING MARKET 57% EMEA In EMEA, total volume was up 2.3%, revenue increased by 4.1% and Normalized EBITDA was up 1.3%. vs. 2017. Normalized EBITDA margin contracted by 100 bps to 35.8%. Asia Pacific In Asia Pacific, total volume was up 2.1%, revenue increased by 6.1% and Normalized EBITDA was up 12.8%. vs. 2017. Normalized EBITDA margin expanded by 218 bps to 36.4%. Simplifying our structure As of 1 January 2019, we have shifted from nine to six management regions. We made these changes to more closely align with our consumers, make our company more agile in the regions and proactively pursue growth opportunities. 13 Market context Driving growth. Our scale as a truly global brewer, embedded in communities around the world, gives us insight into emerging consumer trends, allowing us to benefit from new opportunities. Over recent years we have significantly increased our focus and capability in forecasting the key drivers of consumer choice to identify trends and opportunities. VALUE AND VOLUME SIGNIFICANT POTENTIAL GROWTH ON A FOR PER CAPITA GLOBAL BASIS CONSUMPTIONGROWTH Global Beer Category Per Capita Beer Consumption (L p.a.) 70 3.7% 60 50 1.0% 40 2.2B HL 30 20 PAST 10Y CAGR 10 VALUE ($RSV*) 0 VOLUME EMERGING MATURE MARKETS** MARKETS** * Retail Sales Value in constant $US ** M  ature Markets = W. Europe, E. Europe (ex. Turkey, CIS), North America, Japan, S. Korea, Singapore, Australia, NZ. Emerging Markets excludes Pakistan, Indonesia, MENA Source: GlobalData, PlatoLogic, IWSR, Nielsen, IRI 14 AB InBev annual report 2018 Identifing long-term growth potential Turning challenges into opportunities The global beer category remains healthy and robust, with In today’s market, environmental risks such as climate growth in terms of both volume and value over the past change and water scarcity are real. Our sustainability ten years. We believe there is a significant opportunity for initiatives help us to manage risk while also creating value volume growth globally, especially within the beer category through new products and campaigns with purpose. in emerging markets, due to the difference in per capita Our approach to sustainability allows us to turn emerging consumption in mature versus emerging markets with a challenges into opportunities – for ourselves, our partners significant potential gap to be closed. and the communities where we operate. Mitigating water This potential is backed up by the growth we have seen risk means improving water security for our communities. in emerging markets over the last several years. One Investing in agriculture development and innovation means example is our exceptional growth in Nigeria following the we are improving productivity and livelihoods for our stabilization and economic growth of the country, where farming communities. our portfolio of premium brands appeals to an emerging Our three global brands are all championing initiatives middle class of consumers who demand quality and great to help drive change on serious environmental issues. experiences. Budweiser has committed to renewable electricity, Corona We believe there are still more opportunities for per capita has partnered with Parley for the Oceans to help mitigate consumption to grow in emerging markets and are putting ocean plastics and Stella Artois has partnered with Water. affordability initiatives in place to capitalize on this potential, org to improve water access in developing countries. All of including using local crops in our beer and using affordable these brands are growing strongly. packaging. We are convinced that this growth potential is compatible with our economic impact and Smart Drinking agenda. Adapting to meet changing consumer needs An important trend across most consumer goods, including The growing premium beer, is premiumization. Consumers are trading up for segment includes craft beers like Goose Island. more affordable luxuries and many of our beers offer them a premium experience. Compared to wine and spirits, beer is in the early stages of premiumization which presents an exciting opportunity to continue to increase sales value and also margin by enhancing mix. In this table, you can see premium brands and their share of total market. We believe there is significant headroom for growth ahead of us and the beer category. This growth will continue to be supported and capitalized on by our portfolio of global brands as well as the High End Company which has significantly expanded our capabilities to execute in the market. % CATEGORY VOLUME PRICED Beer Spirits Wine Early Maturity Market 0% 7% 18% MidMaturity Market 3% 17% 70% Late Maturity Market 6% 30% 85% Source: GlobalData, PlatoLogic, IWSR, Nielsen, IRI 15 Our stakeholders From seed to sip. We are a company of owners who take results and progress personally, constantly driving towards a better future. We have a passion for brewing the highest quality beers our consumers love. Our people Our greatest strength is our people. Our people are curious, bold and resilient. We recruit, develop and retain people who can be better than ourselves. Our partners Our We recognize no single suppliers organization can solve today’s global challenges Relationships are alone – effective partnerships essential to our are critical to addressing the operations—especially most pressing challenges of with our suppliers. Their today, and tomorrow, and collaboration is a key the private sector must play a element to creating a proactive role. resilient supply chain that delivers value and contributes toward our sustainability goals. 16 AB InBev annual report 2018 Our customers We partner with valued retailers, bar owners, wholesalers and distributors to bring our beers to our consumers, while Our supporting their business communities growth, striving to provide best-in-class service as well We are closely connected as pursuing extraordinary to the communities where execution of our brands onOur we live and work. We strive and off-trade. to contribute positively to shareholders important issues such as Delivering consistent, sustainability, smart drinking profitable growth is our and road safety in such priority. We never take shortcuts. We have built communities. Our goals are focused on where we, as a Our our company with integrity, global business of scale, can consumers hard work, quality and make the greatest positive Our consumer is the responsibility. impact. boss. Beer brings people together to celebrate life, and we serve our consumers by offering meaningful brand experiences, always in a responsible way. 17 Dream-People-Culture Dreaming big is in our DNA. We are a company of owners—empowered to lead real change, deliver results and grow at the pace of our talent. Dream-People-Culture is the platform on which we have and will continue to build our company. It is the foundation of our success, and it drives our performance. 18 AB InBev annual report 2018 We are all brewers. Passion for beer is our life. Setting a foundation with our principles Our ten principles form the essence of our culture, allow us to achieve a level of consistency in the way we do things while respecting local cultures and enable us to work together toward one shared Dream around the world. Dream 1 O ur shared Dream energizes everyone to work in the same direction: Bringing people together for a better world. People Building careers and 2 O ur greatest strength is our people. Great people empowering our people grow at the pace of their talent and are rewarded accordingly. A rewarding career is not about waiting your turn—it is about realizing your goals and having impact. That is why 3 W e recruit, develop and retain people who can be we encourage fast career growth and early leadership— better than ourselves. We will be judged by the quality whether that means cross-functional experiences, global of our teams. opportunities or leadership development. Culture Our Global Management Trainee (GMT) Program fast-tracks the careers of the brightest, most driven university graduates 4 W e are never completely satisfied with our results, through a 10-month rotation that offers in-depth exposure to which are the fuel of our company. Focus and our business operations and global projects. We also bring zero-complacency guarantee lasting competitive in a strong pipeline of high-potential MBA talent through advantage. our Global MBA (GMBA) program. The GMBA program is 5 T he consumer is the boss. We serve our consumers by a one-year development program that offers “deep dives” offering brand experiences that play a meaningful role into the operations of several regions, unique exposure in their lives, and always in a responsible way. to senior leaders globally and the opportunity to work on some of the most impactful projects in the business. 5 W e are a company of owners who take results personally. We lead by example and do what we say. The class demographics of our GMT and GMBA programs exemplify our focus on bringing in diverse talent and 7 W e believe common sense and simplicity are usually improving gender parity. Our 2018 GMBA class was made better guidelines than unnecessary sophistication and up of 50% men and 50% women, including participants complexity. from 10 different nationalities. Our 2018 GMT class 8 W e manage our costs tightly, to free up resources that was made up of 53% men and 47% women, including will support sustainable and profitable top-line growth. participants from 27 different nationalities. 9 L eadership by personal example is at the core of our We look for long-term leadership potential when attracting culture. We do what we say. talent. This is evidenced by the fact that 62% of our salaried colleagues (bands 0-VII), have been with the company 10 W e never take shortcuts. Integrity, hard work, quality, for more than five years, 32% have been with us for over and responsibility are key to building our company. 11 years and 11% have been with us for more than 20 years. For our senior colleagues who are director level and above, Brewing big, dreaming bigger 81% have been with us for more than five years. Brewing the world’s most loved beers, building iconic brands and creating meaningful experiences are what Measuring employee engagement energize and inspire us. We empower our people by In order to encourage continued motivation and a culture of pushing the boundaries of what is possible because we ownership, as well as reduce turnover, improve productivity believe that through the hard work and strength of our and create more overall employee satisfaction, we place a teams, we can achieve anything. This is evident in many strong emphasis on employee engagement. This starts with of our initiatives launched in 2018, including our 100+ measuring engagement to create a benchmark to identify Accelerator, and how we use the reach of our global brands gaps and then build initiatives to improve engagement to play an important role in our sustainability agenda. moving forward. Our engagement survey results and Our people are curious, bold and resilient. We see participation rates continue to be well above industry challenges as opportunities and are excited by the averages. possibilities they offer. We are constantly learning and growing, to recruit, develop and retain people who have the potential to be even better than ourselves. 19 Dream-People-Culture SUPPORTING COMMUNITIES 1.4 million AROUND THE WORLD cans of emergency water distributed in Volunteering in communities 2018 in the US Volunteering is one of the best ways to bring people together for a better world. All around the world, our people are passionate about empowering communities. We encourage these efforts through volunteering initiatives that are often also open to our families, friends, partners and consumers. One key program is Global Be(er) Responsible Day, which in 2018 engaged more than 62,000 colleagues worldwide to promote awareness about smart drinking. Together, we spread smart drinking messages to more than 3.6 million consumers in one day through direct interactions, generating over 215 million social media impressions. We also engaged with more than Supporting small enterprises 1.1 million points of consumption, retailers and wholesalers and communities to thrive throughout the month of September. Our small retailer development programs supported over Our local teams also organized their own volunteering efforts. 18,500 small retailers in eight markets across four regions. In Mexico, our volunteering program Voluntarios Modelo The initiatives aim to improve the incomes and livelihoods engaged more than 135,000 people in volunteering activities of small retail outlets in our distribution chain through in their communities, including many of our colleagues. In access to tools such as business skills, financial services Brazil, our skills-based volunteering program VOA provided and infrastructure. In Colombia, Peru and Ecuador, the management training to 185 non-governmental organizations programs focused specifically on female-owned retailers, (NGOs) leveraging the management expertise of 191 of our helping to support gender equality and women’s economic colleagues. In Colombia, Ecuador and Peru our volunteering empowerment. program #MeUno engaged more than 67,000 volunteers in environmental and educational activities. In the US, South In South Africa, we continued to empower small Africa and Colombia our Pro Bono Marathon leveraged the entrepreneurs and our suppliers with advanced business skills of 194 colleagues to help 13 nonprofit partners solve capabilities and access to new commercial opportunities, organizational challenges. leading to the creation of over 2,400 jobs. This contributes to South African Breweries’ goal to create jobs through enterprise and supplier development, helping drive Supporting disaster relief efforts inclusive economic growth and development. In 2018, many communities around the world were affected by droughts, earthquakes, wildfires, floods and other natural We also work to drive positive impact that is tailored to disasters. We believe we can play a positive role in building the needs of the communities in which we work. Our communities more resilient to disasters by working alongside foundations, such as the Anheuser Busch Foundation, government, civil society and other private sector organizations. Bavaria Foundation, Grupo Modelo Foundation and SAB Foundation, play a key role in achieving this. In South Africa, we responded to a major drought in Cape Town by providing the community access to local spring water (the public can collect a maximum of 25 liters per person per day). Additionally, we supported the city in its pressure management project to save 4.5 million liters of water per day. In the US in 2018, we sent over 1.4 million cans of emergency drinking water to disaster relief efforts across the country in partnership with the American Red Cross through our Anheuser-Busch Emergency Drinking Water Program. In September 2018, our Fort Collins, Colorado, brewery added the necessary equipment to produce canned drinking water, so that we now have two US breweries with this capability in strategic locations. We also responded to a major urban fire in a vulnerable community in the Brazilian city of Manaus, which was caused by a pressure cooker explosion in a home kitchen and impacted 520 families. We provided financial support in less than 24 hours, helping to acquire 260 new, safer ovens for the affected families. In Brazil, our skills-based volunteering program VOA provided management training to 185 non-governmental organizations 20 AB InBev annual report 2018 Our CEO Carlos Brito joined Mike Bloomberg Showcasing our commitment to diversity at a press conference to promote the 2019 In November, we signed the UN Women’s Empowerment Gender Equality Index Principles & CEO Action for Diversity Pledge. The first at the Bloomberg action as part of our collective pledge was to celebrate ‘A Global Business Forum Day of Understanding’ with a workshop for senior Global (September 2018, New York) Headquarters colleagues moderated by PwC. Our CEO Carlos Brito opened the session by sharing personal insights on diversity, inclusion and unconscious bias. We also participated in the Bloomberg Gender Equality Index for the first time by releasing data on our workforce, benefits, products and gender related programs in our value chain, which resulted in us being listed on the 2019 Index. 2018 also marked the third straight year we achieved a 100% score on the Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index in North America. To further our progress towards our diversity and inclusion goals, we have joined organizations including Management Leaders for Tomorrow, OUTstanding, EMpower, Mercer’s Global Diversity Forum and MAKERS@. We are also a Corporate Partner of the Stanford VMware Women’s Leadership Innovation Lab. Creating our goals and strategy In 2018, we expanded our existing diversity and inclusion strategy beyond the workplace alone to encompass our broader value chain and communities. The strategy sets goals including attracting diverse talent, enabling our workforce to DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION recognize bias and creating an inclusive work environment. Additionally, it defines priorities such as reviewing our policies We believe that our greatest strength is our diverse team of and processes to be more inclusive, reflecting diversity and people. Diversity and inclusion in our organization helps us inclusion throughout our value chain and supporting relevant to achieve our Dream as it enables the diversity of thought initiatives across the communities in which we operate. needed to achieve exceptional results. Our focus is on attracting, hiring, engaging, developing and advancing the very best talent and creating a level playing field—regardless Hiring and developing diverse talent of gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation or any other To ensure fairness across our processes to attract, hire, characteristics that make our colleagues unique. engage, develop and advance talent, we are establishing and tracking metrics in a global dashboard that will be Our global footprint provides us with an unparalleled reported to the executive team and board annually. Beyond opportunity to attract talent from diverse backgrounds. that, in 2018 we trained close to 200 of our current Senior Currently, over 100 different nationalities are represented Leadership Team (SLT) and their direct reports through across our company and 55 nationalities are represented in in-person workshops on unconscious bias and inclusion. our Global Headquarters. Other managers and leaders globally were also given Beyond that, reflecting the diversity of our footprint enables unconscious bias training through online and in-person us to better understand our consumers and meet their training, and we implemented trained bias breakers in our needs. We believe that diversity of thought delivers better performance review meetings. decision-making and more innovative ideas. Our company was built by passionate people building a company to last. By creating opportunities for everyone, we will continue growing for the next 100+ years. “At INvolve, we’ve been extremely impressed with AB InBev’s Driving diversity is a global priority for us commitment to progressing their In 2018, we made progress in showing accountability for diversity and inclusion journey. From diversity and inclusion. For example, we launched our first working with INvolve to launch their global Diversity and Inclusion Policy as part of our Global Code of Conduct and appointed our first Global Director of first ever Global D&I Policy, to hosting Diversity and Inclusion in October. our New York Role Model dinner, it is clear that their desire for positive change is strong, and we are looking forward to seeing more in 2019.” SUKI SANDHU, FOUNDER & CEO, INVOLVE 21 Dream-People-Culture Committed to women in leadership Carling Black Label tackles genderWe are actively working to increase female representation, based violence in South Africa especially at the most senior level and have increased the We leveraged the popular Carling Black Label to raise percentage of women in our salaried workforce to 30%, awareness amongst the brand’s largely male consumer base which is up 2pp since 2016. We have also increased the and help make progress towards putting an end to a critical percentage of female partners (bands 0-IV) to 20%, up 3pp national issue: violence against women. The #NOEXCUSE since 2016. In 2018, we had 18% women in our overall campaign kicked off in 2017. workforce and 25% of our new hires were women. As of January 2018, 55% of the target audience reported that Today, nearly half of our breweries in the US and a quarter they were aware of the campaign; and of those who reported of our breweries in Argentina, China and Europe are led by being aware, 74% reported being willing to spread the word female head brewmasters, and they have played a crucial that domestic violence is unacceptable. role in brewing some of our best-known beers. Skol supports LGBTQ+ inclusion in Brazil Empowering caregivers Skol started a movement to raise awareness of LGBTQ+ In May 2018, we launched our first Global Parental Leave inclusion by “donating” the “L” from the brand name to the Standard in all of the nearly 50 countries where we operate LGBTQ+ acronym. For the month of June, Skol’s product name to provide caregivers with the leave they need to bond with appeared as “Sko” in social media. Skol invited other brands their new children. All primary caregivers—irrespective of their in Brazil to join them and each of the allied brands pledged to gender—receive a minimum of 16 weeks of time off at 100% pay. donate to organizations that support the LGBTQ+ community. Secondary caregivers receive a minimum of two weeks of time off at 100% pay. This new Standard now exceeds local regulatory Grupo Modelo sponsors LGBT+ in Mexico requirements in over half of the countries where we operate. From February to July, our business in Mexico sponsored As one of the world’s leading companies, we believe we have a temporary exhibition called “LGBT + Identity, Love and not only a responsibility but an opportunity to support our Sexuality” at the Museum for Memory and Tolerance colleagues through important life events. We are proud to set an in Mexico City. The objective of the exhibition was to example by setting a minimum parental leave standard globally raise awareness around the richness of diversity and the that is available for all parents including same sex and domestic understanding of gender and sexual orientation, with the partners. aim of promoting a harmonious coexistence and eradicating discrimination. Supporting LGBTQ+ rights We are committed to growing global pride in the LGBTQ+ Castle Lager smashes labels in South Africa community around the world. In 2018, we helped support In August, we removed labels from Castle Lager bottles to LGBTQ+ rights with a variety of programs and some of our show our solidarity with all those who are unfairly and callously largest brands. We partnered with external organizations labelled on a daily basis. The goal of the campaign was to including Out for Undergrad, Reaching Out MBA and help raise awareness and eradicate the labels that divide us all. OUT-standing. Our Chief People Officer, David Almeida, advocated for LGBTQ+ rights at the Economist Pride and Prejudice LGBTQ+ Rights forum. Driving impact through our brands In addition, our brands play a powerful role in society, Our Chief People Officer David Almeida bringing people together through meaningful experiences. at the Economist Pride and Prejudice In 2018, some of our largest brands have championed our forum (May 2018, New York) values of respect and inclusion in their campaigns and been forces for social change. “Diversity and inclusion is a priority for my leadership team and me. Diverse teams bring better outcomes, and by working together with others to share best practices, we have an opportunity to drive positive impact through our colleagues, our brands, our consumers and our value chain.” CARLOS BRITO, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, AB INBEV 22 AB InBev annual report 2018 -36% total number of lost time injuries vs 2017 WORKPLACE SAFETY 2018 2017 Lost Time Injuries (LTIs) Increasing safety in the workplace Supply Employees 135 A 233 A The safety of our employees is our top priority. In 2018, Second Tier/Sales Employees 318 A 360 A we continued to increase awareness and promote safe behaviors with our colleagues and communities. Through Contractors (All) 492 890 our campaigns, including World Safety Day and our Global Total Recordable Injuries (TRIs) Behavioral Safety Initiative, we continually demonstrate what safety means to us; leadership commitment and ownership Supply Employees (Own) of safety by everybody working in or for AB InBev. Combined 415 A * In addition, we made further progress against our key Pre-combination 246 A 269 A safety metrics. Total number of Lost Time Injuries decreased Second Tier/Sales Employees further with 36% vs 2017. This decrease was made possible by a further roll-out of the Environment and Safety Pillar of Combined 1,116 * our global management systems, namely Voyager Plant Pre-combination 986 811 Optimization (VPO) and Distribution Process Optimization (DPO) across Africa, COPEC and APAC South Zones as well Fatalities** as investments in improving the safety conditions in the Supply Employees (Own) 1A 0A facilities, implementation of behavioral safety programs and Second Tier/Sales Employees (Own) 4A 4A our focus on road safety. Our ultimate goal is to minimize risk, build safety leaders throughout the organization and Contractors (All) 9A 6A achieve zero injuries. Through dedication and commitment A Assured metric (please refer to External Assurance Report on page 51) of our team members, many of our operations are well on *D  ue to the focus on more severe accidents during 2017, TRIs from former SAB the way to achieve this dream. plants were not be reported. Internal controls regarding the reporting of TRIs were not yet sufficiently implemented during 2017, resulting in lower data We regret to report 14 occupational fatalities, of which quality and robustness. ** F atalities data do not include commuting and community related fatalities as 4 occurred inside the plants and 10 occurred in the field. per AB InBev’s reporting definitions. The table also does not include road Our safety programs for 2019 and beyond will continue to fatalities of contractors which are fully managed by the contracted firm/ company. focus on preventing serious injuries and fatalities. Personal targets tied to variable compensation have also been Key significantly adapted to champion these programs. Lost Time Injuries (LTIs) Infrastructure and road conditions as well as violent assaults Occupational injury resulting in more than one-day absence from work. are a concern when operating outside of our facilities. This Total Recordable Injuries LTIs + modified duty injuries + medical treatment injuries. accounts for a portion of fatalities and serious incidents, which is why road safety and violence prevention is Supply Employees Brewery and manufacturing facility employees, including first-tier logistics. a top priority. In 2018, we continued to invest in fleet Second Tier/Sales Employees improvements and in training programs that give our Second-tier logistics, sales, Zone and global corporate employees. employees the guidance to avoid situations that can put Commuting Fatality them at risk. An incident that occurs while coming to work or going home resulting in a fatality to our employee(s). VPO and DPO continue to be our flagship programs Community Fatalities where we track and monitor safety performance in our Fatalities that occur to people outside of our operation in the course of organization. doing business. 23 Strategy Setting the standard as a category leader. To help optimize our portfolio and drive category growth across different markets, we use three interlocking strategic frameworks. Market Maturity Model The market maturity model is a framework which classifies our markets against a maturity level and share of beer. We know that the beer category evolves as markets mature and we use this model to group markets into clusters. We have found that the growth opportunity for beer differs across each level of maturity. The model enables us to develop our portfolios and commercial capabilities with a future-facing mindset, so we can: P redict the evolution of a market and anticipate market dynamics from more mature markets Set specific priorities based on a market’s cluster  ptimize our portfolio of brands to address consumer O occasions across clusters 24 AB InBev annual report 2018 CATEGORY EXPANSION FRAMEWORK EVOLVING MARKETS, EVOLVING BEER Premiumization LAGER Other Flavored Easy Beer Beer Classic drinking Styles Affordability Category Expansion Framework We believe that the insights derived from the category The category expansion framework guides us in expansion framework will enable our company to achieve shaping our brand portfolio to take advantage of the new further growth across our diverse geographic footprint at occasions in evolving markets. We use this framework to different levels of maturity. identify which types of beer will best fit the adapting needs of an evolving market. This allows us how to expand our Bringing the category expansion framework to life offerings to anticipate and deliver the types of beer our At the center of the category expansion framework is core consumers desire. lager, the heart of our business. In many of our markets, both Our vision is to structure the evolution of our beers to be developed and emerging, our largest brand is within core similar to other categories: lager. We have begun segmenting our core lagers into two types—easy drinking lagers and classic lagers, both suited for Stretch the price ladder through premiumization different occasions. Add lower bitterness propositions Introduce sophisticated options Extend to savoring and refinement EASY DRINKING LAGER CLASSIC LAGER 25 Strategy Enhancing category expansion Colombia is a good example of how we are premiumizing through affordability in a market. After the combination with SAB, we introduced our global brands to the Colombian market. Since then, We use affordability to provide consumers in emerging they have grown double digits, allowing us to deliver a markets with affordable, high quality, branded alternatives more diverse portfolio to consumers across different styles to illegal or illicit alcohol. and price points, which has contributed to beer gaining In 2018, we launched two new beers in Brazil, Nossa and share of total alcohol in that market. Magnífica, brewed with local cassava. These initiatives were Another example is Argentina, where we have substantially launched to drive our affordability platform, tapping into grown our premium share and developed the premium new consumers and giving them a safer, high quality beer segment with our portfolio that now includes Andes, option to replace unrecorded alcohol. Beyond that, the Patagonia, Stella Artois and Budweiser. launch activated local production of cassava and created an additional revenue stream for the local government, that otherwise would not collect taxes on unrecorded alcohol. Utilizing our premium brand portfolio Led by our global brands, our premium brand portfolio We also had a strong response to our 1L returnable glass offers more choices for consumers as markets mature, bottles in South Africa, a pack format that offers consumers providing opportunities for growth. In addition, we are the a lower per unit cost. Affordability initiatives such as these number one craft beer brewer around the world, with new, support volume and revenue growth. exciting and high quality beers to meet the needs of every We are convinced that this growth potential is compatible occasion. An example of the success of our craft business with our economic impact and Smart Drinking agenda. is the global expansion of Goose Island, with brewhouse or brewpub locations now open in Brazil, Canada, China, Growing our business through Mexico, South Korea and the UK, as well as the growth of our specialties portfolio. premiumization On the other side of the price spectrum, we use Positioning our global brands premiumization to unlock future growth by offering more high end beers for a variety of occasions, based on Within our global portfolio, each brand maintains its consumer trends. To drive premium sales, we utilize our own positioning, occasion and price point, allowing global brands and the High End Company. differentiation and minimizing overlap. These brands are our number one growth engine, representing more than oneAs markets mature, beverage consumption evolves and third of our total net revenue growth in 2018. premium is the fastest growing beer segment in developed markets. Our objective is to grow our share of premium  udweiser is the perfect beer for high energy, premium B beer by evolving our product mix and allocating more party occasions, plus sports and music events resources to our premium brands.  tella Artois, with a rich history of over 600 years and S its iconic chalice, is positioned to elevate the food experience  orona is truly a lifestyle brand, designed to be inviting to C men and women in the escape moment Focusing on the High End Company The High End Company addresses two main sections of our category expansion framework—premiumization through our global brands, and other beer styles through our specialities portfolio. The premium segment is expected to grow about five times faster than core and value in the years to come. Elevating the core by offering new and compelling propositions In addition to offering consumers a variety of options across price points, another way to grow the category is by extending our portfolio to appeal to people with different tastes. We do this by extending core lager to include options such as flavored, savory and other beer styles. As a customer favorite, our clean, crisp lagers account for most of our brands and beer volumes. We are excited to share the rich traditions of core lager with consumers in different ways, to reach new generations of consumers and elevate lager to make our brands more relevant in consumers’ lives. 26 AB InBev annual report 2018 We are invigorating core lager primarily through brand extensions and pack innovation. +18.3% In addition, we have a drive to communicate the intrinsic properties of our beers in terms of ingredients and the care and crafting of our brewing processes. A great example of High End Company this is our Brahma brand in Brazil, which has seen increased revenue up 18.3% vs. 2017 performance as a result of our focus on quality, ingredients, packaging upgrades and line extensions including Brahma Extra and Brahma 0.0. Optimizing our portfolio for every market Depending on the level of maturity in a given location, we prioritize different beers across our portfolio to fit the occasions of that market. For instance, in emerging markets there is a bigger focus on classic lagers and affordable brands. In developed markets, the emphasis is on broadening the set of occasions in which beer has a role to play. Growth champions We use growth champions to ensure that we expand our portfolios and related commercial practices efficiently and at the right time. This process follows one of our most successful business systems, efficiency champions, which provides a benchmark to open gaps, share best practices and then execute on them in a deliberate manner to deliver increasing cost-efficiency. We are now replicating this system through growth champions to benchmark best practices for topline growth around the world and implement them in new markets with similar characteristics to leverage our scale. In Brazil, our Brahma brand is elevating the core with packaging updates and line extensions. +17.6% Corona grew double digits for the fourth consecutive year, reaching 17.6% vs. 2017 27 Performance Reviewing our performance. 2018 was another step forward in our company’s transformational journey. Our business delivered consistent topline growth with margin expansion and EBITDA acceleration throughout the year. Revenue growth of 4.8% was driven by own beer volume growth of 0.8% (total volume up 0.3%) as well as continued premiumization and revenue management initiatives. Revenue per hl growth on a constant geographic basis was 4.7%, of which we estimate more than 100 bps was driven by positive mix in line with our premiumization strategy. EBITDA grew 7.9% on a full year basis with margin expansion of 118 bps to 40.4%, with consistent acceleration each quarter in line with our guidance. However, we faced challenging macroeconomic environments in many emerging markets, especially Brazil, Argentina and South Africa, and unfavorable currency volatility has slowed our deleveraging pace. 28 AB InBev annual report 2018 +4.8% Company highlights of 2018 include: Revenue growth  evenue growth of 4.8% coupled with operating R in 2018 leverage drove EBITDA growth of 7.9% with margin expansion of 130 bps and 8.6 billion USD of underlying profit, all despite currency and commodity headwinds  olume, revenue and market share growth achieved in V many of our important markets this year, led by Mexico, +7.9% China, Western Europe, Colombia and several African EBITDA growth countries including Nigeria in 2018 P  remiumization initiatives delivered top and bottom line growth, led by consistent double digit revenue growth in the High End Company and our global brands outside of their home markets In the US, we delivered our best annual share trend performance since 2012 A  pproximately 8% of our global beer volume in 2018 was noand low-alcohol as we continued to increase our Our Super Bowl advertising was in line with our strategy to focus on this opportunity, leveraging global health and strengthen the beer category. We drove stronger consumer wellness trends and in line with our commitment to smart awareness of our premium brands and innovations including drinking Stella Artois, Bon & Viv Spiked Seltzer, Michelob Ultra and Michelob Ultra Pure Gold. Budweiser led the conversation Major country performances on sustainability and renewable energy, and Bud Light highlighted the brand’s commitment to quality and United States transparency for consumers, following our announcement In the US, our revenues declined by 0.7%. Revenue per hl in January that it would be the first brand in the US to add a grew by 1.9%, driven by revenue management initiatives comprehensive on-pack serving facts and ingredient label. and continued premiumization of our portfolio. We estimate Our EBITDA declined by 2.3% in 2018 with margin that industry sales-to-retailers (STRs) declined by 1.8%. Our contraction of 65 bps to 40.3%, as an improved topown STRs were down 2.7% and our sales-to-wholesalers line performance was more than offset by commodity (STWs) were down 2.6%, as STWs converged with STRs as headwinds and higher distribution expenses related to a expected. tighter US freight market. Our top-line performance was supported by the continued success of our commercial initiatives, which led to our Mexico best annual share trend performance since 2012 with an Mexico was our best performing market this year in both top estimated decline in total market share of 40 bps. and bottom line delivery. We grew volume in every major brand and every region, resulting in a market share gain of Our above core portfolio continues to outperform the 60 bps. Revenue grew by low double digits, revenue per hl industry and accelerated share gains to 90 bps in FY18 grew by mid-single digits in line with inflation, and volumes versus 50 bps in FY17, driven by Michelob Ultra, our grew by high single digits. regional craft portfolio, the recently rebranded Bon & Viv Spiked Seltzer and our innovations in the segment. Throughout the year we have focused on developing our Michelob Ultra accelerated its growth in the fourth quarter, portfolio in line with the category expansion framework to solidifying its position as the top share gainer in the US for clearly differentiate our brands. This strategy has enabled the past 4 years. Our 2018 innovation pipeline contributed all of our brands to reach record levels across the country. 50% of total industry innovation volume, up from 10% in Our core brands are leading the way for growth with the previous year, and included Michelob Ultra Pure Gold, different regional approaches, enabling Corona to grow Bud Light Orange and the Budweiser Reserve series. These at an accelerated pace in the Northern region and Victoria innovations had a strong year and continue to gain share, to deliver its best performance ever in the Central region. enhancing the premiumization of our portfolio. Our premium portfolio contributed meaningfully to top-line growth as well, led by Michelob Ultra and Stella Artois Within their segments, Budweiser and Bud Light are which grew by double digits. performing better than prior year trends. However, the core and core light segments remain under pressure as The strong top-line performance, supported by capacity consumers trade up to higher price tiers, contributing to enhancements and continued cost discipline, contributed Budweiser and Bud Light losing 35 bps and 80 bps of to EBITDA growth of 19.2% with margin expansion of estimated total market share, respectively in 2018. 304 bps. 29 Performance Colombia South Africa In Colombia, our revenues grew by 8.4%, with revenue The macroeconomic and consumer environment in per hl growth of 5.0% and total volume growth of 3.2%. South Africa was challenging this year. The VAT increase The beer category continues to expand, as we gained as of 1 April 2018, numerous petrol price increases and an estimated 150 bps of share of total alcohol in the year, rising unemployment levels continued to have a negative leading to beer volume growth of 3.6%. Non-beer volumes impact on consumer disposable income, which put grew 0.2%. disproportionate pressure on the core segment where our portfolio is over-indexed. Our revenue in 2018 was flattish, We continue to drive premiumization within the category, with mid-single digit revenue per hl growth offset by midsupported by our global brand portfolio which grew by single digit volume declines. more than 75% this year, led by a strong performance from Budweiser. Our local brand portfolio also performed Our premium portfolio continues to grow by triple digits, well, led by Aguila’s country-wide expansion focused on and we gained 10 percentage points of market share in the promoting its national identity. growing high end segment this year. In the core segment, which still accounts for the vast majority of our volumes EBITDA grew 17.3% with margin expansion of 418 bps, and was held back by a challenging macroeconomic driven by revenue growth and continued synergy capture. environment, our share remains broadly unchanged, and toward the end of the year we saw an improved Brazil performance in volume. Our business in Brazil reported revenue growth of 1.7% with revenue per hl growth of 6.4%. Volumes declined by 4.4%, EBITDA this year decreased by low single digits with margin with beer volumes down 3.1% and non-beer volumes down contraction of just over 100 bps, primarily due to escalations 8.7%. We estimate we lost 40 bps of market share in FY18, in the cost of sales. after gaining approximately 60 bps of market share in FY17. We gained share in the premium segment, driven by our global brand portfolio which grew by more than 30%. Budweiser grew by more than 25%, Stella Artois was up by more than 40% and Corona led the way as one of the fastest growing brands in the country, with volumes up by more than 75% this year. Our core plus portfolio also delivered strong double digit growth, with both Bohemia and Brahma Extra performing very well. +30% We under-index considerably in the value segment with growth of global approximately 20% market share, and this segment brand portfolio now represents around 23% of the industry. Therefore, in order to capture share of the value segment without in Brazil compromising our profitability, we are leveraging best practices from other markets to drive affordability initiatives in certain regions. We successfully launched two brands this year brewed with cassava grown by local farmers, which offer consumers an accessible price point while delivering comparable margins to our core portfolio. Nossa was launched in the third quarter in Pernambuco and we estimate it gained 5 percentage points of market share in the state by the end of the year. Applying the learnings from this early success, we launched Magnífica in the state of Maranhão in December, and we continue to explore additional opportunities to scale this initiative throughout relevant states for the segment. In 2018, EBITDA grew 4.0% with margin expansion of 100 bps to 43.9% as a result of revenue management initiatives and ongoing cost discipline. Our performance in Brazil this year was below our expectations in the context of a challenging consumer environment. We are committed to improving our results in the market and believe we have the right strategy in place to deliver more balanced top-line growth between volume and revenue per hl. Our strategy is supported by the right brand portfolio, distribution capabilities, commercial investments and people to deliver sustainable, profitable growth in 2019 and beyond. 30 AB InBev annual report 2018 China Revenue grew by 8.3% with premiumization driving revenue per hl growth of 5.6% and supported by volume +8.3% growth of 2.5%. Revenue growth Our strong top-line performance resulted in further market in China share gains of 75 bps as per our estimates. Our super premium brands continued to grow significantly, supported by a strong overall performance of our eCommerce business. Budweiser grew by mid-single digits supported by premiumization efforts which expanded beyond the Michelob Ultra music platform into fashion and broader lifestyle activations. was the fastestEBITDA grew by 20.9% with margin expansion of 338 bps, growing brand resulting from top-line growth coupled with continued in Canada in premiumization and cost discipline. 2018 Highlights from our other markets In Canada, top-line declined by low single digits, driven primarily by a weaker beer industry and our share performance within the value segment, partially offset by the continued success of our trade-up strategy. Our High End Company in Canada is growing ahead of the industry, as Corona and Stella Artois continue to gain share and our local craft brands grew by double digits. Our focus core and core plus brands also continue to deliver solid results, with Michelob Ultra finishing the year as the fastest-growing Within EMEA, Europe grew revenue by low single digits, brand in Canada, and with Bud Light growing share for the driven by both premiumization and volume growth. The 23rd consecutive year. UK and Spain led the way with double digit revenue In Peru, we grew revenue by 7.0% amidst a challenging growth underpinned by higher volumes, and we grew macroeconomic environment that led to a volume market share across the region. In Africa excluding South decline of 1.7%. Top-line growth was driven by revenue Africa, we saw significant own beer volume growth in management initiatives and positive brand mix from the FY18 in Zambia (up more than 20%) and Mozambique growth of our global brands. In Ecuador, we grew revenue (up high teens), where we achieved record high market by 8.7% with volume growth of 4.9% and we gained an share in the last quarter of the year. However, own beer estimated 75 bps of share of total alcohol. This was a result volumes were flattish in Tanzania and down by mid-single of successful initiatives across our portfolio, led by Pilsener digits in Uganda as a result of capacity constraints and a and Club Premium and continued growth of our global challenging macroeconomic environment. Our growth in brands. Nigeria accelerated throughout this past year following the introduction of our new brewery mid-year to meet demand, In Latin America South, Argentina volumes declined by low with revenue growth of more than 50% in 4Q18 (more than single digits, due largely to the consumption contraction 25% in FY18) driven by double digit volume growth and resulting from challenging macroeconomic conditions. continued market share gains. Despite the tough operating environment, we saw some encouraging trends in the industry and our portfolio. The In Australia, revenue grew by low single digits, despite beer category continues to gain share of throat from other lower volumes due to increased promotional activity by alcoholic beverages, gaining over 3 pp this year. Our competitors and a softer industry performance amidst premium brands are doing well, gaining share in a growing declining consumer confidence. Great Northern remains segment of the industry, driven by Patagonia and Corona, a key engine of growth, with continued double digit and we continue to scale up Budweiser after reacquiring growth of both Original and Super Crisp variants. Our craft the rights to the brand in 2Q18. We also successfully acquisitions continue to grow in strength with double digit repositioned our two largest brands in the country, Quilmes volume growth. We also further strengthened our NABLAB Clásica and Brahma, leading to an improved performance of portfolio with the launch of our first non-alcohol beer, our core portfolio. Carlton Zero. 31 Innovation Driving growth through technology. Our commitment to innovation is bringing us closer to consumers and communities around the world to drive business growth. We are leveraging new technologies to better engage with our consumers, partners, customers, colleagues and beer lovers around the world. 32 AB InBev annual report 2018 We have dedicated research labs and technology centers across the globe that are driving innovation and helping to ensure we stay ahead of the curve when it comes to our +10% ZX’s organic net commerce, solutions and our supply chain. revenue growth From a commercial perspective, we are making strategic represented over commercial investments in innovative technologies, optimizing our marketing and sales channels to drive top10% of AB InBev’s line growth and support our customers’ business growth. organic net revenue We are scaling our solutions in enterprise technology to growth in 2018 drive our commercial strategy and build a more sustainable business by developing capabilities that are globally scalable, secure, integrated and future-ready. Lastly, technology is transforming our supply chain, allowing us to distribute fresher beer more efficiently and contribute to our partners’ business growth, while serving leading the world in “New Retail”, which is the digitization evolving consumer needs. of all formats of retail, which is being driven by both Alibaba and JD.com. In December, AB InBev China was recognized for its leadership by Alibaba, receiving the “New Retail Influence Award,” the only beverage or alcohol company to DRIVING INNOVATION ACROSS THE GLOBE be so recognized. Craft & Specialties Craft beer is just starting to take off in some countries, and Commercial ZX Ventures is staying ahead of the curve. Our global craft ZX Ventures beer brands grew 1.8% off-trade market share since last year. In 2018, one of our craft beer partners, 4 Pines Brewing Company, announced that the company is working on the first beer for space in partnership with Sabre Astronautrics. The result is Volstok Space Beer, a low-carbonation dry Irish Solutions Stout. Supply GITeC Beer Garage Brand Experience 2018 was a busy year for our brand experience team, with highlights such as the opening of our 200th point of consumption in Colombia for Bogota Beer Company (BBC), creating the first-ever permanent retail concept for a global brand via our Vista Corona openings in Barcelona, Spain and growing franchising to two new markets, Argentina and Brazil. ZX Ventures is brewing up the future, today Explore ZX Ventures is our global growth and innovation group Our corporate venture capital arm creates and identifies whose mandate is to invest in and develop new products and new products to address evolving customer needs. We businesses that address emerging consumer needs. We seed, launched a dry, sparkling canned wine called Saturday launch, and even scale new products that deliver exceptional Session in the Washington, D.C. market to address customer experiences, from services that step-change emerging consumer trends moving towards low-calorie, convenience, to rethinking delivery and more. ZX’s organic net lower ABV wine. revenue growth represented over 10% of AB InBev’s organic net We held another successful Zxlerator, an 11-week startrevenue growth in 2018. up accelerator based in New York City. This program ZX Ventures operates multiple global business units of varying serves as both an opportunity to bring in top MBA and adjacency to our core beer business including eCommerce, undergraduate talent and as an incubator for organic Craft & Specialties, Brand Experience and our incubator and innovation. In 2018, we generated more interest across investment arm, Explore. the company than ever before, resulting in more than 50 applications. Seven new ventures were validated, and eCommerce several will launch in 2019. We acquired BoozeBud, a technology company We also ran a successful pilot with the portfolio company revolutionizing how Australians can buy alcohol and Atom Pensa Systems to help reduce in-store stock-outs in a retail Group, a spirits, eCommerce and import business based in partner location in Canada using drone system technology. the UK. In China the eCommerce business grew 78% year We are currently exploring opportunities to pilot the over year and added 5.2pp share in 2018. China is also technology more broadly. 33 Innovation Beer Garage is transforming our business Exploring the use of blockchain technology through emerging technology We expect blockchain technology to be transformational to our business and world. We partnered with Civic The Beer Garage is our home for innovation, emerging Technologies to create the world’s first age-verifying technology and enterprise technology, which includes blockchain vending machine, which debuted in May at Global Enterprise Architecture and Cyber Security. Our Consensus 2018. Participants of legal drinking age were innovation teams help us explore, pilot and scale new able to claim a free can of Budweiser using the Civic app, capabilities and drive our competitive advantage. which enabled the machine to verify their identity and age. While working to gain insights into the needs of our In March, we were part of a consortium that successfully customers and consumers, Beer Garage is also scaling tested a blockchain solution that could revolutionize our our existing capabilities in AI & ML (Artificial Intelligence & supply chain by eliminating the need for printed shipping Machine Learning), IoT (Internet of Things), Cloud & Data documents, resulting in cost savings and reducing our use Analytics, Automation & Robotics, and exploring emerging of paper. Utilizing blockchain technology in our supply technologies such as Blockchain, AR & VR (Augmented chain will reduce mistakes, digitize information and improve Reality & Virtual Reality) and others. our overall process. What sets Beer Garage apart is our structured approach to innovation and our culture of collaboration. We value the Using bots and automation to reach consumers and mindset of a learner throughout all phases of corporate customers innovation: from defining the need, exploring and To help people find the perfect beer, we developed and prioritizing solutions, validating technology through a proof launched Brewce, a consumer-facing chatbot and beer of concept, piloting in specific locations and finally scaling expert powered by AI that serves up taste profiles, suggests across the globe. food and beer pairings and more. We also utilized AI in the With teams specializing in both Enterprise Architecture and customer-facing area with sales chatbots that facilitate order Tech Innovation, the solutions being created at Beer Garage taking and create a smoother experience for customers. are exploring cutting-edge technologies to help enhance our capabilities while partnering with global functions Building solutions to fill gaps and create change across commercial, supply chain, people, sustainability and When the opportunity arose to help traditional office spaces other areas of our business. become more innovative, our team answered with the Office Bud-E smart fridge. These Wi-Fi enabled refrigerators Expanding our data analytics capabilities hold up to 180 beers and connect to local delivery services Data analytics and our ability to drive insights are key to ensure consumers are always stocked with their favorite enablers of our digital journey. In 2018, we built a global beer brands. data platform centralizing all relevant business information, We are also working to fill gaps in our supply chain with which allowed for deeper analytical insights, driving innovations such as predictive maintenance, a diagnostic top-line growth and efficiencies. In addition, we hired top software that collects data and compares against previous data engineers and scientists to work on our key business and expected results to detect changes and forward alerts opportunities, including B2B, sales forecasting, finance to technicians. The sensor units come with a low-power planning, marketing insight and much more. vibration sensor that collects data every half hour or less. We have been running a pilot of predictive maintenance Making strategic commercial investments in technology for nine months in our Fort Collins brewery in innovative technologies Colorado, US. We are the first brewer to explore the use of PoS (Point of Sale) technology to better understand our consumers, Fostering a culture of internal innovation to help our customers grow and to help grow the beer In the summer of 2018, we launched our first Tech category. We are integrating hardware, software and data Incubator—a one-of-a-kind internship, talent exchange from thousands of bars around the world to gather insights and product development program. Supported by over that will support our customers’ growth. 40 mentors from Silicon Valley, our teams set off on a 10-week endeavor to solve a range of global business challenges. Each team focused on a different business area or technologies, such as using AI and NLP (Natural Language Processing) for customer service chatbots, applying IoT & data analytics for smart beer packaging to gain supply chain visibility or building a Procurement application leveraging cloud and blockchain technologies. The teams presented their ideas during the final demo day, and they all received a green light from the leadership team to proceed to pilots in one of our locations around the world. 34 AB InBev annual report 2018 experience of drinking non-alcoholic beers has significantly improved in recent years. Considering the growing trend of health and wellness, especially in mature markets, we are optimistic about the future of NABLAB. In 2018, we launched 12 noand lowalcohol beers, including Bud Light Radler, Carlton Zero, Diekirch 0,0, Flying Fish Chill, Franziskaner Zitrone 0,0, Great Northern, various Hoegaarden Radler varieties, Jupiler Pure Blonde and Leffe 0,0, in close cooperation with local development teams. These new options complement the previously developed portfolio of Brahma 0,0, Jupiler 0,0, Budweiser Prohibition Brew and Castle Free, among others. GITeC is driving innovation across Innovating packaging technology our brewing technology GITeC also explores new packaging technologies to offer Our Global Innovation and Technology Center (GITeC) a great consumer experience. For example, our digital partners across the globe to tap relevant expertise and help printing initiatives permit printing directly onto a bottle our company deliver and develop new raw and packaging or can, which helps us connect with consumers in new, materials, brew new and innovative products and deliver more meaningful ways. This technology was used to create them to consumers in sharply-designed packaging. special edition Budweiser bottles for the winners of the Located in Leuven, Belgium, GITeC features a diverse 2018 FIFA World Cup Russia™. team of more than 120 scientists and specialists from more To help extend draught beer freshness, GITeC developed than 20 countries, working together to create and deliver another packaging innovation called PureDraught. This winning innovation and technologies. “bottle-in-bottle” keg uses double-layered technology To implement GITeC’s innovations throughout the world, to prevent the contact of beer with CO2, mix gas or air. we rely on ZITECs, local innovation centers in six regions PureDraught extends the life of draught beer for up to four that employ in-depth knowledge of the local market to times longer than a normal steel keg. help scale-up and ready the latest products and packaging for distribution, as well as employ new processes in their breweries that are better both for the consumer and the environment. Delivering the best ingredients Yeast is one of the most important ingredients in the development of new beers. To help explore new yeast and fermentation processes that provide new experiences in taste and quality, GITeC possesses one of the largest collections of brewing yeast in the world. Creating a more sustainable brewing process In addition to exploring new tastes, our colleagues at GITeC are also making a positive impact on the environment. GITeC developed a patented brewing technology called Simmer & Strip that successfully limits the need for heat and water energy used in the brewhouse. The technology simulates gas bubbles without the need to boil the beer, which significantly helps to reduce both water consumption and carbon emissions. 34 of our breweries are already equipped with Simmer & Strip technology, with 19 more planned for 2019. Developing new NABLAB choices GITeC also focuses on providing noand low-alcohol beer options and has developed key proprietary technology that removes alcohol from beer after the brewing process to create non-alcoholic beer options without compromising taste. Thanks to this technology, the taste and overall 35 Smart Drinking & Road Safety Making a tangible contribution. We want every experience with beer to be a positive one. We believe the harmful use of alcohol is bad not only for our consumers, our colleagues, our families and our communities, but also for our business. For these reasons and more, we support the World Health Organization (WHO) target of reducing the harmful use of alcohol by at least 10% in every country by 2025, and United Nations Sustainable Development Goal (UN SDG) target 3.5 to strengthen the prevention of harmful use of alcohol globally. Our Global Smart Drinking Goals We established our Global Smart Drinking Goals in December 2015 to contribute to WHO and UN SDG targets to reduce the harmful use of alcohol globally. The goals are intended to serve as a laboratory to identify and test replicable evidence-based programs, implement them in partnership with others and ensure they are independently and transparently evaluated. We are moving beyond awareness–raising campaigns to drive real change in the communities where we live and work. In 2017, we established the AB InBev Foundation to support achievement of our Global Smart Drinking Goals. In 2018, we published our Smart Drinking Beliefs, a set of principles and promises to guide our progress against our Smart Drinking commitments and make our vision a reality. 36 AB InBev annual report 2018 6 City Pilots in 6 cities around the world Changing Behaviors Through Social Norms Engaging local stakeholders and City Pilots providing resources for success Reduce the harmful use of alcohol by at least 10% in Local knowledge and leadership are critical components six cities by the end of 2020 and implement the best of the City Pilot approach. In each city, a local Steering practices globally by the end of 2025. Committee was formed with community members, including government, academia, and other organizations. The role Social Norms of these committees is to set the direction of their City Pilot; select programs to implement; manage execution of those Influence social norms and individual behaviors programs; and ensure coordination of all partners involved. to reduce harmful use of alcohol by investing at least $1 billion across our markets in dedicated social To equip the Steering Committees with knowledge and marketing campaigns and related programs by the end practical resources, the AB InBev Foundation supported of 2025. experts from the University of Southern California, San Diego State University, and The Ohio State University to develop a Smart Drinking Toolkit, which compiles key principles from Empowering Consumers Through Choice social marketing, behavior change, and implementation Noand LowAlcohol Beer science to help Steering Committees maximize impact. It will Ensure Noor LowAlcohol beer products represent also help Steering Committees identify key issues to address at least 20% of AB InBev’s global beer volume by the end and prioritize the interventions to deploy. of 2025. Making progress in our Pilot Cities Label and Alcohol Health Literacy In Brasilia, Brazil, a screening and brief intervention program Place a Guidance Label on all of our beer products has been piloted in two primary health care centers. In in all of our markets by the end of 2020*. Increase Leuven, Belgium, the City Pilot partnered with Health House alcohol health literacy by the end of 2025. – an innovative exhibition platform – to provide young people with information on the biological, psychological and social * T he guidance label will be implemented in those markets where there is not already government mandated labeling in place, and where it is permissible by aspects of the use of alcohol, and highlight the benefits of local regulation. responsible alcohol use. In Zacatecas, Mexico, the City Pilot has engaged government, academic, and other stakeholders to develop and undertake actions in three areas: underage CITY PILOTS drinking, road safety and binge drinking. In Columbus, Ohio Our City Pilots are the cornerstone of our efforts to identify, in the US; Jiangshan, China; and Johannesburg, South Africa, test, and independently evaluate replicable evidence-based the City Pilot teams established local Steering Committees, programs to reduce harmful use of alcohol. They are enabling conducted baseline assessments, and identified areas of us to identify which innovative initiatives are effective enough focus in preparation for implementation. to scale. We will use the knowledge generated from this work to share best practices with others and improve our own efforts. The six pilot cities are: Leuven, Belgium; Brasilia, Brazil; Jiangshan, China; Zacatecas, Mexico; Columbus, Ohio in the US and Johannesburg, South Africa. The initiatives within these pilots focus on addressing drinking and driving, underage drinking, binge drinking, or other issues of local relevance. 8% of our global beer portfolio is lowor no-alcohol 37 Smart Drinking & Road Safety SOCIAL NORMS & SOCIAL MARKETING The “Smartest Smart Drinking Campaign” We believe the way we market our beers matters and must In 2018, we challenged our teams around the world to be responsible. All of our marketing and communications promote smart drinking messaging through innovative are subject to both industry codes of conduct and our own consumer-facing campaigns as part of an internal social Responsible Marketing and Communications Code. marketing campaign competition. Using the Social Marketing Toolkit and with coaching from social marketing Since launching our Global Smart Drinking Goals in experts, our marketing teams around the world developed December 2015, we have invested more than 135 30 unique and promising smart drinking campaigns. million USD in social marketing programs and campaigns An external panel of judges selected nine winners to receive to positively influence social norms around drinking. We funding to implement their campaigns, including: recognize that traditional marketing alone is not enough to reduce and prevent the harmful use of alcohol. This goal T he #ProtectAFriend campaign by our Colombian brand is not just about spending a specified amount, but rather Poker, which uses imagery of a crumpled beer cap to give spending with impact, supporting impactful campaigns consumers the visual of a car crash as a cue to remember and developing greater understanding of what works and not to drink and drive. why. Our aim is to move beyond awareness-building by A  campaign from our Skol Beats brand in Brazil that using social norms and social marketing theory to help affect tackles binge drinking with a unique argument—that positive behavior change. harmful use of alcohol gets in the way of relationships. “ The Best Accident” campaign from the Bud Light team in Social Marketing Toolkit Mexico that urges consumers to leave their car if they plan To help our marketing teams create real impact, we to drink. It depicts footage of partygoers’ cars getting engaged McCann Global Health to produce a Social crushed by a wrecking ball when they refused a taxi and Marketing Toolkit in collaboration with public health decided to drive home after drinking. experts. The toolkit contains practical information on behavior change theory, social norms and social marketing principles; plus a comprehensive library of our initiatives NO-ALCOHOL AND LOWto reduce harmful use of alcohol. Upon completion, we ALCOHOL BEER facilitated a series of workshops to train our marketing teams We are offering more choice to our consumers with the to utilize the resources within the toolkit. highest quality noand low-alcohol beer options, which can be an important way to help reduce harmful use of alcohol. We are moving closer to achieving our goal: at the “There’s potential for big end of 2018, noand low-alcohol beers made up about impact, not just in terms of 8% of our beer portfolio by volume. In addition, six of our helping communities, but in markets—Australia, China, Colombia, Ecuador, Honduras and Panama—had noand low-alcohol beer representing terms of adding new knowledge more than 20% of their beer volumes. to our understanding about how we can create more positive and No-alcohol beer healthy drinking environments.” Our no-alcohol beers offer existing drinkers an option to JEFF FRENCH, PH.D., PROFESSOR OF SOCIAL enjoy the flavor and satisfaction they expect from beer while MARKETING AT BRIGHTON UNIVERSITY reducing alcohol intake and for not consuming alcohol at BUSINESS SCHOOL all when they decide to do so (e.g. when they are driving). For those who are not driving and decide to drink, they can moderate their drinking by practicing pacing, which means substituting some of their alcohol consumption for alcoholfree beverages, thereby lowering their intake of alcohol. Since 2015, we have launched no-alcohol beers in many of our key markets, including Brahma 0.0 in Brazil, Budweiser Prohibition Brew in Canada, Carlton Zero in Australia, Castle Free in South Africa, Corona Cero in Mexico, and Jupiler 0.0 in Belgium. Low-alcohol beer We have also introduced low-alcohol beers in Canada, South Africa, Australia, and multiple European markets. Our solid portfolio of low-alcohol beer includes Bud Light Radler in The Canada, Flying Fish Chill in South Africa, Great Northern in #ProtectAFriend campaign from Australia and Hoegaarden Radler varieties. We also made the “Smartest further strides through the reformulation of our existing beers, Smart Drinking including Bud Light (3.5% ABV) in the UK and Corona Light Campaign” (3.4% ABV) in Mexico. 38 AB InBev annual report 2018 Measurement and evaluation of the impact of our noand low-alcohol beers will be critical. In May 2018, we attended a roundtable hosted by Imperial College Business School in London, which focused on how to measure the impact of introducing noand low-alcohol beers on reducing harmful consumption of alcohol. We look forward to results of the study being conducted. LABELING & ALCOHOL HEALTH LITERACY We believe in transparency and consumer choice. We want to help our consumers understand why and how alcohol should be consumed within limits, and are working to increase alcohol literacy among them, sometimes beyond regulatory requirements. We signed a partnership agreement with the United Nations Institute for Developing guidelines for labeling Training and Research (UNITAR) to collaborate to improve road safety. The AB InBev Foundation is supporting public health researchers at Tufts University School of Medicine to develop a consumer guidance labeling strategy for beer. As part of developing a road safety management toolkit that will be this work, Tufts conducted a scientific review of labeling available to governments worldwide to improve their road effects and held a consensus conference in January 2018 in safety efforts. We are testing it through local projects in the Boston, Massachusetts to review the evidence. The next step Dominican Republic, India, South Africa, China, Mexico and in this work is to develop label prototypes for our brands and Brazil. We have also jointly organized a regional conference develop and execute an implementation strategy. in South Africa and two high level dialogues in India and the Dominican Republic to help put road safety at the top of the public agenda; the next conference will take place in China. ROAD SAFETY As part of our partnership with UNITAR, we supported We believe when you drive you should never drink, and as a the development of a new road safety e-learning platform major user of roads around the world, we are committed to that aims to help countries design and implement resultscontributing to safer roads for all. This is a personal issue for oriented road safety learning. It includes knowledge sharing us our approximately 175,000 colleagues and their families and management materials, training and country-specific travel the world’s roads every day. We share the UN SDG’s projects. ambitious target of halving the global number of deaths and injuries from road traffic crashes by 2020. We also recognize Addressing drinking and driving that as the world’s largest brewer and a significant global operator of roadway fleets, we have a unique opportunity to It is our goal to make impaired-driving culturally take a leadership role improving road safety. unacceptable. In 2018, we published for the first time a public position on drinking and driving. We know that Tackling road safety together communications can play a role in changing social norms related to drinking and driving, but we recognize that We believe collective action is critical to achieving the UN change also requires the implementation and strong SDG target, so we helped establish Together for Safer enforcement of effective legislative measures. For this Roads (TSR), a coalition of private companies tackling road reason, we support targeted legislation and enforcement safety issues by sharing knowledge, data, technology and measures that have been proven to reduce impaired global networks. Since its founding in 2014, TSR has worked driving, such as: with local governments and NGOs to positively impact road L egislation specifying the blood alcohol concentration safety around the world. In the state of Sao Paulo, Brazil, the limit that defines impaired driving in a jurisdiction Movimento Paulista de Segurança no Trânsito partnership reported a 13% reduction in fatalities between 2015 and  trong enforcement, including high visibility enforcement S 2017, accounting for over 496 lives saved due to but not patrols only, on actions taken by the company on discouraging use Public education and awareness campaigns of alcohol in transit. In Atlanta, Georgia, the government, T he use of technologies such as ignition interlocks and after analyzing private sector and public data, suggests that alcohol detection systems critical road interventions reduced crashes by more than 26% from 2016 to 2017. Working with partners to create change In January 2018, we announced a two-year partnership We know there is more work to do and that we do not have with UN Institute for Training and Research (UNITAR) to all the answers. So, we are open and eager to collaborate develop and spread insights and methodologies to help experts and other partners such as TSR, UNITAR and others save lives beyond focus cities. Working with UNITAR, we are to help accelerate progress towards our goals. 39 Sustainability Sustainability is our business. Brewing quality beer starts with the best ingredients. This requires a healthy, natural environment as well as thriving communities. That is why Sustainability is not just part of our business, it is our business. In this section we report on our progress against our public commitments and other sustainability efforts – responding to the Directive 2014/95/EU for non-financial reporting, key indicators from the GRI Standards and relevant UN Sustainable Development Goals. 40 AB InBev annual report 2018 Metric 2018 2017 Total water use (in billion hl) 1.632 A 1.775 A Water use by hectoliter of production (hl/hl) 2.95 A 3.09 A Total GJ of energy (in millions) 61.1 61.4 A Total GJ of energy purchased (in millions) Ⓐ 59.2 A * Energy usage per hectoliter of production (in Mj/hl) 110.1 * 111.6 A Energy purchased per hectoliter of production (in Mj/hl) 106.8 A * Total direct and indirect GHG emissions (Scopes 1 and 2 in million metric tons of CO2e) 6.03 A 6.18 A Total direct and indirect GHG emissions (Scopes 1,2, and 3 in million metric tons of CO2e) 31.21 32.35 Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions per hectoliter of production (in kg CO2e/hl) 8.04 A 8.55 A Scopes 1,2, and 3 GHG emissions per hectoliter of production (in kg CO2e/hl) 57.0 59.9 % Renewable Electricity 16% A % Returnable Packaging 43.5% A 46% % Recycled Content in primary packaging Glass: 41.4% A 37% Cans: 64.7% A 59% PET: 15.7% A 21% Direct farmers skilled, connected, and financially empowered** Skilled: 5,000 Connected: 10,000 Financially Empowered: 2,000 A Assured Metric (please refer to External Assurance Report on page 51) · Our goals on water, GHG emissions per hectoliter of production and energy pertain to our beverage facilities only and do not encompass our vertical operations such as malt plants and packaging facilities. · Total direct and indirect GHG emissions data encompass beverage facilities and most vertical operations, including malt plants and packaging facilities. · Scope 1 accounts for 59% of our operational emissions and includes CO2 equivalent (CO2e) from fuel used in our manufacturing processes and in cogeneration plants that generate on-site electricity. Scope 2 accounts for about 41% and represents emissions from purchased electricity. · Scope 3 emissions constitute estimates based on a mix of supplier-based numbers, global emission factors and assumptions. Data’s main categories include, Purchased Goods and Services, Logistics, Product Cooling, and End of Life. * In line with our new sustainability goals, energy reporting will shift to energy purchased versus energy usage. Energy purchased per hl aligns with our RE100 sustainability goal of offsetting 100% of our purchased electricity with electricity sourced from renewable resources. Energy purchased per hl was not reported for breweries acquired from SABM in 2017. ** Smart Agriculture data is based on up-to-date estimates. ACCELERATING AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT We have taken a farmer-centric approach in our public commitment to ensure 100% of our direct farmers will be skilled, connected and financially empowered by 2025. Today, we estimate that through our Agricultural Development Programs in 13 countries we work with over 35,000 farmers and are working diligently to ensure we have full transparency of farmers in our direct supply chains. In supporting farmers growing our six priority crops (barley, 2025 Sustainability Goals cassava, hops, maize, rice, sorghum), we are investing in key enablers and lasting programs that will help improve their Following the achievement of our 2017 Environmental yields, profitability and stewardship of natural resources. Goals, in March 2018 we launched our most ambitious set of goals yet. Our 2025 Sustainability Goals aim to deliver a measurable, positive impact on the environment Building our role as trusted advisors and our communities as aligned with the UN Sustainable From satellite and blockchain technology, to data analytics Development Goals, directly contributing to goals such that identify crop management best practices and need as Climate Action, Renewables, Water Access, Waste and for breeding drought tolerant and weather resistant crop Access to Finance. varieties, our teams are helping farmers improve their Smart Agriculture: productivity and securing our supply chain for the future. 100% of our direct farmers will be skilled, connected and Our flagship agricultural development program is financially empowered. SmartBarley which is led by our agronomists to help growers improve their productivity, profitability and natural Water Stewardship: resource efficiency. Launched in 2013, SmartBarley has collected field-level data from more than 7,000 farmers 100% of our communities in high stress areas will have to help improve their farming practices. Through our measurably improved water availability and quality. partnership with the University of Illinois, our dedicated Circular Packaging: team at Bud Lab uses big data analytics to assess farming practices alongside weather, soil and market data and 100% of our products will be in packaging that is returnable give insights to improve productivity and environmental or made from majority recycled content. performance. In 2018, we rolled out a new and improved Climate Action: SmartBarley app to provide better tools for our 100+ agronomists to advise farmers around the world. 100% of our purchased electricity will be from renewable sources and we will reduce our carbon emissions by 25% across our value chain. 41 Sustainability Unlocking advances in crop breeding and management We continue to invest in the resiliency of our barley and crop varieties, and in management techniques that will secure our supply in the face of increasingly hostile and volatile climate changes. In 2018, our teams in the US, Mexico, Uruguay, Brazil and Argentina worked on establishing a field drone and imagery program to optimize nitrogen use and other management practices. we continued our work in Mexico to provide financing for seeders and more affordable harvesting services and Developing better training resources established a collateral fund to provide financing for A key pillar of our programs is providing farmers with the cleaning machines to reduce post-harvest loss and drip crop management protocols and trainings they need to irrigation to improve water use efficiency in high water risk successfully grow crops while also growing their businesses areas. and improving their livelihoods. In 2018, we developed training programs focusing on both technical and financial Fostering a foundation of transparency skills for farmers in multiple countries including India, Tanzania, Uganda and Mexico, working with key partners Establishing a transparent supply chain will serve as a critical including TechnoServe and FIRA. foundation to reaching 100% of our farmers. In 2018, we began piloting a program in Zambia with BanQu that connects us with 2,000+ farmers in our cassava supply Investing in mechanization and chain through an SMS-based service that uses blockchain supply chain infrastructure technology to record purchasing and sales data. The We believe that investing in technology will develop our results have been extraordinary: more than 1,000,000 kilos agricultural supply chains for the long term, unlocking of cassava have been sold on the platform to date, and significant increases in productivity and profitability. In 2018, we have been able to offer the farmers a digital financial identity. We have also expanded the program to Uganda barley farmers. DIRECT AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS PRIORITY CROPS BARLEY CORN/MAIZE HOPS CASSAVA SORGHUM RICE Agricultural Development programs cover six priority crops across 13 countries (United States, Mexico, Colombia, Uruguay, Brazil, Argentina, Bolivia, Russia, South Africa, Zambia, 42 Uganda, Tanzania, India) AB InBev annual report 2018 100% Our 2025 Water Goal aims to ensure that 100% of our communities in high stress areas will have measurably improved water availability and ADVANCING WATER STEWARDSHIP quality. As water resource challenges become increasingly magnified by climate change, we continue to ramp up our water stewardship efforts, taking an outward-in approach and seeking knowledge from key experts and major water conservation organizations. Coupling their guidance with our scale and management systems allows us to ensure a reliable, clean supply of water for both our operations and Partnering to tackle challenges our local communities. In 2018, we announced global water partnerships with Our 2025 Water Goal aims to ensure that 100% of our The Nature Conservancy (TNC) and the World Wildlife communities in high stress areas will have measurably Fund for Nature (WWF). Both of these organizations share improved water availability and quality. This ambition our belief that measurable impact at scale is the next frontier correlates directly with UN Sustainable Development Goal in water stewardship. #6 and aims to tangibly improve watershed health and The first phase of our TNC partnership is focused on Latin livelihoods. America and the US, with the development of four Water Funds in Colombia, El Salvador, Argentina and Mexico, A results-based approach to and watershed protection projects in California and the watershed protection Colorado River. The initiatives unite public, private and civil society stakeholders around the common goal of Striving for measurable improvement in water availability contributing to water security through nature-based and quality in high risk communities is a bold commitment— solutions and sustainable watershed management. one that is grounded in our core belief that water security is a priority challenge to global sustainable development. Our partnership with WWF in Bolivia, South Africa and We plan to lead a corporate shift toward measurability and Zambia builds on previous collaborations that used water accountability, ensuring that our local investments and risk assessments to highlight the value of water to the programs translate into lasting impacts on water quality and economy. Together, we are working to develop blended availability for our communities and operations around the finance approaches to encourage private sector investment world. at the scale required to improve water access and quality, enhance the health of river basins and ensure the needs of To establish baselines for measurement and tracking local communities are met. techniques, we piloted watershed protection benchmarking initiatives in Mendoza, Zacatecas, Lusaka and Cape Town. We will apply our findings to the rest of highstress sites by 2020 and share the results with our NGO and local community partners as well as our peers. 43 Sustainability Addressing global sustainability issues in a local context While water is a global challenge, it always manifests within a specific local context. It is therefore essential to work with committed local stakeholders and develop a shared understanding of issues to design and implement effective response strategies. Approaches we have taken across high stress areas include environmental restoration, infrastructure improvements and communal water access projects. For example, in Bucaramanga, Colombia, our operations and the local community are experiencing water quality deterioration as result of upstream contamination, deforestation and key ecosystems losses. To respond, our Bavaria unit is partnering with TNC on a new local water fund to promote sustainable mining and agriculture. Additionally, in October 2018, the German Ministry for the Environment awarded us a grant to scale up conservation efforts and protect the wetland, which serves as the source of water for the brewery and over two million people. In Brazil, we launched AMA, a water brand whose sole purpose is to provide water access and improve life quality CIRCULAR PACKAGING for those who do not have access to water in Brazil. 100% of As one of the world’s largest purchasers of glass bottles profits go towards water access initiatives and we provide and aluminum cans, we continue to champion a circular full transparency through our platform (www.aguaama.com. economy. Through our 2025 Packaging Goal, we aim br) that discloses composition of profits, people impacted to have 100% of our products be in packaging that is with the project, and verification by a third party. returnable or made from majority recycled content. We aim to achieve our circular packaging vision through Reducing operational water usage four key levers: As brewers, water will always be our number one resource. 1. Recycle We continue our efforts to drive water efficiencies at 190+ breweries globally, as well as in our verticalized Increase recycled content in one-way packaging through operations, including hops farms, malting, bottling and supplier collaboration. canning facilities. Increase supply of recycled content through postconsumer waste recovery programs through local partnerships. Educate consumers to shift recycling attitudes. 2. Reuse Promote and protect returnable packaging. 3. Reduce R educe the amount of material we put into the market. Reduce our carbon footprint. 4. Rethink Innovate and scale new materials and products designed for circular economy. Explore the use of alternative materials, technologies and designs for adverse materials. 44 AB InBev annual report 2018 Recycle Packaging is our biggest contributor to our carbon emissions, representing more than one third of our carbon footprint across the value chain. To tackle this, we are collaborating with our packaging suppliers to spearhead partnerships to increase circularity across our key markets, explore ways to increase recycled content in our packaging, Reduce and co-innovate new solutions and technologies. In 2018, we worked with the Closed Loop Fund in the US and ECOCE in Mexico where we aim to increase recycled Additionally, we implemented reverse logistics pilots, taking content in glass bottles. advantage of the fleet we own to collect empty bottles and cans from our own franchises like Modelorama in Mexico. Through an incentive program, we encouraged both Rethink retailers and consumers to bring their empty containers In November 2018, Corona launched 100% plastic-free back to the store where our trucks picked them weekly and fiber six pack rings made from plant-based biodegradable brought them to our vertical glass plant near Mexico City. fibers, to be piloted in Mexico in early 2019. This initiative will replace close to 2.9 tons of hi-cone plastic currently Even though a very small portion of our packaging, we used and reinforces our commitment to sustainable have also had several advancements on PET use. In 2018, packaging. we achieved 50% recycled content on one of our flagship brands, Pony Malta in Colombia. Reuse We made a notable contribution to circular economy through our two-way packaging (returnable bottles and kegs), and protecting and promoting returnable packaging continues to be our biggest opportunity. In 2018, 43.5% of our volume was in returnable packaging, down from 46%, and we plan to protect this operating model through consumer norm campaigns, innovations and new ways of working with our retailer partners. By working with our partners we are able to see an increase in cans from 59% in 100% 2017 to 64.7% in 2018; 41% in glass from a 37% in 2017. PET decreased from 21% to 15.7%. We are working with our partners to increase recycled content in the coming years. plastic-free fiber six pack rings piloted in Mexico 43.5% of our volume is in returnable packaging 45 Sustainability CLIMATE ACTION Climate change is the most pressing issue confronting our planet with far-reaching consequences on our supply chain, operations and communities. We believe businesses can play a critical role in a global transition to a low-carbon economy to combat climate change, and recognize that our responsibility lies beyond our walls, into our value chain. Therefore, we have committed to having 100% of our purchased electricity come from renewable sources by 2025. We have also set a science-based target to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 25% per beverage across our supply chain by 2025, with a baseline of 2017. In Davos, Budweiser revealed a Our commitment to RE100 is well under way, with 50% of our renewable electricity symbol to champion global volume under contract up to date and 16% already its commitment to brew with 100% implemented/operational. Our work to reduce our carbon renewable electricity. footprint transcends our brewery walls. In 2018, we increased the scope of our carbon footprint, including Scope 3 emissions which account an estimated of 25 million tons of CO2e in 2018 a reduction of 4.5% kgCO2/hl vs 2017 on the total scope 1,2 which includes our main categories purchased goods and and 3 emissions. The numbers of the scope 3 emissions are services, logistics, and product cooling. In 2018, we estimated based on calculations using a mix of supplier-based numbers, global emission factors and assumptions, and are getting more and more accurate taking into account new methodologies OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT and industry best practice going forward. Budweiser commits to renewable electricity In January 2018, at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, Budweiser revealed a renewable electricity symbol to champion its commitment to brew with 100% renewable electricity. The symbol was launched in the US and Chile, and will be rolled out in other markets around the world by 2025. Every day, 41 million Budweisers are sold globally. AGRICULTURE 9% Transitioning to renewable translates into the equivalent of P ROCESSING BREWING INGREDIENTS 5% taking more than 50,000 cars off the road for the brand. BREWING OPERATIONS 16% PACKAGING MATERIALS 36% Mainstreaming electric trucks LOGISTICS 9% in our distribution PRODUCT COOLING 24% END OF LIFE 1% Logistics represents 9% of our total carbon footprint. Although we have been able to reduce emissions per hl by 4.4% since 2017 through routing efficiencies, use of alternative fuels and reverse logistics initiatives, we are continuously searching for ways to invest in new technology and drive the industry forward. Following pre-orders of 40 Tesla trucks in 2017, we signed an intent to contract 800 hydrogen-powered, electric semi-trucks from Nikola Motor Company in 2018. Once delivered and scaled, the conversion of our entire longhaul dedicated fleet to renewable-powered trucks will account for a 19% decrease in logistics emissions in our US operations. We will begin testing in 2019, with a plan for full roll-out over the next five years across the whole country. This would replace approximately 30% of our total fleet, 16% and nearly 100% of our dedicated AnheuserBusch fleet. In Europe, we have partnered with our fleet suppliers and To date, we have contracted 50% plan to launch electric vehicles in the Netherlands starting of our electricity from renewables in 2019. In Brazil, we partnered with Volkswagen to test sources, and 16% of this is already the first electric delivery truck in Sao Paulo with the aim of replacing our fleet of 1,600 trucks by 2025. This accounts operational for an estimated 0.2% reduction in absolute GHG by 2025 or equal to taking more than 14,000 passenger vehicles off the road per year. 46 AB InBev annual report 2018 Striving for more sustainable brewing 100+ ACCELERATOR We continue to invest in innovation to make our brewing In August, we launched the 100+ Sustainability Accelerator more sustainable. Since 2013, we have been able to reduce by issuing ten challenge statements across a range of our energy usage 15% on more than 30 facilities throughout issues, including water stewardship, farmer productivity, the world. In 2018 alone, we reduced energy usage from product upcycling, responsible sourcing, green logistics 111.6 to 110.1 MJ/hl. and more. Our goal was to solicit applications from startups that are solving key sustainability challenges with innovative solutions. Through the program, we want to empower Investing in renewable energy driven and committed entrepreneurs and use our vast We signed agreements for an equivalent of 1.1GWh in resources and expertise to nurture, support and grow these renewable electricity this year, representing more than 20% budding businesses. of our global consumption. Our partnership with Enel Green Power’s Thunder Ranch in Oklahoma, US went live this year, In its first year, the accelerator had over 650 applications providing 602,000 MWh of electricity – the equivalent of 11% from startups all over the world. Collectively, the startups of AB InBev’s total global electricity consumption. raised over 100 million USD in funding and 50 million USD in revenue. Of the applicants, 21 were selected to participate in the first cohort and receive mentorship, Engaging with our value chain funding and access to new net-works, so they can transform to share best practices their ideas into reality. We know that we cannot achieve these ambitious goals We look forward to launching the second round of without the help of our suppliers and retailers. For this the accelerator in 2019, continuing our efforts to find reason, in November 2018, we launched Eclipse, a breakthrough technologies to achieve our ambitious 2025 dedicated platform where we invite supply chain partners sustainability goals and contribute to the 2030 UN SDGs. to share our Sustainability vision. Eclipse will allow us to identify key opportunities for partnership on sustainable development with some of our biggest suppliers across our top markets. As of December 2018, more than 20 major suppliers signed up. 650 applications to our first 100+ accelerator “I think that we may be standing on the precipice of world-wide change. I am excited to be a trigger for this and I am exhilarated to be partnering with such a dynamic and creative group of people from a truly committed powerhouse company.” ARI KAUFMAN, CEO OF MICROLYZE, ONE OF OUR ACCELERATOR COMPANIES 47 Ethics Leading by example. We never take shortcuts. We have built our company with integrity, hard work, quality and responsibility. 48 AB InBev annual report 2018 Preventing corruption and bribery In 2018, we continued our efforts to maintain a leading anticorruption compliance program. This program is managed by a global team that oversees policy implementation, investigations, operational dashboards and organizational change across all regions. Our compliance officers are available around the clock to advise our people on specific issues. Colleagues can ask questions or raise concerns in person, via a mobile app or website or anonymously through a global compliance hotline. We created BrewRIGHT, an innovative and award-winning data analytics platform that has put us at the forefront in the use of technology in the compliance space. We have also Respecting human rights challenged ourselves to think holistically about the direction Respect for human rights is a core tenet of our business ethos. of our compliance program, and have rebranded our We have been a signatory to the United Nations Global Compliance function as Ethics & Compliance, which reflects Compact since 2005 and are committed to the principles and an effort to drive employee focus on principles-based guidance contained in the UN Guiding Principles on Business decision-making, such as using ethical values to guide and Human Rights. everyday business decisions. In 2018, we started a refresh of our Global Human Rights Policy, We have also embarked on an effort to review, revise and led by the Policy Review Steering Committee and with input enhance our compliance policies through the formation from external stakeholders. The Policy sets out standards and of the Policy Review Steering Committee. The committee expectations for respecting and promoting human rights, and conducts comprehensive reviews to identify compliance its implementation is overseen by our Global and Regional and business risks and to refine compliance policies to make Ethics and Compliance Committees. them more practical, understandable and administrable for We also updated and rolled out an Anti-Harassment and employees. As the committee undertakes this review, we Discrimination policy throughout our entire organization. As are augmenting the process with a data-driven approach to part of the implementation strategy, we made reporting of identify potential gaps, and are focused at the policy design violations a mandatory requirement for all supervisors under the stage on how policies will be implemented, communicated Policy, and established Policy Ambassadors who will function and audited going forward to ensure that they are as an early warning mechanism and means for colleagues to functioning effectively. report or discuss grievances or concerns. Building on this, we Our efforts to create and maintain a leading ethics and also launched a new Global Diversity and Inclusion Policy. compliance program were recognized by a variety of To supplement this, in 2018 we developed Responsible leading experts in 2018, including: Sourcing Principles for Farms to highlight the principles of F ormer DOJ Compliance Counsel Hui Chen recognized the Responsible Sourcing Policy that are most relevant in our program as a leader in the use of data analytics in a July the agricultural context and to clarify our expectations in 2018 Global Investigations Review article entitled “Antiour agricultural supply chain. We work with over 35,000 bribery compliance: We need more ‘pioneers’.” direct farmers, ranging from large commercial farmers to T he Financial Times twice recognized our Global Ethics smallholders and have created these principles to apply across and Compliance VP as one of the most innovative a broad range of agricultural contexts. In 2019, we will work in-house lawyers in North America and awarded our to implement these principles in our agricultural supply chain company the 2018 award for Intelligent Business. and support farmers to drive continuous improvement in their B  rewRIGHT’s risk scoring methodology was also featured operations. in an article titled “You can’t monitor what you can’t We also take part in industry and NGO initiatives that seek measure,” in the March/April 2018 edition of Fraud to improve supply chain performance. We are a member of Magazine, and as part of a Harvard Business School Case AIM-Progress, a global forum of consumer goods companies Study on our company’s compliance program authored sponsored by the European Brands Association and the by Professor Eugene Soltes from Harvard Business School. Grocery Manufacturers Association. As a member, we report F inally, Corporate Counsel awarded us the 2018 award for audits of our suppliers to AIM-Progress. We are also a member Best Legal Department in the compliance category for its of SEDEX, an effective management solution that helps us “unconventional and high-tech strategies.” reduce risk and improve our supply chain practices. 49 Report Scope Report Scope The Sustainability section of the 2018 Annual Report provides Environmental data from newly acquired operations are information about the progress towards our 2025 Sustainability excluded from the running cycle. These facilities will be included Goals launched in March of 2018. Together with our corporate in future reporting. Safety data is immediately tracked and website, they provide an update of Anheuser-Busch InBev’s monitored for all sites and included unless otherwise stated performance on key metrics during the 2018 calendar year. in text or footnotes. For all environmental and safety data, This chapter, along with Smart Drinking & Road Safety, and divestitures and closures are removed from the scope for the Dream-People-Culture, including D&I, have been established in reporting year, but prior years are not adjusted. accordance with the law of September 3, 2017 implementing Global goals on water, energy purchased and greenhouse gas Directive 2014/95/EU of October 22, 2014 amending emissions presented in this section, as well as key performance Directive 2013/34/EU regarding disclosure of non-financial and indicators such as energy usage, include AB InBev’s whollydiversity information by certain large undertakings and groups. owned operations unless stated otherwise in text or footnotes. Together, they form the non-financial statement required under Energy usage and purchased excludes the energy exported the referred law and include an overview of our environmental, to third parties and certain projects under construction. The social and human related matters, as well as human rights and excluded energy use and purchase does not reflect the amount anti-bribery matters. Some of the SDGs in relation to our goals of energy used in our beer brewing processes. For comparison refer to Improved Healthcare, Clean Water and Sanitation, purposes following the combination with SAB, selected Safety Renewable Energy, Reducing Waste generation, Reduction of TRIs data represent 2017 AB In-Bev pre-combination, 2018 AB GHG Emissions and energy consumption, among others. InBev pre-combination and 2018 AB InBev combined with SAB, Alongside our environmental sustainability, information on Smart as noted. Drinking and Road Safety, Workplace Safety, and Business Ethics For our Circular Packaging goal, recycled content information can be found on pages 23, 36 and 48 of this report. Additional for primary packaging regarding third party vendors is included information on volunteering and disaster response is also under the scope of the numbers as well as our own operations. included in this report (page 20). These sections are intended Recycled content refers to recycled material included in primary to provide updates to stakeholders, including investors, packaging including glass, cans, and PET, taking into account employees, governments, NGOs, costumers, and consumers in the totality of our purchases on that calendar year. countries where we operate in. In the scope of our reported Sustainability goals, both our AB InBev prepared the 2018 report (these chapters and website) beverage and vertical operations are included in addition to using the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Standards as a our Scope 3 emissions regarding information beyond our guide. To help determine the content developed, a materiality operations and that impact our supply chain with exception of assessment was conducted, which helped identify the key the KPIs on energy and water usage and the KPI on Scope 1+2 issues that are of most importance to our stakeholders and our emissions per hectoliter of production (in kg CO2/hl)”, as the company. For more information at our materiality assessment, relative KPI regarding scope 1 and 2 emissions also excludes including Boundary Analysis Table, and GRI Index for this year’s vertical operations. For our beverage and vertical operations, report can be found at www.ab-inbev.com. including malting and packaging facilities use our Voyager Our 2025 Sustainability Goals and overall sustainability agenda Plant Optimization (VPO) global management system. This data aligns with several of the UN Sustainable Development Goals is reported annually to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). (SDGs) established by the United Nations in 2015. Activities Specific data tables contain footnotes for additional data. throughout our operations and supply chain are aligned to the This report contains forward-looking statements regarding metrics that are considered the most material to our business estimations into the future. These generally include words and/ and critical to our stakeholders. We are focused on areas where or phrases such as “will likely result”, “aims to”, “will continue”, we can make the most significant positive impact. “Is anticipated”, “it is estimated”, “anticipate”, “estimate”, The data and stories presented on this report were gathered and “project”, “result”, “is predicted”, “may”, “might”, “could”, verified with the assistance of content owners across all functions “believe”, “expect”, “plan”, “potential”, or other similar and geographic zones. expressions. These statements are subject to uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those stated in this report due to, AB InBev has established processes to ensure accurate and but not limited, impact to climate change, water stress, financial consistent reporting of Smart Drinking and Safety, 2025 distress, negative publicity, our availability to hire and/or retain Sustainability Goals, and Safety performance data, as well as the best talent, emerging regulations, and reputation of our key performance indicators. In the Assurance Report of the brands, the ability to make acquisitions and/or divest divisions, Independent Auditor (page 51), and in key places along the access to capital, volatility in the stock market, exposure to report, we have identified which metrics have been externally litigation, and other associated risks not mentioned as well assured by KPMG. Financial information included has also been as risks identified in our Form-20 filed with the US Securities audited by Deloitte. and Exchange Commission. Additional infor-mation about AB InBev’s climate and water risks, management and performance of such is available through CDP. 50 AB InBev annual report 2018 Assurance Report of the Independent Auditor To the readers of the Anheuser-Busch InBev 2018 Annual Our conclusion has been formed on the basis of, and is Report: subject to, the matters outlined in this report. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient Introduction and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. We have reviewed the following information in the Scope of the group review Anheuser-Busch InBev 2018 Annual Report (hereafter ‘The AB InBev is the parent company of a group of entities. The Se-lected Information’) of Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV Selected Information incorporates the consolidated infor(hereafter ‘AB InBev’) based in Leuven, Belgium: mation of this group of entities as disclosed in the section  ater Use by Hectoliter of Production and Total Water W ‘Report Scope’ on page 50 in the Annual Report. Use (page 41) Our group review procedures consisted of both review T otal Energy purchased and Energy purchased per procedures at corporate (consolidated) level and at Hectoliter of Production (page 41) site level. Our selection of sites in scope of our review P  ercentage of purchased electricity from renewable procedures is primarily based on the site’s individual sources (page 41) contribution to the consolidated information. Furthermore, T otal Direct and Indirect GHG Emissions and GHG our selection of sites considered relevant reporting risks and Emissions per Hectoliter of Production (page 41) geographical spread. Percentage of returnable primary packaging (page 41) By performing our procedures at site level, together with  ercentage of recycled content in primary packaging P additional procedures at corporate level, we have been (page 41) able to obtain sufficient and appropriate evidence about the L ost Time Injuries (LTI) – Supply Employees (own), Second group’s reported information to provide a conclusion about Tier and Sales Employees (page 23) The Selected Information. T otal Recordable Injuries (TRI) – Supply Employees (own) Responsibilities of the Board of Directors for The (page 23) Selected Information Fatalities (page 23) The Board of Directors of AB InBev is responsible for the The information reviewed as part of our limited assurance preparation of The Selected Information in accordance engagement has been indicated throughout the Annual with the applied reporting criteria as described in the Report with the symbol ‘A’. A review is aimed at obtaining a section ‘Report Scope’ on page 50 in the Annual Report, limited level of assurance. including the identification of stakeholders and the definition of material matters. The choices made by the Board of Directors of AB InBev regarding the scope of the Conclusion information in the Annual Report and the reporting policy Based on our procedures performed and evidence are summarized in the section ‘Report Scope’ on page 50 in obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us the Annual Report. to be-lieve that The Selected Information is not prepared, The Board of Directors is also responsible for such internal in all material respects, in accordance with the applied control as the Board of Directors determines is necessary reporting criteria as disclosed in the section ‘Report Scope’ to enable the preparation of The Selected Information that on page 50 in the Annual Report. is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Basis for our conclusion We have performed our review on The Selected Information Our responsibilities for the review of The Selected in accordance with the International Standard on As-surance Information Engagements (ISAE) 3000: “Assurance Engagements other Our responsibility is to carry out a limited assurance than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”, engagement and to express a conclusion based on the issued by the International Auditing and Assurance work performed. We conducted our engagement in Standards Board. accordance with International Standard on Assurance This review engagement is aimed at obtaining a limited level Engagements (ISAE) 3000, Assurance Engagements other of assurance. Our responsibilities under this standard are than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, further described in the section ‘Our responsibilities for the issued by the International Auditing and Assurance review of The Selected Information’ of our report. Standards Board. That Standard requires that we plan and 51 Assurance Report perform the engagement to obtain limited assurance about Procedures performed whether The Selected Information is free from material Our limited assurance engagement on The Selected misstatement. Information consists of making inquiries, primarily of Procedures performed in an assurance engagement to persons responsible for the preparation of the Selected obtain a limited level of assurance are aimed to determine Information, and applying analytical and other evidence the plausibility of information and are less extensive than a gathering procedures, as appropriate. These procedures reasonable assurance engagement. The level of assurance included, among others: obtained in limited assurance engagements is therefore Identifying areas of The Selected Information where substantially less than the level of assurance obtained in a material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error, are reasonable assurance engagements. likely to arise, designing and performing limited assurance procedures responsive to those areas, and obtaining Misstatements can arise from fraud or errors and are assurance evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they provide a basis for our conclusion; could reasonably be expected to influence the decisions of users taken on the basis of The Selected Information. The D  eveloping an understanding of internal control relevant materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our review to the limited assurance engagement in order to design procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identi-fied assurance procedures that are appropriate in the misstatements on our conclusion. circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing a conclu-sion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal We apply the International Standard on Quality Control 1 control; and accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of qualiE  valuating the appropriateness of the reporting criteria ty control including documented policies and procedures used and their consistent application, including the regarding compliance with ethical requirements, rea-sonableness of estimates made by management and professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory related disclosures to The Selected information; requirements. Interviewing relevant staff responsible for providing the We have complied with the independence and other information for, carrying out internal control proce-dures ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional on The Selected Information and consolidating the data in Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards the 2018 Annual Report; Board for Accountants, which is founded on fundamental V  isits to seven production sites in Mozambique, Brazil, principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence Korea, Germany, the United States of America and Mexiand due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. co (two sites) aimed at, on a local level, validating source We have exercised professional judgement and have data and evaluating the design and implementation of maintained professional scepticism throughout the review, internal control and validation procedures; in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance R eviewing relevant internal and external documentation, Engagements (ISAE) 3000, ethical requirements and indeon a limited test basis, in order to determine the relia-bility pendence requirements. of The Selected Information; P reliminary and final analytical review procedures to confirm our understanding of trends in the Selected Information at site and corporate level. Antwerp, 28 February 2019 KPMG Bedrijfsrevisoren CVBA Represented by Mike Boonen Partner 52 AB InBev annual report 2018 Contact Registered office Europe Anheuser-Busch InBev InBev Belgium Grand-Place 1 Brouwerijplein 1 1000 Brussels 3000 Leuven Belgium Belgium Global Headquarters Belgium Latin America COPEC Anheuser-Busch InBev Bavaria Brouwerijplein 1 Cra. 53A No. 127-35 3000 Leuven Bogotá Belgium Colombia Functional Management Office Latin America North Anheuser-Busch InBev Ambev 250 Park Avenue Corporate Park Floor 2 Rua Dr. Renato Paes de Barros 1017 New York, NY 10177 4th Floor United States 04530-001, Sao Paulo Brazil Africa The South African Breweries Latin America South 56 Grosvenor Road Cerveceria y Malteria Quilmes S.A.I.C.A y G. Bryanston, Sandton Av. Rafael Obligado 1221 1er piso South Africa Capital Federal Argentina Asia Pacific North Anheuser-Busch InBev China Middle Americas 26 F Raffles City Grupo Modelo Shanghai Office Tower Cerrada de Palomas No. 22, Piso 6 268 Middle Xizang Road Colonia Reforma Social CP 11650 Shanghai, 200001 Delegación Miguel Hidalgo PRC Ciudad de Mexico Asia Pacific South North America Carlton & United Breweries Anheuser-Busch Co. Inc. 77 Southbank Boulevard One Busch Place Southbank St. Louis, MO 63118 Victoria 3006 United States Australia 53 Registered trademarks The following brands are registered trademarks of Responsible Editor Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV or one of its affiliated Pablo Jimenez companies: Project Lead Global brands: Aimee Baxter Budweiser, Stella Artois, Corona and Michelob Ultra Translation Supervision International brands: Ingvild van Lysebetten Castle, Beck’s, Leffe and Hoegaarden Special thanks to our proofreaders and all our AnheuserLocal brands: Busch InBev colleagues who have made this annual report 10 Barrel, 100% renewable electricity, 4 Pines, Aguila, Aguila a reality. Cero, Aleston, Alexander Keith’s, Alta Palla, Andes, Antarctica, Original English version written by Archibald, Bagbier, Barrilito, Bass, BBC, Beck’s Blue, Becker, Marci Buehler Belle-Vue, Belgian Beer Café, Best Damn, Birra del Borgo, Blue Point, Boddingtons, Bohemia, Boxing Cat, Brahma, Brahma Design and Production Extra , Brahma 0.0, Bud Light, Bud Light Lime ‘Ritas’ family, Bud Chris Communications Light Lime, Bud Light Orange, Budweiser 1933 Repeal Reserve Print Amber Lager, Budweiser Magnum, Budweiser Prohibition AZ Printing Brew, Budweiser Supreme, Busch, Busch Light, Cafri, Camden Town, Camden Hells, Canvas, Carlton, Carlton Zero, Carling Black Label, Cass, Castle Free, Castle Lite, Chernigivske, Club Colombia, Cola & Pola, Colorado, Corona Cero, Corona Extra, Corona Ligera, Corona Light, Corona SunSets, Corona This Is Living, Coronita, Cristal, Cubanisto, Cucapá, Cusqueña, Devils Backbone, Diebels, Diekirch, Diekirch 0.0, Dilly Dilly, Double Deer, Eagle Lager, Elysian, Estrella, Estrella Jalisco, Flying Fish Chill, Franziskaner, Franziskaner Zitrone 0.0, Ginette, The coated pages of the Annual Report are printed on 10% Ginsber, Golden Road, Goose Island, Great Northern, Guaraná postconsumer recycled paper. The uncoated pages of the Antarctica, Haake-Beck, Harbin, Hasseröder, Hertog Jan, HiBall, Annual Report are printed on 100% postconsumer recycled Jinling, Jinlongquan, Julius, Jupiler, Jupiler 0.0, Kaiba, Karbach, paper. All paper is both FSC and SFI certified. Kilimanjaro, Klinskoye, Kokanee, Kombrewcha, Kwak, Labatt, Lakeport, Land Shark Lager, La Virgen, Leffe Royale, Leffe 0.0, U kan dit rapport in het Nederlands raadplegen op onze Leon, Liberty, Löwenbräu, Lucky, Mackeson, Magnífica, Mexicali, website: www.ab-inbev.com Michelob Ultra Pure Gold, Mike’s Hard Lemonade, Mill Street, Vous pouvez consulter ce rapport en français sur notre site MixxTail, Modelo, Modelo Especial, Montejo, Mountain Series, web: www.ab-inbev.com Natty Daddy, Natural Light, Negra Modelo, Norte, Nossa, O’Doul’s, OB, Oland, Old Blue Last, Original, Paceña, Pacifico, Anheuser-Busch InBev NV/SA Patagonia, Patricia, Pilsen, Pirate Life, Poker, Pony Malta Plus, Brouwerijplein 1B-3000 Leuven Presidente, Pure Blonde, Pure Blonde Cider, Quilmes, Quilmes Belgium Clásica, RateBeer, Redd’s Apple, Rogan, Safari, Saturday Tel: +32 16 276 111 Session, Sedrin, Shiliang, Shock Top, Sibirskaya Korona, Skol, Fax: +32 16 506 111 SmartBarley, Spaten, SpikedSeltzer, Stanley Park, Stella Artois Register of Companies Buy A Lady A Drink, Stella Artois Cidre, Stella Artois Le Savoir, 0417.497.106 Stella Artois Joie de Bière, Stella Artois Gluten-free, Sunbru, T, Tijuana, Tolstiak, Tripel Karemeliet, Tropical, Vieux Temps, Victoria, Victoria Bitter, Vista Corona, Wäls, Whitbread, Wicked Weed, Yantar, ZX Ventures. The following brand is a registered trademark: PerfectDraft: co-owned with Koninklijke Philips N.V. Clean Waves: co-owned with Parley LLC 54 Figures in million USD unless 2013 2013 2014 2015 2015 2016 2016 2017 2018 2018 stated otherwise reported reference reported reported reference reported reference reported reported reference base1 base2 base3 base4 Volumes (million hls) 425 446 459 457 502 500 616 613 567 567 Revenue 43,195 45,483 47,063 43,604 46,928 45,517 53,942 56,444 54,619 54,619 Normalized EBITDA 17,188 17,943 18,542 16,839 18,145 16,753 19,633 22,084 22,080 22,592 EBITDA 23,428 -18,465 17,057 -16,360 -21,429 21,366 -Normalized profit from operations 14,203 14,800 15,308 13,768 14,882 13,276 15,520 17,814 17,821 17,904 Normalized profit attributable to equity holders 7,936 -8,865 8,513 -4,853 -7,967 6,793 -of Anheuser-Busch InBev Profit attributable to equity holders 14,394 -9,216 8,273 -1,241 -7,996 4,368 -of Anheuser-Busch InBev Net financial debt 38,800 -42,135 42,185 -107,953 -104,390 102,462 -Cash flow from operating activities 13,864 -14,144 14,121 -10,110 -15,430 14,663 -Normalized earnings per share 4.91 -5.43 5.20 -2.83 -4.04 2.21 -(USD) Dividend per share (USD) 2.83 -3.52 3.95 -3.85 -4.33 2.05 -Dividend per share (euro) 2.05 -3.00 3.60 -3.60 -3.60 1.80 -Payout ratio % 57.60 -64.80 76.0 -136.0 -107.2 59.6 -Weighted average number of 1,617 -1,634 1,638 -1,717 -1,971 1,975 -ordinary shares (million shares) Share price high (euro) 79.60 -94.89 124.20 -119.60 -110.10 96.70 -Share price low (euro) 63.44 -69.14 87.73 -92.13 -92.88 56.84 -Year-end share price (euro) 77.26 -93.86 114.40 -100.55 -93.13 57.70 -Market capitalization (million USD) 172,291 -183,167 200,302 -213,993 -225,531 133,404 -Market capitalization (million euro) 124,930 -150,867 183,983 -203,010 -188,052 116,510 -1. T he 2013 Reference Base includes 12 months of Grupo Modelo operations to facilitate the understanding of AB InBev’s underlying business. The 2013 reference base further reflects the combination of Western Europe and Central & Eastern Europe into a single Europe Zone, and a number of intra-Zone management reporting changes which took effect on 1 January 2014. 2. The 2015 Reference Base and 2016 segment reporting exclude the results of the SABMiller business sold since the combination was completed, including the joint venture stakes in MillerCoors and CR Snow, and the sale of the Peroni, Grolsch and Meantime brands and associated businesses in Italy, the Netherlands, the UK and internationally. The 2015 Reference Base and 2016 segment reporting also exclude the results of the CEE Business and the stake in Distell. The results of the CEE Business will be reported as “Results from discontinued operations” and the results of Distell will be reported as share of results of associates until the respective sales are completed. 3. The differences between the 2016 Reference base and the 2016 income statement as Reported represent the effect of the combination with SAB. The profit, cash flow and balance sheet are presented as Reported in 2016. The results of the CEE Business were reported as “Results from discontinued operations” until the completion of the disposal that took place on 31 March 2017. The results of Distell were reported as share of results of associates until the completion of the sale that occurred on 12 April 2017, and accordingly, are excluded from normalized EBIT and EBITDA. Furthermore, the company stopped consolidating CCBA in its consolidated financial statements as from the completion of the CCBA disposal on 4 October 2017. 4. The differences between the 2018 Reference base and the 2018 income statement as Reported represent the effect of (i) the new organizational structure that will be effective as of 1 January 2019 and is composed of five regions (North America, Middle Americas, South America, EMEA and Asia Pacific); (ii) the application of hyperinflation accounting as of IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies was not applied for the company’s results published prior to the third quarter of 2018; and (iii) the new IFRS 16 Leases accounting standard that will be effective as of 1 January 2019 and will replace the current lease accounting requirements and introduces significant changes to lessee accounting, including the recognition a “right-of-use” asset and a lease liability, a depreciation charge related to the “right-of-use” assets and an interest expense on the lease liabilities, as compared to the recognition of rental cost on a straight-line basis over the lease term under the prior standard. AB-InBev.com AnnualReport.AB-InBev.com
