UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 MARCH STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT I am pleased to confirm that Broste Copenhagen This Communication on Progress will be a bit acknowledge that all of the Sustainable reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the different from previous reports, as we have Development Goals encompasses extremely United Nations Global Compact in the areas of chosen to focus even more on sustanability and important issues that needs to be dealt with. It is Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Antiwish to integrate it further into our business important for us as a company that our Corruption. strategy. Amongst other we whish to incorporate sustainable strategy and business conduct is The Sustainable Development Goals (SDG’s) into aligned and we know that focusing on the areas Since 2014 we have driven our business according our CSR strategy as we believe this provides us where we can make a difference is how we best to the UN Global Compact's 10 principles, which with a long-term perspective and an opportunaty contribute to the global tasks that the Sustainable ensures a focus on human and labor rights, to examine our sustanable business long-term. Development Goals put forward. environmental considerations and anticorruption as part of our business strategy. We In the future we want to focus on the most In this annual Communication on Progress, we have also focused on certificates that guides our important elements of the Sustainable describe our actions to continually improve the customers and function as guarantee that we Development Goals (SDG’s) and incorporate integration of the SDG’s and the United Nations keep our promise and that they can choose these in our CSR strategy. In this report we will Global Compact and its principles into our products that do not have a negative impact on identify the SDG’s to where Broste Copenhagen business strategy, culture and daily operations. people, society and the environment we always can obtain the largest impact and we also wish to We also commit us to share this information with want our customers to feel safe when they buy incorporate our stakeholders more in the process our stakeholders using our primary channels of our products. than we have in the past. We do not identify all communication. the SDG’s and their underlying goals as equally important to our company, but we do Kim Larsen, CEO, Broste Copenhagen THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 2019 will be a year of progres and change in regards to our CSR Strategy. We have choosen to focus even more on social responsibility in the future which means that we are working on a setup that will require more of us and help us raise the bar in regards of how we conduct our business in a more sustanable matter. Further we are working on determining which goals we want to reach and how to incorporate the United Nations Development Goals. In this Comminuications on Progress we have selected the goals that we all believe are highly relevant to our business and we wish to analyze our impact on each of them. We have so far selected six goal that we believe we can facilitate and work with through our business activities. It is within these goals that we have the most impact. Especially two goals – number 12 “Responsible Consumption and Production” and number 17 “Partnerships for the goals” – have our attention as this is where we find the biggest potential for Broste Copenhagen to make a positive contribution. In the following we will make assessments on how we can contribute and where we in the future can do more to reach even further. HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS At Broste Copenhagen we globalized work environfurther with the initiative in acknoladge our responsibility ment. We acknowledge the 2019. and commitment to dealing potential risks for not All our new suppliers with sustainability. We do focusing on these important undergo an initial screening not believe that our rights, both for the company, where we make an sustanability should be suppliers and employees. We assessment in regards of rooted in our customers' wish to provide all humans relevant CSR-elements. expectations, riding the the rights and freedoms they When we have established green wave or labeling our deserve to enjoy. During that the basics are in place in products with certificates. 2019 we will intensify our regards of Labour and Human We believe it is a matter of work in regards of general Rights (working conditions, decency. auditing of our suppliers to safety, working hours, child ensure better standards At Broste Copenhagen, we labour exc.) we establish a further out in our supply want to be an active part of basis for remodeling their chain. We always wish to the society we live and act in current setups, so that we engage in dialogue and we try as individuals, citizens and see progress in regards of to teach them about the as a business both now and sustainability year after year. importance of safety and in the future. Because of this Our mindset and business health. Through our Code of our CSR strategy has become model are structured around Conduct we make sure that an even more important long-term perspectives we work towards better aspect of how we wish to focused on trust-based standards and more secure conduct our business. partnerships. Our approach working environments and and mindset in regards of Broste Copenhagen supports we believe that this is the Human and Labour Rights are Labour and Human Rights in best way to obtain results. in accordance to SDG eight all its forms and recognizes its Our work with the BSCI and seventeen. importance in an increasingly initiative continues and we look forward to engaging ENVIRONMENT We are proud that several of our that resources become scarcer At Broste Copenhagen we always products have the Nordic Swan and more constrained. This is try to find new ways to reduce Ecolabel, which over the past 25 one of the reasons why we our impact on the environment. years has made it easier for believe it is important that we That is why we have completely consumers and companies to continuously focus on SDG removed all plastic bottles. This choose the most environtwelve. It is important that we accounts for meetings, mentally friendly products and acknowledge just how important exhibitions and in the every day services. A large proportion of the accessibility to raw materials routines of our workers. This our textiles are certified is to a business like ours and the initiative has resulted in a according to the international industry in general. At Broste reduction of no less than 22.000 certification GOTS , which Copenhagen we want to bottles each year. Further we ensures the limitation of harmful showcase that sustainability and have reduced our energy usage substances in the textiles. It is business goes hand in hand and by more than 30 percent since both beneficial to the that production patterns needs 2014. environment and people. Those to be more thought through and textiles that we have not been that resources can and should be Today many of our products are able to obtain the GOTS more sustainably chosen. This characterized by some sort of certification for, now follow our will enable the regeneration of sustainability. Some are made minimum standard which is the resources in the future. from certified materials and Öeko-tex certification. other from recycled materials. We want to combine innovative And we are proud that all of our All products being sold by us solutions to prevent pollution of wooden materials that enter our and in our industry is reliant on the world's oceans and the product range in 2019 are FSC the environment and its remaining planet in our certified. Even our packaging will resources. We are dependent on production. We want to reduce be FSC certified or made from the surrounding society and waste sent to landfill and ensure recycled materials. communities from where the that more of our products are materials to our products are sustainable. We want to reduce With every important supplier being sourced. the environmental and social we take time to get to know impact of our products and them, and we are shown the Today developed countries has a develop designs that has a production sites, how the much heavier footprint on the circular economy. We want to materials are being processed environment. As the population preserve the eco system and the and sourced. grow on a global scale it is a fact biodiversity. ANTI CORRUPTION It is Broste Copenhagen’s We have a zero tolerance policy to conduct business in towards corruption and are compliance with national committed to work and international laws. This proactively in order to is combined with our core prevent bribes and values. We do of cause also eliminate facilitation paycomply with all interments. nationally recognized standards.
