« Human beings are at the heart of REGAIN Manufacture. The men and women who are actively engaged in our company are our principal assets, and the source of our longevity and our expertise. They are the key to our success and to our future ». Laurent Brunas, CEO of REGAIN Manufacture Since 2010 we have pledged to follow and promote in our activities the 10 principals of the United Nations Global Pact in regards to human rights, labour laws, the environment and anti-corruption. Our major concern is to contribute to the satisfaction of our stakeholders through an approach based on attentiveness, discussion and the permanent innovation of our practices and offers. Our engagements Respect Human Rights R Transmit our Engaged as a global actor E expertise Guaranteed to preserve the environment G Maintain Actively insuring responsible buying policies A employment Identify and respect our clients interests I Innovate Now we are committed to our engagement N « Being sustainable requires meeting the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs ». (United Nations Definition). 2 Specialised in the manufacture of top of the range pull-overs, REGAIN also offers professional workwear and a corporate image for both the public and private sector; as well as working for the fashion industry. 1 factory in the Tarn 210 000 articles sold, of which region of France 40 000 are pull-overs (2500m2) 1 waste management 33 collaborators textile recycling facility Average age : 42 years 1,2 metric tons per year 5,5 m€ Average yearly ISO 9001 since 1996 turnover Our History a family business firmly attached to its territory. 3 Our expertise Over 45 years of experience For over 45 years our teams have been maintaining Our design office steps in from the start in creating a their know how in knitting and manufacturing durable. project. In collaboration with the client we carry out the Our production processes are secured by a quality required technical development: the gauge to be used, management system label ISO 9001 version 2015. the titration and the choice of thread, the dimensional Our quality control service check our productions on a aspects, the types of stitches needed.... daily basis. We also create prototypes based on technical specifications We offer our clients a global service, from aid to the to reply to different tenders, as well preparing the design of the product up to the manufacture of the technical files for production. finished article. We can also personalise articles with made to measure embroidery . PATTERN MAKING, PROTOTYPES Knitting 1 Design office 18 different rectilinear workstations (gauges 3, 5, 8 and 12) Computer Aided Design CAD CUTTING /SET-UP / ASSEMBLY EMBROIDERY 1 cutting press, 2 ironing presses, 30 fabrication 2 embroidery workstations (8 heads) machines (3 of which are robots) OUR EXPERTISE We regularly invest in our equipment depending on our client’s requirements and technological innovations. 4 Our Know-How To listen to our clients requirements and to innovate. Since the creation of Regain, we have adapted to the economical and technological changes in our markets. In order to achieve this we are continually vigilant and collaborate with our partners and suppliers in creating new products. From technical product The Perform polo shirt Our Electrician pull-over (PPE – Personal Protective that meets all the required Equipment cat. 2) produced safety standards is made with in partnership with the DuPont™ Nomex® fibres, and is Lenzing Company insures : an innovative solution for a category 3 PPE, dedicated to Flawless Fireproof protection professionals who work in vital (ISO 14116, index 3), but often dangerous fields (military personnel, Unequalled comfort due firefighters, energy sector, …) : to the cellulose fibres from Permanent Protection against fire, beech and eucalyptus trees, heat, the thermal dangers of an electrical arc and anti-static A capacity to evaporate electricity. ISO 14116 : 3/5H/30 humidity 2 to 4 times superior ISO 11612 : A1 – B3 – C2 – D3 –F3 EN to cotton, 1149-5 DuPont™ et Nomex® are registered trade marks of DuPont and their IEC 61482-2 Classe 1 / 4kA affiliate companies. To the Fashion product After having created the legendary pullover of the French Firefighters, dressed the French Navy and the French Gendarmerie, we have positioned our stitching expertise to satisfy the requirements of fashion brands and designers. And onto the pull-over made with recycled thread As eco-citizens, we have developed pullovers made with recycled materials; the fabrication procedure of which has been patented by our local partner, la Filature du Parc (Brassac-81). 5 Filature du Parc (Brassac) R Respect the Human rights and enhance the value of our human resources In accordance with our values, our management system is as follows : Completely transparent communication with all our employees : We organise two annual presentations of the results and projects of the company, during a convivial event. Within the framework of our quality management systems ISO 9001 v2015, the indicators for production monitoring, quality, returns ratios, satisfaction of our clients, …are posted for all to see in our workshops and offices. Since 2013, every 2 years we have implemented a scale of social satisfaction, and communicate our plans according to the principles of the RSO ISO 26000 charter for Societal Responsibility. Improving the quality of working conditions : We have designed our workshops in collaboration with the CRAM (work safety organisation) and our operators to improve the ergonomics and flow of each workstation. We regularly readjust their layout for the comfort and well being of our teams. We have trained two work safety and first aid officers for a workforce of 33 persons. Our workplace safety policy is under the responsibility of our fabrication operator Mme Véronique Forestello, who is also in charge of updating the Workplace risk assessment document. Enhancing human resources by recognising their skills : Our company does not have on its territory a school to train people in textile fabrication. In order to achieve greater versatility, the maintenance and development of skills is a major strategy. Since 2011 we have entered Florence into a work and skills management charter (GPEC) as well as supported Has worked as a manufacturer for 22 years the acquisition of Professional Qualification certificates (CQP). Each in the company. workstation job index is formalised and updated. Mapping of individual « We like what we do. What is important skills and plans for further training are made on an annual basis. is to manufacture articles really well. It’s real teamwork. » Some figures, 47% of our collaborators have benefited 47% of our collaborators do a training course from an individual evaluation in 2017 every year of the payroll is dedicated to the 80% of our collaborators have participated in a 3% training program over the past 3 years annual further training budget 14 collaborators have obtained a Professional Qualification Certificate in 5 years Results of our social satisfaction scale in December 2017. 80% are satisfied with their working conditions 90% are confident in the future of the company 6 87% find it is easy to communicate with management E Engaged as a global actor In 2009, it was a risky yet deliberate choice to stay in the Tarn as a manufacturer. During this period of crisis, the main suppliers in uniforms and designer brands chose to move their production offshore in order to stay competitive. Going against the flow, Laurent Brunas decided to keep his workshops in Castres. He is convinced of the value of an article that is “Made in France”. He could not bring himself to abandon his qualified staff, and to lose all the skills and know how acquired over 40 years. In 2010, following this policy the company engaged in a charter for Societal Responsibility for Organisations (RSO), and became the first French textile industry to obtain the LUCIE label , according to the ISO 26000 standard (from November 2011 to December 2017). In 2018, while pro-actively continuing its RSO, the company decided to take it further by engaging in the Global Compact international initiative of the United Nations. In 2014, the company obtains the Origine France Label for its pullovers and accessories made in Labruguière. The objective of this label is on one hand to give consumers clear information on the origin of the product, and also allow companies to highlight the value of their production. To obtain this certification label, the manufactured product must respect the two following criteria: The location where the product’s essential items are made is situated in France At least 50% of the unitary cost price is acquired in France. Aude International Firefighters Solidarity « Since 2015, REGAIN has regularly donated clothing equipment for firefighters, that we deliver to Burkina Faso. These donations represent a major humanitarian aid for the National Brigade of firefighters and contributes to setting up the network and extensions of fire stations in this country ». Lt/Colonel Alain Gouze, President 7 G Guaranteed to preserve the environment Because our manufacturing activities do not generate any environmental pollution (no effluence of gases or liquids, no noise pollution), we have concentrated our efforts since 2009 on the origin of our raw materials and the value added by recycling older articles. We select our raw materials through the Oeko Tex label that complies with REACH regulations, thus insuring everyone’s safety. We optimise our thread consumption using form knitting techniques (limiting offcuts and scrap waste), and in « unknitting » non compliant pieces to be reused. We have set-up the selective recycling of knitting and manufacturing waste, which is unravelled and recycled, around 4,8 tonnes per year. Our energy consumption comes mainly from the tools of our trade. Therefore our ecological actions are concentrated on our eco-gestures and the optimisation of energy savings in our buildings. Within this framework, we have started replacing the entire lighting system with LEDS (10% in 2017); as well as improving the thermal insulation of our workshops. Circular Economy : In 2011, we decided to create and Design and Raw Materials manage a salvage and recycling Prototypes service of used products from our clients. We send them a recuperation box whenever they Productions require. They must return only articles that are identical to ours, regardless of who was the original supplier. The articles are then sent to our partner la Filature du Upcycling : Parc situated twenty kilometres > recycled thread > insulation materials Delivery away in Brassac so they can be transformed into recycled knitting thread or as soundproofing and thermal insulation. Recovery : Usage > Old Articles (1.2 tonnes/year) 8 > Production waste (4.8 tonnes/year) La Filature du Parc « We have just applied for a patent on a new thread manufacturing system that is entirely made of recycled and recyclable thread. It is a unique process in knitting looms, and allows us to recycle at the same time offcuts and waste from the industry as well as articles (pull overs, cardigans, ..) that are at the end of their life span, collected by REGAIN. We can upcycle animal fibres such as wool, , synthetic fibres or even cotton therefore avoiding overproduction that is harmful for our planet (example : the draining of the Aral Sea due to intensive irrigation for the production of cotton). It requires on average 10 000 litres of water to produce 1 kg of cotton. Therefore avoiding the overproduction of materials that are costly in water, energy and dyes, and the risk of pollution through waste. The recycled thread has at least 98% less Fabrice Lodetti impact on energy consumption, photochemical CEO of la Filature pollution of air and water,...This new type of thread du Parc, labelled has the same quality characteristics -and sometimes « Entreprise du betterthan thread made with new fibres. » Patrimoine Vivant » « Living Heritage Industry » since 2017 A first successful experience with the RATP, The Paris Transport Network. « We worked for several months with la Filature du Parc and Manufacture REGAIN so as to develop a recycled thread (colour, touch, …) to make 2 pieces of the uniforms of our collaborators : a pullover and a cardigan. We hope that these articles will rapidly take their place in the uniform offered to our agents, who are very aware of the protection of our ecological and social environments. » Mme Bénédicte Reynaert, Principal Clothing Buyer for the RATP 9 A Actively insuring responsible buying policies We work with a limited number of partners, raw material suppliers or sub-contractors, in a relationship based on trust and loyalty (For over 10 years for the majority). We privilege our European and Tunisian partners, who are actively engaged like us in our Quality procedures and RSO charter. Our contracts stipulate these engagements and authorise us to have them audited annually according to the guidelines of our RSO charter. We are engaged in short payment delays (45 days), equity and clarity in our contracts, duration of the relationship and innovation. The anti-corruption charter is an integral part of all our contracts. I Identify and Respect the Interests of our Clients We commit ourselves to respect the requirements of our clients, who are all mostly B to B. We add to all our replies to public tenders with our RSO charter and anti-corruption charter. Every one of our commercial proposals is accompanied by technical specifications of the clothing proposed, detailing the composition, maintenance, required standards and certifications, … We are attentive to the security of the users of our products by respecting the applicable technical standards, and have all our Personal Protective Equipment (PPE – Category 2 and 3) certified by independent authorised European laboratories. We assure our clients that we take complete charge of any complaint as well as ensure a quick settlement in good faith of any possible litigation. For the sales made directly via our website www.regain-perform.com, we have measured the level of our clients satisfaction via an online questionnaire. We do not share the data concerning our clients, in order to guarantee the respect of their private lives and personal information. Some figures, 0% No complaints for problems related to allergies. 79 % of our e-commerce buyers declared to be very satisfied with our products and services. 0,14% Is the percentage of returns of non-compliant products 10 N Now we are committed to our engagements for 2018-2020 To remain a manufacturer solidly anchored to its territory, To maintain and develop employment and skills, To continue to innovate To continue and share our RSO charter. Our objectives : To reach 100% of individual assessment interviews annually in 2020. To improve the transparency of our salary policy. Though we do not have any salary policy that discriminates between men/women in a similar position, we wish to refine our evaluation grid in balancing remuneration, whilst ensuring that 100% of our employees understand it. To set-up discussion groups every year in order to improve the conditions of the business, and put in place a progress plan. To create a video data base of workshop and manufacturing skills aimed at the conservation and transmission of this know-how. To commit ourselves to the Entreprendre Tarn network, an association set-up in 1997 to support project initiators in the creation or the resumption of their business creating viable employment in our area. In 20 years, 140 projects have been accepted 87 of which are still in activity, 1 570 000 € have been distributed in interest free loans. Today, 27 creators of employment benefit from individual, collective, human and financial support. To continue the implementation of our energy saving plan. To conduct a feasibility report to recycle rain water for the sanitary facilities and save drinkable water. To contribute to the preservation of nature and biodiversity by : By participating in a reforestation program of the UNESCO world heritage listed Canal du Midi, conducted by Voies Navigables de France To collaborate with a bee-keeper to set his hives on our terrain as it is an environment free of pesticides To create a vegetable patch around our building, in association with our employees. 11 • Intégrer les • Intégrer 10 principes les 10dans principes dans sa sa stratégie, culture sa culture sastratégie, organisationnelle et ses dans opérations, dans une démarche THE 10 THE 10 PRINCIPLES PRINCIPLES organisationnelle et ses opérations, d’amélioration d’amélioration continue. • Communiquer continue. avec prenantes une démarche ses partiessur prenantes sur les progrè • Communiquer avec ses parties les progrès effectués eteffectués partager son et partager expérience son:expérience : Pour les entreprises Pour les entreprises : rédaction d’une: rédaction d’une Communicat Communication annuelle surannuelle le progrès sur(COP). le progrès (COP). HUMAN RIGHTS HUMAN RIGHTS Pourorganisations les autres organisations : rédaction d’une Pour les autres : rédaction d’une Communication sur l’Engagement (COE) tous les 2 1. Businesses1. Businesses should support should supportthe and respect respect the andprotection of protection of Communication sur l’Engagement (COE) tous les 2 ans. internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Faire publiquement • Faire publiquement campagne en faveur duen campagne faveur Global du Global Compact et Com internationally proclaimed human rights; and de ses principes par le biais de ses de ses principes par le biais de ses canaux de communication. canaux de communic 2. maketheysure thatcomplicit they are not complicit in human abuses.rights abuses. Agir pour 2. make sure that are not in human rights • Agir pour •soutenir les soutenir Objectifsles deObjectifs Développement Durable et Dura de Développement plus largement,plus les largement, les Nations Unies. Nations Unies. LABOUR LABOUR Businesses 3. Businesses3.should upholdshould upholdof the freedom the freedom ofand association association and the effective recognition of the right the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; bargaining; to collective Comment Comment participer participer ? ? 4. the 4. the elimination all forms ofofforced ofelimination and of all forms compulsory labour; forced andlabour; compulsory • Rédiger une lettre à une • Rédiger lettre àdu l’attention l’attention Secrétaire Secrétaire Général duGénéral 5. abolition the effective abolition ofand child labour; and 5. the effective of child labour; des Nations desUnies, par lesignée signéeUnies, Nations par de dirigeant le dirigeant de l‘organisati l‘organisation, dans laquelle dans laquelleson il exprime soutien son il exprime soutien au Global au Global Compact et Compact 6. the 6. the elimination ofelimination discrimination of discrimination in respect of employment in respect of employment s’engage à la mise en œuvre et s’engage à la mise en œuvre et la promotion des 10 principes.la promotion des 10 prin and occupation.and occupation. • Adresser cette lettre au Global • Adresser cette lettre au Global Compact par l’intermédiaire Compact par l’intermédi du site du site internet internet unglobalcompact.org unglobalcompact.org ENVIRONMENT • Rejoindre •le Rejoindre Global Compact le Global Compact France France etaux et participer participer activités.aux ac ENVIRONMENT Le Global Le Global Compact Compact France vousFrance dansassiste assistevous dans cette démarc cette démarche. Businesses 7. Businesses7.should support should support a precautionary approach to approach to a precautionary environmentalenvironmental challenges; challenges; 8. undertake 8. undertake initiatives initiatives to promote to promote greater greater environmental environmental responsibility;responsibility; and and 9. encourage 9. encourage the development the development and diffusion and diffusion of environmentally of environmentally friendly friendly technologies. technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTIONANTI-CORRUPTION 10. Businesses 10. Businesses should should work work against against corruption corruption in all its forms,in all its forms, including including extortion and extortion bribery. and bribery. Nous contacter Nous contacter Adresse : Adresse Global :Compact Global Compact France, France, 14 boulevard 14 de boulevard Douaumont, de75017 Douaumont, Paris 75017 Paris Téléphone : Téléphone 01 80 48: 90 70 01 80 48 90 70 Adresse mail Adresse mail : contact@globalcompact-france.org : contact@globalcompact-france.org Site internet : www.globalcompact-france.org Site internet : www.globalcompact-france.org
