Pushing The Frontiers of Sustainable Development Sustainable development, including socio-economic goals, has been a component of our business framework for over four decades as we expand our global presence and work towards a sustainable future. Sunway is committed to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs) and continues to align its business model, operating strategies and corporate culture with sustainable practices and solutions in line with the UNSDG agenda. We have become one of Malaysia’s largest conglomerates and woven sustainable development into the very fabric of the Sunway Group and its entities. This report examines Sunway’s positive effect on the planet and its people as we continue to ‘Push the Frontiers of Sustainable Development’. Each year, Sunway publishes a standalone sustainability report that discusses the Group’s handling of the most material environmental, social and governance issues. Complementing the annual report, this disclosure focuses on issues that are deemed most material to our business through stakeholder consultation and materiality analysis. 06 Message from the Founder and Chairman What’s 08 About Sunway Inside 10 13 Group Corporate Structure Board of Directors 16 Management Team 18 Awards and Recognitions 21 2018 Achievements and Milestones 28 Sustainability Governance 32 Stakeholder Engagement 34 Analysis of Materiality 40 #SUNWAYFORGOOD for THE ECONOMY 56 #Sunwayforgood for the Environment 80 #Sunwayforgood for Our Society 90 #Sunwayforgood of Our People 108 #Sunwayforgood Operations 3 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Scope of Report Sustainability Context The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, one of Some Sunway REIT initiatives have also been reported as the most widely used sustainability reporting frameworks, Sunway Berhad is the majority shareholder in this public have been followed in structuring the report. Initiatives listed company. have also been aligned with the 17 UNSDGs as this framework allows the impact of programmes to be clearly Group data and information are presented whenever presented. The report also fully complies with the Bursa possible. However, initiatives and/or data by particular Malaysia Sustainability Framework as it is the regulatory divisions or subsidiaries have been highlighted as indicated framework in Malaysia. Together, these guidelines present in the text. our sustainability programmes both clearly and accurately. References and Guidelines Reporting Period Principal Guideline 1 January to 31 December 2018 • Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards Reporting Cycle Additional Guidelines Annually • Bursa Malaysia’s Sustainability Reporting Guide • United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Coverage • International Organisation for Standardisation (ISO) This sustainability report covers Sunway Berhad, a 26000:2010 Guidance on Social Responsibility public listed entity, and its subsidiaries. Sunway Berhad’s • FTSE4Good Bursa Malaysia Index and other local and divisions including Real Estate, Construction, Retail, international sustainability ratings Hospitality, Leisure, Healthcare, Education, Commercial, • Judges’ comments from various sustainability reporting REIT, Trading and Manufacturing, Quarry and Building awards Materials have also been disclosed. More detailed information on Sunway’s divisions and subsidiaries can be found in the Organisational Structure section of this Materiality and Relevance of report. References to ‘Sunway’, ‘Sunway Group’, ‘the Information Disclosed Company’, ‘the Organisation‘, ‘the Group’ and ‘we’ refer An external consultant was commissioned in 2017 to to Sunway Berhad and/or its divisions and subsidiaries. conduct a comprehensive materiality study with all divisions, stakeholder groups and Sunway’s Board of We also report the activities of the Jeffrey Cheah Directors. The study identifies the economic, social Foundation (JCF). Established in March 1997 as the and environmental topics that are aligned with our Sunway Education Trust, it was converted to JCF in #Sunwayforgood agenda and should be prioritised in March 2010. JCF owns and governs the 16 educational the report. institutions and entities of Sunway Education Group. The ownership and equity of the learning institutions, valued The results of the materiality matrix were presented at more than RM1 billion today, were transferred to JCF, to senior executives across all business units for review in perpetuity. Undoubtedly, JCF would not be in existence prior to the publication of this report. The findings were today without the selfless contributions made by Sunway deemed to be relevant and current. It was felt that there and its Founder and Chairman, Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Dr was no benefit to repeating this exercise in 2018. Jeffrey Cheah AO (to be henceforth referred to as Tan Sri Dr Jeffrey Cheah AO). Aligning Material Sustainability and Sunway Brand A brand audit exercise was carried out at the end of 2018 in order to chart the strategic direction of Sunway Group’s branding efforts. Brand Finance, the world’s leading independent brand valuation and strategy consultancy, was engaged to undertake this audit. This exercise aimed to identify internal and external stakeholders’ key perceptions of Sunway Group and determine its current brand value. We have aligned the results of the brand audit with our materiality exercise. The most effective strategy was mapped to build a cohesive brand identity among the 12 business divisions of the Sunway brand. Details of the Brand Audit exercise are explained in this report. Feedback This report is available to all stakeholders in hard copy on request. Alternatively, it can be downloaded from our corporate website www.sunway.com.my. For further information, please contact: Ms Vijaya Rani Vimalarajah, Group Brand Marketing & Communications, Sunway Group, Level 18, Menara Sunway, Jalan Lagoon Timur, Bandar Sunway, 47500 Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia. Tel: +603 5639 8889 Fax: +603 5639 9502 5 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Message from the Founder and Chairman I am proud to present the Sunway Berhad Sustainability Report 2018. Sustainability is not a new concept for Sunway and me. My views on sustainability were shaped by my formative years growing up in a small town called Pusing in the northern state of Perak. I witnessed first-hand the impact of poverty on families and how it closed off avenues for advancement, particularly in education, for the children. And Pusing, back then, was largely a tin-mining town. You could not fail to notice the ugly scars on the landscape left by disused mining pools. Poverty and environmental degeneration are not abstract concepts for me, but part of my personal experience. They helped form my convictions that education provided the best route out of poverty, and that we needed to help heal a bleeding Mother Earth. I firmly believed that those who benefitted from Mother Earth’s resources have a duty and an obligation to give back to society. The very birth of the Sunway Group was founded in the concept of sustainable development. It began with the development of Sunway City Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia’s first integrated green township more than four decades ago. Sunway rehabilitated 800 acres of abandoned and disused mining pools, transforming what had been a wasteland into a wonderland. It is now home to a thriving community of more than 200,000 people living, working, playing and studying in a safe, healthy and connected environment. From its formation in 1974, Sunway Group is one of the special advisor on sustainable development to the Malaysia’s largest conglomerates with core interests Secretary-General of the United Nations; in property, construction, education and healthcare. • Major public awareness campaign, themed Join Hands We are a 16,000-strong team operating in 50 locations and Make A Pledge, where the community of Sunway worldwide, pulling together to improve the quality of life City Kuala Lumpur were invited to come together of our communities through 12 business divisions. across the township and pledge themselves to advancing the sustainable development agenda; Sunway Group’s unique build-own-operate business • Launching of #thelaststraw campaign by Sunway model powers the growth of sustainable communities and University in which the campus banned single-use integrated townships including Sunway City Kuala Lumpur, plastic straws and out free multi-use metal straws to Sunway City Ipoh and the upcoming Sunway Iskandar in the students; Johor, which collectively span 5,000 acres. • The completion of what we call the EcoWalk, powered by its own solar panels that added to our growing Our unique business model inevitably defines us link of connected walkways in Sunway City Kuala as an active member of the communities we serve. Lumpur. The elevated walkways that we have built and Being present on the frontlines means we share the continue to construct help mitigate traffic congestion, success of our community while being fully aware of reduce carbon emissions and promote public health any shortcomings in our townships, making us a model by providing safe and secure pathways for use by the corporate citizen, guided by our core values of Integrity, residents; Humility and Excellence. • Community programmes by our business divisions that focused on many of the 17 Sustainable Development Sustainability is emphasised in the Group’s Vision Goals (SDG) adopted by the United Nations in 2015. Statement — to be Asia’s model corporation in sustainable development, innovating to enrich lives for Let me stress here that we do not consider these a better tomorrow. We are proud to be recognised achievements as a point of arrival but rather a stepping for our continued progress in advancing the sustainable stone towards overcoming increasingly ambitious development agenda in Malaysia and the region. challenges in advancing the sustainable development agenda. We constantly focus on our commitments to the Our sustainability governance strategy is robust. communities we serve and the planet we live on. A specialist unit, Sunway Sustainability Solutions team, is responsible for integrating sustainable development It is this broad-based value-driven philosophy that principles and practices into Sunway’s policies, plans, underpins Sunway’s approach to sustainability. management and operations. Sustainability Key Through our efforts we seek to demonstrate daily Performance Indicators and targets will be set and will be that corporations can do well by doing good. Together closely monitored through a centralised data recording with the Board of Directors, management team and system that allows us to track and report our Group-wide Sunwayians, we pledge that Sunway will continue to be adherence to our sustainability commitment. fully committed to the sustainable development agenda. 2018 was full of accomplishments by Sunway in the At Sunway, we acknowledge that realising the 17 UNSDGs sustainability sphere. Milestones for the year included: is not the responsibility of governments alone. It requires • Authorisation from Ministry of Health and Polis Diraja the commitment and collective effort of all sectors of Malaysia (PDRM) for our auxiliary police team to society — the private sector, academia, civil society and, strictly enforce our no smoking policy for all Sunway of course, every single individual. owned buildings at Sunway City Kuala Lumpur; • Launching of the Master in Sustainable Development We are all in this together. Management degree programme by the Jeffrey Sachs Center on Sustainable Development at Sunway University. The course was personally designed by Tan Sri Dr Jeffrey Cheah AO Professor Jeffrey Sachs, the chairman of the centre and Founder and Chairman 7 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 About Sunway Established in 1974, Sunway Group is one of Malaysia’s largest conglomerates with core interests in property, construction, education, healthcare and retail among its 12 business divisions across 50 locations worldwide and a 16,000-strong employee base. Our business divisions comprise Real Estate, Construction, Hospitality, Retail, Leisure, Commercial, Trading and Manufacturing, Building Materials, Quarrying, Healthcare, Education and Real Estate Investment Trust (REIT). In 2018, Sunway Berhad reclassified its listing status from Trading/Services to Industrial Products and Services counter on Main Board of Bursa Malaysia Securities. This reclassification more appropriately reflects Sunway’s strength as a conglomerate with diverse yet complementary businesses that are mostly in leadership positions in their respective sections. Sunway Group continues to champion Corporate Responsibility through #sunwayforgood which includes our commitment to creating value for the people while conserving the planet and making a sustainable profit. Our Core Values Integrity We believe in doing the right thing at all times • We conduct ourselves in an honest and trustworthy manner • We act professionally, ethically and Vision To be Asia’s model corporation in honourably • We ensure our actions are consistent with our words sustainable development, innovating to enrich lives for a better tomorrow Humility We believe in being humble, polite and respectful • We never stop learning • We care for and respect people and the environment • We seek first to understand, then to be understood Mission • Empowering our people to deliver enhanced Excellence We take pride in all that we do value to all stakeholders • Embracing sustainability in our business • We strive to deliver high quality products processes and decisions and services • Attracting and nurturing a talented and • We continuously innovate and improve for progressive workforce for the digital era greater progress • We seek to inspire others to excel What We Do Construction Property Retail Leisure Healthcare Trading & Hospitality Manufacturing Education Quarrying Commercial REIT Building Materials 9 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Group Corporate Structure PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT • Associated Circle Sdn Bhd • Sunway Integrated Properties Sdn Bhd • Commercial Parade Sdn Bhd • Sunway South Quay Sdn Bhd • Bisikan Seni Sdn Bhd • Sunway PKNS Sdn Bhd • Imbasan Intisari Sdn Bhd • Sunway D’Mont Kiara Sdn Bhd • Tidal Elegance Sdn Bhd • Sunway City (Penang) Sdn Bhd • Emerald Freight Sdn Bhd • Sunway Bintang Sdn Bhd • Park Symphony Sdn Bhd • Sunway City Properties Sdn Bhd • Winning Excellence Sdn Bhd • Sunway City (Ipoh) Sdn Bhd • Contemporary Factor Sdn Bhd • Sunway Tunas Sdn Bhd • Prosper Revenue Sdn Bhd • Sunway Semenyih Sdn Bhd • Sunway Belfield Sdn Bhd • Sunway City (JB) Sdn Bhd • Sunway Avila Sdn Bhd (formerly known as Sunglobal • Sunway Iskandar Sdn Bhd * Resources Sdn Bhd) * • Sunway Iskandar Development Sdn Bhd * • Sunway Supply Chain Enterprise Sdn Bhd • Sunway Monterez Sdn Bhd • Daksina Harta Sdn Bhd * • Sunway Grand Sdn Bhd • Sunway Permai Sdn Bhd • Sunway Melawati Sdn Bhd • Sunway GD Piling Sdn Bhd • SunwayMas Sdn Bhd • Sunway Termuning Sdn Bhd Property Investment • Sunway Rawang Heights Sdn Bhd • Sunway Pinnacle Sdn Bhd • Sunway Kanching Heights Sdn Bhd • Sunway Giza Mall Sdn Bhd • Sunway Bangi Sdn Bhd • Sunway Giza Parking Sdn Bhd • Sunway Eastwood Sdn Bhd • Sunway Destiny Sdn Bhd • Sunway Kiara Sdn Bhd • Sunway MUSC Sdn Bhd • Sunway Subang Sdn Bhd • Sunway Monash-U Residence Sdn Bhd • Sunway Serene Sdn Bhd • Sunway Residence Sdn Bhd • Sunway Marketplace Sdn Bhd * • Sunway Pyramid Development Sdn Bhd • Sunway Parkview Sdn Bhd * • Sunway Velocity Mall Sdn Bhd * • Sunway Seafront Sdn Bhd * • Sunway REIT Management Sdn Bhd * • Sunway Velocity Two Sdn Bhd * • Sunway Real Estate Investment Trust *^ • Sunway Kinrara Sdn Bhd • Sunway PFM Sdn Bhd • Hoi Hup Sunway Development Pte Ltd *# • Sunway IFM Sdn Bhd • Hoi Hup Sunway J.V. Pte Ltd *# • Sunway Parking Services Sdn Bhd • Hoi Hup Sunway Property Pte Ltd *# • Sunway Mall Parking Sdn Bhd • Hoi Hup Sunway Miltonia Pte Ltd *# • Sunway Ambience Sdn Bhd • Hoi Hup Sunway Tampines Pte Ltd *# • Sunway Facility Management Sdn Bhd • Hoi Hup Sunway Yuan Ching Pte Ltd *# • Sunway Symphony Sdn Bhd • Hoi Hup Sunway Pasir Ris Pte Ltd *# • Sunway Century Sdn Bhd • Hoi Hup Sunway Mount Sophia Pte Ltd *# • Rich Worldclass Sdn Bhd • Hoi Hup Sunway Sengkang Pte Ltd *# • Sunway Tower 1 Sdn Bhd • Hoi Hup Sunway Clementi Pte Ltd *# • Sunway Townhouse Sdn Bhd • Hoi Hup Sunway Canberra Pte Ltd *# • Sunway Orient Sdn Bhd • Sunway Australia Unit Trust # • Sumber Dorongan Sdn Bhd • Sunway Guanghao Real Estate (Jiangyin) Co. Ltd # • Sunway Nexis Parking Sdn Bhd • Tianjin Eco-City Sunway Property Development • Sunway Transit System Sdn Bhd Co. Ltd *# • Sunway Geo Parking Sdn Bhd Trading and Manufacturing • Sunway REM Sdn Bhd • Sunway Marketing Sdn Bhd • Sunway Geo Sdn Bhd • Sunway Enterprise (1988) Sdn Bhd • Sunway International Vacation Club Sdn Bhd • Sunway Hydraulic Industries Sdn Bhd • Reptolink Sdn Bhd • Sunway Marketing (East Malaysia) Sdn Bhd • Galaxy Avenue Sdn Bhd • Sunway Hose Centre Sdn Bhd • Sunway Sustainability Solutions Sdn Bhd • Sunway Marketing (S) Pte Ltd # • Sunway Leisure Sdn Bhd • Sunway Marketing (Thailand) Ltd # • Sunway Marketing (Vietnam) Co Ltd # Leisure • PT Sunway Flowtech # • Sunway Lagoon Sdn Bhd • PT Sunway Trek Masindo # • Sunway Lost World Water Park Sdn Bhd • PT Sunway Pacific Flow # • Sunway Lagoon Club Berhad • Sunway TotalRubber Ltd # • Sunway Travel Sdn Bhd • Sunway TotalRubber Services Franchising Pty Ltd # • Sunway Healthy Lifestyle Sdn Bhd • Sunway Hydraulic Industries (Wuhu) Co Ltd # • Sunway Synergy Sdn Bhd (formerly known as Sunway • Sunway Trading (Shanghai) Pte Ltd # Leisure Services Sdn Bhd) • Sunway Daechang Forging (Anhui) Co Ltd # • Pyramid Bowl Sdn Bhd * • Sunway Winstar Sdn Bhd • Sunway Saf-T-Quip Sdn Bhd Hospitality • Sunway United Star Sdn Bhd • Sunway Resort Hotel Sdn Bhd • Sunway Hsing Yeat Sdn Bhd • Sunway Velocity Hotel Sdn Bhd * • Sunway Coating Solutions Sdn Bhd • Sunway Putra Hotel Sdn Bhd • Jaya DIY Mart Sdn Bhd • Sunway Biz Hotel Sdn Bhd • Sunway Hotel (Seberang Jaya) Sdn Bhd Quarry • Sunway Lost World Hotel Sdn Bhd • Sunway Quarry Industries Sdn Bhd • Sunway International Hotels & Resorts Sdn Bhd • Sunway Quarry (Kuala Kangsar) Sdn Bhd • Kinta Sunway Resort Sdn Bhd • Sunway Quarry Industries (Melaka) Sdn Bhd • Sunway Hotel Phnom Penh Ltd # • Twinners (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd • Sunway Hotel Hanoi Liability Limited Company with one member # Building Materials • Sunway Paving Solutions Sdn Bhd Construction • Sunway Paving Solutions (Sabah) Sdn Bhd (formerly • Sunway Construction Sdn Bhd known as Telipok Concrete Sdn Bhd) • Sunway Engineering Sdn Bhd • Sunway VCP Sdn Bhd • Sunway Concrete Products (S) Pte Ltd # • Sunway Spun Pile (M) Sdn Bhd • Sunway Geotechnics (M) Sdn Bhd • Sunway Spun Pile (Zhuhai) Co Ltd # • Sunway Precast Industries Sdn Bhd • Sunway Machinery Sdn Bhd Healthcare • Sunway Concrete Products (M) Sdn Bhd • Sunway Medical Centre Sdn Bhd • SunMed@Homes Sdn Bhd • SunMed Clinics Sdn Bhd • SunMed Velocity Sdn Bhd • Sunway Specialist Centre Sdn Bhd • Sunway Medical Centre (Singapore) Pte Ltd # 11 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Group Corporate Structure Investment Holdings and Others • Hartford Lane Pty Ltd # • Sunway City Sdn Bhd • Sunway FSSC Sdn Bhd • Sunway Holdings Sdn Bhd • Sunway Labuan Investment Ltd • Sunway Holdings (Vietnam) Sdn Bhd • Sunway Pals Loyalty Sdn Bhd • Sunway Global Limited # • Deco Style Sdn Bhd • Sunway Management Sdn Bhd • Sunway Design Sdn Bhd • Sunway Management Services Sdn Bhd (formerly known • Sunway Construction Group Berhad ^ as Allson International Hotels & Resorts Sdn Bhd) • Sunway Pendas Management Sdn Bhd • Sunway Shared Services Sdn Bhd • Sunway Southern Management Sdn Bhd • Sunway HR Shared Services Sdn Bhd • Sunway Brands Sdn Bhd • Sunway Leasing Sdn Bhd • Sunway Money Sdn Bhd • SWL Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd • Sunway Pharma Sdn Bhd • Sunway Elite Sdn Bhd • Sunway PopBox Sdn Bhd • Sunway Credit Sdn Bhd • Monumental Productions Sdn Bhd • Sunway Risk Management Sdn Bhd • Sun Sea Capital Sdn Bhd • Sunway Captive Insurance Ltd • Sunway Ventures Sdn Bhd • Gopeng Berhad *^ • Sunway Leadership Centre Sdn Bhd • Sunway City (S’pore) Pte Ltd # • Pasir Mas Holdings Sdn Bhd • Sunway Real Estate (China) Limited # • Fame Parade Sdn Bhd • Eastern Glory Enterprises Limited # • Emerald Tycoon Sdn Bhd • Sunway REIT Holdings Sdn Bhd • Sunway Quantum Sdn Bhd (formerly known as Sunway • Sunway Treasury Sdn Bhd Ordera Sdn Bhd) • Sunway Treasury Sukuk Sdn Bhd • Sunway (Tianjin) Management Consultancy Co. Ltd. # • Sunway Investment Management Consultancy (Shanghai) • Sunway Land Pte Ltd # Co. Ltd # • Sunway City India Private Limited # • International Theme Park Pty Ltd # • SunCity Vietnam Sdn Bhd • Sunway Developments Pte Ltd # • Konsep Objektif (M) Sdn Bhd • Fortuna Gembira Enterpris Sdn Bhd Notes: This Group Corporate Structure excludes dormant companies. # Overseas company ^ Public listed company * Associated company / Jointly-controlled entity Board of Directors TAN SRI DATO’ SERI DR DATO’ SRI IDRIS JALA JEFFREY CHEAH FOOK LING AO NON-EXECUTIVE CO-CHAIRMAN, EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN, INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-INDEPENDENT EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Malaysian, Male Malaysian, Male Tan Sri Datuk Seri Dato’ Chew Chee Kin Razman M Hashim President, Deputy Executive Chairman, Non-Independent Executive Director Non-Independent Executive Director Malaysian, Male Malaysian, Male 13 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Board of Directors SARENA CHEAH YEAn TIH, S.M.S. Wong Chin Mun Executive Director Senior Independent Non-Independent Executive Director Non-Executive Director Malaysian, Female Malaysian, Male Lim Swe Guan Tan Sri Dato’ Dr. Lin See Yan Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Singaporean, Male Malaysian, Male Tan Sri Datuk Dr Rebecca Fatima Sta Maria Independent Non-Executive Director Malaysian, Female Notes: 1. FAMILY RELATIONSHIP WITH DIRECTOR AND/OR MAJOR SHAREHOLDER Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Dr Jeffrey Cheah Fook Ling who is the Executive Chairman and major shareholder of Sunway, is the father of Sarena Cheah Yean Tih, the Executive Director. Save as disclosed above, none of the other Directors has any family relationship with any director and/or major shareholder of Sunway. 2. CONFLICT OF INTEREST Tan Sri Datuk Seri Razman M Hashim is a Director of Berjaya Land Berhad and its subsidiaries, Selat Makmur Sdn Bhd and FEAB Properties Sdn Bhd of which principal activities are similar to Sunway Group, which include property development and investment holding. Save as disclosed above, none of the other Directors has any conflict of interest with Sunway Group. 3. CONVICTION FOR OFFENCES None of the Directors has any conviction for offences within the past 5 years other than traffic offences (if any) nor public sanctions or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year. 4. ATTENDANCE OF BOARD MEETINGS The attendance of the Directors at Board Meetings held during the financial year ended 31 December 2018 is disclosed in the Corporate Governance Overview Statement. Please refer to the Sunway Berhad Annual Report 2018 for the Corporate Governance Overview Statement. 15 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Management Team Dato’ Tan Kia Loke Evan Cheah Yean Shin Chong Chang Choong Senior Managing Director – Executive Vice President GROUP Chief Financial Chairman’s Office President’s Office, Officer Malaysian, Male Chief Executive Officer Malaysian, Male Bachelor of Science (Hons) Degree China Bachelor of Arts (Honours) in in Civil Engineering, University of Malaysian, Male Economics and Accounting, Strathclyde, United Kingdom Bachelor’s Degree in Commerce University of Newcastle Upon Tyne, and Bachelor’s Degree in Business England Systems, Monash University Lee Chuan Seng Danny Ng Boon Liang Chan Hoi Choy Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer – Chief Executive Officer – Quarry Division Building Materials Division Sunway Shopping Malls Malaysian, Male Malaysian, Male and Theme Parks Chartered Accountant, Chartered Bachelor of Economics (Business Malaysian, Male Institute of Management Accountants, Administration), Bachelor of Science (Hons) degree in United Kingdom University of Malaya Managerial and Administrative Studies, Masters in Business Administration, University of Aston, Victoria University of Technology, Birmingham, United Kingdom Australia Dato’ Lee Weng Keng (Dr) Chung Soo Kiong Wong Fook Chai Chief Executive Officer – Managing Director – Chief Executive Officer – Healthcare Division Construction Division Trading and Manufacturing Malaysian, Male Malaysian, Male Division Bachelor of Economics (Honours) Bachelor of Science (Hons) Degree Malaysian, Male Degree, University of Malaya; in Quantity Surveying, University of Bachelor of Engineering (Honours), Masters in Business Administration, Abertay Dundee; University of Malaya Cranfield University, United Kingdom Diploma in Building (Technology), Tunku Abdul Rahman College Notes: 1. Family Relationship with Director and /or Major Shareholder Evan Cheah Yean Shin is the child of Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Dr Jeffrey Cheah Fook Ling who is the Executive Chairman and major shareholder of Sunway and he is the sibling of Sarena Cheah Yean Tih, the Executive Director of Sunway. Lau Beng Long Foo Shiang Wyne S ave as disclosed above, none of the other Senior Management members has any family Managing Director Chief Human Resources relationship with any director and/or major Healthcare Division Officer – Group Human shareholder of Sunway. Malaysian, Male Resources 2. Conflict of interest Bachelor of Science (Hons), Malaysian, Female None of the Senior Management members Universiti Sains Malaysia; Bachelor of Science (Hons) in has any conflict of interest with Sunway Group. Masters in Healthcare Administration, Computer Science, University of New South Wales; University of Sussex, United Kingdom; 3. Conviction for Offences None of the Senior Management members Postgrad Diploma in Public Masters in Business Administration, has any conviction for offences within the Administration, National Institute Cardiff Business School, United past 5 years other than traffic offences, if any. They have not been imposed any penalty by of Public Administration (INTAN) Kingdom any relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year 2018. 17 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Awards and Recognitions • Sunway Group received the Prime Minister’s Award at Building Materials the Tourism Malaysia Awards 2016/2017. • Sunway Paving Solutions won the Honour Landscape • Sunway Berhad received two StarProperty.my Awards: Green Products Award in the Landscape Supplier or the All-Star Awards Top Ranked Developer of the Year Manufacturer Category at the Malaysia Landscape and the Five Elements Award for Sunway Iskandar. Architecture Awards 2018. • Malaysian Institute of Management’s (MIM) Court • Sunway Building Materials, Sunway Hotel Georgetown of Emeritus Fellowship was conferred on Tan Sri Dr and Sunway IT Shared Services won the AON Best Jeffrey Cheah AO. Employers Award 2018. • Sunway City was recently recognised as an Inclusive • Sunway Paving Solutions achieved Level 5 (Excellent Development by the Selangor Town and Country category) for 2018 in the Systematic Occupational Planning Department. Health Enhancement Programme (Sohelp) organised by Department of Occupational Safety and Health. Property • Sunway Property & Facilities Management (SPFM) Retail received a Gold award for Menara Sunway in the • Sunway Putra Mall received the Best Shopping Centre ‘Non-Strata Office Development of More than 10 (Integrated Shopping Centre) Award at the Tourism Years’ category at the EdgeProp Malaysia’s Best Malaysia Awards 2016/2017. Both Sunway Velocity Mall Managed Property Awards 2018. and Sunway Pyramid were also shortlisted. • Sunway Property won gold in the Property • Sunway Malls won The HR Asia Best Companies to Development category at the Putra Brand Awards. Work for in Asia 2018 award. • Sunway Iskandar won two awards for StarProperty • Sunway Putra Mall won the International Council of Jewels of Johor in 2018. Sunway Iskandar also won Best Shopping Centers Foundation Asia-Pacific Community Comprehensive Township at the StarProperty Awards Support Award 2018. (Nation) 2018. Sunway Lenang Heights won The Best • Sunway Velocity Mall received the FIABCI Malaysia Quality and Finishing Development-Excellence award. Property Award 2018 in the Retail category. • Sunway Property came fifth in The Edge Property • Sunway Pyramid Mall was recognised as one of the Excellence Award 2018 and Sunway Medical Centre InfluentialBrands® Top Brand award 2018. won the Pioneer Development Award 2018. • Sunway Putra Mall won the Best Experiential Marketing • Sunway Property received the Asia-Pacific Property Gold Award for the “Mid-Autumn Festival” Campaign Development Competitive Strategy Innovation and (Category B: 500,001-999,999 square feet) 2018 by PPK Leadership award by Frost & Sullivan. Malaysia. • Sunway Putra Mall entered the Malaysia Book of Records for the Highest Number of Origami Rabbits, 2018. • Sunway Velocity Mall received the Certificate of Excellence 2018 from TripAdvisor. • Sunway Velocity Mall won the Bronze award for Best Loyalty Programme Retailer, in the Loyalty & Engagement Awards 2018 by Marketing. • Sunway Velocity Mall was recognised at the Malaysia Social Media Week 2018 Social Media Excellence Award in the Best Shopping Mall category. • Sunway Velocity Mall was recognised at the Excellence in Customer Digital Engagement 2018 by Malaysia Digital Chamber of Commerce (MDCC). Medical Education • Medical Tourism Hospital of the Year in Asia Pacific, • Sunway University won gold in the Property category at alongside Thailand’s Bumrungrad Hospital, Oncology the Putra Brand Award 2018. Service Provider of the Year in Asia Pacific and • Sunway Le Cordon Bleu Institute of Culinary Arts was Neurology Service Provider of the Year in Asia Pacific accorded the Award of Excellence for the second time at the Global Health and Travel Awards 2018. at the World Gourmet Summit in 2018. Chef Florian • Best Fertility Centre Award in Parenthood Magazine Guillemenot, a pastry chef instructor, was awarded Malaysia’s Parents’ Choice Awards 2018. Best Regional Pastry Chef. • Pioneer Development Award 2018 at The Edge • The Sunway Le Cordon Bleu won three golds, one Property Excellence Awards 2018. bronze and a diploma in the Battle of the Chefs 2018 in • Healthcare CSR Company of the Year under the Best Penang. Practices Award 2018 by Frost & Sullivan. Hospitality • The Banjaran Hotsprings Retreat received a rating of 9.3 on the Booking.com Guest Review Award. • The Banjaran Hotsprings Retreat clinched TripAdvisor’s 2018 Travellers’ Choice Awards for the sixth consecutive year in four categories: Top 25 Hotels in Malaysia, Top 25 Hotels for Romance, Top 25 Luxury Hotels and Top 25 Hotels for Service in Malaysia. • The Banjaran Hotsprings Retreat was certified by Green Globe in the Hotel & Resort category. • The Banjaran Hotsprings Retreat won two awards categories at the Lux Life Food & Drink Awards 2018: Most Unique Dining Experience 2018 and Wine Bar of the Year 2018. • Sunway Resort Hotel & Spa won the Agoda Gold Circle Awards 2018 Top 1% of Agoda’s top hotels in Malaysia. • Sunway Hotel Georgetown Penang won the Best Business Hotel by Ctrip in December 2018. • Sunway Hotel Seberang Jaya has been re-recognised as a 4-star hospitality provider in October 2018, by Ministry of Tourism, Arts and Culture. • Sunway Putra Hotel won the ASEAN MICE Venue Standard 2018-2020 Award. Leisure • Sunway Lagoon received a bronze award in Entertainment at the Putra Brand Award 2018. 19 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Awards and Recognitions Sunway REIT • Sunway Engineering Sdn Bhd was named as Malaysia’s • Menara Sunway emerged as the Gold Winner for Best Electrical Contractor in the Commercial category Malaysia’s Best Managed Property Awards 2018 under by the Electrical and Electronics Association of Malaysia the category Above 10 Years Non-Strata Office. (TEEAM). • Sunway REIT emerged as the Gold Winner for NACRA • The Sunway Velocity Link Bridges project was Best Integrated Reporting 2018. awarded the Best Project Award (Infrastructure) • Sunway REIT clinched Gold Awards for Best Practices Small Category (<RM20 million) at the Malaysian of Governance and Investor Relations as well as Best Construction Industry Excellence Awards (MCIEA) CEO (Property) at The Assets Corporate Awards 2018. 2018. • Sunway Construction was awarded the High QLASSIC Achievement Awards 2019 for its Sunway Lenang Heights project in Sunway Iskandar, Johor, while its Sunway Construction Sunway Medical Centre 3 project was awarded the Best • Sunway Construction was among 26 award recipients QLASSIC Achievement Awards 2018 Residential for recognised with NACRA 2018 Certificates of Merit. Category D (Public, Commercial or Industrial Building • Sunway Construction’s subsidiary, Sunway Engineering with Centralised Cooling System (Project Value successfully renewed its 5-star rating under >RM100 mil)). Construction Industry Development Board’s (CIDB) • Sunway Construction received three awards at the SCORE Programme 2018. Malaysian Society for Occupational Safety and Health • One of Sunway Construction’s projects, the Kuala (MSOSH) Occupational Safety and Health Awards Lumpur Convention Centre won the Silver Medal (OSH) 2018. Gold Class I Award (Parcel F and GDC); Award at the IFAWPCA Builders Award Building Gold Class II Award (MRT V201); Silver Award (Sunway Construction Category. Velocity Medical Centre & The Big Box). • BRT Sunway Line Project, a joint project of Sunway • Sunway Construction reclaimed its 5-star rating under Construction with Prasarana Malaysia Bhd won the Construction Industry Development Board’s (CIDB) Silver Medal Award at the IFAWPCA Builders Award SCORE Programme 2018. Civil Engineering Construction Category. • Sunway Construction successfully remained as a • Datuk Kwan Foh Kwai, Sunway Construction’s Advisor, constituent of the FTSE4Good Bursa Malaysia Index received the Yeoh Tiong Lay IFAWPA Award for series for the third consecutive year. Excellence. • Sunway Construction won the Commendation Award • Sunway Engineering Sdn Bhd, a subsidiary of Sunway under the Knowledge Management category at the Construction Group was awarded the ASEAN ACCA Malaysia Sustainability Reporting Awards Federation of Electrical Engineering Contractors (MaSRA) 2017. (AFEEC), Best Electrical Contractor Award 2018 in the Commercial Category. • Sunway Construction was recognised as the Best Construction Company in Malaysia for 2019 by Global Banking & Finance review. Achievements and Milestones Group Human Resources Sunway received three out of 12 Aon Best Employer awards for the Building Materials Group, Sunway Hotel Georgetown and IT Shared Services Centre. Sunway Property Sunway Property exceeded its sales target of RM1.3 billion by the third quarter of 2018. Sunway Iskandar and NEC Asia Pacific Pte Ltd signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to augment safety and security in the 1,800-acre Sunway Iskandar township in Johor and develop smart city solutions. Sunway Construction Group Bhd Sunway Construction reached an outstanding book value of RM5.2 billion as at 31 December 2018 with RM1.6 billion worth of new orders. Sunway Education Group Jeffrey Sachs Center on Sustainable Development at Sunway University launched a Master’s degree in Sustainable Development. Sunway University and the University of Cambridge signed an MoU which allowed two exceptional members of Sunway University staff each year to study for four weeks at the University of Cambridge, in perpetuity. The Foreign and Commonwealth Office, UK and the Jeffery Cheah Foundation signed an agreement to provide two two-year CheveningJeffrey Cheah Foundation Scholarships for Malaysians to study Masters degrees in medical, physical or life science fields in Cambridge, Oxford and Lancaster universities. Sunway University added a landmark study abroad programme to its degree courses. Students are able to study and earn credits at the University of California, Berkeley and London School of Economics for their final degrees awarded by Sunway University. 21 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Achievements and Milestones Sunway Healthcare The construction of Sunway Medical Centre at Seberang Jaya is expected to be completed by the fourth quarter of 2020 and Sunway Velocity Medical Centre neared completion. The two hospitals have 420 beds in total. Sunway Medical Centre won the Medical Tourism Hospital of the Year in Asia Pacific, alongside Thailand’s Bumrungrad Hospital, Oncology Service Provider of the Year in Asia Pacific and Neurology Service Provider of the Year in Asia Pacific at the Global Health and Travel Awards 2018. Other recognition accorded during the year included Best Fertility Centre Award in Parenthood Magazine Malaysia’s Parents’ Choice Awards 2018, Pioneer Development Award 2018 at The Edge Property Excellence Awards 2018 and Healthcare CSR Company of the Year in the Best Practices Award 2018 by Frost & Sullivan. Sunway Innovation Labs • Named Malaysia’s fifth digital hub by the government. • Launched the iLabs Makerspace in collaboration with UC Berkeley. • Brings together three crucial elements that can turn entrepreneurial ideas into action: the right tools, the right mentors and a proper ecosystem. Achievements and Milestones No Smoking A no smoking policy has been implemented in Sunway City in line with the government’s policy of banning smoking at all eateries. Our auxiliary police are now empowered to issue summons to those who smoke in non-smoking areas within Sunway City. Sustainability A water treatment plant has been constructed to treat lake water from South Quay in order to provide potable water to Sunway’s commercial buildings. Solar panels have been installed on our newly-opened Ecowalk that connects Menara Sunway to Sunway Medical Centre. Sunway Hotels & Resorts’ successful collaboration with Ecolab Sdn Bhd, Kinder Soaps Sdn Bhd and Selangor Youth Community (SAY) involved collecting used raw bars of soap from all its hotels and repurposing them to help communities in need. Sunway Malls Sunway Velocity Mall won the FIABCI Malaysia Property Award 2018 – the ‘Oscars’ of property awards. 23 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Achievements and Milestones Sunway Hospitality The Banjaran Hotsprings Retreat received a rating of 9.3 on the Booking.com Guest Review Award. The Banjaran Hotsprings Retreat clinched TripAdvisor’s 2018 Travellers’ Choice Awards for the sixth consecutive year in four categories: Top 25 Hotels in Malaysia, Top 25 Hotels for Romance, Top 25 Luxury Hotels and Top 25 Hotels for Service in Malaysia. The Banjaran Hotsprings Retreat was certified by Green Globe in the Hotel & Resort category. The Banjaran Hotsprings Retreat won two awards categories at the Lux Life Food & Drink Awards 2018: Most Unique Dining Experience 2018 and Wine Bar of the Year 2018. Sunway Resort Hotel & Spa won the Agoda Gold Circle Awards 2018 Top 1% of Agoda’s top hotels in Malaysia. Sunway Resort Hotel & Spa ballroom and meeting rooms underwent a RM54 million refurbishment. Sunway Hotel Georgetown Penang won the Best Business Hotel by Ctrip in December 2018. Sunway Hotel Seberang Jaya has been re-recognised as a 4-star hospitality provider in September 2018, by Ministry of Tourism, Arts and Culture. Sunway Putra Hotel won the ASEAN MICE Venue Standard 2018-2020 Award. Brand Audit Sunway Group underwent a brand audit with Brand Finance and our brand value is currently RM1.6 billion. Corporate Governance The Board operates within the following governance framework in order to systematically fulfil its roles and responsibilities under the Companies Act 2016, Main Market Listing Requirements (“Listing Requirements”) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) as well as all relevant laws and regulations. The relevant Board Committees are empowered by the Board to assist the Board in providing oversight over specific aspects of the governance process. Co Chairman • Executive Chairman (Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Dr Jeffrey Cheah Fook Ling) -Strategic Leadership • Independent Non-Executive Director Co-Chairman (Dato’ Sri Idris Jala) ensuring the overall effectiveness of the Board, Board Committees & Individual Directors Board of Sunway • 5 Independent Non-Executive Directors • 4 Non-Independent Executive Directors Audit Committee Directors and recommending their re-election. Chairman – Wong Chin Mun • Ensuring management succession planning. 4 Independent Non-Executive Directors Key functions :Remuneration Committee • Assisting the Board in overseeing and monitoring Chairman – Tan Sri Datuk Dr Rebecca Fatima Sta Maria the internal control systems, financial and accounting 5 Independent Non-Executive Directors reporting, compliance, operation and financial risk Key functions :management. • Reviewing performances of Executive Directors against a set of key performance indices using balanced Risk Management Committee scorecards. Chairman – Tan Sri Dato’ Dr Lin See Yan • Reviewing Group Remuneration Policy to ensure 4 Independent Non-Executive Directors competitive compensation in order to incentivise Key functions :management towards achieving annual and long term • Ensuring sound system of risk management and sustainable growth. internal controls. • Determining and identifying key material risks with Employees’ Share Option Scheme quantifiable impact on bottom line. (“ESOS”) Committee • Setting risk tolerance levels within the Group in Chairman – Wong Chin Mun achieving the Group’s strategic goals. 1 Independent Non-Executive Director, 3 Executive Directors and 1 member of the senior management team Nomination Committee Key functions :Chairman – Lim Swe Guan • Reviewing the By-Laws of the ESOS and setting criteria 5 Independent Non-Executive Directors for allocation of options under the ESOS. Key functions :• Ensuring actual allocation of options under the ESOS is • Evaluating Board and Board committees’ effectiveness in accordance with the rules of ESOS By-Laws including Independent Directors’ performances and • Approving new allocation of options under the ESOS contributions. to new qualified employees and employees who have • Ensuring Independent Non-Executive Directors’ been promoted. continuing independence. • Reviewing board size, composition and training needs President of Directors. • Responsible for meeting the Group’s business • Setting selection criteria for appointment of new performance targets and implementing the Board’s Director(s) and evaluating performances of retiring strategies and policies. 25 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 THE BOARD The Board of Directors (“Board”) of Sunway Berhad (“Company”) aspires to uphold good corporate governance in all that it does. The Company will continue to place emphasis on ensuring responsible and sustainable business practices as well as adhering to the highest levels of corporate integrity throughout the Group in line with its core values of integrity, humility and excellence. Board Responsibilities The Board aspires to create value for the shareholders and ensure the long-term success of the Group by focusing on the formulation of an appropriate strategy, business model, risk tolerance, management succession planning and development of a competitive compensation plan. It also seeks to align the interests of the Board and management with those of shareholders and balance the interests of all stakeholders. In addition, the Board sets the principles of business ethics and core values for the entire Group. The Board oversees the entire business affairs of the Group. It is responsible for formulating and reviewing the Group’s strategic plan and direction, performance objectives, business plans of each operating units, budgets, capital expenditures, investment proposals, compliance and accountability systems, core values and corporate governance practices of the Group to ensure that the Group operates with integrity and in compliance with the rules and regulations. The Board also appoints the chief executive officer, approves policies and guidelines on remuneration as well as the remuneration for the Board and key senior management. It also approves the appointment of Directors. In ensuring management continuity, the Board also oversees long-term succession planning for senior management. In discharging its roles and responsibilities, the Board is guided by its Board Charter which outlines the duties and responsibilities of the Board and the delegated day-to-day management of the Group to the President. This formal structure of delegation is further cascaded by the President to the management team. The President and management team remain accountable to the Board for the authority that is delegated and for the performance of the Group. A Balanced Board There is a clear segregation of roles and responsibilities between the 2 Co-Chairman (Executive Chairman and Independent Non-Executive Co-Chairman) and President in order to ensure a balance of power and authority as defined in the Board Charter. The Board has a formalized code of conduct and business ethics policy (“Code”) which provides an ethical framework to guide actions and behaviors of all Directors and employees while at work. The majority of the Board are Independent Directors with an Executive Chairman and an Independent Non-Executive Co-Chairman. It comprises nine (9) members, five (5) of whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors and the balance four (4) are Non-Independent Executive Directors. The Board recognised the benefits of having a diverse Board for a well-functioning leadership team to strengthen its strategy formulation and risk management by adding varying perspectives and insights. This will enhance the overall credibility of the Group. The Board composition reflects a mix of suitably qualified and experienced professionals in the fields of accountancy, banking and finance, economics, real estate development, property management and human capital development. This combination of different professions, experiences and skills working together enables the Board to effectively lead and control the Company. RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL The Board is assisted by the Risk Management Committee in identifying, mitigating and monitoring the critical risks highlighted by the Business Divisions. The Group Internal Audit Department (“GIAD”), which is in-charge of the internal audit function, assists the Audit Committee in reviewing, evaluating and monitoring the effectiveness of the Group’s governance, risk management and internal control processes. Based on the annual evaluation conducted, the Audit Committee was satisfied with the performance of GIAD for the financial year 2018. COMMUNICATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS The Company is committed to continuously disclosing and disseminating comprehensive and timely information to its shareholders and general investing public to strengthen its relationship with them. The Company has introduced a Corporate Disclosure Policy which serves as a guide to raise employees’ awareness of corporate disclosure requirements. The policy outlines the Company’s approach to the determination and dissemination of material information, the circumstances under which the confidentiality of information will be maintained, response to market rumours and adverse or inaccurate publicity and restrictions on insider trading. The Company has also established an internal policy on confidentiality to ensure that confidential information is handled properly by Directors, employees and relevant parties to avoid leakages and the improper use of such information. The Board is mindful that information which is expected to be material must be announced immediately. *Our full Corporate Governance Statement can be found in Sunway Annual Report 2018. 27 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Sustainability Governance The Board of Directors has the overall responsibility for sustainability at Sunway and considers economic, environmental, social and governance (EESG) matters in the development of the Group’s strategy. EESG matters that are material to value creation are integrated into our balanced scorecard, which is used to set objectives, drive behaviour, measure performance and determine remuneration. Tan Sri Dr Jeffrey Cheah AO, Founder and Chairman of Sunway Group, heads the Group Executive Committee (EXCO). He also oversees the execution of Sunway’s sustainable strategy in the day-to-day operations. Sunway Sustainable Development Department The Sunway Sustainable Development Department is responsible for coordinating sustainability initiatives across the Group by integrating principles of sustainable development into the Group’s policies, plans, management and operations. Sunway Sustainable Development Team Objectives A sustainability task force In mid-2017, the Sunway Sunway Sustainability was formed to draft a Sustainability task force Solutions Sdn Bhd was smart sustainable city was replaced with the formally registered blueprint for Sunway City Sustainable Development in early 2017 Department Objectives of Sunway Sustainable Development Department: • To define the overall sustainability management structure including linkages and responsibilities of the different business units in Sunway Group • To cascade the sustainability strategy to all business units in Sunway Group • To be the Centre of Excellence for sustainable development initiatives Strategies/Focus areas • Increase awareness amongst internal stakeholders of the UNSDGs • Stabilise accurate data collection of sustainable development initiatives for reporting and analysis • Consolidate sustainable development initiatives across the Group • Advise business units on the use of performance indicators and goal settings for their activities, projects and programmes • Conduct R&D into new sustainable development initiatives • Manage partnerships with external and internal stakeholders on sustainable development projects SUNWAY GROUP EXCO SUNWAY UNIVERSITY Development RESEARCH department ACTIVITIES SUNWAY UNIVERSITY SUNWAY Development MONASH UNIVERSITY initiatives MALAYSIA by BUSINESS UNITS JEFFREY SACHS CENTER ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENTAL social GROWTH PROTECTION equality 29 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Sunway Sustainability Pillars and Focus Areas Our action plan and key activities are guided by four main delivery objectives as illustrated in the diagram below. Social Connectivity WATER Environment ENERGY SAFETY & SECURITY Buildings EDUCATION ICT as the enabler to GREENSCAPES contribute to the development healthcare / agenda brought by the SDGs wellness WASTE MANAGEMENT MIXED & INTEGRATED DIVERSITY OF OPPORTUNITIES DEVELOPMENT HIGH CITY DENSITY INNOVATION Economy + Sustainability Sustainability Sustainability for Social Community, Governance in operations in planning and Reporting for Business Community Innovation Group Sustainable Development Policy A Sustainability Policy was drafted and presented to the innovative and demonstrate leadership on the issues Board of Directors. We target to implement this Policy that are important to us and our stakeholders. in 2020. The Policy will govern sustainability execution across the 12 business units of Sunway. Commitment 1. We are committed to: SUNWAY’S VISION AND MISSION • Responsible business practices Vision • Innovative product and service delivery To be Asia’s model corporation in sustainable • Efficient process and responsible resource consumption development, innovating to enrich lives for a better • Environmental protection tomorrow. • Giving back to the community 2. We endeavour to the best of our availability to Mission set short term and long term goals, with relevant • Empowering our people to deliver enhanced value to all performance indicators, to fulfil commitments that stakeholders are outlined as above to achieve a better and a more • Embracing sustainability in our business processes and sustainable future for all. decisions 3. Action plans to achieve the sustainable development • Attracting and nurturing a talented and progressive goals will be incorporated into our annual business plan. workforce for the digital era 4. We are committed to implementing impact-based activities that will bring about positive tangible and Core Values intangible long-term impacts to our customers and Our purpose, vision and mission are synonymous community. throughout the group with a solid foundation on three core values: Integrity, Humility and Excellence. Principles 1. Our approach to business is guided by commitments Objective to the following core values: Integrity, Humility and The Group strives to achieve sustainable development Excellence. by focusing on safeguarding people’s health, operating 2. We subscribe to the definition of sustainable the business responsibly, protecting the environment, development as defined by Brundtland Report that and fostering good relationships with the communities in states “Sustainable development is development that which we operate. meets the needs of the present, without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own GROUP SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT needs” POLICY 3. Internationally, we align our goals with the UN Scope Sustainable Development Goals 2030 (UNSDGs 2030). 1. This policy applies to all Sunway business units. 4. Nationally, we align our goals with the Malaysian 2. This policy will apply to all events hosted by our Ministry of Energy, Science, Technology, Environment & organisations. Staff and contractors are expected to Climate Change (MESTECC). uphold the objectives of this policy to the fullest extent 5. The three main pillars of sustainable development possible within prevailing budgets. that guide our smart and sustainable city blueprint are 3. We acknowledge that we have limited influence over economic growth, environmental protection and social third-party events we attend but do not organise. equality. While we cannot control the decisions of these parties, we are committed to educating them on our policy and Reporting encouraging them to align operating practices with the 1. We will report on our progress as a Group through policy objectives. our annual sustainability report. 4. Our attention to environmental, social and economic 2. Energy consumption, water consumption and waste responsibility includes meeting legal standards and disposal will be reported on a monthly basis by all voluntarily exceeding legal requirements in order to be business units. 31 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Stakeholder Engagement Sunway is committed to stakeholder engagement. Mutual respect, transparent behaviour and open dialogue set the strongest foundations for effective relationships with the different stakeholders we interact with. Our stakeholder engagement approach involves the identification and management of relations with persons, groups or organisations who can be affected by our activities or are capable of having an impact on our business. Our robust engagement model helps us connect with both internal and external stakeholders. This approach helps us develop partnerships and become more involved in our community. STAKEHOLDERS ENGAGEMENT METHODS FREQUENCY Stakeholders • Annual general meeting Annually and Investors • Extraordinary general meeting (if required) Employees • Employee engagement survey Throughout the year • Kelab Sosial Sunway activities • Employee engagement programmes, training and townhall sessions Customers • Customer satisfaction survey Throughout the year • Roadshows • Events and activities Local Communities • Community engagement through social activities Throughout the year and NGOs Suppliers • Tender and bidding Throughout the year • Quotation requests Local Government • Compliance with Government legislative Annually Authorities framework STAKEHOLDER INTERESTS HOW WE DELIVER VALUE • Higher financial return • Higher dividends • Financial performance • Return on Investment (ROI) • Press coverage • Career development • Training programmes • Benefits • Townhall sessions • Employment equality • KSS activities • Two-way communication • Berita Sunway • Employee Engagement Survey (EES) • Up-to-date information on Sunway • Sunway Pals • Effective complaints resolutions • Festive celebrations • Loyalty/rewards programmes • Events and competitions • Social media • Online and offline communication channels • Community care and support • Various community initiatives championed • Life-improving programmes by the Jeffrey Cheah Foundation and Sunway Group • Corporate citizenship and good governance • Ethical supplier management system • Online and offline communication channels • Up-to-date information on Sunway • Clear procurement policies and practices • Transparency • Sustainability report • Regulatory disclosures • Certifications • Accountability • Public disclosure • Policy aligned with areas of national interest including • Compliance green initiatives, innovation and nation building • Annual Report 33 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Analysis of Materiality • Economic & business performance • Sustainable We must identify, understand and balance the most procurement & Economic important areas for our stakeholders in order to improve supplier assessment as ‘one’ Sunway. Understanding how these relate to the • Nation building actions and decisions that we take is also important. • Market presence Sunway has been conducting and publishing a materiality • GHG emissions & assessment since 2015. The results are reviewed annually climate change to ensure their relevance. Aspects that are material • Energy to our operating environment, business context and • Water stakeholders are selected as indicators for measuring • Green buildings sustainability performance. Our materiality matrix results Environment • Waste guide us in our strategic decision-making, stakeholder • Biodiversity & engagement agenda and reporting framework. conservation • Environmental The Process awareness programme During the most recent materiality study, which was conducted in the last quarter of 2017, stakeholder • Occupational Safety & representatives were asked to rate the importance they Health placed on 30 areas of sustainability. • Diversity & inclusivity Social: • Training & career Stakeholder Groups Participating in the Our People development Survey • Employment benefits • Local Community • Employee engagement • Non-Governmental Organisations & satisfaction • Investors/Financial Community • Employees • Media • Child & compulsory • Customers labour • Suppliers Social: • Discrimination • Government & Regulators Human Rights • Employer/employee relations • Employees’ rights • Community engagement • Bribery & corruption Social: • Anti-competition Our Society • Wider community benefits • Employee volunteerism • Customer satisfaction • Customer privacy Social: • Responsible marketing Our Operations • Public safety • Quality We asked respondents to select the criteria deemed The Results material to each of their chosen divisions. We calculated Scores over 3 were considered of medium importance. an average score for all areas within each stakeholder Stakeholder scores ranged from 3.70 to 4.80; Sunway’s group before obtaining an average rating from all eight between 4.22 and 4.70. This indicates that all issues were stakeholder groups. important to some degree. The matrix is presented in the following diagram. We also asked 10 members of our board of directors to complete a similar survey. Their views represented each division within Sunway. Validating the Results Use of the Findings The results of the materiality matrix were presented The materiality findings guide our business strategy, track to senior executives across all business units for review issues of concern, prioritise sustainability programmes prior to the publication of this report. The findings were and establish meaningful metrics against which to measure deemed to be relevant and current. It was felt that there our performance. We also plan to use the analysis to was no benefit to repeating this exercise in 2018. strengthen the focus and content of our sustainability reporting. Following a discussion of the process and results, the material topics were confirmed. This matrix was then We understand that sustainability priorities vary across endorsed by the Board of Directors. The study will be different business units. Previously, we consulted repeated every three years or more frequently if there stakeholders and decision makers from each business unit are any significant changes in the business or market to tailor the material areas to their particular industries. environment. The five most material areas for both stakeholders and each business division are presented below. 35 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 The Five Most Material Topics for Stakeholders and Sunway by Division Property & Construction Retail, Hospitality & Leisure StakeholderS Sunway StakeholderS Sunway • Quality management • Quality management • Employer/employee • Local community • Economic & business • Public safety relations engagement performance • Occupational safety & • Responsible marketing • Customer satisfaction • Public safety health • Discrimination • Energy • Occupational safety & • Waste • Benefits • Water health • Recruiting & retaining • Diverse & inclusive • Economic & business • Child & compulsory employees workplace performance labour Healthcare Education StakeholderS Sunway StakeholderS Sunway • Wider benefits to • Patient safety • Employee volunteerism • Wider benefits to community • Quality • Discrimination community • Customer privacy • Customer satisfaction • Employer/employee • Providing relevant • Employee • Training & career relations skills to industry volunteerism development • Environmental • Nation building • Discrimination • Wider benefits to awareness • Quality • Whistleblowing community programmes • Stakeholder • Wider benefits to engagement community Trading & Manufacturing Quarrying & Building Materials StakeholderS Sunway StakeholderS Sunway • Economic & business • Sustainable • Local hiring • Local community performance procurement & • Recruiting & retaining engagement • Benefits supplier assessment employees • Economic & business • Employer/employee • Customer satisfaction • Quality performance relations • Corruption • Safety and health • Public safety • Training & career • Market presence • Environmental impact • Safety and health development • Customer privacy from transportation • Biodiversity • Discrimination Real Estate Investment Trust (REIT) & Commercial StakeholderS Sunway • Privacy of tenants, • Customer satisfaction retail customers & • Ethics & transparency hotel guests • Business ethics • Ethics & transparency • Corruption & bribery • Business ethics • Corporate • Corruption & bribery governance • Health of public & communities 37 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Integrated Materiality, Brand and Identity Strategy A brand audit exercise was conducted at the end of Areas for improvement 2018 to chart the strategic direction of Sunway Group’s • Brand positioning of Sunway is not clearly defined branding efforts. Brand Finance, the world’s leading, • Low capitalisation of Sunway’s strengths due to weak independent brand valuation and strategy consultancy, brand positioning was engaged to undertake this audit. The purpose of this • Inconsistent use of the Sunway brand (architecture) exercise was to identify and define internal and external leads to brand value dilution stakeholders’ key perceptions of Sunway Group and map • A wide gap between consumer’s and management’s out the most effective strategy to build a cohesive brand perception of Sunway brand identity among the 12 business divisions. Moving forward, the Sunway brand value is projected to Key Findings: reach USD592 million. We will focus on the following four 1. Sunway Group ranks number one among its strategies to achieve this goal. competitors in three of the 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs): Good Health & Well-Being, Quality Education and Sustainable Brand governance system Cities and Communities. However, the scores are relatively low for Decent Work & Economic Growth, Life Below Water and Affordable & Clean Energy. 2. Overall, Sunway is ranked second in 17 key attributes Consistent brand of the UNSDGs. Ideally, more effort is needed to raise architecture awareness of Sunway’s UNSDGs. 3. In 2017, the Sunway brand was worth USD 335 million. The brand value was mainly contributed by Construction, REIT and Trading & Manufacturing Increased Brand Strength divisions. Index (BSI) Consistent growth and revenue through matched offerings and consistent naming 39 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 #Sunwayforgood for the Economy Sunway iLabs’ State-of-the-art #Sunwayforgood for Makerspace Launched in 2017, Sunway iLabs is a non-profit incubator the Economy and accelerator that is a smart partnership between Sunway University, Sunway Group and its corporate venture capital arm, Sunway Ventures. Sunway iLabs The circular economy is a regenerative system where intends to foster entrepreneurship and stimulate marketresource input, waste and leakage are minimised by driven innovations to drive the nation’s competitiveness. maximising usage, as well as recovering and regenerating It is also a Malaysian Digital Hub™. products and materials at the end of each of their service lives. Sunway iLabs launched its Sunway iLabs Makerspace with five initial industry partners: Google, NEC, Hitachi We live in an age where technology is transforming the Sunway, Xperanti and GE. It equips students and world; the effects of technology on the global economy, entrepreneurs with collaborative space and tools for geopolitics and society can already be seen. The circular innovation. The partners continue to be actively involved economy is increasingly gaining attention in Sunway’s in getting Industry 4.0 related university innovations to business strategy as a way of decoupling growth from the market. resource constraints. During the year, Sunway iLabs also formalised three new international collaborations to provide students and entrepreneurs with additional sources of capital, mentorship and links to international markets. These partnerships were with the European Commission-funded South East Asia Social Innovation Network (SEASIN); the University of California, Berkeley; and Silicon Valley accelerator, A3 Global Collider. The Sunway iLabs Makerspace facility and other iLabs’ initiatives secure future talent by equipping students with “Circular the required skill sets that will prepare them for the economy can fourth industrial revolution. These initiatives are aligned be achieved with the Ministry of Higher Education’s commitment to equipping students holistically to secure their success with the right in the 21st century. Equipping our youths with the right innovation education, tools and mentors is more important than ever. Globalisation, urbanisation and digitalisation are and invention.” powerful forces that are reshaping our world by blurring national boundaries. Tan Sri Dr Jeffrey Cheah AO 41 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Sunway TO INVEST Up to RM1 billion Penang’s population is growing at approximately 1.5% and into Healthcare Business GDP at 5.5%, annually. Seberang Perai is also growing Currently, Sunway Group’s Healthcare Division is rapidly as one of the most populated districts on the embarking on an expansion plan that includes the mainland with its population estimated to surpass 1.1 construction of new hospitals throughout Malaysia. The million in 2020. Group will invest approximately RM1 billion in building new hospitals in its integrated townships of Sunway Sunway Medical Centre at Seberang Jaya will support the Velocity (Klang Valley); Sunway Damansara (Klang Valley); Vision 2030 that the Chief Minister has set for Penang Sunway Medical Centre at Seberang Jaya (Penang); Sunway by delivering quality healthcare and state revenues from City Ipoh (Ipoh); Sunway Iskandar (Johor) and Sunway medical tourism as well as readying Seberang Jaya to be a Valley City (Paya Terubong, Penang). catalyst for Penang’s sustainable progress. Sunway’s RM1 billion investment in expanding the The Penang Sunway Medical Centre is the group’s third healthcare sector commenced in 2017. The construction hospital after one opening in Petaling Jaya 20 years ago of a RM400 million private hospital in Seberang Perai and another recently in Sunway Velocity, Cheras. After began with its ground-breaking ceremony on 7 September Penang, Sunway plans to open more hospitals in the next 2018. The 180-bed Sunway Medical Centre at Seberang five years in Cheras (Kuala Lumpur), Kota Damansara Jaya will be completed by 2020. The capacity can be (Petaling Jaya), Ipoh, and Iskandar (Johor). expanded to 350 beds in the future, which will likely make it the largest private hospital in Seberang Perai. As South East Asia becomes increasingly popular for medical tourism, Sunway Medical Centre is positioned as a preferred destination with its high medical and technology standards. Being part of Sunway’s integrated township concept, Sunway provides premier medical solutions while ensuring the comfort and convenience of patients and their families. Supporting Vision 2030 for Penang • Delivering quality healthcare • Generating state revenue • Readying Seberang Jaya for becoming a catalyst for sustainable progress • Sunway Medical Centre at Seberang Jaya’s primary objective is providing communities with top-notch quality healthcare so they can lead long, fulfilling lives free of serious health issues. WORLD-CLASS HEALTHCARE Sunway Group’s Healthcare Division is also positioned to elevate healthcare levels in Malaysia. The University of Cambridge (UK) School of Clinical Medicine established the Sunway Clinical Research Centre as its regional site partner in Sunway Medical Centre. The division is also affiliated with: • Royal Papworth Hospital, a leading heart and lung transplant hospital in Cambridge (UK), and • Harvard Medical School (US), which provides clinical service development, training and education to Sunway’s doctors and other members of staff. Sunway Medical Centre was also appointed as one of the Designated Centres of Integrated Oncology and Palliative Care by the European Society of Medical Oncology (ESMO). The Division’s most recent achievements include winning three awards at the Global Health and Travel 2018 Awards: 1. Oncology Service Provider of the Year, 2. Neurology Service Provider of the Year and 3. Medical Tourism Hospital of the Year in Asia Pacific joint winner with Bumrungrad International Hospital in Thailand. Smart City Solutions Entering • Implementing the latest NEC technologies including Sunway Iskandar biometrics and video analytics that will make Sunway Sunway Iskandar and NEC Asia Pacific Pte Ltd (NEC) Iskandar a smart, secure and sustainable township. signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on • Establishing a one-stop service desk support centre for 24 September 2018 to: NEC’s Managed Service business in Sunway Iskandar. • Augment safety and security at the 1,800-acre Sunway • Creating an Innovation Centre of Excellence (CoE) Iskandar township in Johor and in Sunway Iskandar in partnership with Sunway iLabs, • Innovatively develop smart city solutions in an which may create hundreds of job opportunities in the Innovation Centre of Excellence (CoE). future. Sunway appointed NEC Asia Pacific as one of Sunway With an aim of delivering sustainable socio-economic Iskandar’s preferred ICT system integrators and value, Sunway Iskandar is the best site for our new equipment providers. NEC will invest an estimated Innovation CoE as it is a: RM100 million in Sunway Iskandar to create skilled tech • Fast-growing city with sustainability at its core jobs and develop local technopreneurs and tech-savvy • Gateway for the expansion of smart city solutions in talents within the economic growth corridor of Iskandar Malaysia and ASEAN. Malaysia. As part of the MoU, NEC will explore: 43 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 New Yunus Social Business Centre JCF in community empowerment, well-being and wealth (YSBC) at the Sunway Education creation. Group In 2018, Nobel Laureate and Founding Chairman of Yunus Stay Connected at Sunway City Centre, Professor Muhammad Yunus, signed an MoU with Sunway officially launched Sunway WiFi across its 800Sunway Education Group Founder and Founding Trustee acre township of Sunway City Kuala Lumpur in April 2018. of the Jeffrey Cheah Foundation, Tan Sri Dr Jeffrey Cheah Free Internet is provided to its population of 200,000, AO. This agreement covers establishing a YSBC in the including 40,000 students, and the 42 million footfalls it Sunway City campus. garners each year. Professor Yunus won a Nobel Peace Prize for his work The free WiFi service is accessible in all public areas founding the microcredit institution Grameen Bank in including Sunway Pyramid, Sunway Medical Centre, 2006. Grameen Bank has disbursed USD24 billion in Sunway Lagoon, Sunway Resort Hotel & Spa, Sunway collateral-free loans to approximately 9 million borrowers Pyramid Hotel, Sunway Clio Hotel, the Sunway to start enterprises that lift them out of poverty. Since educational institutions, The Pinnacle and Menara Sunway. being founded in 2008, the Yunus Centre has operated It is also available along the Canopy Walk — a 4-km as a think tank for social business, poverty alleviation and elevated walkway connecting these establishments and sustainability issues. the jogging trail at Sunway South Quay. Hopefully, establishing the YSBC in Sunway Education This free WiFi service is Sunway’s biggest endeavour Group will boost entrepreneurship for sustainable yet and can connect up to 25,000 users at any one time. socioeconomic development, especially for the poor and Democratising Internet access is another step towards less privileged in Malaysia. This collaboration will explore making Sunway City the first private-driven Smart education, research, information gathering and action Sustainable City in Malaysia. Although Sunway City was plans. the first Sunway township to launch this, Sunway City Ipoh and Sunway Iskandar in Johor will soon follow. Sunway Education Group organised student service Soon, communities will have free WiFi access in all our learning trips as part of the mission to promote social townships across Malaysia. business. Students learn techniques and programmes that assist the economic development of the poor in The township-wide access supports the nation’s push developing countries. towards embracing a digital economy. The free Sunway WiFi service has also been implemented in our integrated Through strategic research and the structured developments of Sunway Velocity and Sunway Putra. implementation of social business, the YSBC will support How YSBC Continues to Promote Social Business • Social business action programmes • Courses • Research • Publications • Conducting social business design labs • Conferences • Exchange programmes • Academic workshops • Exposure visits • Internships • Scholarship programmes Remarkable Contributions to the Tourism Industry We have developed integrated cities and developments that are value-creating tourist destinations spanning over 5,000 acres collectively. On 27 February 2018, we were recognised for our contribution to the nation’s tourism industry. Sunway won two and was nominated for three highly coveted awards at the prestigious Malaysia Tourism Awards 2016/2017. These awards recognise local and international tourism players for outstanding and innovative products and services. The Malaysia Tourism Awards are held biennially and this year marks their 20 th edition. Prestigious Sunway Group received the Prime Minister’s Award (organisation) for service to Malaysia’s tourism industry. Hospitality Sunway dominated the awards in the Best Shopping Centre category with Sunway Putra Mall being the Best Awards Integrated Shopping Centre and both Sunway Velocity Mall and Sunway Pyramid being shortlisted. Collectively, The Banjaran Hotsprings Retreat this is the sixth Malaysia Tourism Award received by • The Banjaran Hotsprings Retreat received a rating of 9.3 Sunway Malls with Sunway Pyramid winning in 1998, 2004, on the Booking.com Guest Review Award. 2010/2011, 2012/2013 and 2014/2015. • The Banjaran Hotsprings Retreat clinched TripAdvisor’s 2018 Travellers’ Choice Awards for the sixth consecutive Collectively, Sunway Group’s internationally acclaimed year in four categories: Top 25 Hotels in Malaysia, Top 25 sustainable townships and developments attract 45 Hotels for Romance, Top 25 Luxury Hotels and Top 25 million annual visits. Townships including Sunway City, Hotels for Service in Malaysia. Sunway City Ipoh and Sunway Iskandar synergistically • The Banjaran Hotsprings Retreat was certified by Green combine world-class residential, healthcare, retail, leisure, Globe under the Hotel & Resort category. education, hospitality and commercial developments. • The Banjaran Hotsprings Retreat won two awards The transit-oriented integrated destinations encourage categories at the Lux Life Food & Drink Awards 2018: prolonged stays and attract tourists from high-yield niche Most Unique Dining Experience 2018 and Wine Bar of markets, which improve Malaysia’s competitiveness as a the Year 2018. tourism destination. Sunway Resort Hotel & Spa Our Hospitality Division also significantly contributes to • Sunway Resort Hotel & Spa won the Agoda Gold Circle the tourism industry. Awards 2018 Top 1% of Agoda’s top hotels in Malaysia. ATF is a significant annual tourism promotional event in Sunway Hotel Georgetown Penang Asia attended by ASEAN Tourism Ministers. • Sunway Hotel Georgetown Penang won the Best Since its launch in 1999, The Guide Awards have become Business Hotel by Ctrip in December 2018. one of the most prestigious travel awards in Vietnam. They are sponsored by the Vietnam Union of Science and Sunway Hotel Seberang Jaya Technology Associations, and Vietnam Economic Science. • Sunway Hotel Seberang Jaya has been re-recognised as a 4-star hospitality provider in September 2018 by The awards connect policymakers and enterprises to Ministry of Tourism, Arts and Culture. promote Vietnam’s tourism and introduce Vietnam to international travellers. The event also facilitates Sunway Putra Hotel the exchange and sharing of opportunities among • Sunway Putra Hotel won the ASEAN MICE Venue organisations, individuals and localities while encouraging Standard 2018-2020 Award. enterprises to improve their product quality and diversify their services. 45 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Sunway Retail Boosts Penang’s Sunway has been part of the Penang community for the Socio-economic Growth last 25 years and this expansion will: Sunway Carnival Mall is beginning the next phase of • Allow us to continue supporting Penang’s socioits expansion after ten years in operation. The mall is economic growth doubling its gross floor area from 780,000 to 1.45 million • Mark the beginning of our long-term vision for the way square feet. Penangites live, learn, work and play in a safe, healthy and connected environment The expansion phase will add an additional 330,000 to the • Improve infrastructure and connectivity surrounding existing 500,000 square feet of nett lettable space. The the development with seamless connectivity from the expansion phase is scheduled for completion in the fourth Butterworth-Kulim expressway to the mall quarter of 2020. • Help us reach a larger market catchment and augment the vibrancy of the retail landscape in Penang Once completed, the first phase of the mall refurbishment is scheduled for completion by 2022. The total investment Sunway University Launches for both the expansion and refurbishment is RM500 Master in Sustainable Development million. Management In 2016, the Jeffrey Cheah Foundation (JCF) entered Expansion Highlights into a partnership with the United Nations Sustainable Development Solutions Network Association (SDSN). The partnership led to the establishment of the Jeffrey Increased number of shops Sachs Center on Sustainable Development at Sunway from 220 to 450 across new University. and existing wings The centre is the Southeast Asia base for the United Nations SDSN. It is a hub for research and policy practice, delivering world-class programmes that train students, practitioners and policy leaders on sustainable initiatives. The centre also collaborates with global industry, 50% of retailers (fashion), 18% agencies, government bodies and universities. (F&B) and 32% (other) The centre launched its first master’s degree programme. JCF offered a bursary of RM30,000, more than 50% of the RM50,000 fee, for the entire 18-month programme for Car park capacity increase the first cohort of students. from 1,100 to more than 3,000 bays with brand-new upper This master’s degree will help individuals and floors and basement parking organisations develop innovative solutions to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals in actionable ways in their specific sectors and areas of work. The expansion will meet the growing demand for retail space from international retailers as the mall is close to full occupancy. The mall will be able to offer a range of international retailers, effectively transforming the retail scene of mainland Penang. Sunway Develops World-Class Sunway Construction Plays its Entrepreneurs to Boost the Nation’s Role in Advancing the Nation’s Economy Construction Industry On 21 August 2018, Sunway University signed a Sunway Construction signed a Memorandum of partnership agreement with the Sutardja Center for Understanding (MoU) with Malaysia Productivity Entrepreneurship and Technology (SCET) of University of Corporation (MPC). The MoU covers the development of California Berkeley (UC Berkeley) to: a 5S Manual and Assessment Criteria that will become a • Develop Sunway University’s entrepreneurship new standard in Malaysia’s construction industry. programmes • Start a bi-directional information exchange in The 5S Model entrepreneurship and technology between Sunway University and SCET Sort The agreement is SCET’s first partnership with a Malaysian university. UC Berkeley is located in the heart of the venture capital industry, Silicon Valley. It Set-in-Order is recognised as one of the world’s most successful universities for producing venture capital-backed entrepreneurs. Shine The Pitchbook Report 2017, an authoritative publication that ranks top universities for entrepreneurs, reports that UC Berkeley has produced 1,089 entrepreneurs and 961 Standardize companies since 2006. Collectively, companies started by Berkeley alumni have raised USD 17.05 billion in funding since then. Sustain The partnership is a significant step for Sunway University in developing world-class entrepreneurs that will bolster The 5S Manual and Assessment Criteria will: sustainable economic development in Malaysia. Students • Outline the guidelines for the 5S approach to be and faculty members will be able to access some of implemented in workplaces the world’s best knowledge, on-campus resources and • Establish a set of criteria to be met by construction unprecedented networking opportunities in the heart of organisations nationwide for the Quality Silicon Valley. Environment/5S certification SCET will sponsor two visiting students, scholars or The 5S Manual and Assessment Criteria have been professors from Sunway University each year to be developed by MPC alongside its Malaysia Business based at the high-end collaboration space in SCET at UC Excellence Framework (MBEF). Previous MPC QE/5S Berkeley. They will engage in knowledge transfer activities certifications were only applied to the manufacturing and attend workshops such as the Berkeley Method of industry and this will be the first time in construction. Entrepreneurship (BMoE) Bootcamp and the Silicon Valley Innovation Leadership programme. Hopefully, this assessment tool will leapfrog efficiency and productivity for the industry as a whole and establish systematic, safe and healthy workplaces for all. 47 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Sunway Quarry Continues to Drive Growth Sunway Quarry operates six quarries and 13 asphalt manufacturing plants in Selangor, Perak, Penang, Kedah, Melaka, Terengganu and Johor. The Company is expanding operations along the high-growth development corridor in the northern and southern regions to extend its market coverage in Malaysia. Sunway Quarry is supported by Malaysia’s buoyant construction industry and various infrastructure and resurfacing projects. Major Nation Building Projects by Sunway Quarry • Mass Rapid Transit 2 (“MRT2”) Sungai Buloh Putrajaya Line • Light Rail Transit 3 (“LRT3”) Bandar Utama Klang Line • Sungai Besi Ulu Klang Elevated Expressway (“SUKE”) • Setiawangsa Pantai Expressway (“SPE”) • PLUS highway resurfacing and widening project • Damansara Shah Alam Elevated Expressway (“DASH”) Several road upgrading initiatives were undertaken by the state government of Selangor including resurfacing and patchworks to maintain road quality in the state. Sunway was awarded many major road maintenance jobs due to its ability to deliver an integrated range of asphalt and complementary services of pavement overlay. Sunway Quarry continues to supply quarry materials to the following projects: • Prominent integrated township in Bandar Sunway • Housing project inside Bandar Sungai Long • 180-acre housing development project at Goodview Heights, Kajang, Selangor with an expected GDV of RM1.5 billion Massive public infrastructure projects and continued exuberance in the construction sector remain key drivers for Sunway Quarry’s performance. The division continues to supply quarry materials to projects such as MRT Line 2, LRT Line 3 and various anticipated highway projects. Operations will commence at the new plant in Kedah in the second half of 2019. Key Projects For Which Sunway Quarry Supplied Stone Klang Valley Mass Rapid Transit Proposed Development of SMART – Flood Mitigation 1 (MRT), 51 km Sungai Buloh 5 KLIA2 and associated works at 8 Project in Kuala Lumpur – – Kajang Line by Mass Rapid KL International Airport, Sepang Masterpave Sdn Bhd Corporation Sdn Bhd Selangor by Malaysia Airports Holdings Berhad (MAHB). The Company completed the premix Shah Alam Expressway Klang Valley Light Rail Transit pavement works for package 9 (36KM) – KESAS/Gamuda 2 (LRT) Line Extension, 34.7 km LF05A Terminal Approach Road and Keller (M) Sdn Bhd; for Ampang and Kelana Jaya (Fourth Wave (M) Sdn Bhd) and 70% of road base materials Line by Syarikat Prasarana package LF05B Elevated Road as well as stone columns Negara Berhad and Quick Departure (Acre under Sungei Way Quarry Works Sdn Bhd). Industries Sdn Bhd Proposed Fourth Lane Widening 3 by Projek Lebuhraya Usahasama DUKE, Duta – Ulu Kelang Stone ballast/stone column Berhad (PLUS Berhad), 63.3 km 6 Expressway Phase II 10 for Expressway Rail Link, from Shah Alam Interchange – and Star line in Kuala Jalan Duta Interchange – Rawang Lumpur under Bauer (M) Interchange and Nilai Utama – Kajang Outer Ring Roads, 34 km Sdn Bhd Seremban 7 (SILK) – Sunway Construction Berhad. The company supplied 100% of the stone aggregates Stone Ballast for Double Supplied to BRT (Bus Rapid and asphaltic products in excess 11 Tracking Project Rawang4 Transit), Sunway Line of 2.4 million and 600,000 tonnes Tanjung Malim Stretch respectively. under DRB HICOM 49 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Prioritising Opportunities for Locals Local Suppliers People living close to our townships often ask how Sunway does not have a formal policy requiring the Sunway supports local businesses, jobs and skills. Our prioritisation of locally-based suppliers and all have equal operations provide direct employment opportunities and access to purchasing opportunities. Suppliers’ credibility we encourage local businesses to be part of our supply and ethical backgrounds are screened during a tendering chain. and bidding process before purchases are made. This online and offline screening process is performed by Local workers are hired where we operate whenever following clear and transparent procurement policies and possible, contributing to the development of communities, practices. Nevertheless, more than 95% of our suppliers job creation and local business growth. We only target are either locally based or have local regional offices. national and international labour markets if skills and experience are unavailable locally or regionally. Sustainable Supply Chain Sunway aims to continuously improve supply chain We actively encourage talented locals to join our management and the transparency of its value chain. We workforce at local and international career fairs. want to ensure that we operate responsibly throughout the value chain and that the materials and components we Initiatives to Attract Malaysians in 2018 procure are in compliance with relevant local and global regulations and standards. Initiatives to Attract Malaysians in 2018 Sunway is a diverse conglomerate with 12 business divisions that source products and services from • Participating in career fairs thousands of global suppliers. We source responsibly and select suppliers who meet our high standards in ethical • Conducting career talks and industry engagement conduct, human rights, workplace performance and sessions in targeted public and private universities environmental management. • Offering a special programme for students who aspire to be ICAEW Chartered Accountants through a sponsored and structured rotation training programme within Sunway • Visiting schools and organising industry engagement Sunway works sessions to a selection of the best universities in the UK to reach out to Malaysian students living there with suppliers to create a • Collaborating with internationally-based Malaysian positive impact student bodies to promote our summer programme on social and • Partnership with ICMS participating in their two environmental annual flagship events including I2 and MPPC protection, • Collaborating with student-led organisations from beyond its targeted top universities in organising industry businesses. engagement sessions Our Group-level Supplier Code of Conduct ensures that suppliers: • Adopt safe working conditions and treat their employees with respect • Develop production processes that are responsible and environmentally friendly. We reinforce our commitment to a social and environmental supply chain to suppliers and subcontractors. Components of Sunway’s Supplier Code of Conduct Safeguarding against child labour, non-discrimination, Labour practice and standards health and safety, working conditions, working hours, compensation, right to association and fair employment. Managing conflicts of interest and establishing ethical business measures including anti-corruption, adhering to Ethics fair business practices in managing business, employees and business relations. Stipulating how information is being managed, monitored Review and documentation and reviewed. Complying with all applicable labour and employment laws, Compliance ordinance, by-laws, rules, regulations or orders. Ensuring existing and potential projects are conducted in Risk assessment accordance with Sunway’s sustainability risk assessment. We will continue to improve our processes and engage with our suppliers to: • Identify and manage risks and • Increase productivity and efficiency within the supply chain. Sunway’s Procurement Practices • Following best practice in line with client expectations • Minimising risks associated with procuring from vulnerable sources • Increasingly focusing on the responsible sourcing of materials • Communicating environmental conservation policy and practices through: Letter of Award (LOA) Regular engagement and training sessions • Performing a risk assessment that evaluates social and environmental compliance before a project is awarded to existing or new suppliers • Monitoring socio-environmental performance and initiatives to reduce suppliers’ impact from operations and reporting findings to the management • Warning and possibly terminating suppliers who conduct unethical behaviour that contravenes our socioenvironment performance 51 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Our Roles in Advancing Malaysian Industry Property Construction Membership in Associations Membership in Associations Company Individual Company • FIABCI, the • Ms Sarena Cheah is • Construction Industry Development Board International Real a National Council (CIDB) Estate Federation member of REHDA • Master Builders Association Malaysia (MBAM) • Real Estate and 2018-2020 Housing Developers’ • Mr Chong Sau Min is Individual Association Malaysia a committee member • Mr Chung Soo Kiong, Managing Director of (REHDA) of REHDA Wilayah Sunway Construction, is the Deputy Chairman, Persekutuan Kuala Lumpur International Affair Committee of MBAM • Mr Steven Shee, General Manager of Legal at Sunway Construction, is the Vice President, MBAM Council and the Chairman, Publications, ICT and Data Resource Centre Committee of MBAM Retail • Mr Alex Hoo, General Manager of Business Solutions & IT Partner at IT Shared Service Centre, is the Deputy Chairman, Publications, ICT and Data Resource Centre Committee of MBAM • Mr Tony Foo Yoon Seong, General Manager of Building Material at Sunway Marketing Sdn Bhd, is the committee member of Material Resources and Exhibition Committee of MBAM • Ms Tan Siew Lian, Senior Manager of Membership in Associations Procurement at Sunway Construction, is a committee member of Material Resources and Company Exhibition Committee of MBAM • Malaysia Shopping Malls Association (PPKM) • Dato’ Ir. Tan Kia Loke, Senior Managing Director at the Chairman’s Office of Sunway Berhad, is Individual the Honorary Advisor of MBAM Council and • Mr HC Chan, CEO of Sunway Malls and Theme Education Fund Committee of MBAM Parks is an Advisor to Malaysia Shopping Malls Association and also the advisor to the Council • Datuk Kwan Foh Kwai, Advisor at Sunway of Shopping Centres (CASC) Construction, is the committee member of Education Fund Committee of MBAM • Major (R) Leong Yee Keong, Senior General Manager of Environmental, Safety and Health at Sunway Construction is the Deputy Chairman II, Safety and Health Committee of MBAM Hospitality Education Membership in Associations Membership in Associations Company Company Individual • Malaysian Employers Federation (MEF) • Sunway University • Tan Sri Dr Jeffrey • Association of Hotel Employers (AHE) delivers worldCheah AO was • Malaysia International Chamber of Commerce class teaching and conferred an Honorary & Industry (MICCI) research with Doctorate of Education •M alaysian Association of Hotels (MAH) leading international by University Malaysia •T he Association of Malaysian Spas (AMSPA) collaborators such as for his lifelong • Chaine des Rottisseurs Malaysia Chapitre Oxford, Cambridge commitment to •T he International Food & Wine Society and Lancaster advancing the cause of (IWFS Ipoh) Universities, UK; Le education in Malaysia Cordon Bleu, France and Harvard, United States. Healthcare Quarrying Membership in Associations Company • Malaysia-China Chamber of Commerce (MCCC) Membership in Associations • Malaysia Healthcare Travel Council (MHTC) • Association of Private Hospitals Malaysia (APHM) • American Malaysia Chamber of Commerce Company Individual (AMCHAM) • Malaysia Quarries • Mr Lee Chuan Seng, •B  ritish Malaysia Chamber of Commerce (BMCC) Association (MQA) CEO of Sunway Quarry •M  alaysia Australia Business Council (MABC) is a committee member •M  alaysia New Zealand Chamber of Commerce of MQA (MNZCC) 53 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Our Roles in Advancing Malaysian Industry Leisure Building Materials Membership in Associations Membership in Associations Company Company • Malaysian Association of Amusement Themepark • Road Engineering Association of Malaysia (REAM) & Family Attractions (MAATFA) • International Road Federation (IRF) • International Association of Amusement Parks and Attractions (IAAPA) Individual • Malaysian Association of Zoological Parks and • Mr. Arreshvhina (Assistant General Manager Aquaria of Production). Calvin Ooi (Senior Research & • Malaysian Association of Hotels (MAH) Development Engineer) and Umulnajwa (Assistant • Sunway Lagoon Wildlife Park is an accredited Manager of Quality Assurance/Quality Control) zoo with Permit Pengendalian Zoo issued by are members of ACI (Malaysian Chapter), the Department of Wildlife and National Parks, American Concrete Institute Seksyen 10(1)(a) and Akta Pemuliharaan Hidupan Liar 2010 (AKTA 716) Individual • Mr. Calvin Ho is a committee member and Mr. Mr. Magendaran Marimuthu is the Honorary Secretary of MAATFA. Commercial & REIT • Mr. Calvin Ho is a committee member of Malaysian Association of Hotels (MAH). Membership in Associations Company Individual • Malaysian REIT • Dato’ Jeffrey Ng Tiong Lip, Managers CEO of Sunway REIT has Association been a patron of REHDA (MRMA) since 2009 • Malaysian • Dato’ Jeffrey Ng Tiong Lip Investor Relations has been the Chairman of Association the MRMA since 2016 (MIRA) • Dato’ Jeffrey Ng Tiong Lip has been the Chairman of REHDA since 2016 55 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 #Sunwayforgood for the Environment #Sunwayforgood for the Environment We are committed to minimising the environmental impact of our operations, from the energy and resources we consume to the waste we generate. Each business unit within the Group sets clear targets for the efficient use of resources with a particular focus on energy, water and waste reduction. Our technological focus and commitment to innovation facilitate the development of solutions that may lessen the environmental impact of our operations. We are also working to extend environmental standards throughout our supply chain. Key Green Highlights • Sunway City is Malaysia’s first fully integrated green township with 40% green and home to more than 150 species of flora and fauna • Sunway City is 100% accessible by foot through canopied and pedestrian walkways • RM5 million spent on landscaping and the beautification of Sunway City • Styrofoam-free initiative • Recycling programme • Combined generation plant for Sunway City which uses natural gas to generate electricity, chilled water and hot water • Construction of a water treatment plant in Sunway South Quay which produces approximately 10,000m3 of water for the commercial buildings within Sunway City • All Sunway-owned buildings in Sunway City are 100% smoke-free in 2018 57 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Green Growth and Sustainable Development Sunway is committed to boosting economic growth and development while ensuring that natural assets continue to provide the resources and environmental services on which our well-being relies. Advocates of green developments, we create structures via processes that are environmentally responsible and resourceefficient throughout a building’s life-cycle from siting, design, construction, operation, maintenance, renovation and deconstruction. This is especially important as we apply our unique “Build, Own, Operate” business model. Year No. Property Type Green Certification Completed Northern 1 Sunway Property @ Anson Regional Office and Sales 2017 2017 GBI Gold (DA) Gallery 2020 Target GreenRE Gold & GreenMark Gold Plus 2 Sunway Carnival Mall Expansion Retail Mall 2020 GreenRE Gold Green Mark Gold Plus Central 1 Sunway City Township GBI Silver 2 Geo Tower Office Suites 2017 GreenRE 3 Sunway Velocity Two Serviced apartment and 2022 GreenRE office tower 4 Sunway Velocity V Residence Serviced apartment 2015 BCA GreenMark (Phase 1A) 5 Sunway Montana (Condo) High-rise residential 2015 LEED platinum (Club House Only) 6 Sunway Serene High-rise residential 2021 GreenRE 7 Sunway Rymba Hills Landed residential 2012 BCA GreenMark Gold 8 Sunway SPK 3 Harmoni Landed residential 2012 GBI & BCA GreenMark Gold 9 Sunway Nexis SOHO High-rise residential 2014 BCA GreenMark 10 The Pinnacle Office tower 2013 GBI & BCA GreenMark 11 Sunway Challis Townhouse 2009 BCA GreenMark 12 Sunway Vivaldi (Condo) High-rise residential 2011 BCA GreenMark 13 Sunway Palazzio (Condo) High-rise residential 2011 BCA GreenMark Gold 14 Nautica Lakesuites (Condo) High-rise residential 2010 BCA GreenMark 15 A’marine (Condo) High-rise residential 2013 BCA GreenMark Gold 59 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Year No. Property Type Green Certification Completed Southern 1 Sunway Iskandar Township On-going Target GBI 2 Sunway Southern Region Office Bungalow building 2014 GBI 3 Citrine Hub (DOS & Retail) High-rise commercial 2018 Target GreenRe 4 Sunway Big Box Village (Retail) High-rise commercial 2018 Target GreenRe 4 SJK (C) Cheah Fah Amenities 2019 Target GreenRe Benefits of Green Buildings • Limit the impact buildings have on climate change • Consider energy, water, indoor environmental quality, materials selection and location • Reduce landfill waste • Enable alternative transportation use • Encourage retention and creation of vegetated land areas and roofs Green Construction Materials Green building design applies eco-friendly or improved traditional building materials, which significantly lessen environmental degradation, allowing for the construction of healthy buildings that are sustainable to the occupant and environment. Increasing Building Quality with Autoclaved Aerated Concrete (ALC) Blocks ALC blocks are unique and excellent building materials due to their resistance to extreme heat, fire and sound. ALC blocks are lightweight and offer ultimate workability, flexibility and durability. They can help reduce environmental waste by 30%, greenhouse radiation by 50% and integrated energy on the surface of brick by over 60%. The environmentally-friendly blocks are easy to cut precisely, reducing solid waste and related manufacturing carbon dioxide emissions. Biodiversity Conservation Sunway City is built on ex-mining land that was rehabilitated by improving the environment and resources available to local communities. The township has been successfully transformed from a mining crater, bringing back more than 150 species of flora and fauna into the barren wasteland. Flora & Fauna More than 150 species Birds 22 species Open spaces 47.97% 38.97% over requirement Green spaces 23.77% 13.77% over requirement Sunway’s Approach to Minimising Loss of Biodiversity • Obtaining necessary regulatory approvals and consent before work commences • Analysing the impact our projects have on Shaded hardscapes biodiversity before work commences • Developing mitigation measures or offsets 54.67% once risks are identified • Clearing in a manner that minimises habitat loss or degradation • Performing a biodiversity assessment at each phase of a project • Implementing an offset or relocation programme if disturbing biodiversity within Waterscapes an area zoned for clearing is unavoidable 17.50% 61 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Lake Rehabilitation Landscape Rehabilitation In 2018, excess nutrients in Sunway Lagoon Lake were Hydroseeding is a key component of Sunway Quarry’s causing it to slip into a eutrophic state, which can result landscape rehabilitation plan. A viscous mixture of seeds, in algae blooms. A water pump was installed just above water, fertiliser and natural fibres are sprayed, which help the sediment layer to discharge nutrient-rich water. This to protect the seeds until germination. Hydroseeding is one of the actions that helped maintain the lake in a is an extremely cost-effective and successful method of mesotrophic state. establishing new vegetation. A quarterly water sampling is conducted to monitor the Our grass seeding process involves spraying a mixture parameters of the lake water to ensure it remains within of seed, water, mulch, eco-friendly binder, fertiliser and our expectations. The results are shared with the Sunway trace elements to establish vegetation in areas that might University Research Team for their ongoing biodiversity otherwise be too large, inaccessible or impractical for research project. conventional seeding. The water retaining mulch keeps the seeds moist, preventing wind and rain erosion while A “Fishing Frenzy” event was held on 4 August 2018 retaining essential nutrients for healthy grass. as part of Sunway Lagoon’s Lake rehabilitation project, where fishes were caught and relocated to the South Sunway Quarry also plants Eugenia trees along the access Quay Lake. The event also provided an urban fishing road and lemongrass near its quarry offices. experience for anglers at this man-made lake. Minimising Biodiversity Loss as a Result of Our Sunway Lost World of Tambun planted cattails around its Operations lake. This aquatic plant has an amazing ability to absorb • Sunway adopts a minimal cut and fill approach to avoid phosphorus, nitrogen and other elements that can harm importing soil for environmental and cost reasons. natural water bodies and sediment beds. They perform • When constructing buildings and infrastructure, the same vital function in treating wastewater. The plants excavated soil is temporarily stored on the site for maximise their uptake of nutrients with water swirling use once the foundations and basement structure have beneath the root system. been completed. • All trees that do not hinder construction are In 2018, Sunway Lost World of Tambun’s biodiversity untouched; others are relocated to preserve the and conservation efforts involved planting fruit trees to environment. attract more birds naturally and provide a sustainable • Temporary earth drains with a concrete lining and silt food supply for animals. traps are erected. • Natural lake water is used to water down construction sites to minimise dust. • Temporary slope protections are measured during construction to prevent erosion and environmental hazards from dust. Green Township Our tree-planting programme is facilitated by our own nursery company, Tajul Green Sdn Bhd. The selected trees are fast-growing, canopied and require little maintenance. There are 31,779 native and 142,291 adaptive plant species in Sunway City. The most Target common species are presented below. Increase the number of trees from the current 25,000 to 30,000 in 2020 Component Palm Type Tree Type Shrubs Sunway Lagoon Dypsis lutescens Pisonia alba Hymenocallis speciosa Sunway Lagoon (Rainforest Ptychosperma macarthurii Acacia auriculiformis Piper pseudolindenii area) Sunway Medical Centre Roystonea regia Podocarpus spp Hibiscus spp Palmville Condo Ptychosperma macarthurii Polyalthia longifolia Ixora (super pink) Sunway University Areca catechu Syzygium grandis Wedelia biflora Sunway Pyramid Livistona chinensis Eugenia grandis Rhapis excelsa Sunway Resort Hotel & Elaeis oleifera Khaya senegalensis Pandanus pygmaeus Spa Menara Sunway Dypsis leptocheilos Ficus wmicrocarpa, Duranta erecta Golden Clubhouse (Sunway Ptychosperma macarthurii Erythrina glauca Epipremnum aureum Lagoon Club) Jalan Lagoon Selatan Livistona rotundifolia Pterocarpus indicus Bougainvillea spp 63 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Green Feelings at Sunway Number of trees Pyramid Mall 25,000 ‘Oasis Garden’, Sunway Pyramid’s latest asset enhancement exercise is a rainforest-like environment simulated across six floors of escalator decks by creatively using sight, sound, smell and touch. 60% of materials were reused from previous festive décors and events. Target trees by 2020 Oasis Garden, Malaysia’s first sensory escalator 30,000 deck, creates a pleasant transition for people walking from the parking bays to the retail space and back. The escalators, connecting CP7 to CP2 parking floors at the Orange Atrium, feature artificial greenery with sounds of birds, crickets, frogs, monkeys, flowing water and gusts of wind. Native plants Authentic sounds from 17 species of birds were 31,779 species used to create this soundscape. The sight of a rainforest-like garden is therapeutic for shoppers. The mall has invested approximately RM250,000 on this initiative to date. Sunway Pyramid Mall also has Paradise Garden, Adaptive plants lush greenery with real plants in Lower Ground 1 beside the Blue Entrance. 142,291 species Centralised Township Management In 2018, we began introducing a centralised township management system that uses smart city data through connected properties and infrastructure. This system centralises the data and reporting for the entire environmental and sustainability operations. This simplifies performance management and improves the management of environmental risks and impacts. Energy Efficiency and Optimization High environmental standards were introduced by Sunway to ensure that energy is available to drive economic growth and social well-being. Sunway Energy Efficiency Journey at a Glance Energy Management at a Glance < 2016 2017 2018 2019 > 2020 Sunway Pyramid Sunway LED Menara Sunway Solar System • Loading Bay Induction Pyramid Replacement • Chiller System Upgrade (5.069MWp) Lights • Car Park LED • Sunway Pyramid • BEMS Upgrade • Big Box • Chiller Replacement Replacement Common Area (3.7MWp) • CP7 Car Park • Monash Residence Sunway Pyramid • X-Treme Park Sunway Carnival Student Units • BOH, Escalator, Cove LED (765kWp) • Aircond Equipment Sunway • BEMS SP1 Upgrade • Sunway Optimisation University Solar System International • Chiller (332kWp) Solar System (4.25MWp) School Menara Sunway Consolidate• Ecowalk (220kWp) • Sunway University (628kWp) (586kWp) • Chiller Operation • Public Linkage • Monash University (232kWp) Rescheduling Wisma Sunway (77kWp) • Sunway Pyramid Mall • Chiller • Geowalk (35kWp) (2MWp) LED Replacement Operation • Hypermarket @ Ipoh • Pyramid Tower CP Adjustment (933kWp) • Lagoon Club • Sunway Medical Centre Common Area (448kWp) 30,000 5,000 25,000 5,000 ACCUMULATIVE SAVINGS (RM’000) 20,000 KMETRICTON CO2 5,000 Target Savings: RM15mil from 2015 15,000 to 2020 4,046 1,609 5,000 682 682 10,000 10,855 10,855 157 8,115 7,278 Target Savings: 5,000 5,000 5,976 40K MT CO2 from 2015 to 26.32 31.26 2020 12.12 14.73 16.77 0 5,000 65 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Solar Panels at Sunway University Solar panels, installed on the rooftops of North building and University Building of Sunway University, supply 800 amps of electricity to the University’s South Building. The South Building was selected as the low voltage tariff is 50 sen per kilowatt compared to 40 sen in the North Building. On an average day with eight hours of sun, the North Building generates 200 amps and the University Building 600 amps. Excess energy is stored in batteries and the South Building energy costs are reduced by approximately RM60,000 per month. LED Replacement Exercise Sunway’s major LED replacement exercise commenced in 2017. The actual and projected savings are monitored and recorded. Property Area Annual Energy Savings (RM) Completed Sunway Pyramid Car Park 829,848 Common areas 441,080 Sunway Hotel Georgetown Car Park 4,068 On-going Menara Sunway Common areas and toilets 81,521 Sunway Pyramid BOH, Escalators, Staircases, Cove 714,836 Sunway Pinnacle Car Park 92,663 Sunway Giza Car Park 52,615 Menara Sunway Car Park 43,755 Sunway Putra Place Car Park 198,887 Sunway Clio Hotel Car Park 129,909 Wisma Sunway Car Park 42,555 Sunway Medical Centre Car Park 96,042 Sunway Carnival Car Park 147,595 Sunway Resort Hotel & Spa Car Park 68,209 Sunway Tower Car Park 18,580 Sunway Hospitality Division Temperature Control Electricity usage is one of the highest operating expenses of the hotel industry. An average of 90% of wasted electricity results from poorly optimised temperature control. Sunway Hotels are managing and monitoring temperature control by raising the: • Chiller setting from 6°C to 8°C • Lift landing FCU setting from 20°C to 23°C • Guestroom corridor’s FCU setting from 21°C to 25°C • Guestrooms’ air-conditioning pre-cool setting from 23°C to 25°C Total energy consumption by Business Unit (electricity consumption only) MWh per annum1 No Business Unit FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 1 Commercial 19,667 18,846 21,521 22,931 2 Retail 182,265 198,307 217,470 221,613 3 Hospitality 42,287 40,838 47,549 48,441 4 Leisure 14,523 17,977 17,227 17,130 5 Healthcare 16,270 16,412 21,544 22,828 6 Education 28,145 28,877 26,519 27,644 7 Building materials 9,524 10,275 12,332 11,132 8 Trading & Manufacturing 2,949 3,699 4,314 4,892 Total 315,630 335,231 368,476 376,611 Energy consumption by activity Bulk energy consumption per year (MWh) Boundaries Type of activity FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 Company Owned Vehicles 1,251 846 993 870 Within the organization Electricity Consumption 315,630 335,231 368,476 376,611 Total 316,881 336,077 369,469 377,481 Business Travel (Flights) 6,744 9,510 11,773 6,212 Outside the organization Travel Claims (Mileage) 2,027 1,595 2,059 1,705 Total 8,771 11,105 13,832 7,917 67 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Energy consumed from travelling (flights) Energy consumption from flights 2015 2018 14,000 ENERGY CONSUMPTION (Mwh) 12,000 10,000 8,000 6,000 4,000 2,000 6,744 9,510 11,773 6,212 0 FINANCIAL YEAR 2015 2016 2017 2018 (JAN-DEC) Calculation tool used for obtaining energy consumption due to travel: UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting v1.01 [Year 2018] Energy consumed from travelling (company car) Energy consumption from Company cars 1,400 ENERGY CONSUMPTION (Mwh) 1,200 1,000 800 600 400 200 1,251 846 993 870 0 FINANCIAL YEAR 2015 2016 2017 2018 (JAN-DEC) Calculation tool used for obtaining energy consumption due to travel: UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting v1.01 [Year 2018] Calculation method Company car energy consumption was based on information extracted via monthly claims. The amount claimed was converted to L/km using average cost of petrol in Malaysia for each year (assumed all cars used RON 95) and subsequently the petrol consumed was converted into km using the assumption that the average car in Malaysia has a fuel economy of 12.89 L/100km. The fuel economy value was based on values cited by scientific research papers as well as information published by the local news. Energy consumed from travelling (mileage claims) Energy consumption from Mileage claims 2,500 ENERGY CONSUMPTION (Mwh) 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 2,027 1,595 2,059 1,705 0 FINANCIAL YEAR 2015 2016 2017 2018 (JAN-DEC) Calculation tool used for obtaining energy consumption due to travel: UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting v1.01 [Year 2018] Calculation method Mileage claims energy consumption was based on information extracted via monthly claims whereby the distance travelled per claim is provided. Waste Management In 2018, we began introducing a centralised township management system that uses smart city data through connected properties and infrastructure. This system centralises the data and reporting for the entire environmental and sustainability operations. This simplifies environmental performance management and improves the management of environmental risks and impacts. e-Waste Sunway holds an annual e-Waste Disposal Campaign and e-Waste collection bins are Management strategically located in its buildings. Sunway Medical Centre segregates clinical waste and disposes of it in yellow stepbins that are wheeled to the interim Clinical Waste Storage Chamber. These stepbins are collected several times each day by a licensed contractor and transported to the Clinical Waste incineration plant. A summary of the clinical waste collection report, along with copies of all consignment notes for the month, is sent to Selangor State Department of Environment as per regulations. Recyclable Recyclable waste separation is practised in all Sunway properties. Recycling bins are Waste placed in public common areas or back-of-house. Food waste is generated in the central kitchens and staff cafeteria of our theme parks’ Food Waste tenants. This food waste is then composted. 69 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 KAIZEN for Improved Waste Management at Our Construction Sites Did You Know Sunway continued to integrate the Kaizen philosophy and culture of continuous improvement in its operations. In A recycling store was built at Sunway 2018, Sunway Construction championed this initiative by Lagoon Theme Park’s Wild Wild West. implementing two significant activities. Recycling bins were introduced in the •R educe wastage for cementitious items Park. Sunway Lagoon Theme Park also Improved the storage and handling of cementitious collaborates with a recycling vendor to items that resulted in less waste at the project site. encourage good recycling habits among •W aste segregation our people. The recycling vendor works on Raised workers’ awareness of waste segregation and a reward-based system where points can be improved project housekeeping scores in the Sunway redeemed for cash or Sunway PALS points. Safety Merit System (SSMS). All Food and Beverage tenants and the housekeeping team were invited to the launch of this programme in November 2018. General Waste Generated by Business Unit Tonnes No Business Unit FY 2017 FY 2018 1 Commercial 443 565 2 Retail 7,633 8,158 3 Hospitality 2,324 1,973 4 Leisure 1,644 1,342 5 Healthcare 820 1,028 6 Education 348 351 7 Building materials 5,513 4,318 8 Trading & Manufacturing NA NA Total 18,503 17,735 Recycled Waste by Business Unit Tonnes No Business Unit FY 2017 FY 2018 1 Commercial 3 27 2 Retail 323 304 3 Hospitality 73 78 4 Leisure 6 10 5 Healthcare 3 5 6 Education 35 28 7 Building materials 3 3 8 Trading & Manufacturing 887 854 Total 1,333 1,309 Breakdown of Recycled Waste by Category Tonnes Financial year Total Organic (Cooking Oil) Paper and board Plastic Metal Others 2017 27 351 20 22 912 1,332 2018 26 377 16 31 859 1,309 Scheduled Waste by Business Unit Tonnes No Business Unit FY 2017 FY 2018 1 Education 5 12 2 Building Materials 8 6 Total 13 18 Clinical Waste Tonnes No Business Unit FY 2017 FY 2018 1 Healthcare 353 262 71 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Innovative Solutions for Water On average, 9,000 m3 of water flows into South Quay Management Lake each year. Surface runoff and groundwater is Sustainable water management is a broad and complex constantly pumped into nearby monsoon drains and issue that Sunway supports by reducing water consumption discharged into Sg. Penaga. Sunway’s own water treatment and wastewater production. Through collaborative and plant purifies water from the South Quay Lake for use in innovative initiatives within different organisations and existing, new and future commercial buildings. The quality business units, Sunway has developed efficient water use of the treated water meets the Ministry of Health’s solutions that promote the smart use of water. potable water standards. Sunway reuses storm water for irrigation and general In 2018, we discovered an alternative ground water cleaning around Sunway Lagoon. No potable water is source in the old tiger cage of Sunway Lagoon theme used for irrigation as recycled water reserves last up park. Pipes have been connected and we have begun using to 189 days. this alternative water source for cleaning and watering plants. We aim to use this alternative ground water and Cleaning Water for Reuse water collected from rainwater harvesting: Stormwater is collected in a • At the Wild Wild West ex-Log Flume Pond to clean retention pond common areas • To supply water to Rapid River and Colorado Splash, which consumes the most water Recycled water is treated with CleanFlo Inversion and an Existing water pumps at the theme park have also been Oxygenation System and the water retrofitted with a Variable Speed Drive Control System. quality is tested regularly This is a better approach for maintaining the desired water pressure to regulate the speed of the pump’s Water is used for landscaping motor. The system controls the speed of induction irrigation, Sunway Lagoon’s surf motors by controlling the supplied frequency and voltage. pool and general cleaning Water Consumption by Property Sunway does its utmost to protect this valuable resource and use it sparingly wherever possible. Our water consumption is presented in the table below. m3 per annum No Business Unit FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 1 Commercial 221,602 241,363 211,777 183,592 2 Retail 822,051 1,177,596 1,797,117 1,601,470 3 Hospitality 429,384 490,081 1,032,283 1,078,136 4 Leisure 465,976 633,955 770,220 836,231 5 Healthcare 165,989 170,295 179,382 190,057 6 Education 206,107 203,249 384,837 392,448 7 Building materials 27,976 39,929 36,419 36,516 8 Trading & Manufacturing 37,131 39,273 36,853 48,106 Total 2,376,216 2,995,741 4,448,888 4,366,556 Climate Change and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Sunway’s businesses and activities are closely connected to the challenges of green growth. The Group strives to limit the environmental impact of its activities by developing solutions that help reduce the amount of energy and materials consumed. Looking beyond our operations, we are also tackling Greenhouse Gas Emissions (GHG) in our extended supply chain. Tonne CO2e per annum No Business Unit FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 1 Commercial 13,649 13,079 14,936 15,914 2 Retail 126,492 137,625 150,924 153,799 3 Hospitality 29,347 28,342 32,999 33,618 4 Leisure 10,079 12,476 11,956 11,888 5 Healthcare 11,291 11,390 14,952 15,843 6 Education 19,533 20,041 18,404 19,185 7 Building materials 6,610 7,131 8,558 7,726 8 Trading & Manufacturing 2,047 2,567 2,994 3,395 Total 219,048 232,651 255,723 261,368 Total Emissions Generated Bulk Emissions (Tonne CO2e ) No Type of activity FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 444 300 353 309 Company Owned Vehicles (Petrol/diesel consumption 1 not including WTT) 2 Electricity Consumption 219,048 232,651 255,723 261,368 Total 219,492 232,951 256,076 261,677 General waste (landfill) N/A N/A 1,868 1,756 3 Business Travel (Flights including WTT) 3,772 5,232 6,487 3,412 Travel Claims (Mileage including WTT) 721 567 733 608 Total 4,493 5,799 9,088 5,776 • Emission factor used for obtaining emissions from electricity: 2014: Baseline CO2 for Peninsular 0.694 tCO2/ MWh from SEDA • Calculation tool used for obtaining emissions from landfill: UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting v1.01 [Year 2018] • Calculation tool used for obtaining energy consumption due to travel: UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting v1.01 [Year 2018] 73 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 GHG emissions from flights 2015 2018 GHG EMISSIONS (METRIC TONNES) 7,000 6,000 5,000 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 3,722 5,232 6,487 3,412 0 FINANCIAL YEAR 2015 2016 2017 2018 (JAN-DEC) GHG emissions from Company cars GHG EMISSIONS (METRIC TONNES) 500 450 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 444 300 353 309 0 FINANCIAL YEAR 2015 2016 2017 2018 (JAN-DEC) Calculation tool used for obtaining energy consumption due to travel: UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting v1.01 [Year 2018] Calculation method Company car energy consumption was based on information extracted via monthly claims. The amount claimed was converted to L/km using average cost of petrol in Malaysia for each year (assumed all cars used RON 95) and subsequently the petrol consumed was converted into km using the assumption that the average car in Malaysia has a fuel economy of 12.89 L/100km. The fuel economy value was based on values cited by scientific research papers as well as information published by the local news. Emissions from Travelling (Mileage Claims) GHG emissions from Mileage claims GHG EMISSIONS (METRIC TONNES) 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 721 567 733 608 0 FINANCIAL YEAR 2015 2016 2017 2018 (JAN-DEC) Calculation tool used for obtaining energy consumption due to travel: UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting v1.01 [Year 2018] Calculation method Mileage claims energy consumption was based on information extracted via monthly claims whereby the distance travelled per claim is provided. Avoided emissions Thanks to our recycling efforts, we managed to avoid 474 tonnes and 495 tonnes of CO2e emissions that would have otherwise been generated from landfill in 2017 and 2018 respectively. Calculations were based on the UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting v1.01 [Year 2018]. The table below was utilized for the emission calculations. Activity Waste type Unit Landfill emissions (kg CO2e) Organic: food and drink waste tonnes 626.9729 Refuse Commercial and industrial waste tonnes 99.7729 Plastic All types tonnes 9 Paper and board All types tonnes 1041.9017 Metal All types tonnes 9 75 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Environmental Initiatives Earth Hour #Connect2Earth, it attracted 1,500 participants and Sunway Group participated in Earth Hour which is the raised funds for WWF-Malaysia’s conservation efforts. world’s largest grassroots movement for climate change action. The movement was practised in Sunway’s many Sunway Education Group’s campuses, Monash University locations around Malaysia on 24 March 2018. Malaysia, Sunway Resort Hotel & Spa, Sunway Pyramid Hotel, Sunway Clio Hotel, Sunway Putra Hotel and WWF’s Earth Hour is an annual environmental campaign Sunway Velocity Hotel also took part in Earth Hour by that raises awareness of climate change by asking people switching off all non-essential lights for 60 minutes to to switch off lights at homes and businesses for an hour encourage everyone to support the planet during Earth from 8.30 pm. Hour. In Klang Valley, Sunway Lagoon hosted the Earth Hour The Banjaran Hotsprings Retreat in Ipoh, Perak, also Blackout Fest, which featured live music performances supported the movement by switching off all non-essential in the dark by The Impatient Sisters, V5 and RazQa from lights for 60 minutes. 7.30 pm. Food and drinks were served and fun activities included a finale show of “Tale of Mount Berapi”. In Penang, Sunway Hotel Georgetown and Sunway Hotel Seberang Jaya conducted an Earth Hour Awareness In March 2018, Sunway Property also organised a writing Raising programme. Candlelight activities and Q&A contest on ‘how to celebrate Earth Hour moments’. sessions took place in the respective hotel lobbies. Each The event gave property owners and residents a chance guest room in Sunway Hotel Georgetown and Sunway of winning tickets to the Earth Hour Blackout Fest. Hotel Seberang Jaya received glow sticks for Earth Hour Residents were also encouraged to take part in Earth celebrations. Hour by switching off all non-essential lights for an hour. Sunway has supported the Earth Hour movement since Sunway Giza Mall in Sunway Damansara was the 2009 and it is one of the community initiatives that the chosen venue of the Earth Hour Walk 2018. Themed Group has taken on its journey towards a sustainable future. Sunway Hotels & Resorts Soapful Initiative Soapful is an initiative by Sunway Hotels & Resorts in collaboration with Ecolab Sdn Bhd, Kinder Soaps Sdn Bhd and Selangor Youth Community (SAY). Soap is repurposed to help communities in need. The project was Target launched on 5 December 2018 with His Royal Highness To collect 720 kg of leftover Tengku Amir Shah Ibni Sultan Sharafuddin Idris Shah Alhaj, the Crown Prince of Selangor graced the event. soap, which is equivalent to 7,200 repurposed soap bars, During the launching ceremony, 1,000 bars of repurposed soap were presented to Pertubuhan Kebajikan Anak Yatim by the end of 2019. Darul Ehsan Malaysia for personal use and sale in charity community markets and social platforms. Sunway’s hospitality division collects used raw bars of soap from all hotels. The soap is sent to the home where Kinder Soaps teach children how to repurpose soap themselves. SAY will continue to identify subsequent beneficiaries for this project based on its capacity. Life Below Water Fishing Frenzy Promoting Clean Air Urban fishing is a growing trend in Malaysia. Sunway Hybrid cars run cleaner and have greater mileage than Lagoon organised the Fishing Frenzy at the man-made gasoline-powered cars. Environmentally-friendly hybrid lake on 4 August 2018. The lake had not been fished vehicles run on twin powered engines that reduce fuel for 25 years and participants were exposed to a unique consumption and conserve energy. four-hour session. Species of fish such as Kelah Merah (Red Mahseer), Bala Shark, Jelawat (Sultan’s Fish) could Sunway Pyramid has partnered with Mercedes to provide be caught. This session was part of Sunway’s aquatics services for hybrid cars such as designated parking bays conservation efforts. with charging stations. Filtration System at Sunway Malls Sunway Pyramid’s Support for Re-Tech Sunway Pyramid’s filtration system, which prevents hot Electrical and electronic waste, or e-waste, is becoming air from entering the mall, is strategically located at the a toxic legacy. Frequently, it ends up in landfill or is mall’s entrances. We have installed air curtains with incinerated rather than being recycled in today’s digital airlocks that produce a controlled stream of air that era. E-waste comprises broken, non-working, old or forms a seal. Creating a resistance to airflow helps keep obsolete electronic appliances. Many people are unaware outdoor heat and insects from entering air-conditioned that the lack of proper e-recycling can lead to harmful spaces. However, people can move freely and their vision toxins such as lead and mercury leaching into the is not obstructed. Air curtains provide energy savings and environment. personal comfort. Rukun Tetangga of SS14 and USJ13 collaborated with KITAReward by initiating collection points for e-waste recycling for residents. Accepted items include unused TVs, radios, mobile phones, refrigerators, washing machines, laptops, keyboards, monitors, mice, CPUs, modems, printers, tablets, mini servers, CD drives and other electrical items. Sunway Malls was the Re-Tech campaign corporate partner. The campaign also received a grant of RM5,000 from the Selangor State Government Environment and Green Technology Small Grants programme. 77 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 More than two tonnes of recyclable e-waste were collected from 86 households on the first day. Residents were rewarded with cash vouchers for use in various Programme Activities shops in Sunway Pyramid for supporting the initiative. • Building a vertical garden from Specific points were granted depending on the item. We recycled materials are confident that proper collection points and a reward system will encourage residents to send their e-waste for recycling and reduce indiscriminate dumping. • Launching posters and videos that promote sustainability Ticketless Sunway Malls Sunway Malls continue to encourage shoppers to become ticketless by using Touch ‘n Go and Sunway Pals. • Edutainment activities and Ticketless lanes were introduced during the year and we engagement such as a mini are piloting License Plate Recognition Technology for exhibition and display by the season pass holders. Hopefully, we can eliminate the use of season pass cards in the future. Department of Wildlife and National Parks (Perhilitan) Sunway PALS Go Green Sunway Pals Loyalty programme rewards its 700,000 members with discounts, points, rebates and other • Activities for children including privileges at over 1,000 participating merchants in Sunway Kids Craft Workshop, WAD – a Malls, Sunway Theme Parks, Sunway Education, Sunway Medical, Sunway Property and other selected businesses – Quest (Scavenger Hunt) and online. Save the Earth Pledge Recently, Sunway Pals began distributing non-woven bags to members to promote reusability and reduce the use of plastic bags. Eco-themed campaigns such as ‘Nature’s Crown Jewel’ and ‘Life in the World’ were held to raise awareness of nature appreciation. Recently, Sunway Pals has gone digital with the introduction of the Sunway Pals app. This movement is part of our environmental initiatives to minimise wastage and eliminate plastic use. Protecting Wildlife and Habitats Sunway Lagoon organised a World Animal Day-Wildlife Park with Sunway International School in conjunction with World Animal Day 2018. The programme, which was held at the Wildlife Park from 4 to 7 October 2018, was Sunway Lagoon also collaborated with Monash University officiated by the High Commissioner of Canada — Her to host an educational visit to the Wildlife Park on Excellency Julia Bentley. 10 December 2018. 120 undergraduate students from the School of Engineering and IT, School of Science and School of Business received an intriguing insight into conservation efforts being practised at the zoo. Volunteering at our Wildlife Park is one of the programme requirements of Monash’s zoology course. Sunway Lagoon Theme Park’s Wildlife Team welcomes higher learning institutions to carry out various research programmes on wildlife and species conservation. Recently, we supported Sunway’s education team in The Banjaran Hotsprings studying the Malaysian Sun Bear through DNA collected Retreat was officially from its hair. certified by Green Globe in the Hotel & Resort category. Green Banjaran This certification is another The Banjaran Hotsprings Retreat operates ecomilestone in Banjaran’s consciously and does not disturb nature during daily commitment to excellence activities. We continue to meet the ‘green’ needs of in sustainability, particularly stakeholders and inspire them to cooperate with us in its commitment to the creating a better world. Examples of sustainable practices United Nations Sustainable at this rejuvenation heaven are summarised in the table Development Goals. below. Examples of Green Initiatives by Banjaran Hotsprings Retreat Stakeholder Sustainability Practice Customers and • Preferring electronic communication guests • Establishing a paperless check-in and check-out policy • Introducing a towel reuse policy • Cleaning guests’ linen only on request • Encouraging guests to use public transport and bikes • Only offering an ala carte menu and no buffet to reduce food waste Employees • Periodically training employees on sustainable goals • Encouraging employees to devise improvement ideas • Providing transport for employees to minimise carbon emissions Suppliers and • Actively seeking responsible suppliers Contractors • Mandatory adherence to our responsible purchasing charter • Setting environmental impact as a key criterion in tenders such as container materials, sources of raw materials, organic products, eco-certification and/or low energy consumption and recyclable packaging Operations • Introducing electric buggies as a mode of transport for guests • Using geothermal hot springs water for private villa hot tubs, Geothermal Hot Springs Dipping Pools, Garra Rufa Doctor Fish Pool, swimming pool and manual irrigation of the landscape • Using recycled wood, deadwood and driftwood as decorative items • Harvesting local vegetation and fruit trees for the freshest servings of healthy delights • Using locally-made natural skincare range in spas that are free from artificial perfume, colouring, preservatives or harmful chemicals • Printing on eco-labelled and recycled paper • Reducing the use of chemicals by using eco-certified paper and other environmentally-friendly products, biodegradable cleaning products with an eco-label, dilution control system for cleaning products and paints without harmful chemicals 79 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 #Sunwayforgood for Our Society #Sunwayforgood for Our Society As a responsible conglomerate and contributing corporate member of society, Sunway strives to have a real and meaningful impact on society and the lives and well-being of people. We continue to contribute to the development of strong and sustainable economies through direct and indirect societal development programmes. #Sunwayforgood is intertwined with Sunway’s core values of Integrity, Humility and Excellence. It encapsulates our sustainability and social responsibility efforts as we strive to create a positive and far-reaching impact on the nation and mankind. We actively engage with stakeholders and the communities we serve through initiatives that advance Business with a Heart economic, environmental and social progress. This approach helps deliver sustainable growth for thriving Sunway Berhad received the Best communities. CR Initiatives award for companies #Sunwayforgood is also our pledge that Sunway will with a market capitalisation below continue to do good, and stand alongside Malaysians, RM10 billion at The Edge Billion for good. Ringgit Club (BRC) 2018 award Sunway champions sustainability through three key ceremony for the second time. focus areas — Education, Healthcare and Community Enrichment projects. Sunway Sustainability Giving Focus Areas Education Healthcare Community Enrichment 81 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Our Proliferating Beneficiaries #Sunwayforgood People Receiving Aid 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2,189 6,335 5,630 53,127 114,311 beneficiaries beneficiaries beneficiaries beneficiaries beneficiaries Championing Education Jeffrey Cheah Foundation The Jeffrey Cheah Foundation (JCF) is a unique, first-of-its-kind structure in Malaysia and within the field of private academic institutions and entities. It is governed by a distinguished board of ten trustees under the royal patronage of HRH the Sultan of Selangor. The Foundation has awarded in excess of RM402 million worth of scholarships to more than 39,000 deserving students to date. These scholarships provide opportunities that meet the academic and special talent requirements of students attending Sunway University, Sunway College, Monash University Malaysia as well as other top-ranked local and international universities. JCF also provided Community Scholarships, which have benefited 202 deserving students since its introduction in 2002. In 2018, JCF disbursed RM72 million worth of scholarships to more than 3,000 students. This is the highest scholarship disbursement amount since its inception in 2011. Value Creation Through JCF Programmes Programmes/ Details Impact/Results Initiatives JCF Benefit An Evening of Jazz was held on 25 November 2018 at A total collection of RM200,000 Concert Sunway Resort Hotel & Spa in aid of the Palu Relief Fund. was taken from the concert. The event supported MERCY Malaysia in helping those affected by the recent earthquake in Palu, Indonesia. Scholars-inA Memorandum of Agreement was signed on The Scholars-in-Residence Residence 10 September 2018 at Sunway Resort Hotel & Spa. programme was established to programme allow the Sunway University faculty to be trained at the University of Cambridge for four weeks, in perpetuity. Oxford-Jeffrey Ms Vivien Ho Wei Wen, 20 years-old was the first recipient Provides opportunities for Cheah Graduate to receive the award, for pursuing a Doctor of Philosophy at Malaysian youths to further their Scholarship Oxford University, on 23 August 2018 at Sunway University. studies at the University of Oxford. Events and Programmes in 2018 Programmes/ Details and impact created Initiatives TFM Week 2018 TFM Week 2018 was held at two schools: SMK Puchong Perdana on 14 August 2018 and SMK Kepong on 15 August 2018. The event allows corporate figures and personalities to be empowered to co-teach alongside the TFM Fellows in the classrooms. It is to inspire future leaders in schools and raise the students’ aspirations to reach for limitless success irrespective of their circumstances in life. The TFM week also allows the corporate figures to experience and increase their understanding Teach for Malaysia’s work and the impact they seek to bring to Malaysian classrooms. TFM Conference TFM Conference 2018 was held on 21 July 2018 at Sunway International School. 2018 The conference participants included TFM Fellows, Alumni and TFM’s public-private stakeholders. The conference was a successful platform for participants to share knowledge, expertise and experience to enhance the quality of education in Malaysian schools. Teach For TFM 2019 Cohort Welcoming Event was held on 29 September 2018 at Sunway University Malaysia Graduate Centre. Parents and potential TFM fellow were briefed on the programme so that they could be confident and have a better understanding of TFM’s student support throughout the programme. Closing the Gap A Residential Camp was held from 9 to 12 June 2018 at Sunway University for 31 high school students from underprivileged backgrounds. The camp was organised to help bright underrepresented students enter quality universities by empowering them with the knowledge and skills to achieve their fullest potential. Special Education Sunway Group and JCF have supported G.O.L.D (Generating Opportunities for Learning Disabled) Conference 2018 since 2006. This non-governmental organisation helps students with special needs reach their potential and become contributing members of society. This inaugural event will be held annually for parties to maintain a strong collaborative partnership. The conference, which was held at Sunway University on 12 October 2018, was attended by 200 teachers, parents, academicians, government officers, NGOs and media representatives. The conference aims to help stakeholders network in an environment conducive for education, sharing and networking. The smart partnership model was shared to provide a seamless learning experience to children and adults with special needs. 83 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Smiling with Help Back to School report. The essay competition promoted the use of five Sunway recognises the importance of bridging the gap in of the 10 most relevant skills for the future: judgement education inequity. We brought smiles to students of SK and decision-making, complex problem solving, critical and SMK Bandar Sunway with special ‘back-to-school’ thinking, creativity and emotional intelligence. packages. Each package contained a school bag, a water bottle, a food container and two school uniforms worth STEM Education RM600,000. In 2018, Sunway collaborated with Science Bridge Academy to curate, develop and deliver several Education In a recent survey conducted by Sunway, more than half for Sustainable Development (ESD) programmes to two of the families who sent their children to SK and SMK adopted Sunway schools, namely SMK Bandar Sunway and Bandar Sunway fall under the B40 classification. With SK Bandar Sunway. a median income of RM 3,000, 63% of families have a monthly household income of less than RM 2,000. A series of workshops related to environmental awareness and sustainable practices were conducted at The Back-to-school programme supports Sunway’s both schools throughout the month of July and August commitment to the United Nations Sustainable 2018. An additional workshop on Energy Consumption Development Goal 4. This goal calls for equal access was conducted for SMK Bandar Sunway after it emerged to education by 2030 including children in vulnerable that the school was implementing some initiatives to situations. reduce the usage of electricity. Each workshop had specific learning outcomes which were covered through a In 2018, The Back-to-school programme extended beyond combination of lectures/talks, and hands-on activities. Klang Valley to Ipoh, Penang and Johor and catered to a total of 4,000 students. For the Composting workshop, a speaker from the Centre for Environment, Technology and Development Sunway Oxbridge Essay Competition 2018 Malaysia (CETDEM), Ms Tan Siew Luang, was invited The Sunway Oxbridge Essay Competition was held for the to give a talk and demonstrate the correct way to do fifth year in 2018. It is part of Sunway Group’s CSR efforts composting to the students and teachers of SMK Bandar to improve English proficiency among Malaysian students. Sunway. In the 2 hour workshop, Ms Tan spoke about the “zero waste” principle as well as how kitchen waste could The competition is jointly organised by Sunway Group, be turned into good quality compost. The Oxford and Cambridge Society Malaysia, Jeffrey Cheah Foundation, Sunway University and Monash A workshop on recyclying was also conducted and a University Malaysia. Over 13,700 entries have been Terrarium workshop was conducted as a continuation of received from across Malaysia over the past five years. the theme on recycling and environmental protection/ The programme has benefited 3,373 students in total. awareness. In this workshop, students were taught how to re-purpose used mineral water bottles to turn them It is the longest running essay competition in Malaysia into terrariums. The students from SK Bandar Sunway and only competition to offer higher education bursaries. worked in groups of 3 or 4 to make their terrariums, The Sunway-Oxbridge Essay Competition 2018 invited while the secondary school students of SMK Bandar secondary school students to submit original essays Sunway worked on their own. For SMK Bandar Sunway, in English on Transformasi Nasional 2050 (TN50), the the terrariums were exhibited in the school garden and nation’s next development vision after Vision 2020. were also submitted as part of the “Sekolah Tunas Hijau” competition. Participants were competing for Sunway Bursaries worth over RM200,000, RM28,000 in cash prizes and A workshop on renewable energy was also conducted 260,000 Sunway PALS points. The school with the most and the main objective of this workshop was to increase submissions also won a special prize. students’ awareness of renewable energy and how it may be harnessed in real life. Most of the students from The competition addressed the dire need for improving both the primary and secondary schools were aware of English proficiency and developed the required skills renewable energy and understood what it meant, but all outlined in the World Economic Forum’s Future of Jobs of them have not had the opportunity to witness how renewable energy is applied. The workshop consisted of Healthcare two parts: a talk on renewable energy, as well as making Harvard SEAL Programmes a solar car which came in the form of a kit. Each student Harvard Medical School (HMS) SEAL, which stands for received a kit and was able to take their solar cars home Southeast Asia Healthcare Leadership programme, was after the workshop. inaugurated with the tripartite collaboration of Sunway Medical Centre, Harvard Medical School and Sunway SMK Bandar Sunway had participated in the “Sekolah University. The programme helps healthcare leaders and Tunas Hijau” competition organised by the Selangor State frontline clinicians from the Asia Pacific region provide Education Department, where they competed with the safest, most appropriate and highest quality standards 35 other schools in the Klang Valley to see which school of care as the current healthcare ecosystem increases was the most environmentally-friendly school. All of connectivity. the workshop products were submitted as part of this competition e.g. the composting, terrariums, soap and Sunway University and Sunway Medical Centre have solar car kits including other initiatives by the students jointly committed RM1 million in scholarships to some of themselves. SMK Bandar Sunway placed in the top the 100-intake of qualified healthcare professionals each 5 amongst all competing schools. year. In March 2018, 40 students benefited and graduated from the programme. Celebrating Sunway Group’s Job Training Programme World’s First Cambridge-Linked Clinical Sunway Group and the Jeffrey Cheah Foundation have Research Centre in Malaysia partnered with Generating Opportunities for Learning Sunway Medical Centre established the Sunway Clinical Disabled (GOLD) for the Sunway Job Training Programme Research Centre as the regional site partner of the for Special Students since 2006. GOLD is a non-profit University of Cambridge School of Clinical Medicine at organisation that promotes economic empowerment the end of 2017. for those with learning disabilities ranging from Down Syndrome to Autism. The centre facilitates the collaboration of researchers from Cambridge University, Sunway University and The programme has been highly successful with 90% of Monash University. 140 graduates securing jobs after graduation. This attests to the efficacy of an industry-focused training programme. Research projects focus mainly on prevention, earlier Hopefully, more self-sustaining graduates will be produced diagnoses and improved treatments suited for the Asian who can contribute to our nation’s socio-economic genetic composition for various diseases. advancement. 1st Cambridge-Royal Papworth-Sunway Heart On 12 October 2018, JCF and GOLD with the and Lung Symposium endorsement from the Ministry of Education hosted Sunway Medical Centre held the first Cambridge-Royal Malaysia’s first Special Education Conference (SEC) in Papworth-Sunway Heart and Lung Symposium on Sunway University. Key thought leaders from the United 12 November 2018. The three-day symposium was part Kingdom, Australia and Malaysia shared their knowledge of a Sunway Medical Centre and Royal Papworth Hospital and ideas for the development of a supportive education collaboration to develop clinical services at Sunway system at this two-day event. Medical Centre through training and research. The event was launched by YB Dr Lee Boon Chye, Deputy Minister, The contributions of students with special needs to Ministry of Health Malaysia. the nation were celebrated at the event. Nineteen students received their graduation scrolls at the Sunway As heart disease has been the leading cause of death Job Training Graduation Ceremony. These candidates among Malaysians for 10 years, the symposium’s theme had completed the Job Training Programme at selected covered cardiac and vascular health. The event targeted Sunway business units including Sunway Lagoon, Sunway doctors practising and with an interest in cardiology, Medical Centre, Sunway Pyramid, Sunway University and cardiothoracic surgery, respiratory medicine, internal Sunway Resort Hotel & Spa. medicine and oncology. Specialists from Royal Papworth 85 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Hospital and Sunway discussed aspects of cardiology, vascular surgery, cardiothoracic surgery, respiratory A free counselling service on ways to quit smoking medicine and genetic pathology. during the Majlis Penutup Anugerah Sekolah Sejahtera MPSJ 2017 and Majlis Pelancaran The collaboration aims to further develop clinical services Anugerah Sekolah Sejahtera MPSJ 2018. in aforementioned areas. It also includes educating and training our health professionals as well as research and Free health screening for all visitors of the Eurasia trials. Golf Tournament and ambulance service for the golf players. Several special collaborative projects are underway in the area of heart disease, sudden cardiac death, sleep Cancer support group for head and neck medicine and lung cancer that would greatly benefit cancer patients. Sunway Medical Centre patients. Royal Papworth Hospital is a world-leading heart and lung hospital that performed Free health check at CARING MOMS’ the world’s first heart, lung and liver transplant in 1986. Entrepreneurs Bazaar at Sunway Geo, Their doctors are some of the greatest pioneers of heart an event to support ‘mompreneurs’. and vascular medicine. Public forums, health talks and health screens Sunway Medical Centre has also equipped its Heart especially during International Health Awareness and Vascular Centre with cutting-edge technology. Days such as International Women’s Day. The collaboration will help ensure these standards are maintained. The centre will offer a spectrum of Collaborations with other organisations and heart and vascular medical services for both adults and NGOs to raise awareness of good health including children including 24-hour emergency services, screening, Hepatitis Free Malaysia (HFM), Sin Chew, CARING scanning machines (CT, MRI, SPECT/CT), genetic testing, MOMS, Roche, Cantonese Association and angiograms as well as balloon, stenting and heart bypass BFM Radio. procedures. Sunway Medical has also acquired the Philips Azurion 7 biplane for its Heart and Vascular centre. This new image guided therapy system is designed to undertake complex interventional procedures in the diagnosis and treatment of blocked heart blood vessels in both adults and children. It is the first of its kind in Southeast Asia. The hospital is equipped with 12 major operating theatres for complex “Free public health screenings surgeries and a one-stop rehabilitation centre. always help in early detection and prevention of diseases. 360 Degree Approach to Healthcare Therefore, having Sunway Sunway Medical Centre, as Malaysia’s premier medical Medical at our event is truly institution, has taken a 360 degree approach to meaningful for the community healthcare. High standards of healthcare and advanced as a means to reach out and medical education are delivered along with state-of-theheal and touch more lives. art technology in holistic patient care within a seamless Thank you Sunway Medical!” medical system. Sunway Medical Centre educates members of the public Shera Ann Bosco on various medical related issues including diagnoses, Co-Founder symptoms, prevention and the cure of illnesses by CARING MOMS supporting various community events in 2018. Community Enrichment Sunway Food Programme • Excess food from our hotel buffet lines is collected, packed and distributed • Collaboration with Kechara Soup Kitchen Society. Zero Food Wastage • 5,124.8 kg of food was collected, packed and distributed to more than 20,500 individuals in 2018. • Packing and distributing nutritious dry food for underprivileged community members such as urban poor families, refugees and aborigines. • Price of one packaged meal is RM1 and each package can serve six people or six meals for a single person. Rise Against Hunger • More than 1 million meals packed since Sunway first partnered with Rise Against Hunger Malaysia in 2014. • 1,680 Sunwayians packed 500,000 meals over five days at five locations across Malaysia to feed 10,000 individuals in 2018. • Grocery collection drives among employees during Festive Cheer programmes Share Because • Sunway distributed grocery items to beneficiaries during Hari Raya, Chinese You Care New Year and Deepavali in 2018. Zero Food Wastage Rise Against Hunger Sunway is committed to ending hunger and fostering Sunwayians across Malaysia once again came together to a better future for the communities it builds and support underprivileged fellow Malaysians through the serves. This global movement to end hunger is Rise Against Hunger Meal Packing Programme. especially important for protecting the most vulnerable communities such as the homeless and urban poor. This programme is Malaysia’s largest corporate mealpacking effort to feed the hungry in Malaysia. To date Our Hotels in Klang Valley and Penang partnered with the Sunway employees have packed more than one million Kechara Soup Kitchen Society in May 2017 for the Zero dehydrated meals over the past five years for underserved Food Wastage project. Sunway’s hotels donate surplus communities in Malaysia, Timor Leste and Cambodia. food from their buffets to feed the homeless and urban These highly-nutritious packed dehydrated meals, poor almost every day. Surplus food consists of cooked comprising rice, soy, vegetables and flavouring, contain 21 food that has been placed in the warmer but not served at essential vitamins and minerals. Each package can serve the buffet line. six individuals and costs approximately RM1 to make. These meals were distributed to welfare homes, refugee Redistributing surplus food alongside the Kechara Soup schools, Orang Asli communities and the urban poor. Kitchen Society allows us to give back to the community. In August 2018, 1,750 Sunway employees from Ipoh, Penang, the Klang Valley and Johor Baru volunteered to pack 500,000 meals for impoverished families in these three countries. The meals were packed at Sunway University and Sunway Medical Centre in the Klang Valley; Sunway International School in Johor; Sunway Lost World Hotel in Ipoh and Sunway Hotel Seberang Jaya in Penang. The packing took approximately 14,000 volunteer hours to complete. 87 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 100,000 meals for homeless shelters and orphanages in Cambodia 250,000 meals for poverty-stricken communities in Malaysia 150,000 meals for refugee communities in Timor Leste Sunway enlisted the help of six non-governmental organisations to distribute the packed food to ensure the event’s success, namely Rotary Centennial Club (Johor), Sahabat Orang Asli, Rotary Club KK South (Sabah), Rotary Club Kuching (Sarawak), Selesians Missions (Timor Leste) and One2One (Cambodia). JCF Charity Concert Raised RM200,000 for Palu Disaster Victims JCF hosted a charity concert to raise money for victims of the Palu earthquake which hit Sulawesi in Indonesia in September 2018. A total of RM200,000 raised for the victims was channelled directly to MERCY Malaysia through the Palu Relief Fund. The charity concert was attended by approximately 400 guests including Deputy Yang di-Pertuan Agong Sultan Nazrin Shah and Raja Permaisuri of Perak Tuanku Zara Salim. Sultan of Selangor Sultan Sharafuddin Idris Shah and Tengku Permaisuri of Selangor Tengku Permaisuri Norashikin also graced the event with their presence. The concert featured a performance by The Seasons 4, which incorporated a mix of classical jazz. A performance by Tan Sri Razman M Hashim, Deputy Chairman of Sunway Group was the highlight of the evening who sang with the Big Jazz Band and played Frank Sinatra’s ‘Fly Me To The Moon’, ‘I’ve Got You Under My Skin’ and ‘Autumn Leaves.’ Share Because You Care Grocery collection drives among employees were held during Festive Cheer programmes. Sunway distributed groceries to beneficiaries during Chinese New Year, Hari Raya and Deepavali. Raya Cheer 2018 • Bubur Lambuk distribution on 21 and 22 May 2018 at various mosques and suraus around Bandar Sunway, Cheras, Sentul, Seberang Jaya, Georgetown. • 4,000 portions of Bubur Lambuk were prepared by our hotels’ chefs and distributed by Sunway volunteers. • Shopping and Buka Puasa with residents from eight orphanages within the Klang Valley. • These orphans were treated to new Baju Raya, fun activities and a Buka Puasa feast at Sunway Resort Hotel & Spa. • Iftar Barakah, in collaboration with Lembaga Zakat Selangor, helped Asnaf families with their groceries during the holy month of Ramadhan. • 40 families from seven villages in Kuala Langat and Sepang benefited from this. As part of the programme, Sunway volunteers delivered groceries, food and Buka Puasa meals along with Duit Raya to these families. The distributions, which were held on 11 and 12 June 2018, benefited 4,466 individuals. • Refurbishment works at Madrasah Tarbiyah Islamiyah to provide a better learning and living. Chinese New Year Cheer 2018 • Shopping for groceries at Sunway Putra Mall for 150 urban poor and cancer-stricken families from around the Klang Valley on 6 February 2018. • Each family received a festive cash voucher for RM200 and groceries voucher worth RM350. • The groceries helped the families in preparing meals for a reunion dinner on the eve of Chinese New Year. Deepavali Cheer 2018 • Reached out to the urban poor Indian families in Penang by inviting these families to a Deepavali luncheon at Sunway Hotel Seberang Jaya on 28 October 2018. • 606 individuals from 140 urban families benefited from this event. Each family received RM200 festive cash and groceries worth RM400. RM1 Million Contribution to the Selangor Youth Community Sunway contributed RM1 million to the Selangor Youth Community (SAY) for the second consecutive year. This donation promotes youth development and inclusivity to ensure that marginalised and underprivileged groups are not excluded. SAY is the brainchild of His Highness, The Raja Muda (Crown Prince) of Selangor, Tengku Amir Shah. Say emanated from his desire to see Selangor with a vibrant, energetic and engaged youth. A healthy lifestyle and concept of wellness is very much part of its ethos and complements the Sunway Group’s vision. Impact and Achievements • 145,000 outreach • 565 community beneficiaries • 14 sports and health activities: 9 cycling and 5 football 1 • Entrepreneurship boost with a RM2.45 MILLION increase in revenue • 8 arts and crafts events involving 200 local artists and performers 89 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 #Sunwayforgood of Our People #Sunwayforgood of Our People Sunway strives for excellence in everything it does from delivering quality products to developing its most important asset — its people. Employees are equipped with the right skills to assume leadership roles while being mindful of worklife balance. People are the bedrock of our continuous value creation. We will continue to lead with passion to boost our workforce of more than 10,000 and excel in all endeavours. Sunway Receives Three of 12 Awards at Aon Best Employers Awards 2018 Sunway was the only conglomerate to score a hat-trick at the Aon Best Employers Awards in more than a decade. Our three subsidiaries, Sunway Building Materials Group, Sunway Hotel Georgetown, Penang and Sunway IT Shared Services, were named among Malaysia’s top 12 employers. People often question me on what was the biggest challenge that Sunway faced as a business enterprise. My answer was simple: “Winning the war for talent.” Ultimately, it is our people who will make a difference. We are determined to groom from within and hire from outside. Sunwayians are not just capable and competent, but also are passionate about what they do and committed to working hard to realise their goals. Above all, however, will be one single attribute that is valued the most in Sunway: Integrity. Always think and act with integrity, and you will travel far not only in your professional career but also in your personal life. Tan Sri Dr Jeffrey Cheah AO 91 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Flexible and Family-friendly Sunway continues to focus on initiatives that promote equal opportunities for men and women of all ages. Our premises offer designated car parks and escort assistance by the security Care for Working office. Mother’s rooms provide convenience to working mothers and other Mothers visitors. Mother’s rooms are located at Menara Sunway, Sunway Malls, Sunway Medical Centre, Sunway University, Monash University and Sunway Hotels. The R.E.A.L Kids preschool centre was established as a result of a strategic alliance between Sunway and R.E.A.L. Employees and parents working for Preschool Centres Sunway enjoy fee discounts and have the convenience of picking-up their preschool children at a preschool centre in Sunway City. Sunway partially subsidises the tuition fees for R.E.A.L Kids Sunway and Parenthood if parents are employees. This subsidy is available for up to two Childcare Subsidy children per family for a maximum of RM200 per month per child. Child care subsidies of up to RM2,400 are tax exempt. Sunway is one of the many progressive companies that allows female employees to opt for an extended 30 consecutive days of unpaid maternity leave following Extended Maternity the confinement period after the birth of a child, up to five surviving children. Leave This is in addition to the statutory 60 days and both are inclusive of rest days and public holidays. Sunway recognises that male employees also appreciate parental bonding with Paternity Leave their newborn babies. Three days of paternity leave are offered to new fathers to allow them to bond with their children and support their partners. The E-Medical Card replaced the physical medical card for all employees and Parental Support their dependents in July 2018 so that unused cards need not be disposed of. Inclusive Culture. Diverse Talent. Inspired Innovation Diversity and inclusion are integral to Sunway’s core values. We are committed to providing an inclusive environment in which all employees can thrive. We are passionate about the individuals who make up our company. All leaders and colleagues are responsible for maintaining an environment where employees can reach their full potential. Valuing diversity and inclusion is key to this mindset. A truly collaborative working environment is essential for our continued growth as a diversified conglomerate with a multitude of businesses. Workforce Growth Workforce Breakdown by Category NonExecutive 5,302 5,269 5,844 9,398 9,742 10,643 4,096 4,473 4,799 Executive 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Workforce Breakdown by Type Workforce Breakdown by Gender Non1,804 Permanent 1,249 Staff 1,476 3,565 3,921 4,244 Female 7,922 8,493 8,839 Permanent 5,833 5,821 6,399 Male Staff 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 93 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Workforce Breakdown by Age Group Workforce Breakdown by Ethnicity OTHERS CHINESE 17.70% 1,015 >50 26.11% 1,050 924 4,744 4,886 5,464 30-50 3,604 3,932 4,164 <30 INDIAN 14.07% MALAY 42.12% 2016 2017 2018 Maintaining a positive, dynamic working environment with competitive compensation and career options is key to retaining employees. Women in Management 42% % Women in management 39% 37% 22% 22% 22% % Women in top management 2016 2017 2018 Employee Turnover 2016 2017 2018 By Gender Male 847 905 1,011 Female 748 825 939 By Age Group <30 845 998 1,146 30-50 656 657 708 >50 94 75 96 Measuring Employee Engagement Levels Employee engagement is measured by assessing three fundamental pillars of individual behaviour. Say Stay Strive Speak positively Have an intense Are motivated about the sense of belonging and exert effort organisation to and desire to be toward success coworkers, potential part of the in their job and employees and organisation for the company customers 2012 2015 2015 2017 2017 2019 Piling Foundations Building Culture Creating Impact Sunway Group has reached the third stage of its engagement roadmap, which focuses on creating impact. Aon is appointed to gather feedback from employees each year. Our engagement model does not merely measure employees’ engagement with each of these drivers. Areas for improvement are also identified based on their potential impact on engagement and business performance. Sunway’s overall employee engagement score increased progressively. Ensuring Employees’ Wellbeing We are committed to building a culture, workplace and environment that is engaged and healthy. Employee engagement and wellbeing are critical to attracting, developing and retaining our workforce. We invest in programmes that enhance employees’ health and wellbeing. These programmes are designed to provide positive outcomes for our employees and improve the delivery of our business strategy. Sunway Jom Kurus The Jom Kurus programme is a three-month weight management programme that encourages employees to monitor their calorie intake and get adequate physical exercise. Health talks on calorie counting, types of food to consume and avoid, and recommended exercise were delivered to the participants. Employees were asked to have their blood glucose levels tested and were invited to weekly jogging sessions at Sunway Lagoon. 95 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Employee Routine Health Screening Results 47% are obese or overweight 21% have elevated glucose levels 58% have elevated cholesterol levels SunMed Residence for Improved Employees Wellbeing SunMed Residence consists of 70 fully-furnished units with 180 parking lots for our growing Sunway Medical community. This carefully-planned residence houses 600 of Sunway Medical Centre’s employees and students. Residents embrace community living and they can learn, relax and play in a safe, clean, healthy and connected environment. Sunway Medical Centre employees, sponsored students and nurses reside here and the first occupants moved in March 2018. Kelab Sosial Sunway (KSS) KSS supports both the Group’s sustainability agenda and independent activities. Peninsular Malaysia employees from the Central Region, Ipoh, Penang and Johor Bahru take part in KSS’s various sports and recreational activities. Fitness, disaster relief, donations and sustainability initiatives are also conducted. • Supports the Group’s CSR activities • Strengthens the relations of Sunway Business Units • Fosters family ties and creates camaraderie between Sunway employees The various KSS activities strengthen the relations between employees of Sunway business units and creates camaraderie between Sunway employees. Project Details Training For Training For Warriors (TFW) is a US-based physical and mental development programme Warriors (TFW) adapted from the fitness regimes of some of the world’s best combat athletes and mixed martial arts fighters. It is a safe introductory Fitness Foundation Programme with three classes per week in a group setting trained by TFW Certified Coaches. This training is suitable for men and women. Sunway employees are encouraged to take part with each receiving a subsidy of RM80 that is reimbursed upon completion of at least six of eight classes. A total of 34 employees benefited from this subsidy in 2018. Artery Charity RM10 cash rebates were given to all members who registered for the Artery Charity Fun Run Fun Run 2018 organised by The National Heart Institute (IJN). Two hundred and eighty KSS members took part in this run on 4 February 2018. Project Details HOSPIS Annual RM120 cash rebates were given to KSS members who registered for the HOSPIS Annual Charity Charity Treasure Treasure Hunt 2018. A total of 24 KSS members participated in this event. Hunt 2018 Special rebate for KSS Members MS Walk RM20 cash rebates were given to 250 KSS members who registered for the MS Walk, which was held on 6 May 2018. Sunway A total of 60 KSS members took part in the championship which was held on 28 & 29 April 2018 Badminton Championship Blood donation One hundred 450ml bags of blood were collected from 135 donors who took part in the blood drive in donation drive, organised by Pusat Darah Negara. collaboration with SPFM KSS Lunch talk KSS hosted various health talks over lunch in 2018. Presented topics included heart attacks as well as cancer of the lungs, brain, breast and prostate. Sunway Sports A Sports Carnival was held from April to November 2018 for all Sunwayians. Activities included Carnival carom, chess, darts, congkak, table tennis, netball, sepak takraw, dodgeball, snooker, pool, volleyball, futsal, bowling and badminton. Sunway Family The Sunway Family Day was held on 7 October 2018 for employees in the Central Region and Day on 14 October 2018 in the Northern Region. Career Development Consistent and ongoing education is critical to maintaining a competitive, skilled, productive and motivated workforce. In 2018, 100% of Sunway employees received performance and career development reviews conducted by our People Department. Each was given an opportunity to maximise their potential by attending training sessions that complemented and extended their existing skills and responsibilities. Sunway is committed to continuous learning and development. In 2018, the Group launched the pilot phase of the Excellence in Career and Leadership (ExCel@Sunway) to support Sunwayians in their leadership and career development. This platform identifies growth areas in leadership, facilitates more frequent and meaningful career conversations with leaders and delivers more personalised learning opportunities and a focused development journey. ExCel@Sunway is open to all highly-motivated Sunwayians who are interested in charting their career paths and improving their leadership development. Growth areas are identified through a Leadership Development Centre with a concerted effort from Sunway leaders across the Group to ensure consistency in standards and expectations. 97 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Training Unit 2016 2017 2018 Average training budget per employee RM 774 790 673 Average number of hours of training per year per Hours 24 17 20.5 employee by employee category (EG levels) Total investment in training RM 5,031,747 5,657,153 6,725,743 Major Training Programmes Held in 2018 SCOPE – Sunway Corporate A half-day training programme, delivered to new hires, introduced the Group’s Orientation vision, mission and core values, members of Sunway’s executive committee, Programme for senior management and various business units within the Group. Employees A one-day programme, for new managers or future managers, introduced the First Time Managers mindset, core conversations and communication skills expected of a manager. It also served as a platform for them to bond with their team members. Situational A two-day programme teaches managers and senior managers to understand Leadership people’s needs and an appropriate leadership style to meet those needs. Sunway provides an e-learning module offering ultimate flexibility. Topics Personal Effective include 7 Habits of Highly Effective People, 5 Choices to Extraordinary Pass Productivity, Project Management Essential and Writing Advantage. A two-day programme, which follows a rapid and structured step-by-step method, takes a team to form a formulated challenge by building solutions Design Sprint through prototyping. Hopefully, we can train our people to creatively develop solutions that address business challenges. Speaker Series Sunway organised several speaker series talks that allowed our people to be inspired by successful leaders from within the Group. This knowledge-sharing platform also instils the Group’s core values and beliefs in each employee to ensure our workforce acts as One Sunway. Leader Speaker Series Leaders share their success stories that motivate employees to achieve their goals by developing critical, analytical and managerial skills Business Bytes Series Sunway’s Business Model is shared to build business acumen and strategic thinking skills Centre for Asia Leadership This leadership programme from Harvard University equips participants with leadership skills required for the 21st century Valuing Our Employees Recognition is the key to employee loyalty. Top global talent is attracted and retained with competitive compensation. Our compensation and benefits exceed or are in accordance with local laws. Sunway’s salary structure is reviewed annually in line with general industry practice. Periodic benchmarking checks that our salaries and total remunerations are competitive. Business units may offer industry-specific benefits. However, all employees receive a comprehensive and competitive benefits package that is relevant to their particular markets. Examples of Discounts for Sunway Staff • Theme parks • Shopping malls • Hotel room rates • Property purchases • Healthcare benefits 99 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Our Total Reward Statements communicate the overall value of each individual employee’s financial rewards such as base pay, incentives and employee benefits. Employees have also enjoyed the benefits of the Employees’ Share Option Scheme (ESOS). The ESOS structure promotes a culture of reward based on merit. The vesting amount depends on the performance of the respective employees with higher performing staff vesting a higher proportion of options. Long Service Awards Sunway Long Service Awards reinforce best behaviours, highlight achievements and appreciate employees for their efforts and dedication. Recipients of Sunway Long Service Awards Awards 2016 2017 2018 10 years award 211 255 256 • Gold Pendant worth RM 1,000 20 years award 80 105 38 • Gold coins or Gold Necklace & Gold Bracelet worth RM 10,000 30 years award 4 3 9 • Gold coins or Gold Necklace & Gold Bracelet worth RM 20,000 Employees’ Rights to Speak Safe and Healthy Workplace Sometimes employees may feel aggrieved by the actions The safety of our people is of paramount importance. of one of the Group’s companies or its officers. Aggrieved In 2018, we continued to inculcate a culture of health employees may seek redress orally or by writing to their and safety excellence within Sunway. Driven by strong superiors. leadership, our people are committed to putting the safety of themselves and others first. Employees are encouraged to report grievances to their immediate superiors, stating the nature of the complaint. Building a strong safety culture takes time; we continue If employees fail to receive a satisfactory response from to make progress with our people at every level. We also their immediate superiors within three working days, understand what it means to take responsibility for our they may escalate the matter in writing to the Head of own and others’ safety. This trend should continue to Department, PCM, GHR or the Industrial Relations mature over the coming years. Office for resolution and arbitration. However, employees must follow a set of procedures and a timeline when making complaints. Safety and Health Governance Sunway’s Occupational Safety and Health Council comprises representatives from each business division of Sunway Group. The council meets quarterly to discusses the Group’s safety performance, issues, challenges and Sunway Building accident avoidance measures. The commitment resulting Materials was awarded a from each meeting is shared across all business units and Systematic Occupational sites. Health Enhancement Level Programme (SOHELP) Roles of Occupational Safety and Health certificate from JKKP. This Council certificate recognises • Ensuring compliance with all Safety, Health and our singlemindedness Environment (SHE) Acts and Regulations, Standards, in adopting good Codes of Practice and Guidelines safety practices • Developing Group strategy whenever there are changes in our in SHE legislation facilities. • Suggesting measures to be taken in the interests of the safety and health of all stakeholders • Ensuring SHE best practices are being implemented and monitored • Collecting, analysing and maintaining Group statistical analysis of occupation-related injuries • Achieving synergy in the Group’s SHE resource management Accident and Incident Reporting Process OSH personnel investigate the incident to identify its root cause with help from Safety Committee members An accident report is sent to related division heads for their review and further action Monthly accident statistics are prepared Yearly accident statistics are submitted to DOSH Continued compliance with the Occupational Safety & Health Act 1994 is ensured 101 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Sunway Group Occupational Safety and Health Council Sunway Chairman Sunway Property Chief Operating Officer Construction Sunway Property & Facilities & Others Member Secretary Senior Environmental Safety Occupational Safety, Health Member and Health General Manager and Environment Manager Sunway Construction Sunway Property & Facilities Senior OSHE Manager Assistant Operations Director OSHE Manager OSHE Manager Sunway Medical Centre Sunway Lagoon Sunway Properties & Facilities Monash University Malaysia OSHE Manager Safety & Security Manager Safety & Security Manager Club Manager Sunway University Sunway Pyramid Mall Sunway Putra Mall Sunway Lagoon Club Safety & Security Manager Safety & Security Manager Assistant SafetyManager Centre Manager Sunway Putra Hotel Sunway Velocity Mall Sunway Resort Hotel & Spa Sunway Giza Head Safety, Health Head – Safety Health Safety & Security Manager & Environmental & Environment Sunway Hotel G  eorgetown Sunway Carnival Mall Sunway Integrated Properties Building Materials Division Security Manager Safety & Security Manager Security Manager Lost World of Tambun The Banjaran Hotsprings Retreat Sunway Hotel Seberang Jaya Sunway Group Security Safety Measures Sunway lives by the objective, “To achieve ZERO life lost”, at all project work sites. Health and safety risk assessments are established for new and existing projects across all of its business units. Improving safety and health is vital. Mandatory training is delivered for new workers and refresher training for longerserving employees. Improving Public Safety During Construction Works • Safety fencing within machine perimeter • Safety interlock device at fencing • Yellow lines to distinguish between passages and operations area • Scheduled inspection of safety devices by the maintenance and HSE team • Warning and mandatory Personal Protective Equipment signage High-Risk Activities Requiring Permits • Hot work • Excavation • Scaffolding • Confined spaces • Working at height • Lifting • Night Work Sunway’s Quality, Environment, Safety and Health (QESH) Management System is an integrated management system that conforms to international standards such as ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. Our QESH policy reflects the Company’s fundamental thrust towards inculcating total quality, environment, safety and health management principles, practices and values. As part of our continuous effort to develop, implement and maintain good occupational safety, health and environmentally-friendly practices in our activities, we inculcate a corporate culture that is aligned with our QESH objectives. Sunway Building Materials Group has a proactive approach in preventing any incidence or high risk of specific diseases. The Division has engaged the Department of Occupational Safety and Health (DOSH) and participated in the SO Help Programme (Systematic Occupational Help enhancement level programme). Sunway Paving Solutions has achieved the Level 5 excellent mark across all categories including ergonomics improvement, chemical safety management and continuous improvement programmes on hearing conservation. 103 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Gender Equality and Female Empowerment Sunway strives to be a leading force in changing the harmful norms and stereotypes that are a barrier to women’s economic empowerment and the norms and stereotypes of masculinity that confine men too. Empowering women transforms individual lives, societies and our business. Creating and supporting opportunities for women in society and the economy will boost our markets, brands and business. Better access to paid employment, gender rights and decision-making power in the private and public sectors ensure development is equitable and sustainable. In 2018, Sunway sponsored the ‘ReTHINK Leadership’ Conference organised by LeadWomen in support of challenging the unconscious bias and encourage leading inclusively. Empowering Sunway’s female employees to reach their full potential requires equal opportunities and equality. Our Annual Talent Review exercise aims to discover female talents within all business units. Sunway ensures a minimum of 30% of women is represented in its Annual Talent Review. The percentage of women in management and top management levels continue to show increasing trends. Malaysia’s 30% Club The 30% Club is a group of chairmen and business leaders who are committed to bringing more women onto Malaysian corporate boards. Tan Sri Dr Jeffrey Cheah AO has been appointed as Founding Chair of Malaysia’s 30% Club. Objectives of the 30% Club • Raising awareness among chairmen and business leaders of the benefits of gender diversity • Inspiring debate and discussion • Supporting initiatives to build a pipeline of women in executive and non-executive roles Malaysia’s 30% Club has intensified its efforts to help Malaysia achieve 30% female representation on public listed corporate boards by 2020. The 30% Club cross-sector Board Mentoring Scheme was piloted in July 2017 in partnership with PwC Malaysia. Delivering Women Empowerment and Equal Opportunity  Rec ruitment • Equal opportunities for all applicants including technical positions regardless of gender Training and Career Development • Delivering at least 40 hours of training to employees of all levels, regardless of gender, as part of the Group President’s scorecard Performance Management • Our fair and equal performance management philosophy is merit-based and guided by a well-defined balance scorecard Worklife Balance/Infrastructure • Reviewing, designing and establishing a set of work-life parameters, policies and procedures for implementation throughout our businesses Leadership & Development Path • Ensuring 30% of talents at the Annual Talent Review are female • Delivering Structured Development Programmes for women through on the job training and job shadowing, structured coaching and mentoring programmes 105 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Equal Rights for All Fair employment, diversity and inclusivity are embraced in the workplace. All divisions respect the human rights of all employees and we ensure that everyone is aware of these priorities. • Our human resource practices comply with local labour laws. • Hiring is based on merit. • Equal opportunities are provided for career development and progression. • Discrimination on the basis of ethnicity, gender, religious beliefs, nationality, age or physical disability is forbidden. • Unethical and exploitative labour practices, such as child labour, forced or compulsory labour, are not tolerated. Labour Rights Sunway recognises and respects that employees’ rights are represented by trade unions or other representatives in accordance with local applicable legislation and practice. Sunway representatives meet with these unions every three years to finalise a collective agreement. Employees are free to join a trade union of their choice provided they abide by local law and the rules of the trade union concerned. Unions currently representing our employees are presented below. Unions Currently Representing Sunway Employees No. of Union No. of Employees Business Unit Names of Union Members Covered By CA Sunway VCP Sdn Bhd Non Metallic Mineral Products 13 32 Manufacturing Employees’ Union Sunway Lagoon Club Club Employees Union Peninsular Malaysia 9 10 Sdn Bhd Sunway Hotel National Union of Hotels, Bar & 47 53 Georgetown Penang Restaurant Workers Peninsular Malaysia Sunway Hotel National Union of Hotels, Bar & 55 75 Seberang Jaya Restaurant Workers Peninsular Malaysia Total 4 Unions 124 170 107 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 #Sunwayforgood Operations #Sunwayforgood Operations Sunway aims to be present in the lives of many, bringing change for a better future, through its sustainability initiatives. As an industry leader, we aim to make a difference and are responsible for changing the community for the better through our values. Sustainable Township Business Model Several aspects are considered when developing a comprehensive township from choosing a location to planning and selecting amenities for the residents’ convenience. Sunway Property has a unique approach to its community masterplan. Centred on a sustainable business model — build, own and operate — the masterplan essentially encompasses a full real estate value chain. This model allows Sunway to remain the largest stakeholder in its townships. Owning 40%, the Company can deliver its commitment to the lifelong growth of Sunway communities and recycle capital into the townships for sustainable growth. Sunway invests in the community by ensuring connectivity, safety, security and environmental sustainability. This helps the townships grow for the benefit of residents. Circular Economy through Quality Assurance Sunway delivers innovative, quality products and service excellence. Our quality policy promises to develop, produce and deliver timely products, services and experiences that meet or exceed stakeholders’ expectations. Each business unit implements quality systems and processes that are continually improved to satisfy stakeholders’ changing needs. Our ISO 9001-certified Quality Management System pushes us to continuously improve our processes and approaches in order to deliver the best possible results in each of our business fields. Sunway Quality Merit System The Sunway Quality Merit System (SQMS) measures the project system and product quality performance at every stage of construction. The assessment is based on: • the QLASSIC requirements for measuring product workmanship; and • ISO 9001 standards for measuring the effectiveness of inspection, testing and document/record management practices. Projects with low SQMS scores are identified for immediate improvement. Objectives of SQMS • Benchmark all projects • Measure project quality performance systematically and objectively • Standardise good practices across all projects • Raise greater awareness of product quality as per QLASSIC requirements among all staff and subcontractors • Achieve a minimum QLASSIC score of 75% for all projects Monthly SQMS assessments are performed for all projects including piling, reinforced concreting, precast installation, steel structures, brickwork, plastering and pointing. 109 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Quality and Excellence at Our Hospitality Arm Sunway Hotel Seberang Jaya was recognised again as a 4-star hotel in October 2018. The award reaffirms our position as a leading provider of hospitality products and services in the Seberang Jaya area. The award was presented to General Manager Mr. Prakash Kumaran by Director of Ministry of Tourism and Culture Malaysia Penang Office, Jonathan Freddy P. Bagang, following an inspection of the hotel’s premises in July 2018. In 2018, a Quality Control Index (QCI) Officer was hired to deliver consistency in quality at Sunway Hotel Seberang Jaya and Sunway Hotel Georgetown. Other quality standards and certifications applied to our Hospitality Division include Halal Certificate in Banquet Kitchen (Chinese, Malay, Western & Pastry), Emergency Response Team (ERT) certificate and Certificate of Accreditation Company NDTS on food hygiene. A Safe Sunway Sunway’s Safe City initiative allows communities to live, learn, work and play while being healthy and safe in a wellconnected environment. Our in-house security force conducts 24-hour joint patrols with Royal Malaysian Police personnel across Sunway City as part of this initiative. The township, including Sunway-owned buildings, is also equipped with more than 3,000 24-hour CCTV cameras. Our 1,100-strong security force personnel include 600 auxiliary police who have completed intensive training at the Malaysian Police Training Centre. Safety and Security at Our Properties A vigilant security system is an important service at all Sunway assets. Stakeholders must feel safe and welcome while patronising all of our premises. Sunway works closely with the Royal Malaysian Police (PDRM) to improve safety on all Sunway premises and in the general vicinity. Auxiliary police are employed to keep stakeholders safe. Highly-trained armed auxiliary police regularly patrol the assets’ perimeter and the pedestrian bridges connecting our assets. Safety Approaches at Our Properties Minimum Training for Auxiliary Police Ensuring Safety at Our Properties • Monthly training by Group Security • Patrolling on a personal transporter at all sections of • At least two gun shooting courses by PDRM the mall with special attention given to crime-prone • A minimum of 48 hours of foot drills and BOMBA areas training each year • Panic buttons around our shopping malls and car parks • A minimum of 16 hours of classroom training each for a quick emergency response year • State of the art escalator safety equipped with • Two months of training at our Police Training Centre anti-unintentional reversal control and an intelligent brake system Sunway Safe City Initiative • Partnered with the Royal Malaysian Police and Malaysian Crime Prevention Foundation (MCPF) • Spent RM1 million on constructing Sunway Pondok Polis • Spent RM280,000 on mobile police stations • Spent RM3 million on constructing a new police station • A new RM3 million police station with state-of-the-art equipment is planned • Panic buttons installed around Sunway Pyramid • Round-the-clock patrols organised alongside Royal Malaysian Police personnel • 3,000 CCTV cameras installed • A security force of 1,100 operates, 600 of whom are auxiliary police • Launched the Selangor MCPF website, a one-stop digital platform that shares useful crime prevention information Sunway Iskandar’s Upholds its Safety and Security Sunway is exploring the implementation of its range of digital solutions. Integrating IoT (Internet of Things) and AI (Artificial Intelligence) technologies such as fingerprinting, facial recognition and video analytics technologies in Sunway Iskandar are being considered. Sunway Iskandar is currently expanding its team of 160 auxiliary police who are trained by the Royal Malaysia Police (PDRM). The security team strictly follows PDRM’s standard operation procedures when patrolling Sunway Iskandar. Sunway Iskandar targets having 200 auxiliary police officers and personnel safeguarding the development by 2020. For A Healthier, Cleaner and Safer Sunway City Sunway aims to protect members of the public from exposure to second-hand smoke to create a healthier, cleaner and safer environment for everyone. The Ministry of Health appointed a team of auxiliary police to educate and enforce a zoned smoking policy in the 800-acre township of Sunway City. PDRM also supports this initiative. The initiative supports Malaysia’s aim to reduce smoking prevalence to 15% by 2025 and to be a smoke-free nation by 2045 as stated in the National Strategic Plan for Tobacco Control 2015-2020. A report by the Institute of Public Health in 2011 found that: • At least 40% of adults are exposed to second-hand smoke in their workplaces and homes • Approximately 70% and 28% of adults breathe in tobacco smoke when visiting restaurants and using public transport, respectively. Letters of empowerment have been awarded to a team of trained auxiliary police. From 16 September 2018, they were authorised to issue summons to those caught smoking in no-smoking zones. Under the Control of Tobacco Product (Amendment) Regulations 2017, offenders could face a maximum fine of RM10,000 or up to two years’ imprisonment. This move will help non-smokers avoid risks associated with second-hand smoke. 111 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Living Sunway, Living Community Sunway has over 40 years of experience building townships and a multitude of mixed-use projects and infrastructure. We continue to adhere to the core values of integrity, humility and excellence that has encapsulated the Sunway brand as a quality and revered community builder. Beyond building townships, Sunway develops wholesome and vibrant communities by adding elements for a holistic, liveable and progressive environment of growth and development. “In the last four decades, Sunway has weathered various challenges, but what sets us apart is our willingness to be transparent in our journey. We own up to our failures, learn from them, and share them publicly so that others can learn too. It is the relationships we have built that matter most at the end of the day, and one certain way to build this trust is to continuously do great things for the communities we serve.” Sarena Cheah, Managing Director, Property Division, Sunway Berhad Featuring Sunway Property’s Movie by the Lake A Movie by The Lake event was held at Sunway Serene Sales Gallery in December 2018. It was a fun-filled evening with a warm ambience for the night that suited the theme of the sales gallery. There were food trucks with a selection of food for visitors to enjoy while watching the screened movie, The Greatest Showman on Earth. The ‘Double the Rewards, Double the Fun’ contest was held in conjunction with the movie event. Lucky winners walked away with attractive prizes. Sunway Property also organised three movie outings for its Property PALS members in 2018. This is one way of rewarding Sunway Property PALS members for their loyalty and continued support. The outings were held at TGV Sunway Pyramid and TGV Sunway Velocity Mall. Customer Privacy As digital technology becomes deeply integrated in people’s lives, generating greater quantities of data, the twin challenges of privacy and data security loom even larger. Our stakeholders and the broader community are concerned about who has access to this data and we are committed to being transparent in how we manage and protect this information. Sunway manages these challenges through a stringent series of codes, policies and security controls. Customer data is protected from intrusions and unauthorised access. Employees are subjected to the strictest standards of privacy and confidentiality. We take this responsibility seriously and have established a company-wide governance infrastructure to take a holistic approach to data privacy and security. This practice is applied across all our business units including protecting the privacy of all stakeholders including shoppers in our malls and medical centre patients. Sunway Property Engagement and Appreciation Programmes Community PROPERTY PALS Engagement Engagement Movie outings and free passes to Mass Vacant Possession (VP), Sunway Group events including celebration, meet & greet shows, talks and events Healthy community living such as Events including Christmas, community activities at townships community CSR programme and and other sustainability activities PALS private events Festive celebrations and other employee engagement programmes Fighting and Preventing Corruption Conducting business responsibly is the cornerstone of our company strategy and corporate culture. We are committed to winning business on merit, ability and fairness. A clear code of business ethics is followed and we vigorously correct any encountered irregularities. Our commitment goes beyond laws and regulations. We strive to be a responsible and relevant driver of positive change within the communities, organisations and societies that we partner with. Corruption encompasses bribery and trading in influence. Any corrupt activity, either in the public or private sectors, is prohibited. Offering, giving, requesting, accepting or receiving any bribes or facilitation payments is forbidden. Sunway’s zero tolerance to corruption and ethical standards are set out in its Code of Conduct, Group Policy Anti-Corruption and other governing documents, which are implemented across all business units. Integrity is also one of Sunway’s core values. All suppliers and third parties that have a direct contractual relationship or offer products or services to Sunway must comply with our Supplier Conduct Principles. These principles set out the minimum standards that we expect to see achieved over time including ethics and anti-corruption. Heads of business units are briefed on the implementation of a quarterly risk report that is signed off by each business unit. The reporting, investigation and handling of corruption cases are dealt with by Group Internal Audit (GIAD) and individual business units. Sunway provides mandatory compliance training for all employees and continuously communicates the importance of business ethics and compliance. 113 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Trailblazer of Sustainable Development Goals in the Region: An On-going Mission It is a crucial moment in the evolution of sustainability: The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs) have ushered in a new era of global development objectives to tackle the world’s most pressing problems. Industry players such as Sunway must become principle drivers if these goals are to be achieved. The agenda is an action plan for the people, planet and prosperity. It aims to secure universal peace. Eradicating poverty in all forms and dimensions, including extreme poverty, is the greatest global challenge and an indispensable part of sustainable development. Sunway has taken a leading role in sustainable development by taking bold and transformative steps that are urgently needed to steer the world towards a sustainable and resilient path. As we embark on this collective journey, we pledge to continue tackling the three dimensions of sustainable development economic, environmental and social as One Sunway. Sustainability Through Integrated Knowledge Management and Innovation At times, 17 goals and 169 targets are overwhelming. However, the 2030 Agenda shows the complexity of sustainable development and how economics, social issues and the environment are interconnected. At Sunway, we see this as an opportunity. With a strong position across 12 business divisions, we continue to make progress in achieving these goals. The following projects are championed by our education and research team in partnership with industry experts from our own business units. They show how these innovative and integrated approaches achieve sustainable solutions. THE JEFFREY SACHS CENTER ON SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT The Jeffrey Sachs Center on Sustainable Development is a regional centre of excellence that advances the achievement of the 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs) in Malaysia and Southeast Asia. It tackles the sustainability agenda through: • Education, training, research and policy advisory • Delivering world-class programmes to train students, practitioners and policy leaders on sustainable initiatives • Developing solutions related to the UNSDGs in collaboration with industry, government bodies, NGOs and universities worldwide Launched in December 2016, the centre operates out of Sunway University under the supervision of Professor Jeffrey D. Sachs, one of the world’s leading experts in sustainable development. The centre was borne out of a $10 million gift from the Jeffrey Cheah Foundation (JCF) to the UN Sustainable Development Solutions Network (SDSN). 115 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Deep Decarbonisation Pathways for Malaysia Food, Agriculture, Biodiversity, Land Use and The project supports Malaysia in preventing global Energy (FABLE) in Malaysia temperature from rising more than 2° C. This The Food, Agriculture, Biodiversity, Land Use and Energy comprehensive study models possible pathways for deep (FABLE) Pathways Consortium was launched in 2017 by decarbonisation, mainly energy systems, transportation, Sustainable Development Solutions Network (SDSN) and buildings and industry. the International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis (IIASA). The consortium aims to develop consistent global Stages of Deep Decarbonisation Pathways for and national pathways towards sustainable land use and Malaysia food systems by 2050. Malaysia’s country information is compiled from expert opinions, national policies and Create a baseline for Malaysian projected pathways. The study aims to explore alternative carbon emissions scenarios and comprehend the main development pathways for food systems in Malaysia by 2050. Develop a simulation modelling study that incorporates existing available technologies in various scales of decarbonisation Modelling economic and environmental impacts based on life-cycle analysis for each available technology to revise and refurbish the modelling Combating Childhood Stunting in Malaysia More than one in five Malaysian children are stunted from chronic malnutrition. This figure is worse than Ghana and war-torn Gaza. Studies have shown that stunting has practically irreversible long-term effects on individuals and Deforestation and Biodiversity Loss societies. However, there is little awareness of the issue Malaysia hosts the oldest tropical rainforests in the world among policymakers and the general population. with some being 130 million years old. These rainforests contribute significantly to the carbon sink, biodiversity, This ongoing research examines stunting data in Malaysia environmental services and eco-heritage. A loss of from the Institute of Public Health. It highlights possible primary forest is a huge threat to the ecosystem that causes and recommends an integrated framework of endangers flora and fauna while causing flooding due to policy interventions to reduce childhood stunting in soil degradation and river sedimentation. Malaysia. This study supports the Malaysian government’s commitment to ensuring that at least 50% of land area remains permanently under forest cover. The research explores potential solutions to increase forest cover and Malaysian biodiversity through proper management, intergovernmental responsibilities and international frameworks and mechanisms. Fiscal Decentralisation Sustainable Energy Technology and Systems in This ongoing research project will examine the need for Malaysia reforms in the allocation of state government budgets This project focuses on the deployment of sustainable and the overall governance of state vis-a-vis the federal energy technologies: government. It highlights the economic changes necessary • A solar-battery combination deployed as a for state-level growth such as GLC reform and the demonstrable project in several locations formation of small and medium banks. Greater levels of • A rooftop solar energy system installed at several autonomy are needed for Malaysian states to dictate their locations in Sunway City including Sunway University own development paths. between 2017 and 2018. A smaller scale solar-battery system is being designed for deployment in off-grid rural communities without access to electricity. Future extensions to this project would examine other energy technologies such as using reformed natural gas for hydrogen fuel cells. Agriculture Modernisation This ongoing research paper aims to develop a roadmap to raise income levels and the economy of Kedah by modernising the existing agricultural sector. Switching from low value-added paddy rice to high-value cash crops will be an important first step to raising incomes on the ground. Food processing also presents a potential avenue Sustainable Management of Lakes and for higher value-added economic activities in Kedah. The Estuarine Ecosystems to Overcome case for modernisation will be made by analysing similar Catastrophic Regime Shifts transitions in Thailand and other countries. Lakes, rivers and estuaries provide essential economicecosystem services that are contingent on their water quality and trophic status. Currently, many urban lakes, rivers and estuaries in Malaysia are rated Class III, which is eutrophic. Urban population is forecast to increase and the land-use surrounding urban lakes and estuaries is Generating Innovation-Based Economic expected to intensify. As nutrients in lake sediments Growth That is Socially Inclusive accumulate unabatedly, all lakes are expected to shift This research project aimed to use technological to eutrophication. The primary goal is to rehabilitate innovation to create circuits of economic activity that and maximize the ecosystem-social-economic value of would raise the welfare of lower-income and marginalised lakes, rivers and estuaries in several locations based on groups. It is crucial that governments galvanise the developed methodology and simulation models. development of technologies that improve the economy. Allowing small players to emerge alongside large incumbents would widen the pool to include those who would previously be unable to participate in the innovation process. 117 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Mitigation of Environmental and Climate Malaysia & ASEAN SDG Dashboard Shocks: Towards Supporting the UN The Jeffrey Sachs Center is developing a dashboard to Sustainable Development Goals report Malaysia’s performance on the UNSDGs using Persistent environmental degradation combined with available and nationally appropriate data. The first climate shocks will pose severe threats to societal version will present Malaysia’s standing. It will later be resilience and sustainability. Numerical simulations extended to allow ASEAN countries to be compared and coupled with onsite monitoring can improve current benchmarked against the best-performing countries. knowledge of societal vulnerability and resilience to both climate change and anthropogenic disturbances. It can also The dashboard will highlight areas of critical concern. A provide valuable insight into climate change mitigation and research team will be able to perform in-depth analysis adaptation strategy for sustainability. and make suggestions so countries can improve their performance. A dedicated book, published by World Scientific, will outline critically-needed action plans and programmes that address the issues. The primary aim of the project is to promote research and outreach activities that support the UNSDGs. Creating Sustainable Campuses This study focuses on education for sustainable development and global citizenship by: • Exploring the role of universities in achieving the UNSDGs Mangroves Vulnerability, Resilience and Their • Mobilising a catalyst for accelerated implementation Role in Climate Adaptation Mangroves are vulnerable to climate change and Case studies of sustainable campuses in Malaysia anthropogenic activities that can lead to catastrophic showcase community and student outreach projects in coastal disturbances. Rising sea levels pose the greatest line with the UNSDGs such as: threat. • The Bicycle Project at the University of Nottingham, Malaysia Campus This project compiles global data related to the impact • Kompos to Kelulut (K2K) at Universiti Sains Malaysia of climate change on coastal resources. Model-based • Sunway Youth for Sustainable Development at Sunway simulations improve knowledge of mangrove vulnerability University and its resilience to climate change. These case studies show that education goes beyond Outcomes include climate change mitigation and the formal curricula. Soft skills and critical thinking adaptation strategies such as integrated coastal zone are emphasised as major components of responsible management with adequate provision to facilitate behaviour. mangrove protection, survival and landward migration. Numerical simulations and site monitoring are used to analyse the impact of climate change on the interaction between mangroves and functionally-linked ecosystems such as the hardwood hammocks. The findings will help provide early warning signals of catastrophic regime shifts that threaten the coastal surface and groundwater resources critical to the survival of coastal populations. Nuclear Science, Technology and Security for Art-Science Approaches to Knowledge Sustainable Development Generation in Sustainable Futures This project is a collaboration with the Centre The project will develop an art-science methodology for for Radiation Sciences at Sunway University. The designing emergent futures. Historical and contemporary transnational and comparative contexts help in the knowledge, as well as projects, will be drawn upon. understanding of emerging nuclear science and technology Science and technology that interface with techniques and (S&T) within the developmental context of Malaysia and methods from the arts will be considered in relation to the rest of ASEAN. It also builds on lessons learned by their interaction with socio-political concerns to address other South and East Asian countries. sustainability issues. In line with the 2030 Agenda, the project will examine This exploration will consider historical and knowledge ethics in public science communication, contemporary scientific knowledge emerging from science and technology transfer, nuclear energy potential Malaysia, Southeast Asia and other regions in terms of: as well as radiation risks and standards. • How they interface with one another • How that interface gives rise to emergent knowledge to drive socio-epistemic innovation that addresses the UNSDGs ImaginAging: Co-Designing Policies Related to Ageing in a Community Using Speculative Design Like other developed and developing countries, Malaysia Currency Stability and Sustainable faces the challenge of supporting an ageing population. Development This project explores how speculative design might help Exchange rate volatility has been at the epicentre of citizens and governments in developing countries set several financial crises. The crises led to economic policies for ageing well in the city. declines and often financial instability through currency depreciation. Population ageing may be considered a rich new opportunity for both individuals and societies, provided This research examines currency volatility as a measure of the right policies and services have been introduced. This currency instability. Fifteen currencies have been selected project was showcased at the 2018 World Urban Forum from developed and emerging economies with data to facilitate more efficient, effective, transparent and covering 20 years. evidence-based policy-making. Much has been written on the topic by the IMF and others on how countries manage their exchange rates to maximise economic growth, especially sustainable trade, by designing proper exchange rate regimes for stability. This study introduces the possibility of tracking a currency’s exchange rate instability. The relative volatility is established by comparing the currency’s volatility against a currency of importance. 119 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Islamic Pro-Development Funding Instruments SPF Programme Islamic funding instruments such as Sukuk offer a novel Malaysia is home to one of the largest urban refugee form of debt contracting. They relate to specific assetpopulations in the world, over 150,000 refugees and backed and targeted funding that embraces ethical proasylum seekers according to UNHCR. The School of growth principles. Business at Monash University Malaysia is actively engaged in programmes aimed at assisting and empowering This new and growing segment of financing has attracted individuals from this population through capacity building, the attention of professionals. In 2017, Sukuk had an funding and partnerships with multiple organisations. outstanding value of approximately USD 320 billion, the majority of which was in the five financial centres of Monash University Malaysia School of Business (MUMMalaysia, Indonesia, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates SOB) PRME is collaborating to implement the Refugee and Bahrain. SPF programme initiated by United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) Kuala Lumpur. This study demonstrates how this new debt instrument The UNHCR Kuala Lumpur introduced the Refugee is able to secure financial stability. It is a less risky mode programme in 2009. It operates as a fund for the of development funding with evidence that it promotes provision of small grants to the refugee communityfinancial stability as investor returns are protected by based organisations (CBOs). In 2018, 10 Refugee CBOs asset backing and risk-sharing. applied for the SPF grant from UNHCR, of which seven were successful. The objective of this programme is to strengthen the capacity of refugee CBOs and ensure adequate support for these community-led projects to self-promote reliance within the refugee communities. The programme also helped improve the livelihoods of 200 vulnerable persons in the community especially women and youth. The programme target groups include MONASH UNIVERSITY the Rohingya (Myanmar), Ahmadi (Pakistani), Somali, Every project Monash University supports aims to make Sudanese, Afghan and Yemeni. a difference. From studying the body’s regeneration to revolutionising the use of metals in manufacturing, our ground-breaking research has the potential to transform lives. We go beyond traditional boundaries and disciplines to achieve excellence and maximise the impact of our research. Contemporary issues, global challenges and Connecting & Equipping Refugees for Tertiary theme areas are considered to produce work that is truly Education (CERTE) impactful. Urban settings pose a host of real and difficult challenges for refugees, in particular refugee children. In Malaysia especially, refugee children and youth do not have access to institutionalized schools and thus obtain education via an informal parallel system of community-based learning centres. CERTE is a task force that aims to help young adult Ageing in Bandar Sunway: A holistic Approach refugees access tertiary education opportunities through to Improving Health and Well-being knowledge and resource sharing, a bridge course, school A growing ageing population is largely due to reduced readiness preparation and mentorship. Its mission is infant and child mortality. Fewer deaths from improved to provide quality education to refugees globally and health care strategies have also increased the ageing international universities in Malaysia. population. The aim of the CERTE course is to identify refugees who This project studies the ageing population in Bandar can demonstrate the motivation and academic potential Sunway and its vicinity through targeted questionnaires, to access further education and to help them gain a place in-depth interviews and focus groups. Key environmental in university or college. and genetic factors that affect their health and longevity are identified. Hopefully, a detailed model will improve Monash University Malaysia School of Business (MUMour understanding and the health and well-being of our SOB) has been involved in this initiative since 2017. In ageing population. 2018, 18 young refugees from different communities across Kuala Lumpur were selected through the interview This project is one of the first exploratory systematic process. These refugees were Rohingyas, Sudanese, analysis of the health and lifestyle of the over 60s living Yemenis, Pakistanis and Middle Eastern. in urban Malaysia. A greater knowledge of the over 60 community in Bandar Sunway and its surroundings will be These students gained a basic understanding of the created. The latest leading-edge genomic, biochemical, application process of higher education institutions, neurological and psychological technologies are being used different academic disciplines as well as basic research to address health risks. The use of intelligent lighting and skills in writing and presentations. sensor technologies are being examined that will improve their living environment. On the last day, a graduation ceremony is held and a certificate of completion is awarded to the students by Richard Towle, UNHCR’s country representative in Malaysia. This certificate not only endorses their participation but also serves as a unique stepping stone to future learning opportunities in Malaysia or elsewhere. Students who successfully complete the course are given the opportunity to sign-up for a continued mentorship programme that will provide continued support in their university application process. 121 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Monash-Sunway Decarbonization Initiative: Techno-Economic Feasibility Assessment of Microalgae Farming and Native Tree Planting Using Renewable (Solar) Energy for the BRTCurrently, over half of the world’s population now lives Sunway Transport in cities and approximately 70% of total global carbon Monash University, Prasarana Berhad and other third dioxide (CO2) emissions are associated with urban parties examine the feasibility of powering the Sunway development. Urbanisation causes complex challenges BRT Line with solar energy. Harnessing a clean source of but creates unprecedented opportunities for creative energy such as solar would provide two major advantages: solutions. For example, European cities such as Hamburg reducing conventional energy and lowering the in Germany power buildings with algae and there are operational costs of the transport system. Hopefully, this greener botanical gardens in Cambridge, United Kingdom. project will help transform Bandar Sunway into a smart and sustainable city. Oceans and rainforests are the largest natural CO2 sequestration systems with microalgae and trees being Phases one and two of the project focus on studying responsible for approximately 70% and 28% of the world’s energy consumption patterns and the techno-economic oxygen respectively. Microalgae is also able to convert design of solar PV for Sunway BRT Line. The performance CO2 and solar energy into useful antioxidant products of the optimised design will be compared with the existing such as carotenoids and polyphenols. diesel buses. This proposal reduces CO2 in the atmosphere and Project Objectives of the Solar PV System supports Malaysia’s National Green Technology Policy’s zero emissions target which was announced on 24 July 2009. As a result, an air quality and psychology nexus will Ascertaining its be established to subsequently evaluate its community technical viability impact. Checking its economic feasibility Analysing and reducing the peak energy demand of Sunway BRT Line If successful, the project will help reduce carbon emissions within Bandar Sunway and surrounding areas. Solar energy is clean and at least 100 tonnes of CO2 are expected to be offset each month. The two-year project is scheduled for completion in December 2019. It has attracted the attention of other Malaysian, regional and international transportation companies. Development of a Sustainable Geopolymer Development and Implantation Studies on Pavement System using Fine Industrial Waste Interlocking Solar Concrete Paver (ISCP) This project aims to develop a permeable geopolymer Systems concrete from coal bottom ash (CBA). Permeable The project begins with the selection of a top layer concrete can be used in paving systems as a control material for the development of an interlocking concrete measure in tropical environments. Huge volumes of CBA paver prototype with solar functionality incorporated. are disposed of in landfills or ash ponds each year despite having a significant silica and alumina content. Reusing Crystalline solar cells are the most efficient type but our CBA in concrete offers a greener, more sustainable research team found them unsuitable. Although they are alternative to cement. rigid and take load well, they are brittle and less flexible than the thin film solar cell. Currently, the Monash University research team is developing a geopolymer concrete from cement paste. Currently, the research team is exploring using thin film CBA is being tested as a cement replacement at between solar cells as an alternative. Their flexibility allows the 10% and 50%. Various treatments are being tested load to be dispersed more evenly. Optimising the paver to identify their efficacy in improving the pozzolanic arrangement should maximise the sunlight reception and reactivity of the CBA. reflection into the solar pavers which will compensate for the loss in efficiency. CBA was obtained from both the Tanjung Bin and Kapar power plants with a third source being sought. The compressive strength of the CBA cement paste is being tested to evaluate its effect on the performance of the source material. The next phase assesses the effectiveness of the CBA Sustainable Intelligent Transportation mortar and concrete as a fine aggregate replacement. Ecosystem A geopolymer concrete will be developed based on the This project has developed algorithms to modify traffic results. The treated CBA will serve as both a cement light signals to reduce waiting time. The data will be and sand replacement with alkali activators being used to analysed to determine the effectiveness of the algorithms. increase pozzolanic activity. The compressive strength, durability, abrasion resistance and chemical resistivity The reasons for some people not choosing public parameters of this optimised product will be evaluated. transport including walkability and public transport accessibility in Sunway City were also assessed. Concentrations of NOx, CO2 , CO, PM2.5 and PM10 air pollutants were also measured. Monash University Malaysia, Sunway Group, Smart Selangor Delivery Unit and Majlis Perbandaran Subang Jaya are members of the Intelligent Traffic Monitoring System (ITMS) Pilot Project at Sunway City. The project is part of a plan to make Selangor the premier ASEAN smart state by 2025. Hopefully, the data will be used to find effective ways of alleviating traffic congestion. 123 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Bandar Sunway “River of Sustainability” This project aims to surpass the objectives of the River of The Bandar Sunway River of Sustainability project focused Life project by: on controlling and managing river pollution, ecosystem • Delivering a sustainable and well-managed river remediation and improving community health. transformation project, and • Addressing a number of the Sustainable Development The Beautiful Bandar Sunway Canal Goals (SDG) associated with a smart and sustainable community. Water tests were performed at Kelana Jaya Lake and the Kelana Jaya Lake Klang River near the housing areas and Subang National Golf Club. The water samples showed extremely high microbial load and unsafe water conditions. The immobile lake water at Tasik Kelana serves as a bed Kelana Jaya Golf Course for eutrophication with incoming nutrients from both inlets deteriorating the water quality. Increasing dissolved oxygen in the water would slow algae blooms and bacteria growth. Installing a falling water mechanism would allow greater amounts of oxygen to be dissolved. Subang Jaya A biofiltration system is recommended to reduce the high concentrations of nutrients. It acts as a filter to prevent organic matter and nutrients from entering the lake. Based on previous studies, the biofiltration system has Bandar Sunway outstanding removal efficiency: >90% for heavy metals, >70% removing nutrients such as phosphorus and up to 70% for nitrogen. Kesas highway eastwards Klang River SUNWAY UNIVERSITY Sunway University supports sustainability efforts by helping the best minds to discover new ideas that tackle economic and environmental issues. As part of the University’s School of Science and Technology, the Research Centre for Carbon Dioxide Capture and Utilisation specialises in carbon dioxide waste conversion to help combat global warming. The Research Centre for Nano-Materials and Energy Technology also helps develop sustainable energy solutions by focusing on new nanomaterials to optimise renewable energy technology. Project Project Description UNSDGs This research project aims to conserve three large cat species in the Kenyir-Taman Negara Core Area, Terengganu: the Malayan Harimau Selamanya Tiger Panthera tigris jacksoni, the Leopard Panthera pardus and Clouded Leopard Neofelis nebulosa. Animals and pests that live in polluted environments are exposed to pathogenic bacteria. The project concerns how these animals counter bacterial infections. We hypothesize that the microbial Discovery of novel gut flora of pests produces antibacterial molecules that support antibacterial agents their immunity to fight pathogens. The main objective of this study is to source microbes inhabiting unusual environmental niches for novel antimicrobials. Radiation is the key treatment for Nasopharyngeal cancer (NPC). Five-year survival rates of 63% and 38% for stage 3 and 4 Molecular and cancer respectively is poor with 15% of stage 3 and 38% of stage cellular response in 4 patients experiencing recurrence. The effects of X-rays and Nasopharyngeal tumours carbon ions on NPC cells are being compared. We aim to identify and normal cells using the proteins that will be expressed by the sub-cloned radiocarbon ions resistant cells and use this isolated protein as a predictive marker for NPC radiation treatments. Cyberbullying is emerging as a serious concern in schools with the proliferation of digital and communication technologies. The Online Safety and CyberSAFE Programme has raised awareness of cyber safety Youth Exposure to to 5,000 students and teachers from 272 schools in Malaysia Cyberbullying in Malaysia since 2012. However, cyberbullying remains under-researched in Malaysia. As victims are often underserved members of the community, many cyberbullying incidents are not reported. Malaysia is heading towards being an ageing nation status. The A distributed socioageing population is increasing and Alzheimer’s and depression affective cognitive are major concerns. gamification model based on cognitive load and Funded by the Malaysian Ministry of (Higher) Education’s motivation theories for Fundamental Research Grant Scheme (FRGS), we have the enhancement of established systems and activities that promote social, cognitive engagement among the and effective engagement while keeping their memories active elderly with problem-solving. 125 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Project Project Description UNSDGs This project evaluates the efficacy of selected drugs (Nystatin, Amphotericin B, Corifungin, Miltefosine) conjugated with nanoparticles using the novel intranasal route on fighting N. Brain-eating amoebae fowleri infection in vivo. A histopathological assessment, score infections and severity of tissue inflammation and necrosis, biodistribution and plasma concentration of drugs, animal physiology and drug adverse effects profile is established. Both intranasal and intravenous administration will be assessed. The findings from this study will provide researchers, clinicians, The investigation into educators and authorities with valuable information to assess suicide risk among suicide risk. The information will help us understand suicide risk university students: more clearly and respond to signs more appropriately. Hopefully, Factors of interpersonal incidences of suicide can be reduced through prevention and needs and resiliency intervention programmes. Neurotrophic and neuroprotective The potential of neurotrophic and neuroprotective activities of activities of Malaysian Malaysian algae will be screened. Their potential application as algae for the prevention functional food and nutraceutical candidates in the prevention of of neurodegenerative neurodegenerative diseases will be highlighted. diseases Landscape characteristics This study will assess the distribution and population’s genetic and population genetic structure of sun bears in Malaysia. This will help researchers structure of Malayan identify landscape characteristics most likely to support sun bear sun bears (Helarctos populations. malayanus) in Malaysia Unravelling the The objectives of this study are to identify and determine the microplastic presence, types and abundancy of microplastics ingested by contamination on edible marine organisms in Malaysian waters. The potential routes of marine organisms in exposure and associated health risks from microplastic will be Malaysia addressed. Project Project Description UNSDGs Development of Cancer Gene Therapy Mediated by Tricistronic This research project aims to develop cancer therapy that Expression of MOAPaddresses problems associated with the chemo-drug resistance 1 and Its Associated of cancer cells, particularly those in the human breast. ProProteins for the apoptotic genes (MBR) will be developed to increase its potency Treatments of Human and effectiveness against human breast cancer and chemo-drug Breast Cancer and resistant cancer cells. Chemo-drug Resistant Cancer Circulating nucleic acids This project investigates the expression of circulating nucleic in hepatitis B-related acids, either human or hepatitis B virus, that are associated with disease outcome liver cirrhosis and liver cancer. This project relates to the design of metal complexes with various ligand derivatives for biological evaluation and structuralMetal-Based Drugs activity studies. The prepared compounds will be characterised Design: Synthesis and using various spectroscopic and material analysis to confirm their Biological Evaluation identity and purity. Subsequently, the pure compounds will be evaluated for their anti-microbial activities, anti-cancer properties and other characteristics. Porous Coordination This project involves designing and synthesising porous Polymers for Gas coordination polymers, followed by careful delineation of their Absorption structural characteristics and pore size distribution. This research project hopes to develop a finger-mounted prototype capable of providing simultaneous multipoint output to DynaBraille: On-finger the fingertip. The additional challenges related to the translation Braille Feedback for of content to Braille will be investigated. Other interactive Handheld Touchscreen elements will also be examined such as buttons and colourDevices coded content that are commonly used to provide inputs to the handheld device. 127 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Project Project Description UNSDGs The project will investigate the blind and visually impaired Touch it and Feel it? human’s perception of using haptic and audio feedback for Modelling of 3D Hapticinternet browsing. Audio feedback helps users navigate the virtual Audio Virtual Objects environment and render 3D virtual objects and haptic feedback to Counter Internet such as weight and texture. The research work will explore the Browsing Limitations for benefits and barriers of internet use for the visually-impaired in the Visually Impaired Malaysia and the surrounding region. A New Smart User Interface Technology for The project aims to design a robotic hand that can be used in Manipulation of Force medical telerehabilitation. This technology will help patients Feedback Mobile Telerecover and have better health. robotic Architecture Design of a Haptic This research project explores using a haptic device to develop Dictionary in Virtual a haptic dictionary that can be used by the visually impaired to Reality for Visually obtain new knowledge. This innovative creation allows haptic Impaired People technology to create the concept of learning by experiencing. Development of inactivated EV-A71 vaccine by ElectronThis project focuses on the development of an inactivated EV-A71 beam radiation in vaccine by gamma-irradiation and electron-beam irradiation. comparison with Gamma radiation Identification of microRNA (miRNA) as The research focuses on analysing the therapeutic potential of potential therapeutics miRNAs for dengue in vitro and vivo studies. for dengue Sunway Berhad Summary Description UNSDGs Initiatives Sunway rehabilitated 800 acres of abandoned and disused Development of Sunway mining pools, transforming what had been a wasteland into a City: from a wasteland wonderland. It is now home to a thriving community of more into a wonderland than 200,000 people living, working, playing and studying in a safe, healthy and connected environment. Integrated townships including Sunway With an aim of delivering sustainable socio-economic value, City Kuala Lumpur, Sunway continues to deliver fives elements of developments in its Sunway City Ipoh and townships including integrated security, amenitites, connectivity, the upcoming Sunway ambience and community. Iskandar Sunway aims to protect members of the public from exposure to second-hand smoke to create a healthier, cleaner and safer Anti-smoking policy environment for everyone. Letters of empowerment have been in Sunway City Kuala awarded to a team of Sunway’s trained auxiliary police. From Lumpur 16 September 2018, they were authorised to issue summons to those caught smoking in no-smoking zones. With the launch of #thelaststraw campaign, Sunway University #thelaststraw campaign has banned single-use plastic straws and out free multi-use metal straws to the students. The elevated walkways that we have built and continue to construct help mitigate traffic congestion, EcoWalk is a 350m long elecated walkway which connects Menara Sunway, Sunway EcoWalk, powered by its Lagoon Club, Palm Ville Condominium and Sunway Medical own solar panels Centre. This connectivity aims at reducing carbon emissions and promote public health by providing safe and secure pathways for use by the residents and public. Launched in 2017, Sunway iLabs is a non-profit incubator Sunway iLabs in fostering and accelerator that is a smart partnership between Sunway entrepreneurship and University, Sunway Group and its corporate venture capital stimulating marketarm, Sunway Ventures. Sunway iLabs intends to foster driven innovations entrepreneurship and stimulate marketdriven innovations to drive the nation’s competitiveness. It is also a Malaysian Digital Hub™ 129 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Sunway Berhad Summary Description UNSDGs Initiatives Sunway Group’s Healthcare Division is embarking on an expansion plan that includes the construction of new hospitals RM1 billion on the throughout Malaysia. The Group will invest approximately RM1 expansion of Sunway billion in building new hospitals in its integrated townships of Group’s Healthcare Sunway Velocity (Klang Valley); Sunway Damansara (Klang Valley); Division Sunway Medical Centre at Seberang Jaya (Penang); Sunway City Ipoh (Ipoh); Sunway Iskandar (Johor) and Sunway Valley City (Paya Terubong, Penang). In 2018, Nobel Laureate and Founding Chairman of Yunus Centre, Professor Muhammad Yunus, signed an MoU with Sunway Education Group Founder and Founding Trustee of New Yunus Social the Jeffrey Cheah Foundation, Tan Sri Dr Jeffrey Cheah AO. Business Centre (YSBC) This agreement covers establishing a YSBC in the Sunway City at the Sunway Education campus. Establishing the YSBC in Sunway Education Group Group will boost entrepreneurship for sustainable socioeconomic development, especially for the poor and less privileged in Malaysia. This collaboration will explore education, research, information gathering and action plans. Sunway officially launched Sunway WiFi across its 800-acre Sunway WiFi across the township of Sunway City Kuala Lumpur in April 2018. This free 800-acre township of WiFi service is Sunway’s biggest endeavour yet and can connect Sunway City up to 25,000 users at any one time. Sunway City Ipoh and Sunway Iskandar in Johor will soon follow. Advancing the nation’s construction industry Sunway Construction signed a Memorandum of Understanding through a Memorandum (MoU) with Malaysia Productivity Corporation (MPC). The MoU of Understanding with covers the development of a 5S Manual and Assessment Criteria Malaysia Productivity that will become a new standard in Malaysia’s construction Corporation (MPC) on industry. the development of a 5S Manual and Assessment Excess nutrients in Sunway Lagoon Lake were causing it to slip Lake rehabilitation into a eutrophic state, which can result in algae blooms. A water project at Sunway pump was installed just above the sediment layer to discharge Lagoon lake nutrient-rich water. This is one of the actions that helped maintain the lake in a mesotrophic state. Sunway Berhad Summary Description UNSDGs Initiatives Hydroseeding is a key component of Sunway Quarry’s landscape Sunway Quarry’s rehabilitation plan. A viscous mixture of seeds, water, fertiliser landscape rehabilitation and natural fibres are sprayed, which help to protect the seeds until germination. Soapful is an initiative by Sunway Hotels & Resorts in collaboration with Ecolab Sdn Bhd, Kinder Soaps Sdn Bhd and Selangor Youth Community (SAY). Soap is repurposed to help Sunway Hotels & communities in need. Sunway’s hospitality division collects used Resorts Soapful Initiative raw bars of soap from all hotels. The soap is sent to the home where Kinder Soaps teach children how to repurpose soap themselves. The Jeffrey Cheah In 2018, JCF disbursed RM72 million worth of scholarships Foundation (JCF) in to more than 3,000 students. This is the highest scholarship championing education disbursement amount since its inception in 2011. Sunway Food Programme includes our three flagship community Sunway Food projects such as Zero Food Wastage, Rise Against Hunger and Programme Share Because You Care. Sunwayians come together to fight against hunger and poverty by collaborating with various NGOs. Promoting an inclusive We are committed to building a culture, workplace and culture, diverse talent environment that is engaged and healthy. Sunway strives for and inspiring innovation excellence in everything it does from delivering quality products at the workplace to developing its most important asset — its people. The 30% Club is a group of chairmen and business leaders Founding chair of who are committed to bringing more women onto Malaysian 30% Club Malaysia, corporate boards. Tan Sri Dr Jeffrey Cheah AO has been ‘ReTHINK Leadership’ appointed as Founding Chair of Malaysia’s 30% Club. Various conference organised by initaitives have been introduced within the Group to promote LeadWomen women empowerment and equal opportunity at the workplace. 131 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
