COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS YEAR: 2019/2020 MESSAGE FROM OUR CHAIRMAN To our stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that General Printers Limited supports the ten principles of the United Nation Global Compact in relation to human rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption. With this communication we express our intent to support and advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We commit to making Global Compact and its principles part of our strategy, culture and day to day operations of our company and undertake to make a clear statement-to our employee, partners, clients and to the public-of this commitment. We recognise that a key requirement for participant in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a communication on progress (COP) that describes our company’s effort to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency and therefore commit to report every year according to the Global Compact initiative. Sincerely yours, Ketul S. Tanna Company Name: General Printers Limited Sector: Manufacturing sector Number of employees: 250 UN Global Compact signatory since: 21th August 2008 Contact person: Ketul S. Tanna Address: Homabay Road, P.O. Box 18001, Nairobi, 00500, Kenya Email: ketul@gplflexibles.com Tel: +254 20 532600/610 +254 722 204350 +254 733 640340 Who we are General Printers Limited is the leading manufacturer of-Flexible, Blowextruded (LLDPE, PET), Printed (solvent-based), Laminated (LDPE, Paper, Aluminium Foil, Adhesives)-packaging materials which are shaped and sized through slitting, pouching and labelling. These are some of our processes: Our Processes  Cylinder engraving & pre-press,  Extrusion,  Gravure printing,  Editing,  Lamination,  Slitting,  Pouching,  Sheeting,  Rotary die-cutting, and  Die-punching. There is a packaging development department which handles all of packaging design requirements, from artwork development and concept testing to site trials. To deliver manufacturing excellence of these processes, GPL uses continuous improvement methodologies such as Kaizen, TPM, and RCM. In addition, GPL has a Technology Centre specific for training and developing its workforce. GPL’s commitment to standards is demonstrated by its multiple certifications, including BRC/IOP, ISO14001 and OHSAS 18001. Our Mission To produce flexible packaging material that is user friendly and affordable to stimulate growth, and be food-safe and environmentally conscious. Our Vision General Printers Limited aims at being a world class flexible packaging manufacturer of the highest quality that is food-safe and environmentally friendly. Scope of this COP This COP report covers our operational internal processes in relation to our customers, our staﬀ, our suppliers and our community in adhering to the four main areas of the UN Global Compact: Human rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption for the ﬁnancial period 2019/2020. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS The company prohibits any form of unlawful employee harassment based on sex, sexual orientation, race, colour, religion, national origin, age, disability, marital status or veteran status. Sexual harassment and any forms of discriminatory harassment are unacceptable conduct whether in the Company offices or in other work-related settings and will not be tolerated by the Company. The Company will ensure that sexual harassment or any form of discrimination is dealt with promptly to provide a working environment that is free from any form of sexual harassment and any form of discriminatory practices. General Printers Limited is committed to upholding high standards on land rights of individuals, indigenous people and local communities by ensuring that: the rights and title to property and land is respected, protected and promoted, all negotiations with regard to their property or land, including the use of and transfers of it, adhere to the principles of free, prior and informed consent, contract transparency and disclosure. General Printers Limited is committed to providing a safe and healthy work environment to all its employees. This policy guideline on HIV & AIDS is an endorsement of this commitment and, in particular, of the company's commitment to offer specific programmes and actions in response to the HIV epidemic. The Company's position is based on scientific and epidemiological evidence that people with HIV/AIDS do not pose a risk of transmission of the virus to co-workers by casual, non-sexual contact in the normal work setting. The Company is fully committed to systematic training and development of all its employees on an ongoing basis to enable them to perform their duties effectively and efficiently. This will also be provided to enable employees to acquire the skills, knowledge and related qualifications and to develop their potential to meet its future human resources needs. Measurement of outcomes  No human rights issues reported to date  Support employee and worker organisation and respected collective agreements, completed the successful negotiations of the CBA contract 2017/2019.  Shop stewards are allowed to hold meetings with the employees during work hours and attend Union seminars without pay deductions. LABOUR RIGHTS Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargain Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced labour and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS General Printers Ltd is committed to achieving the highest possible standards of service and the highest possible ethical standards in public life and in all of its practices. To achieve these ends, it encourages freedom of speech. It also encourages staff to use internal mechanisms for reporting any malpractice or illegal acts or omissions by its employees or ex-employees and visitors and all people with whom it engages in business relations. The company recognise the rights of its workers to freedom of association and to bargain collectively. The company complies with minimum age standards and no forced labour. The recruitment process is structured and has a documented policy which strives to maintain diversity through gender, skills, race, values, attributes, and characteristics while offering equal opportunity to all potential candidates. We extend the same quality of selection to our vendors and partners. No staﬀ is discriminated against due to sex, race, colour, political opinion, HIV status and beliefs. Measurement of outcomes  Tracking of leave accrual per staff member by HR and ensuring approved annual leave plans are in place so that employees commit to going on leave.  No claims of child labour reported ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environment challenges Principle 8: Business should undertake initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and discussion of environmentally friendly technology ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS As a corporate body, General Printers Limited is committed to upholding high standards in environmental preservation and protection of health and safety of its employees and visitors. The organisation strives for continuous improvement of a healthy and safe environment by:  Meeting all applicable regulations and other requirements,  Reducing pollution, preventing injury and ill health and to continuallyimprove the effectiveness of the environment, health and safety management system,  Adopting environmentally-friendly strategies of flexible packaging material production to prevent pollution, minimize waste and disposal of the same in an environmentally safe manner,  Effective conservation of energy and natural resources,  Training and educating staff on environment, healthand safety-related activities,  Identifying and controlling conditions that may present environment, health and safety concerns through risk and impact management,  Communicating the environmental, health and safety policy to its entire staff, visitors, customers, suppliers and the community in which it operates, and  Periodically reviewing the environmental, health and safety policy. Measurement of outcomes  We promote sustainable development through ongoing initiatives to reduce waste, increase recycling and reduce energy consumption.  Establishment solvent recovery plant to reduce pollution. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS GPL advocate the operation of business with honesty and integrity in all aspects. The offer, payment, soliciting and acceptance of bribes in any form are unacceptable practices. We practice this code in our business. Measurement of outcomes  Continued review of our processes and systems.  Improved relations with Vendors due to the various governance meetings and initiatives OVERALL OUTLOOK General Printers Limited will continue to support the 10 principles of the UN global Compact and introduce new measures in the coming reporting period and will report annually and publicly on the progress that we are making. The importance of corporate responsibility continues to be recognized by our board of directors and it has established policies. These policies cover ethics, health and safety, environment, human resources and employees and continued supply for all our customers. We have a comprehensive incident reporting system whereby any known or potential breaches of these policies are reported to senior management and the board of directors. In addition, we require that each of our managers provide biannual confirmations that these policies are communicated throughout EPL and that they are being complied to We care about the impact we make to the environment and this concern is aligned to the strategic objectives. This report shows our commitment in caring for our environment.
