FRIGOKEN LIMITED COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2018 WWW.FRIGOKEN.COM Frigoken Limited is committed to supporting the 10 principles of the UN Global compact: human rights, labour rights, environmental protection and anticorruption. This annual COP reflects the company’s commitment to supporting the UNGC. It highlights the actions that Frigoken undertakes to integrate the Global Compact and its principles as well as the Sustainability Development Goals (SDGs) into the business's strategy and operations. The company actively addresses 11 of the 17 SDGs. Frigoken commits to sharing this information with its stakeholders. This communication progress report covers the period of the year 2018. STATEMENT Mr. Karim Dostmohamed General Manager OF SUPPORT Frigoken Limited CONT E NT ABOUT THIS DOCUMENT CONTACT INFORMATION STATEMENT OF SUPPORT ABOUT US SUSTAINABLE FARMING OUR PEOPLE HEALTH AND WELL-BEING GOVERNANCE INVESTING IN TOMORROW'S LEADERS ABOUT THIS DOCUMENT In January 2016, Frigoken Limited (FKL) committed to the UN Global Compact. This commitment supports the ten principles as defined by the four key tenets of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption as well as providing annual communication on progress emphasising on the importance of public accountability and transparency. CONTACT INFORMATION Company name: Frigoken Limited Sector: Agribusiness Number of employees: 3000 UNGC signatory since: 2016 Contact Person: Nushin Ghassmi; nushin.ghassmi@ipskenya.com Physical Location: Baba Dogo along Baba Dogo Road. Email: frigoken@frigoken.com ABOUT US Established in 1989, Frigoken Limited (FKL) is one of the largest vertically integrated export oriented horticultural processors in East Africa. Frigoken aims to be a global leader of choice for the supply of premium horticultural produce, specializing in value added and niche market products while forging a better future for local small scale farmers. Frigoken is a part of the agro and food processing sector of IPS, which is the industrial and infrastructure development arm of the Aga Khan Development Network (AKDN) a group of private, international, nondenominational development organization that works towards improving the welfare and prospects of people living in the developing world. SUSTAINABLE FARMING UNGC PRINCIPLES Human Rights: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Environment: Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environment challenges; Principle 8: Business should undertake initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and discussion of environmentally friendly technologies Frigoken engages thousands of small-scale farmers in its value chain. Frigoken's model (refer to diagram below) is to source raw material from local farmers. As part of the model, farmers only farm a portion of their land for Frigoken produce and farmers are encouraged to continue subsistence farming and other cash crops, promoting self-reliance and increased incomes. SUSTAINABLE FARMING FKL works with farmers to employ good agricultural practices that promote the efficient use and preservation of natural resources without negatively impacting the environment. A FOCUS ON IRRIGATION The impact of climate change continues to small-scale farmers, who depend heavily on rain-fed agriculture. Infrequent rains and extreme weather conditions have resulted in crop yields and in turn, household incomes, to decrease. FKL's extension services provided to farmers promotes the sustainable and efficient use of water. The company works hand-in-hand with the farmers and like-minded partners to create tailor made solutions to address local challenges, ranging from both community and individual level irrigation interventions, Such interventions include furrows, wells, communal pumps and drip irrigation. In collaboration with The Nature Conservancy, FKL implements a Water Pan project to promote water harvesting and storage. This project promotes use of an affordable and accessible solution for farmers in the form of UV-treated polythene lined pans. To date, 10,000+ water pans have been distributed to farmers. In 2018, FKL partenered with the Netherlands Development Organization (SNV) and the local farming communities in Kirinyaga to improve and expand an existing piping project to support irrigation needs . The project, which will be operated and managed by the local community, targets over 100 farmers, giving them access to water for farming. AGRO-FORESTRY SOIL INTERVENTIONS Maintaining the balance between conservation Land degradation and its impacts on crop yield and and farming, Frigoken encourages its out growers quality of produce is a growing concern for farmers. to adopt agro-forestry techniques as an integral FKL's initiatives that help farmers improve soil fertility part of farm management. To date, 3.5m trees entail training farmers on composting and using have been planted, improving soil fertility and manure. In 2018, over 3000 compost heaps have providing fodder, food and fuel for rural been set up by farmers. FKL has also piloted an communities. In 2018, FKL's agroforestry innovative biochar programme, using rice husks, programme targeted the Embu region in Kenya. manure from a local pig farm and stinging nettle. The 20 extension staff were trained on tree seedling concept of biochar is to not only supplement soil nursery set-up and management. Seedlings with nutrients, but also enable the soil to retain them. grown were then distributed to local farmers to The pilot has provided biochar for 1140 farming units plant and grow on their farms; 50,000+ fodder and the team is currently assessing the impact of the and fruit seedlings were distributed. intervention. OUR PEOPLE UNGC PRINCIPLES Human Rights: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labour Rights: Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced labour and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Frigoken operates in both rural and urban environments, promoting employment for the local community. Frigoken adheres to the Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI), which is guided by the principles from the Internal Labour Organization (ILO), the United Nations (UN) Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). Frigoken employs over 3000 people, 80% are women OUR PEOPLE PRINCIPLES AND POLICIES CREATING EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Human Rights We support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Over 80% of Frigoken’s employees at the processing and ensure we are not complicit in any plant are women, most of whom reside in the human rights abuses. surrounding community, providing a supplementary income for households. The company recognises the Labour challenges working women face, child care being a Being the first company in Kenya to be major one. Thus, FKL established an onsite child care certified as Child Labour free by the facility; a unique service in the region. With a large Federation of Kenya Employers, we workforce, and a limited capacity at the crèche, FKL take a strong stance against child partnered with the Aga Khan Foundation and Daraja labour, forced or compulsory labour. to enhance more than 12 local child care facilities to improve the quality of care. Frigoken staff also have No Discrimination access to an onsite cafeteria, sick bay and clinic. We provide equal opportunities and do Furthermore, approximately 50% of the farmers not discriminate against workers. engaged in Frigoken’s value chain are women. Worker's Association Frigoken has a strict no discrimination policy, We respect the right of workers to form promoting gender equality in the workplace and unions or other kinds of worker's supply chain. associations and to engage in collective bargaining. Fair Renumeration We respect the right of our employees to receive fair renumeration No Precarious Employment Over 1000 people are We hire our employees on the basis of directly employed in the documented contracts according to the law. rural communities that FKL sources its raw material from OUR PEOPLE PROMOTING PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT FKL promotes professional development for employees through both internal and external skill enhancing trainings within different departments. In 2018, in addition to department-specific skill trainings, sessions were held on health and safety, ethics and code of conduct, discrimination, fair remuneration, working hours, effective water usage, first aid, waste management, team work, fire safety, grievance mechanisms, HR induction and child labour. 2018 ACTIVITIES & ACHIEVEMENTS Over 100 trainings conducted for employees across all departments Maintained compliance and adhered to BSCI requirements No cases of child or forced labour reported 100% of employee grievances closed Maintained effective relationship with Union, of which 60% of employees are members of HEALTH AND WELL-BEING UNGC PRINCIPLES Human Rights: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labour Rights: Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced labour and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. HEALTH & SAFETY Creating a healthy and safe workplace is essential for the company. FKL, therefore, has a comprehensive Health and Safety Programme is in place, guided by local and international standards. The programme is managed by the Health and Safety committee, consisting of various levels of management from different departments. The committee plans, actions, and evaluates health and safety. Key performance indicators are regularly monitored and staff are continuously trained on health and safety. Any visitors or contractors to the facility are also provided with a health and safety induction. HEALTH AND WELL-BEING WORKPLACE WELLNESS COMMUNITY WELLNESS The Workplace Wellness Programme Frigoken cares about all the communities it promotes the health and wellbeing of is part of, from the various out grower employees in three areas: physical health, communities to the local community psycho-social health & financial wellbeing. surrounding FKL's processing facility. Health The programme is run by peer-educators, outreaches and community interventions employees who are trained and passionate vary across these communities. In 2018, FKL about wellness. Through the programme, partnered with a local hospital in Meru, wellness information sessions are conducted Cottelongo Mission Hospital, for a medical as well as onsite health camps for employees, screening camp for small-scale farmers, the by partnering with local health care providers. field team and their families. To date, over 50 health outreaches have been conducted for employees. 2018 ACTIVITIES AND ACHIEVEMENTS 2 health and safety audits conducted, 7 committee meetings, 1 external health and safety training conducted for the 40 members and 79 trainings held for all employees. 2 onsite medical camps held for employees, screening for blood pressure, blood sugar, breast cancer, dental, HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis 1 on-site eye screening camp, where the company subsidized the cost of eye glasses for 56 employees found with a prescription 15 health information sessions conducted for staff Increased uptake of onsite weekly counselling services for employees 1 medical camp conducted for farmers and extension team ENVIRONMENT UNGC PRINCIPLES Human Rights: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Environment: Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environment challenges; Principle 8: Business should undertake initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and discussion of environmentally friendly technologies Frigoken is conscious of its operations and practices and the impacts it could have on the environment and has in place an Environmental Management System that is guided by local regulation and ISO 14001:2004. ENVIRONMENT FKL is committed to increasing resource efficiency in its operations, water being a WATER EFFICIENCY primary concern. Through the water management programme, local regulations regarding water usage and water waste are strictly adhered to and water audits are undertaken to identify opportunities for improved efficiency. The company conducts monthly testing of effluents, ensuring that they are within the stipulated requirements. Additionally, the companies internal water reuse system uses waste water from processing for the washroom facilities, where over 60% of water used for vegetable washing is recycled. ENERGY MANAGEMENT 2018 ACTIVITIES FKL is committed to resource and energy & ACHIEVEMENTS efficiency and adheres to all regulations stipulating energy and resource usage. Since Through automation of the cooling vats 2015, FKL has had two comprehensive and modifications of the drainage investment-grade energy audits and has system in the autoclaves, water implemented several initiatives to reduce consumption was reduced by 11,680,000 and optimize energy usage, implemented litres. by and Energy Management Committee. Through voltage optimization and LED retrofits, FKL saved 85,981 Kwh. These WASTE MANAGEMENT efforts were recognized and FKL was awarded as the Runner Up in Electricity Through a comprehensive Waste Savings (Large Consumer) in the Kenya Management System (WMS), FKL is Association of Manufacturer’s Energy committed to ensuring waste is disposed of Management Awards 2018. properly, reducing negative impacts to the environment and surrounding community. Increased waste diverted from landfills The company complies with ISO14001:2004. by 4% compared to 2017; currently 88% of the company's waste is diverted, and The WMS ensures correct handling and the company is is continuously and separation of waste and as much as possible, actively looking at ways to reduce this reusing and recycle wastes to reduce the further. amount of solid waste going to landfills. GOVERNANCE UNGC PRINCIPLES Human Rights: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Anti Corruption Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Operating in an ethical and accountable manner is a core value for Frigoken, hence subscribes to the principles of BSCI. Additionally in 2017, FKL became a voluntary member of The Blue Company Project. This project is an initiative of volunteer corporations and institutions who have the public interest at heart with the objective of encouraging companies to fight corruption in all its forms. The company continues to maintain membership to this initiative. INVESTING IN TOMORROW'S LEADERS UNGC PRINCIPLES Human Rights: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labour Rights: Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced labour and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. The company has an onsite crèche facility for children aged 6 months to 3 years, that incorporates the principles of Early Childhood Development (ECD), recognizing the gap of quality childcare and ECD services within the community. ECD trained carers at the crèche also conduct trainings and information sessions for parents on the principles of ECD and how to practice them at home, how to use locally available materials to create learning and play materials and nutrition and hygiene. Childcare at the workplace INVESTING IN TOMORROW'S LEADERS YOUNG FARMERS Frigoken’s Young Farmers project aims to secure food production for the years to come by complementing agricultural programmes in schools with practical learning. Kitchen garden in the school premises are set up in the school premises as demonstration areas. Members of the company’s field team then provide trainings to the students. In 2018, the pilot programme expanded to now include a total of 5 schools where 15 training sessions were held for over 300 students. The first training module was on compost making to improve soil fertility as they prepare to plant the first set of crops. CREATING OPPORTUNITIES 2018 ACTIVITIES FKL believes in investing in tomorrow’s & ACHIEVEMENTS leaders by providing a diverse range of opportunities for young graduates looking Creche: for experience. Through it's internship and 5 parent training sessions were held, graduate management programmes, FKL with an average of 31 parents attending. provide hands on experience in a wide range of fields, from agriculture to 123 graduates to date, 23 graduates in engineering. 2018 Young Farmers: Expanded programme from 1 school to 5 SUPPLEMENTING FEEDING schools, 15 training sessions conducted for over 300 students PROGRAMMES Employment opportunities for youth: Frigoken supplements feeding programmes 43 internships and attachments for of local schools and homes with university students and fresh graduates horticultural produce. In 2018, Frigoken in the 2017-2018 period supported 4 homes, providing a total of 832 crates of vegetables, increasing the Feeding Programme: nutritional content of meals provided. 832 crates of vegetables provided to 4 local homes and schools FRIGOKEN LIMITED COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT WWW.FRIGOKEN.COM
