Sustainability Report PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk TRANSFORMING FOR A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE CONTENTS TRANSFORMING 1 NURTURING OUR PRECIOUS 69 FOR A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE TALENTS Sustainability Overview 2 People with Purpose 70 Message from the President Director 4 Managing Human Resources 71 Equal Opportunities 74 ABOUT US 7 Creating a Safe and Healthy Workplace 77 About Unilever Indonesia 8 SUSTAINABLE SOURCING 83 Supply Chain of Unilever Indonesia 10 History of Unilever Indonesia 12 Ethics in Sourcing 84 Vision, Mission, and Values Palm Oil 86 14 of Unilever Indonesia Black Soybean 88 Sustainability Awards 2018 16 Tea 89 Coconut Sugar 89 SUSTAINABILITY 19 BUSINESS BENEFITS 91 AS A CORE BUSINESS Fairness in the Workplace 92 The Purpose of Unilever 20 Opportunity for Women 93 Unilever Sustainable Living Plan 21 Inclusive Business 94 Unilever and Sustainability Initiatives 22 Benefits to Shareholders 97 Sustainability Festival: 24 Live Your Purpose for U & I PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 99 Care for Area Surrounding 28 Brand with Purpose 100 IMPROVING HEALTH 33 Product and Packaging Innovation 102 AND WELL-BEING Consumer Protection 104 Health and Hygiene 35 Consumer Voice 105 Improving Quality of Nutrition 45 GOVERNANCE 107 PRESERVING NATURE, 49 Governance Structure 108 REDUCING FOOTPRINTS Business Integrity 110 Zero Waste to Nature 50 Whistleblower System 112 Green Infrastructure Performance 59 Engaging Stakeholders 113 Environmental Performance 62 SUPPORTING INFORMATION 117 of Operational Activities Company Information 119 About Sustainability Report 120 GRI Standard Content Index 122 UN Global Compact Principles Index 125 Independent Assurance Statement 126 Sustainability Reporting Team 128 FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains forward-looking statements. These statements are based on various projections and estimates made by Unilever Indonesia's management. Predictions also come from referenced sources commonly referred to by businesses. Therefore, there is no guarantee that some or all will be achieved. Statements include acceptable forecasts and assumptions at the time this report was prepared. Prologue TRANSFORMING FOR A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE Unilever Indonesia continues to grow positively driven by various continuous transformation efforts, both through innovations launched, and through digitalisation efforts in several aspects of our business operations. Unilever Indonesia also continues to improve capabilities on an ongoing basis. For Unilever, sustainability is the core of the Company's business. The transformation efforts that are carried out are always based on the values of sustainability. Through the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan (USLP) we have contributed greatly to improving the quality of life for millions of people in Indonesia. All of this is in line with USLP's goals to improve health, reduce our environmental footprint, and improve livelihoods. In 2018, we focus primarily on the empowerment of young generation and millennials, as Indonesia’s demographic bonus which is estimated to reach its peak in 2030. A better future rests on this young generation. They are the key agents of social change and need to be aware of their potentials. Our report also covers new innovations and initiatives in 2018, such as new business categories, new product formats, and digitalisation of the distribution system. Furthermore, various sustainability initiatives which were rolled out in previous years are also covered with greater details in this report. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 1 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW Unilever is a business founded on a sense of purpose, and our unique heritage still shapes the way we do business today. We want our business to grow but we recognise that growth at the expense of people or the environment is both unacceptable and commercially unsustainable. Sustainable growth is the only acceptable model for our business. people Profit 2.2million + people 33,485 hours 1,329.9% Beneficiaries of Health Employee Stock price increased and Hygiene training hours since 1982 3,500 35,000+ rp9.1 trillion Empowered Women (Saraswati) Small farmers Assisted (soybean, Net profit on the year coconut sugar, chili) PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 2 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information planet 100% 32.78% 33.17% Zero Waste to Landfill Energy intensity reduction, CO2 emission in our Head Office compare to 2008 baseline intensity reduction 26.26% 2,816 7,779 tons Water intensity Number of Unilever Inorganic waste reduction reduction Waste Bank unit through Waste Bank programme PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 3 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT DIRECTOR The Meaning of Sustainability for Unilever Indonesia Sustainability is extremely important to Unilever – it is the driver of our business growth. With sustainability, we believe that we have the opportunity to create a new business model where doing good and doing well are directly connected and are not disconnected. Sustainability lies at the heart of our business model, as we believe that our business will only grow when we do it sustainably. Along our value chain, from how we source our raw materials and manufacture our products to how we communicate through our brands and manage our people, we must be focused on sustainability principles as the only way to succeed. Our blueprint for sustainable growth, the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan (USLP) is driving value for our business, our people and our consumers. USLP sets out to decouple our growth from our environmental footprints, while increasing our positive social impacts. Our Plan has three big goals to achieve, spanning our social, environmental and economic performance across the value chain. We will continue to work with others to focus on those areas where we can drive the biggest change and support the Global Sustainability lies at the heart of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). our business model. We will only Transformation in Unilever Indonesia grow if we apply the principles of sustainability along our value chain. We believe that transformation is essential to enable us to keep up with changes in Therefore, sustainability is the focus every aspect of the business. In 2018, we took a number of transformational steps of our brands, business processes and to make our business more sustainable. employee development. That is the We transformed our way to communicate with consumers through optimisation only key to succeed. of digital media utilisation. One of our products, Nameera was launched in a digital media channel (e-commerce). We also transformed the way we serve HEMANT BAKSHI our customers and consumers. Through President Director of PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk our Garuda and Cendrawasih Projects, we enabled our distributors and retailers to be more precise in identifying the range of products that they should put on shelves, PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 4 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information focusing on brands their consumers on how we manage of our footprint, set of indicators , such as speed limit and need the most. Our precision marketing, particularly on flexible plastic packaging. sudden braking, enabling us to track any supported by big data analytics, played an Plastic waste is a big challenge for any unsafe behaviour by the driver. All important role within this aspect. Indonesia. While Unilever Indonesia accidents were fully investigated on by contributes to less than 5% of plastic our safety team to identify root causes In 2018 , we also expanded our business waste, we are committed to finding a and take the learnings to prevent future to a new category within Foods with the solution to this challenge. And leverage on accidents. launch of Jawara Chilli sauce to meet our scale to influence the entire industry the continuing demand in the chilli sauce to become plastic responsible. Unilever Indonesia is always listed market in Indonesia. We also tapped into within the top 25 of SRI KEHATI Index, the ever increasing trend of Korean pop Flexible plastic is difficult to recycle and since the index was first launched. SRI culture among millennials by adding a thus becoming a major concern for us. KEHATI is a sustainability index rating new brand, Korea Glow, into our Home Through our circular economy concept, we by Indonesia Stock Exchange (IDX) and and Personal Care portfolio. A number aim to keep plastic in the economy and out to be top listed consistently in the index of new variants were also in this category of the environment. A collaboration with reflects the recognition of the public on were also launched, including Pond’s like-minded organizations and experts the Company’s sustainable practices. Facial Masks, Pond’s BB Powder and are key to finding a solution to this issue. Globally, Unilever is also listed in the Dow Pond’s Micellar Water. These changes and CreaSolv® Technology is the first and only Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI). transformation are a journey to create a technology in the world at present which product portfolio that meets the specific enables flexible plastics to be recycled Our Outlook for Sustainable demand of the increasingly segmented back into raw materials. To enable us to Future consumers. scale it up, we are partnering with other stakeholders, including working closely While we achieved remarkable Our Sustainability with community waste banks for waste performance in many areas in 2018, there Achievements collection. are many things that are yet to be done. Our sustainability progress is measured Unilever Indonesia is supporting and/or Being more plastic responsible is against the three main pillars of USLP. facilitating about 40% of all waste bank becoming increasingly important, and Our initiatives to improve health and registered in the Ministry of Environment we will strive to overcome the challenges wellbeing, reduce environmental and Forestry (KLHK). We believe that in a more systematic, integrated, and footprints and enhance livelihood were on this cooperation is a good way to bring comprehensive ways. Our CreaSolv® the right track and running successfully. leverage to existing processes and Technology is our big asset that must be Most of the activities had been scaling up infrastructure in the community to optimally utilised. compared to the previous year. collect the plastic waste. We were also actively conducting advocacy on waste For us, sustainability is a journey in which In 2018, Unilever Indonesia recorded a management by engaging relevant every step is important. We get learnings profit growth of 30.1% compared to the government institutions to find solutions from our past initiatives and leverage on previous year. Overall, the Company to challenges on consumer education, the insights to refocus and improve our continued to grow positively, driven waste processes and infrastructure, and progranmmes. It is a continuing process by various transformational initiatives other challenges. and one which we must keep accelerating. through innovations and digitalisation. We are happy to disclose that almost 50% of We regret to report that in 2018, a number We believe that sustainability is the only our turnover now come from Brands with of road fatalities happened , involving way for us to be successful in the future, Purpose. team members of our business partners. and therefore, an end-to-end approach For Unilever Indonesia, safety is of the along the value chain is required, whether This growth was also attributed to the utmost importance and we highly value through our brands, our processes, and economic, social and political environment the safety of our employees and those of our people. in Indonesia, which was relatively stable our business partners. We invested on and conducive compared to other markets time and resources to ensure that our which faced their own challenges such as people, distributors and other business the trade war between China and USA, partners get adequate education on safety Brexit, etc. We are quite confident that the aspects. situation will remain stable and conducive to the business this year. To enhance the safety of our vehicles, we have installed black boxes in nearly all of HEMANT BAKSHI Our CreaSolv® technology went live in company-owned vehicles, which recorded President Director 2018. It is an innovative business model and measured the safety level against a of PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 5 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 6 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information ABOUT US About Unilever Indonesia 8 Supply Chain of Unilever Indonesia 10 History of Unilever Indonesia 12 Vision, Mission, and Values 14 of Unilever Indonesia Sustainability Awards 2018 16 PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 7 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents ABOUT UNILEVER INDONESIA Unilever is a business founded on the motivation and mission of its founders, which was to create a better life for people who are using our products. This legacy has made Unilever Indonesia one of the leading Fast Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG) companies in Indonesia. Unilever Indonesia was present for over 85 years to help Indonesian people to look good, feel good, and get many things in Consistent Competitive life through their product series in worldclass brands. Growth Growth Ambitious business targets and continuous improvement through innovation are part of Unilever's DNA, along with our commitment to operate transparently and with integrity, to respect human rights and take responsibility for the communities and environments in the locations we operate. 4G Sustainable growth is the only acceptable business model in our view. Therefore, to ensure longevity and quality of life for future generations, the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan – USLP, was set up to focus directly on reducing our carbon footprint, while continuing to increase positive social impacts for the community. Sustainable Profitable Adhering to “4G” business principles of Growth Growth consistent, competitive, profitable, and sustainable growth Unilever Indonesia has recorded a positive profit growth of 30.1% compared to previous year. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 8 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information 85 years Unilever in Indonesia 1 Every Household use at least 1 Unilever Product 42 Brands 1,000 Nearly 1,000 Stock 9 Factories 5,700+ Permanent Employees Keeping Units PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 9 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents SUPPLY CHAIN OF UNILEVER INDONESIA According to the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan, Unilever Indonesia always strives to develop new ways to improve the business while improving the lives of peoples throughout Unilever supply chain. AGRICULTURE AND FARMING DISTRIBUTION CENTRES 100% USAC certified local black soy bean 35,000 Smallholder farmers involved in agiculture raw 2 material sourcing for Kecap Bango SUPPLIER FACTORIES 16 PROCESSING PLANT LOGISTICS UNILEVER FACTORIES 9 Factories are located in Cikarang, Rungkut and Surabaya PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 10 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information RETAILERS CONSUMERS WAREHOUSE DEPOTS 15 SMALL-SCALE RETAILERS 500,000+ INDEPENDENT DISTRIBUTORS 800+ PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 11 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents HISTORY OF UNILEVER INDONESIA 1933 2004 2008 Unilever is founded under the Knorr Indonesia is acquired The largest skin care factory in name Lever’s Zeepfabrieken N.V. from Unilever Overseas Holding Asia is built in Cikarang. Unilever in Angke, Jakarta. Ltd and merged with Unilever enters the fruit juice business Indonesia. Unilever Indonesia’s with the acquisition of the hair care product plant is Buavita and Gogo brands. SAP translocated from Rungkut to is implemented in all Unilever Cikarang. Indonesia. 1936 1992 2013 Wall’s ice cream factory openes Unilever Indonesia celebrates 80 in Cikarang. Conello and Paddle years of and launches “Project Pop are launched. Sunlight” to inspire people to join in creating a brighter future not only for our children, but for future generations as well. 1982 Blue Band Margarine and Lux Unilever Indonesia becomes an bath soap are first marketed in open corporation and releases Indonesia. shares to the public registering 15% of shares on the Indonesian Stock Exchange. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 12 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information 2015 2016 2018 Unilever Indonesia’s 9th factory is “1001 Ramadhan Inspiration” is Unilever initiated the Indonesia opened in August 2015. The Foods launched for the first time uniting Hygiene Forum. factory with an area of 63 hectares Unilever brands to inspire more has a production capacity of 7 than 40 million Indonesians billion cooking spices and soy in preparing the privilege of sauce per year. Ramadhan moment. 2017 Reimagine ‘Project Sunlight’ by Unilever’s breakthrough in launching Unilever brightFuture waste recycling technology, the encouraging the community to “CreaSolv® Process” is launched, take small continuous steps capable of recycling flexible together in order to create a plastics and sachet packaging. brighter future for our next generation. Unilever Indonesia inaugurated Unilever launches Bango Light its new head office, Grha Unilever, and Sambal Jawara at Green Office Park BSD City, Tangerang, Banten. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 13 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents VISION, MISSION, AND VALUES OF UNILEVER INDONESIA Vision To earn the love and appreciation from Indonesia people by touching the lives of every Indonesian every day. Mission • We work to create a better future every day. • We help people to feel good, look good and more enjoy life with good brands and services for them and others. • We will inspire people to take small actions everyday that can bring up to a big difference for the world. • We will develop new ways of doing business that will allow us to double the size of our company while reducing our environmental impact. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 14 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information Values Integrity We are committed to integrity because it creates our reputation, so we never compromise on it. It defines how we behave, wherever we are. It guides us to do the right thing for the long-term success of Unilever. Respect We are committed to respect because people should be treated with dignity, honesty and fairness. We celebrate the diversity of people, and we respect people for who they are and what they bring. Responsibility We are committed to responsibility because we want to take care of our consumers, customers and employees, as well as the environment and the communities in which we operate. We take this personally and always do what we say we will do. Pioneering We are committed to the pioneering spirit because it creates us and still drives us as a business. It gives us the passion for winning and for creating a better future. It means that we are always willing to take risks intelligently. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 15 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents SUSTAINABILITY AWARDS 2018 AWARDS FROM RECEIVED LOCAL 1 Indonesia Prestige Brand Award 2018 Warta Ekonomi January 25, 2018 Hair Conditioner Product Category: Dove, Sunsilk, Tresemme, Clear Female Shampoo Product Category: Sunsilk, Dove, Clear, Lifebuoy Facial Wash Product Category: Ponds 2 Indonesia Netizen Brand Choice Award 2018 Warta Ekonomi February 23, 2018 Ice Cream Product Category: Walls 3 Indonesia Most Innovative Business Award 2018 Warta Ekonomi March 23, 2018 Category: Cosmetic & Personal Care 4 Warta Ekonomi Top 100 Enterprises Warta Ekonomi June 29, 2018 Category: Best in Consumer Goods Industry 5 Wealth Added Creator Award 2018 SWA July 26, 2018 2nd ranking Indonesia The Best Public Companies 3rd ranking ASEAN The Best Public Companies 1st ranking Indonesia The Best Public Companies Category: Household & Personal Product 1st ranking ASEAN The Best Public Companies Category: Household & Personal Product 6 Indonesia Corporate PR Award 2018 Warta Ekonomi August 24,2018 Top 5 Popular Company in Consuner Goods Sector Indonesia Top 3 Popular Company in Consuner Goods Sector Asia Pacific PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 16 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information AWARDS FROM RECEIVED 7 Indonesia Living Legend Brands 2018 SWA October 11, 2018 8 Top Halal Award 2018 LLPOM MUI November 18, 2018 Ice Cream Walls 9 Indonesian Smarties MMA Indonesian Smarties Product/Services Launch Walls Sandwich Merah Putih (Silver) MMA Product/Services Launch Ponds Micellar Water (Silver) Promotion Ponds Men Face Trip of Their Lifetime (Gold) Social Impact/Not for Profit Rexona Movement for Movement (Gold) Social Impact/Not for Profit Lifebuoy First Line of Defense (Bronze) Cross Media Fair and Lovely Beauty Hub (Gold) Cross Media Rexona SEA Games (Silver) Cross Media Ponds Making Brand Impact via Authenticity (Bronze) Cross Mobile Clear Be Your Own Legend (Bronze) Messaging Dove Chat Your Way to Beauty (Bronze) Mobile App Rexona Movement for Movement (Bronze) Innovation Lifebuoy First Line of Defense (Silver) Innovation Buavita Shake The Mango in Ramadhan (Silver) Location Based Services or Targeting Unilever Winning Offline Moments with Mobile (Bronze) Best Brand Experience in Mobile Rich Media Buavita Real-Time Shield (Bronze) 10 Indonesia Most Admired CEO 2018 Warta Ekonomi December 14, 2018 11 Indonesia Best Brand Award 2018 Majalah SWA December 20, 2018 Lifebuoy (kategori sabun mandi padat) PLATINUM Ponds (kategori sabun pembersih muka) PLATINUM Pepsodent (kategori pasta gigi) PLATINUM Ponds (kategori sabun pelembab muka) PLATINUM Ponds (kategori pemutih wajah) PLATINUM Citra (kategori hand & body lotion) PLATINUM Bango (kategori Kecap manis) PLATINUM Rinso (kategori deterjen) GOLDEN 12 Best Non Financial Sector in the 10th IICD Corporate Governance Conference IICD December 10, 2018 and Awards INTERNATIONAL 1 Global MMA (Mobile Marketing Association) MMA January 25, 2018 Product / Services Launch Rexona Movement for Movement (Bronze) Cross Media Rexona Movement for Movement (Bronze) Messaging Pepsodent Nightbrushing (Bronze) PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 17 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 18 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information SUSTAINABILITY AS A CORE BUSINESS The Purpose of Unilever 20 Unilever Sustainable Living Plan 21 Unilever and Sustainability Initiatives 22 Sustainability Festival: 24 Live Your Purpose for U & I Care for Area Surrounding 28 PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 19 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents THE PURPOSE OF UNILEVER Unilever has a simple but clear purpose, to make sustainable living commonplace. By our brands and services , we work to create a better future every day. Positive Social Impact business growth Reduce Environmental Footprint Unilever is a business founded on a sense Principles Code of Ethics explains the of purpose, and our unique heritage operational standards that must be still shapes the way we do business followed by everyone at Unilever, anywhere today. We want our business to grow in the world, including Indonesia. but we recognise that growth at the expense of people or the environment In line with changing behaviour and is both unacceptable and commercially community demands, Unilever strives unsustainable. Sustainable growth is the for new ways to manifest our purpose. only acceptable model for our business. Until now, we have been able to improve the consumer confidence; create a solid The purpose of Unilever is stated that in business with lower risks; and ensure terms of success, requires the highest consistent, competitive, and profitable standard of corporate behaviour for growth. anyone working with us, the communities we are involved with, and the environment in which we operate. Unilever’s Business PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 20 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information UNILEVER SUSTAINABLE LIVING PLAN We believe that sustainable growth is the only way to create long-term value for our stakeholders and in 2010, the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan (USLP) was launched, creating a blueprint for sustainable growth, while fulfilling our purpose and vision. Improving health Reduce enhance and well-being for environmental livelihoods for more than impact by 1/2 millions of people 1 billion people By 2020 we will help more than By 2030 our goal is to halve the By 2020 we will enhance the a billion people take action to environmental footprint of the livelihoods of millions of people as improve their health and wellmaking and use of our products as we grow our business. being. we grow our business. > Health and Hygiene > Greenhouse Gases > Fairness in the Workplace > Improving Nutrition > Water Use > Opportunities for Women > Waste & Packaging > Inclusive Business > Sustainable Sourcing USLP covers all aspects of our business, USLP contains three big goals based business chain. The Yayasan Unilever our brands, and our departments in each on nine pillars supported by targets Indonesia (YUI), a foundation established country that we operate. This programme that include social, environmental and on November 27th, 2000, is the primary is aimed at creating change throughout economic performance throughout the means to implement USLP. YUI’s mission the value chain – from purchasing raw Unilever value chain. To ascertain whether to seek and empower community materials, operations, to how consumers these targets and pillars are still on-point potential, provide added value to the use our products. This programme also and prioritised, materiality analysis is community, collaborate with partners encourages growth through the brand conducted every two years. and act as a catalyst for the formation of with purpose, by cutting business costs, partnerships. lowering risk, and helping us to build Locally, Unilever Indonesia takes real steps trust, while creating long-term value for to implement the Unilever Sustainable our stakeholders. Living Plan strategy throughout the entire PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 21 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents UNILEVER AND SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES The 17 goals of sustainable development (Global Goals) adopted by world leaders, applies universally to all countries. The Global Goals initiative hailed a historic initiative together with stakeholders are closely related to the SDGs as well as commitment of world leaders to build a from around the world. These Global the initiatives were taken contributes to better future and is aimed at creating a Goals are essential to Unilever because the SDGs. The SDGs are universal agenda safer and healthier planet for the future. they alter how business should be done. with 17 inter-connected goals. Progress These Global Goals can be achieved Unilever has identified potential areas to in one goal can both depend on and unlock by mobilizing efforts to end all forms contribute to the Global Goals scheme, progress in another, and interconnected of poverty, addressing inequalities and in accordance with the nature, scale and goals require an interconnected approach. tackling climate change, while ensuring range of the business and how they add These interconnections can be found that no one is left behind. value to the business. throughout Unilever’s work, each initiative in every USLP pillar could link into several Unilever was directly involved in USLP as the Unilever’s blueprint for goals of SDGs. the formulation and is active in the sustainable growth is strongly aligned implementation of the Global Goals with SDGs. Many of the goals of the USLP GLOBAL RELEVANT INITIATIVES OF PAGES IN THIS GOALS UNILEVER INDONESIA REPORT No Poverty »» Fairness in the Workplace 92 »» Inclusive Business 94-96 »» Opportunities for Women 75, 93 Zero Hunger »» Improving Nutrition 45-47 »» Inclusive Business 94-96 »» Opportunities for Women 75, 93 »» Sustainable Sourcing 84-89 Good Health and Well-being »» Fairness in the Workplace 92 »» Health & Hygiene 35-44 »» Improving Nutrition 45-47 Quality Education »» Inclusive Business 94-96 »» Opportunities for Women 75, 93 »» Sustainable Sourcing 84-89 Gender Equality Opportunities for Women 75, 93 Clean Water and Sanitation »» Health & Hygiene 35-44 »» Water Use 64 PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 22 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information GLOBAL RELEVANT INITIATIVES OF PAGES IN THIS GOALS UNILEVER INDONESIA REPORT Affordable and Clean Energy Greenhouse Gases 63 Decent Work and Economic All USLP Pillar All relevant pages Growth Industry, Innovation and »» Greenhouse Gases 63 Infrastructure »» Inclusive Business 94-96 »» Opportunities for Women 75, 93 »» Water Use 64 »» Waste & Packaging 50-58, 102-103 Reduce Inequalities »» Fairness in the Workplace 92 »» Inclusive Business 94-96 »» Opportunities for Women 75, 93 Sustainable Cities and »» Health & Hygiene 35-44 Communities »» Waste & Packaging 50-58, 102-103 Responsible Consumption and »» Greenhouse Gases 63 Production »» Waste & Packaging 50-58, 102-103 »» Water Use 64 Climate Action »» Greenhouse Gases 63 »» Sustainable Sourcing 84-89 »» Water Use 64 Life Below Water Waste & Packaging 50-58, 102-103 Life on Land Sustainable Sourcing 84-89 Peace, Justice, and Strong Fairness in the Workplace 92 Institutions Partnership for the Goals All USLP Pillar All relevant pages PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 23 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents SUSTAINABILITY FESTIVAL: LIVE YOUR PURPOSE FOR U & I Over the last five years, Unilever Indonesia has made an effort to create awareness in society about the importance of sustainability, through various communication channels such as mass media, influencers, bloggers as well as communities. An annual event ‘Sustainability Day’ was also held, attended by general public. In 2018, realizing the need for greater Enlightenment was given by young In line with the purpose impact. Sustainability Day was leaders or millennial influencers. Unlike transformed into Sustainability Festival the previous year, SUNFEST 2018 was not of Unilever, we expect the (SUNFEST). The programme is set to just a talk show. In partnership with the educational initiatives that be more exciting and engaging to the Human Resources team, a workshop was have been carried out younger generations. The main target of held to give tips for finding the purpose. participant has changed, from general With this provision, participants can will create awareness for to millennials. We believe; the millennial get the inspirations and to immediately millennials encouraging generation will be the catalyst for practise in their lives. them to be the agents of significant change in Indonesia. In 2018, we also collaborated with change in manifesting a The theme of the Sustainability Festival is millennial media, IDN Times, through better life in the future. Live your purpose for U & I , a simpler their slogans, “The voice of millennial and theme yet easy to understand. We Gen Z”. The sustainability content articles invited the young generation to find their that we create were delivered in a more purpose . This event provides inspiration casual and acceptable manner. We prefer and insight about the importance of to write articles about tips to conserve having a purpose in life so that creates the environment rather than to write a good impact, not only for our self but about the definition of sustainability. The also for the society and the environment. objective was right on target and right on the message. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 24 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information Number of Participants Participants' Background 130 person 75 Impact-Driven Youth Communities • IDN Times Writers Community • Unilever Indonesia employees 17 Media (Online & Print) 18 Unilever Indonesia Foundation Partners Inspiration Sources M. Alfatih Timur – Founder of Kitabisa.com, Heni Sri Sundani – Founder of Gerakan Anak Petani, Firmansyah “Pepeng” – Founder of Klinik Kopi, M. Bijaksana Junerosano – Founder of Waste4Change, Dheta Aisyah – Co-Founder of Binar Academy, Uchita Pohan – Initiator of Beauty on Canvas, Swietenia Puspa Lestari – Founder of Divers Clean Action PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 25 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents sunfest 2018 testimonial Students of 28 Senior High School “I know what I can do after this seminar. Then I also want to know what my purpose is in the future in my life. Because I go to school in 28 Senior High School, I want to care more about waste in Kabupaten Tangerang, especially Cisauk area” Jovial Da Lopez “Hi, I’m Jovial Da Lopez from SkinnyIndonesian24. I got so much from this event, but the one that I’m going to take away is that for every food I buy, I will explore from where it is come from and I will help the welfare of farmers who grow these foods” Meta “Hello, my name is Meta. What I got from this programme is how to boost myself for the future. The public speakers are really exciting because they really make an effort for better Indonesia and one of the things that makes me better is to make people happy around me, don’t let sadness be around” PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 26 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information IDN Times representative “After hearing the speakers, this talk show is really cool, the message is acceptable, so we can understand more about waste, sustainability, and take action what we have to do as the millenials. Actually, sustainability start from our self is not difficult, for example, if we are consistent like Mas Ano, actually we can make sustainable actions that really sustain in the future.” Ilham Nugraha & Imam “We are very fortunate to be selected and invited by Unilever for SUNFEST 2018. The spoke persons are very cool and certainly inspire us to get our purpose in the future. I’m aware that people must be able to benefit others. Sometimes, we are angry if we are used by others, but on the other hand we have to be beneficial to others So this event taught us how to make our lives more meaningful and to benefit others. Life is too short for something not important. So we must use our lives for better, especially with the natural environment and fellow humans.” Kitty “Hello my name is Kitty from Clean Action Divers. It was really nice to be here because I met superinspiring characters who knew what action they were doing, and what their purpose and actually do something to follow their passion, and what I get is if you like something, if you feel called for something, don’t let it just passed, so if you feel called, just follow it. It is ok, If it fails or succeed. I need to discover what is my next step and of the many things I like, I have to discover what is actually the call for me and hopefully what I do can be more environmentally, socially, and can make better for my surrounding. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 27 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents CARE FOR AREA SURROUNDING Unilever Indonesia play an active role in caring for the communities around Unilever Indonesia’s operational area through a programme called Care for Area Surrounding (CFAS). Our operational areas are spread throughout several regions, South Tangerang, Rungkut in East Java and Cikarang in West Java. The CFAS programme is also part of the main objective of Unilever Sustainable Living Plan (USLP), the programme focuses on improving public health, reducing our environmental footprint and playing an active role in improving people’s livelihoods. We also want to increase employee involvement in interacting with surrounding areas. TANGERANG Waste Management Training In 2017, the Waste Management Training Programme was conducted in Desa Suradita, Cisauk as part of the CFAS Programme. In 2018, similar programmes were expanded to other Cisauk areas. Expanding the scope of this programme is important for Unilever to have larger impact and reach wider community. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 28 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information Global Hand Washing Day In order to raise the awareness of health and the importance of healthy living, Yayasan Unilever Indonesia carried out a Handwashing with Soap campaign at SDN Bendungan, Kelurahan Sampora. The activity was welcomed by the school and involved more than 200 students from SDN Bendungan and more than 30 employee volunteers from Unilever Indonesia. Healthy Mother and Toddler Increasing mother and toddler health is one of the goals of Unilever Indonesia’s presence in the community. One of the activities carried out was an active role in the Posyandu, integrated health services centre for infants and toddlers. In 2018, Posyandu Kecamatan Cisauk carried out “Healthy Mother and Toddler” programme which was followed by more than 700 RUNGKUT CIKARANG mothers and toddlers. The purpose of this activity was to empower mothers in caring In 2018, Unilever Indonesia encouraged a The Unilever Indonesia factory employees for their children based on the hygienicsurrounding community to make an effort in Cikarang continued its Waste Bank living principles. to reduce the disposal tendency of organic programme in 2018. This year, we initiated waste directly into the environment via the Composter Communal development the Composter Communal. This initiative in the Waste Bank, in assisted by local was motivated by the volume of wet solid NGO and Unilever Indonesia's employees. waste reaching 18.79 tons on average per month. Composter Communal is planned to be started operation at the beginning of 2019, The Composter Communal has a however, preparation and operational processing capacity of around 1 ton / training was carried out in 2018. The day. In addition to reducing the level initiative is expected to be a concrete of environmental contamination, the step in handling waste as not to become waste can be used as compost and liquid a direct pollutant of the environment, and organic fertiliser which is beneficial to the be reused both as compost and organic community or farmers on the surrounding liquid fertiliser. area. In addition to composting training, we In collaboration with Institut Teknologi also conducted Trashion training for Sepuluh November (ITS) Surabaya, the community in order to increase public Unilever Indonesia also conducted a study interest in the repurposing of used plastic on the benefit of Mangrove Forests which waste into useful items. have been routinely planted in the same area every year since 2015, we have also added 5,000 trees of mangroves in 2018. We study the environmental quality and mapping of social communities around the location of mangrove forest. This study aims to determine the potential of Mangroves for Ecotourism. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 29 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents BELANJA BERBAGI Data from the Central Statistics Agency in 2015 stated that Indonesia had 2.15 million Indonesian orphans were accommodated in 8,000 orphanages spread throughout the archipelago. Unilever Indonesia aims to provide benefits to millions of people, one of which is through the orphanage as a place that contributes in shaping Indonesia's young generation, as the nation's successor. In collaboration with Badan Amil Zakat Nasional (BAZNAS) and PP Muhammadiyah's social service assembly, Unilever Indonesia initiated “Belanja Berbagi”, through this programme we encourage the public to share happiness and goodness during Ramadhan to 1001 orphanages in Indonesia. People tend to do good deeds during Ramadhan, but Belanja Berbagi invites the community to make donations to orphanages just as simple sometimes afterwards people tend to do as shopping for daily necessities. The donations were distributed in the form of financial less. . Hence, Unilever Indonesia commits assistance, Unilever products, and also donation of health and hygiene behaviour education to do it even after Ramadhan moment, for material. The programme began in Ramadan, during 2018, 460 orphanages have received 12 full months. product support and 406 have received financial assistance. UNILEVER INITIATIVES FOR POST-DISASTER RECOVERY IN INDONESIA 2018 was a challenging year for Indonesia. A numbers of disasters occurred in several regions, leaving deep sorrow, not only for the affected people, but also for the entire Indonesian community, even becoming the focus of the world's attention. As a company that has been in Indonesia This activity aims to restore some skin condition of the refugees in Desa for more than 84 years, Unilever joy to children and motivate them to Batukarang Tanah Karo, North Sumatra. Indonesia show solidarity through social be optimistic and overcome horrific support provided to communities affected conditions and situations. For Unilever, Through the Vaseline Healing Project , by the eruption of Mount Sinabung, the this programme in line with Wall's brand Vaseline showed the manifestation of earthquake and tsunami in Palu and with purpose, which is to always share the its global mission to improve the skin Donggala and the earthquake in Lombok. happiness. and quality of life of people in need. The programme consists of three main pillars. The social support provided was not Moreover, Unilever Indonesia, through the only financial and products to fulfill their Vaseline brand, organised the Vaseline daily needs. For affected communities Healing Project for Mount Sinabung in Lombok, the humanitarian agency, eruption refugees. Vaseline worked with Aksi Cepat Tanggap (ACT) and Wall’s HeartIndo, to disseminate education carried out Trauma Healing activities. about skin health and help improve the PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 30 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information We are donating more than 1 million By this programme, we want the consumer aware that they are participating for social Vaseline Repairing Jelly products through impact while they were shopping. For every purchase they made within one day, would clinics and hospitals through Direct Relief directly goes to school facilities in Lombok. As the result, working together with ACT, networks around the world. We also we managed to build 2 temporary school in Desa Rempek, Kecamatan Gangga, Lombok support the health workers to increase Utara. The schools have capacity 6 classes that can accommodate 120 students for each. their awareness by providing training on So the student could continue study in a proper place while their permanent school being skin health. The substantial activities are re-build. implementing the mission to improve the skin condition of people living in areas that need it most. Desa Batukarang was chosen as the target beneficiary of this programme because it has the highest number of population densities affected quite severely by the eruption of Mount Sinabung. Unilever Indonesia also encourage consumer to support affected communities for post-disaster recovery, by providing them the chance to make difference for every rupiah they spent. In collaboration with Lazada, we activate selling with purpose mechanism through one day programme called Shop To Give. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 31 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 32 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information IMPROVING HEALTH AND WELL-BEING Health and Hygiene 35 Improving Quality of Nutrition 45 PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 33 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents According to basic health research 2013, conducted by the Ministry of Health's it is known that only 20 percent of the total Indonesian people care about health and hygiene. Moreover the Legatum Prosperity Index on 2017 showed that Indonesia ranked 101 out of 149 countries in terms of health. This is crucial towards maintaining one’s health, for it is a means of prevention towards infection and diseases. Therefore, Unilever Indonesia takes on active role to ensure that communities are well aware of the importance of health and hygiene—increasingly so due to the rise of non communicable diseases and the impacts of infections towards one’s development. Several of Unilever’s best-known brands is working to improving health through both the products and brand’s social missions. These initiatives are our real action in improving health and well-being pillar of our Unilever Sustainable Living Plan (USLP), that contributes to the three of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): Zero Hunger (SDG 2), Good Health and Wellbeing (SDG3) and Clean Water and Sanitation (SDG6). PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 34 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information HEALTH AND HYGIENE School-based Our Commitment Programme By 2020, globally, we will help more than a billion people to improve their health and hygiene. Poor sanitation, hygiene and lack of Health safe drinking water cause millions of preventable deaths each year. Our health and Well-being and hygiene brands commit towards Programme tackling this issues in order to aim to improve health through better hygiene. Professional CommunityThese everyday products can help prevent institution-based based disease and improve people's health and programme Programme well-being, ultimately enabling them to live better lives.. Providing suitable products is not enough. The best way to ensure improvement is to ensure sustainable actions towards better health are implemented by the communities themselves. Through Beyond providing hygiene through our brands social missions, we also acknowledge the Unilever’s health and well-being problem that pertains to people’s well-being. Several studies show a positive relationship programme, we take several approaches between body image and self-confidence. Based on data from the Ministry of Women's to raise awareness, improve knowledge Empowerment and Child Protection (KPPPA), 56 percent of Indonesian children, and behaviour change programmes to predominantly girls, experience a crisis of self-confidence. Hence, Unilever Indonesia, create the health and hygiene habits through its social mission undertaken by Dove, aims to help women and girls to increase among communities. their self-esteem and realise their full potential. SCHOOL-BASED PROGRAMME Unilever believes in reaching children and youth as the future generation and agents of change. Hence, we conduct our programmes targeting students in their place of learning, where they are primed to absorb information.enhancing their academic knowledge with health and hygiene habituation to maintain their performance and well-being in school and health in daily lives.. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 35 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents School Health Programme consistently in order to foster positive reached school stakeholders, especially habits that maintain good health and teachers, to conduct habituation of 7 Education of health and hygiene behaviours reduce the risk of serious illness. In the health and hygiene behaviours in school, need to be conducted since earlier age to schools with youth, we also equip them in collaboration with the Ministry of ensure that future generations grow up with the knowledge and awareness of Health, the Ministry of Education, Dinas with strong foundations of the behaviours puberty as well as hygiene matters that Kesehatan, Dinas Pendidikan, Persatuan as part of their everyday habits. are necessary during this transition times. Dokter Gigi Indonesia (PDGI). Through School Health Programme, we Supported by local NGOs in conducting encourage students, to do the behaviours the implementation, Unilever Indonesia 7 HEALTH AND HYGIENE Wash hands Drinking BEHAVIOURS with soap clean water Always wash hands with soap The availability of potable germand running water when free drinking water in all places, bathing; before breakfast, including schools is essential. lunch, and dinner; and after using the toilet. Diverse, nutritious, Brushing teeth in the morning balanced, and safe foods and at night It is essential to eat a nutritious Teeth should be brushed at least breakfast before 9 am. Ensure twice a day: after breakfast and safe and nutritious schools before bedtime, using appropriate snack consumption. toothbrushes and toothpaste. Clean and hygienic toilet, Manage waste at school Prevent Dengue bathroom, and floor Haemorrhagic Fever Cultivate the practice to sort (DHF) with Mosquito Nest out garbage in schools to Toilets must be cleaned Eradication keep the school environment regularly to create a healthy clean, healthy, and to improve environment for all. Prevent dengue fever with 3M+ understanding of the economic movement. value of waste. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 36 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information Aside from reaching our annual target of 2 million students, we also seek to reach more aim to reach students through new and variety of channels. A pilot project was carried out in Islamic boarding school in 3 cities.various Islamic Boarding Schools as part of an academic institution. FERNI SOFIA NINGRUM This initiative aligned with government programme of “Pesantren Sehat”, Teacher promoting the urgent importance of to SDN Rampal Celaket 1 Malang create a clean and healthy environment. “We, SDN Rampal Celaket 1 Malang are very grateful for inviting our school We reinforced various educational to the activities of School Health Programme. This Programme is very helpful campaigns supported by Unilever brands. for teachers and students in implementing Health and Hygiene Behaviour. By We also conducted various campaigns to washing hands and brushing teeth, we are expecting that our students always strengthen and excite school communities carry out the health and hygiene behaviour starting from themselves. participating in the programme, such as World Oral Health Day celebration, Global This programme also helps students to actively participate in implementing and Handwashing Day video competition, and maintaining health and hygiene behaviour at school and at their home. education of the goodness of fruits and vegetables. Hopefully, the School Health programme will be sustain to actively participate in introduction and acculturation of the health and hygiene behaviour for future generations. Thank you.” 2018 2017 2016 more than more than more than 2.1Students millions 2.2Students millions 2.1Students millions more than more than more than 93,000 Student Ambassadors 81,000 Student Ambassadors 73,000 Student Ambassadors more than more than more than 10,000 schools 9,000 schools 8,500 schools in 78 cities/regencies in 17 provinces involved PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 37 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents Dove Self Esteem Project The Dove Self Esteem Project (DSEP) aims to educate young women about self-esteem. Unilever, in partnership with local NGOs, Indonesia Mengajar, carried out workshops, teacher training, and reach out to young women to become school ambassadors to promote selfesteem. In addition, awareness was also built through inspirational stories and movements to spread the message of self-esteem, via social media. In 2018, #CantikSatukanKita initiative was launched to create a more friendly, safe and inclusive digital culture for all Indonesian women by expressing positive appreciation on social media. It is hoped THROUGH DSEP UNILEVER HAVE REACHED: 38,930 PEOPLE through digital campaign and that by building a positive digital space, will inspire confidence in Indonesian women and encourage them to reach 717 FEMALE STUDENT 609,390 through downloaded modules PEOPLE their full potential. in 6 cities involved in DSEP workshop via websites that partnered with Dove 6,000 PEOPLE through teacher training 280,000 WOMEN inspired through digital campaign on Kartini’s Day Global Handwashing Day Since 2004 Lifebuoy has provided sustainable education about the importance of Handwahing the third pillar as the main condition for with Soap (CTPS) through various programmes. In each activity, Lifebuoy also collaborates sustainable development. with various parties as partners and agents of change. Until now we have reached more than 23.8 million elementary school children, 71.7 million mothers and their family members, and The World Handwashing day were celebrated 1,000 hospitals throughout Indonesia. In the year 2020, we have a target to reach 100 million simultaneously in 16 elementary school Indonesian healthy hands, as part of the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan programme. in 16 provinces of Indonesia. Aside from educating the students on importance of In 2018, we celebrated World Handwashig Day in SDN Rawa Barat 05, South Jakarta. handwashing with soap, the campaign also Through the movement of “Gabung Aksi Indonesia Merdeka dari Kuman”, we invite motivates school communities to creatively Indonesian people to put forward the habit of Handwashing with Soap as a concrete action demonstrate what they have learned from to be free from germs that cause infection. This is part of Lifebuoy's commitment to become the education through video competition of government partner in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), especially in handwashing with soap. The winning schools are rewarded with handwashing with soap facilities for the school community. In professional institution, Lifebuoy collaborated with Indonesia Hospital Association (PERSI) to hold handwashing competition to celebrate Global Handwashing Day. This campaign was joined by more than 40 hospitals in Indonesia. They sent video containing dance with handwashing movement performed by health care providers (doctor, nurse, etc). For top 5 winners, get the chance to performed at PERSI gala dinner on 18 October 2019 in JHCC senayan and rewarded with special prizes. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 38 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information FAL Bintang Beasiswa One of the commitments of the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan (USLP) is to empower 5 million women worldwide by 2020. This can be realised if women have the opportunity to get higher education. For this reason, Fair & Lovely (FAL) in collaboration with Hoshizora Foundation once again held the Fair & Lovely Bintang Beasiswa programme. In this third year of programme, we are not only motivated women to be dare to have high goal of their live, but we also provide access to higher education for 50 accomplished young women so that they could more closely reach their dreams. Kalimantan. This expansion was carried out with several considerations, such as illiteracy rates, dropout rates and environmental conditions in some of these areas To provide greater benefits, in 2018 Unilever expanded the coverage of the In addition to the scholarships which periodically provided during four years of study, Fair programme area from three to seven & Lovely also provide self-provisioning programme to the scholarship recipients which will regions: DI Yogyakarta, West Java, Central be very beneficial for them in the college and their work in the future. The programmes Java, East Java, Sumatra, Sulawesi and include: Capacity building, Community Engagement and Career Building. PROFESSIONAL INSTITUTIONBASED PROGRAMME The professional institution-based OUR ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2018 programme carried out by Unilever Indonesia are driven by the same vision PROFESSIONAL DENTIST AND HOSPITAL and mission between by Unilever SOCIAL MISSION COMMUNITY and health institutions as well as professionals, regarding the importance of raising awareness and providing education to the public and health care 78 thousands+ Beneficiaries 17 thousands+ Dentist covered in 7 big cities provider in order to maintain health and through Dentist Contact Program create a better life. We have been partnering with Indonesia Dental Association (PDGI), Indonesia Hospital Association (PERSI), Dental 104 PDGI branches participation in World Oral 10 thousands+ Dentist reached through 11 Dental School Association (AFDOKGI), Ministry Health Day & National Oral Health Month Congresses of Health (Kemenkes), to create many programmes that benefit to Indonesian people and professionals. stakeholders were engaged to get their support to run the programme. Key 40+ Hospitals 1,000+ Health Providers (Hospital EXPO) 300+ Health Providers (GHD-PERSI) PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 39 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents World Oral Health Day (WOHD) National Oral Health Month (NOHM) and looking forward to this event. They can choose one from several treatment The World Oral Health Day (WOHD) is a National Oral Health Month (NOHM) is an provided which are tooth filing, tooth global ceremony to raise awareness of annual event held by Pepsodent to provide extraction, scaling/tartar cleaning, topical people in the world about the importance free dental treatment and check up for fluoride and pit fissure sealant. Scaling/ of oral health care by brushing teeth twice Indonesian people which conducted for tartar cleaning is the most treatment that a day. This initiative began with partnership three months started from September. selected by patient each year. between FDI World Dental Federation with Held since 2010 with 10 Dental Schools Unilever to realise one of USLP’s goals, to and 2 PDGI branches, now, NOHM has In addition to providing benefits to the help more than a billion people take action benefited more than 250,000 people. community, NOHM also provides benefits for to improve their health and well-being. dental student, where they can get patients Unilever Indonesia, Indonesian Dentist to meet the requirements to complete their WOHD aligned with government's “Towards Association (PDGI) and the Association of studies. Moreover, credit also provided Indonesia Free Caries in 2030” programme. Indonesian Dentistry Faculty (AFDOKGI) for dental hospitals involved in the event, We recognise that currently public are committed to providing dental health in the form of accreditation and broader knowledge and awareness regarding the education, dental health and treatment, in publications to the surrounding community. importance of maintaining dental appears order to encourage Indonesian to be care to be lacking. Based on the latest Ministry of oral health by brushing their teeth in the Protecting Family Dental Health and of Health research (RISKESDAS) on 2018, morning and evening, and go to the dentist Hidden Sugar Risk was the theme for 57.6% Indonesia people has issue in dental at least every six months. the 2018 NOHM. This year, the kick of health but only 10.2% who seek for help. This ceremonial held in Sriwijaya University, proven the needs for continuing education In 2018 NOHM was conducted in 23 dental Palembang. Different from previous for Indonesian people. schools and 40 PDGI branches with more years, in addition to children as the main than 70.000 beneficiaries. The roadshow focus of education, the activities of 2018 World Oral Health Day 2018 was celebrated conducted from September to December NOHM, also involved all family members in at SDN Tebet Timur 01 in South Jakarta, 2018. NOHM always exceed the target, providing a variety of education. and was the initial series of the Unilever because people has marked their calendar Indonesia School Programme. In collaboration with 63 branches of PDGI throughout Indonesia, Pepsodent delivered public education about the importance of oral and dental health as an indicator of overall body health and conducted free dental check up for the student. Not only beneficial for the community, the World Oral Health Day event also as a momentum for the dentist to give back to community by providing an education and dental check up. Each dentist who participate in the event, will get a Profession Credit Unit (SKP) as one of requirement to prolonged the practice licence. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 40 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information Pepsodent Dental Expert Centre from Japan dentistry exchange students where they found PDEC very useful and interesting. (PDEC) Not only for dentistry students, PDEC also provide dentist study club every month. Selective prominent dentists are invited to give mini lectures and held discussion with 25-30 dentists Pepsodent established the biggest dental about the latest update in dentistry. education and entertainment (edutainment) centre in Jakarta since 2013, it’s called This year, PDEC organises the annual Free Dental Study Club Vol. 10 programme with theme Pepsodent Dental Expert Centre (PDEC) The Era of Millennial in Dentistry . One of the discussions topic was the latest trends in the located in Gandaria City mall, UG floor, world of dentistry, Dental Photography & Digital Smile Design. The themes and discussions South Jakarta. This is a form of Pepsodent's raised were in line with the increasing need and knowledge of millennial which encouraged commitment as a preventive promotive them to visit the dentists not only for medical needs of dental health but also for aesthetics health campaign to provide education and cosmetics. about brushing teeth day and night to the Indonesian people and the importance of In collaboration with the Indonesian Dental Association (PB-PDGI), the Free Dental Study routine dental visits every six months. Club Vol. 10 in 2018 not only increased the knowledge of dentists but also provided Profession Credit Unit (SKP) to the invited dentists. PDEC open daily from 10.00 – 21.00 providing free dental check up for everyone. It has a cutting edge dental technology, Caries Detector. It is a tool that can detect and diagnose early stage of dental caries that rarely found in any other dental clinic. It also provides 16 professional dentists to help consumer know better about dental health and give experience through checking their teeth with caries detector and recommend dental treatment needed. In addition to free dental check up, PDEC open for school visit programme. Students can learn about how to take care of their teeth in a fun ways through dental cartoon movie at the auditorium, tooth games, giant tooth for tooth brushing practice and 3D mapping dental caries. Moreover, mothers and orphanage can also visit Dentist Contact Programme and enjoy the benefit of PDEC. PDEC has already reached it’s maximum capacity of The Dentist Contact Programme is a programme to build relationships with dentists 70-75 visitors in average per day. to provide product knowledge about our premium products. Social mission is also implemented within this programme. Through 23 medical representatives in 9 cities PDEC is also served as a place for dentistry throughout Indonesia, we accommodate dentists to provide community services to students where they can practise public their adopted schools by carrying out campaign of brushing teeth in the morning and health dentistry. Not only from local evening. We provide the educational materials, toothbrushes and toothpaste for a 21-day dentistry students, in 2018 PDEC had a visit programme of brushing teeth in the morning and evening. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 41 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents Indonesia Hygiene Forum According to research data from the Ministry of Health only 20 percent of Indonesian people are concerned about hygiene and health, meaning, out of 262 million people in Indonesia, only about 52 million people have concern for the cleanliness of the surrounding environment and its impact on health. Seeing this problem, Unilever realised that close cooperation is needed between community, academic institutions, industriy, government, and other related parties to foster awareness of the importance of health and hygiene in Indonesia. For this reason, the establishment of Indonesia Hygiene Forum was initiated. This initiative is a manifestation of Unilever Indonesia’s efforts to grow businesses while reducing the environmental impacts and increase social impact on the community. One of the objectives of USLP is to improve the health and well-being of 1 billion people by 2020. Inaugurated in April 2018, this The Indonesia Hygiene Forum’s vision is to create a science-based hygiene culture in network initiated by Unilever Indonesia Indonesia. Its mission as follows: accommodates experts in the fields »» Establish a network consisting of experts in the field of hygiene from, government, of hygiene, nutrition and health to individuals, communities, academics and industries. share information and knowledge, and »» Involving this network in efforts to foster public awareness about cleanliness collaborate in fostering awareness of »» Support the government as a regulator to make scientific decisions in policies relating hygiene information in community groups, to hygiene non-governmental organisations, the »» Building cooperation with experts in the field of hygiene to provide scientific education government, and other related agencies. easily understood by the public. National Symposium Lifebouy and PERSI in collaboration with health practitioners held National Symposium on February 27th, 2018. “More Protection, Less Antimicrobial” was the theme raised in the symposium, as an effort to increase awareness of disease prevention by encouraging the appropriate consumption of antibiotics. More than 300 live attendance and more than 600 webinar attendance from 95 hospitals in Indonesia, were involved in this event. The event was also attended by Prof. Dr. dr. Nila Djuwita Faried Anfasa Moeloek, SpM (K) as the key note speaker. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 42 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information OUR ACHIEVEMENTS COMMUNITY-BASED PROGRAMME IN 2018 To create a Healthy Indonesia, various parties in the community need to work well together in promoting the importance of clean and healthy living habits. Through community-based 2,000 MOSQUE programme, Unilever Indonesia partnered with various government and community organisations, local health services, professional institution, and non-governmental organisations to increase community awareness to further change the behaviour of wider in 10 cities in Indonesia community. Mosque Cleaning Movement 50,000 The role of community is very important to maintain cleanliness anywhere at any time. Therefore, Unilever and the Indonesian Mosque Council together with fellow partners from VOLUNTEERS non-governmental organisations (NGO) once again held the Mosque Cleaning Movement, involving the Mosque keeper called Marbot and local community. Educate In the second year of this movement, Unilever provided training, cleaning equipment 2,000 packages and guidance on how to effectively clean the mosque to 2,000 Marbot, as we believe that they are the key figures in engaging the local community to habituate the health and hygiene behaviour. MARBOT This movement started in Ramadhan reached around 50,000 community members Educate around the mosques to join the Mosque Cleaning activities throughout the year. Unilever also provided guidebook on how to maintain cleanliness of mosques and houses to the 150,850 community, so that they can apply these clean and healthy living habits into their homes. MOTHERS in 10 cities in Indonesia about health and hygiene behaviors Educate 1,200 MARKET TRADERS about health and hygiene behaviors PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 43 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents Healthy Mother and Toddler Programme Women, especially mothers are extraordinary figures who have an important role in maintaining family's health and becoming the agents of change for their surroundings. In collaboration with Family Empowerment and Welfare (PKK), Posyandu cadres, local public health services, and the Indonesian Dentist Association, Unilever held a Healthy Mother and Toddler Programme, to educate mothers about the importance of 7 Health and Hygiene Behaviours for their family's health. Unilever and PKK cadres collaborated to provide training for Posyandu cadres to further educate In 2018, we also strengthened the Handwashing with Soap education through the digital other mothers in their surrounding platform while encouraging the creativity of Posyandu cadres in spreading this positive environment. message, through the Importance of Handwashing with Soap photo competition. This Healthy Mother and Toddler programme successfully reached 150,850 Mothers in 10 cities. Healthy and Smart Market (Pasar Sehat Berdaya) Programme Through the Healthy and Smart Market Traditional markets have helped our consumers to find many Unilever products. Many (Pasar Sehat Berdaya) programme, Indonesian people held various activities and social interactions in the traditional market Unilever strived to increase community as well. As a place where consumers and traders engage, the traditional market can awareness on the importance of clean be one of the vulnerable places for the spread of many diseases. Therefore, in order to and healthy living habits in traditional prevent the spread of diseases and maintain community health, the health and hygiene of markets, by educating the traders on the traditional markets must be continuously improved. importance of clean and healthy market as well as placing relevant education materials in strategic spots around the market. This initiative also supported the government's Healthy Market programme. In 2018, Unilever also held free health check-up for traders while encouraging them to do the health check-up regularly. In collaboration with local public health services and the Market Traders Association, about 700 community members have taken free medical check-up, and nearly 1,200 traditional retailers and consumers reached through education on health and hygiene behaviours. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 44 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information IMPROVING QUALITY OF NUTRITION Our Commitment By 2020, globally, we will double the proportion of our portfolio that meets the highest nutritional standards, based on globally recognised dietary guidelines. As a food and beverage producer, Unilever Indonesia understands the impacts that can occur on society through our products. Nutrition in food and drinks plays an important role in creating a healthier lifestyle. Nutrition is the main subject to achieve Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) especially without hunger (SDG2). The 2017 Global Nutrition Report said that without addressing nutritionrelated problems, it will be very difficult to reach other SDGs. Based on Basic Health Research in 2018, the prevalence of non-communicable diseases in Indonesia has increased compared to 2013. To reduce this number, the Ministry of Health of Indonesia is concerned about the health message on food, especially the content of sugar, salt and fat. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 45 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents FOOD NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT The launch of Bango Light in 2018, was a concrete manifestation of the transformation of PROGRAMME nutritional improvement successfully carried out by Unilever Indonesia. This new variant of Bango soy sauce offers a healthier choice of product for people seeking lower sugar Unilever sets internal standards related to content. nutrition, the Highest Nutrition Standard, that must be met by each new product. In addition to providing nutritional information and serving sizes on product packaging, These standards have been developed the website www.masakapahariini.com was developed and it is accessible to the public. based on WHO standards and adapted to The website contains recipes that have gone through the Unilever Indonesia nutritionist the categories of food or beverages that assessment process, to ensure the ingredients and amount of use meet the right nutrients produce by the company. New products for consumption. will not be launched if it does not meet these nutritional standards. The nutritional standards set by Unilever include: »» Reduce sodium »» Reduce saturated fat »» Eliminate trans-fat »» Reduce sugar »» Reduce calories Reformulating our products to make great-tasting food and beverages that consumers enjoy while meeting our stretching targets, is a challenge for us. Our Research and Development team are working hard to deliver these improvement. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 46 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information Buavita Paddle pop Bango light Provide healthy diet info, Contain natural sweetener stevia contribute to essential nutrient intake, vit A, B compleks, vit C < 110 Kkal less calories with 30% less sugar * *(compare to regular Bango soy sauce) MAHI website, www.masakapahariini.com has reached more than 4.8 million visitors per December 2018, as measured from April 2018. It has approximately 1.2 million users. Jakarta Food Editor’s Club Collaborating with the Ministry of Health, influencers and bloggers, Unilever Indonesia invites the public to be aware of excess intake of fat, salt, and sugar due to emotional eating in Jakarta Food Editor’s Club. This education was in line with Isi piringku campaign, initiated by Indonesian Ministry of Health to replace the 4 sehat 5 sempurna campaign, in accordance with the research development of nutritional intake for the body. We hoped this knowledge can help the community to improve their health thus supporting healthier Indonesia. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 47 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 48 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information PRESERVING NATURE, REDUCING FOOTPRINTS Zero Waste to Nature 50 Green Infrastructure Performance 59 Environmental Performance of Operational 62 Activities PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 49 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents Reducing environmental impact is one of Unilever Sustainable Living Plan (USLP) pillar that leads to several goals of UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): Climate action (SDG13), Life Below Water (SDG14,) and Life on Land (SDG15). Unilever’s commitment globally within this pillar is reducing to halve the environmental footprint of the making and use of our products as we grow our business by 2030. This commitment drive us to take initiatives in factories by considering the material used and energy consumed to make our products, therefore our initiatives will unlock others goals of SDGs: Affordable and Clean Energy (SDG7); Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure (SDG9); and Responsible Consumption and Production (SDG12). Moreover, we also contribute to Decent Work and Economic Growth (SDG8); Sustainable Cities and Communities (SDG11); and Partnership for the Goals (SDG17) through advocacy and initiatives beyond our factories related to plastic waste handling. ZERO WASTE TO NATURE In 2018, the adoption of Circular Economy materials. CreaSolv® is considered as a Another new approach to ensure zero approach was becoming mature and pioneer technology in recycling of postwaste to nature was the recycling and reliable. It is clear that our efforts are on consumer flexible packaging waste. utilisation of rejected ice cream and the right track. By this approach, Unilever We were also introduced the utilisation wastewater treatment sludge into high manages all materials and waste at every of renewable energy of biomass in our protein and high-quality cattle feed or stage of its life cycle in a responsible production process. In addition, solar Maggot. Furthermore, we also continued manner. All wastes shall be reuse or panel technology was also installed in efforts to reduce water use, waste recycle so that there is no disposal many facilities. All these practices outline generation, energy consumption, and CO2 to the environment. Unilever adheres Unilever’s efforts to fulfil our promises to emissions which have done on previous to the three pillars of environmental use renewable energy as much as 50% of years, as well as continuing World Class management: waste, water, and energy. total energy used by the year of 2020 for Manufacturing and Real Time Analysis total Unilever globally. approaches. CreaSolv® technology was introduced in 2017 and has been in operation to recycle flexible plastic waste into raw PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 50 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information UNILEVER SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING APPROACH In alignment with the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan (USLP); The strategy to continually grow businesses that at the same time reduce environmental footprints, as well as enhance social benefits for the community, underlines our commitment to finding effective solutions for plastic waste issues. Globally, our commitments are: 1. Making 100% of our plastic packaging recyclable, reusable, and compostable by 2025. 2. Increasing the use of recycled plastic content in our packaging to at least 25% by 2025. 3. Reducing the weight of our packaging by one third by 2020. A summary of the packaging life cycle Product & Extraction Manufacturer Filling Disposal packaging Distribution Retail Use of raw materials of packaging of packaging or reuse specifications Landfill KEY Reuse or return Mending & storage Recycle Compost (for biodegradable packaging Potential options such as paper and bioplastic) Innovation/renovation in product packaging Beauty & Personal Care category records 386 ton packaging waste reduction, where 290 ton is plastic reduction. Significant weight reduction comes from: »» Rexona/Dove roll on packaging optimisation by 85 ton/year »» Clear Shampoo bottle redesign has reduced plastic by 60 ton/year »» Pond’s Moisturiser jar redesign which result on 36 ton/year. PRAISE Programme Provision of drop box for packaging waste in 100 point of locations in Jakarta to collecting packaging waste into the Circular Economy process. Waste Bank and Green & Clean Programme 2,816 waste bank were able to reduce inorganic waste by 7,779 ton. CreaSolv® Technology Recycling of flexible packaging with the capacity of 3 ton/day. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 51 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents CreaSolv® TECHNOLOGY, THE FIRST AND THE ONE AND ONLY IN FLEXIBLE PACKAGING TREATMENT Since 2011, Unilever has worked in cooperation with the Fraunhofer Institute for Process Engineering and Packaging IVV to invent technology to recycle flexible packaging waste. In 2017, Unilever launched its breakthrough CreaSolv® Technology, the first technology as well as the one an only of its kind. CreaSolv® is considered the most eco-efficient solution in management of sachet waste and is located in Sidoarjo, East Java. In 2018 the CreaSolv® began operations, recycling flexible post-consumer packaging waste. By year end, more than three tons of plastic waste is collected daily to be processed by CreaSolv®. This €10 million investment is the first step towards an even broader initiative to make Indonesia a more plastic-responsible society. Contaminant Film Residue Shredded Recycled Dissolution Purification Evaporation Drying Manufacture Flexible Resin/Films Solvent Recovery Process Disposal Use Distribution PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 52 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information Implementing CreaSolv® technology, »» The circular economy approach »» The biggest challenge in this kind transforms the linier economy model in generates new values for customers of recycling is the difficulty posed in plastic utilisation, ‘take-utilise-dispose’, and consumers, better risk collecting sachet waste. Communities into a circular economy model ‘takemanagement of raw materials, and in Indonesia are not yet in the habit of utilise-recycle-take’. innovation and improvements in supply segregating waste. Accordingly, synergy chain practices. among government and community is »» For Unilever, a circular economy essential to Unilever’s efforts to curb entails designing products using »» CreaSolv® Technology reduces waste. renewable and sustainable materials or Unilever’s environmental footprint. In resources. Materials are regenerated addition, the value of flexible packaging and continuously used in a ‘closed loop’ waste has also increased, creating instead of a ‘use and dispose’ practice. new income opportunities for waste collectors, as well as direct absorption »» Unilever recognise that the potential of new employment in the CreaSolv® benefits of this technology are facility. This is in alignment with the extremely promising for business aim of Unilever to enhance livelihoods as well as the environment. The for millions of people. regenerable materials can reduce input material utilisation significantly, yielding results that reduce cost and waste simultaneously. Three Steps Process in CreaSolv® Technology 1. Solving: Plastic or polymer are extracted from flexible packaging waste using specific liquid and solvent to convert into a polymer solution. 2. Purification: The Polymer solution is filtered, purified and transferred to a drying room. The residue is separated and treated. 3. Drying: Other materials are evaporated from the polymer solution. ‘Pure’ plastic polymer is collected and processed into polymer plastic pellets. These pellets are utilised as raw materials for new sachet packaging In the early stages of the trial process, the technology was able to absorb 3 tonnes of flexible packaging waste per day. On a commercial scale, CreaSolv® will reduce carbon dioxide emission as much as one sixth compared to production using virgin raw materials. Yearly figure reach 7,800 tons of carbon dioxide, which is equivalent to 8,200 tons of flexible plastic. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 53 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents GREEN AND CLEAN WITH WASTE BANK According to data from Ministry of Environment and Forestry, there are 5,244 waste banks in Indonesia. From that number, 2,816 waste banks are supported by Unilever. It shows how much we care for waste bank development in Indonesia. The waste banks programme aims to empower the community to independently collects, separates and recycles the waste and convert it into savings. In 2018, we started a new approach by engaging schools to actively participate in establishing waste banks. School teachers and students were encouraged to become members of waste banks. This breakthrough resulted in a significant 24.76% growth of waste bank members. Throughout this year, we have also implemented the programme in more cities by covering 37 cities in 12 provinces across Indonesia. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 54 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information 7.69% Growth in waste bank numbers compared to previous year 24.76% Growth in Waste Bank Member 27.00% Growth in Inorganic Waste Reduction 30.07% Growth in total turnover of Waste Banks WASTE BANK PROGRAMME 2018 UNITS 2,816 MEMBERS 429,519 2,615 (people) 344,274 1,633 1,258 976 712 470 73,228 55,558 28,420 36,479 35,756 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 INORGANIC WASTE REDUCTION TOTAL TURNOVER (ton) 7,779 (billion IDR) 10.49 6,125 8.38 4,363 6.45 3,739 3.80 2,135 2.80 1,200 1.70 331 0.31 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 55 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents 9 year old Ahmad Al Qadri lives in a rented Since 2017, Ahmad has become a house in Mamajang, South Sulawesi with member of the waste bank located next his mother and sister. to his school. The waste bank is facilitated by Unilever and Yayasan Peduli Negeri. Every day, he must wake up very early in Twice a week, he collects and deposits the morning to ensure he will arrive at waste, earning Rp 37,000 to Rp45,000 for school punctually. Accompanied by his each collection, fueling his enthusiasm mother, he walks about one kilometer to collect and segregate waste every day. to get to school. Instead of hurdle, the Ahmad uses the money to buy books, limitation has encouraged him to be more stationary, bags, and shoes for school. eager to achieve his dreams. “Becoming a soldier…to help peoples”, he said about his However, Ahmad’s eagerness to collect noble aspiration. After school he reviews for the waste bank is not merely due school lessons and does his homework economic factors to support his education, HOW AHMAD SAVING keenly. He says that mathematics, social but also to care for the surrounding science, and Indonesian language are his environment. He says that, in the future WASTE TO SUPPORT favourite subjects. when he becomes a soldier, he will HIS EDUCATION continue his habit to collect waste. “To get Beside his perseverance to achieve money and to make environment clean”, AND ENVIRONMENT dreams, Ahmad has a unique habit, which he said naively. He hopes others will do is waste saving. Before going home, he the same. always helps his mother clean up the garbage in the school canteen. He collects and segregates discarded cardboard, plastic, glass, and bottle to be deposited in waste bank. His routine has inspired some of his friends to join him. PRAISE Unilever’s campaign and advocacy efforts to reduce waste generation all over Indonesia is on going. With a number of collaborative projects conducted to enhance awareness and sense of urgency regarding the importance of waste reduction in everyday life. One such project includes a cooperation between Unilever and six other companies working together to establish PRAISE Packaging and Recycling Association for Indonesia Sustainable Environment/Association. The PRAISE strategic goal is to accelerate the development of waste management ecosystem that supports a Circular Economy. The three initiatives involved in this programme are as follows: • Actively promote waste segregation at source, • Optimise new and existing collection channels In 2018, as part of the PRAISE programme the Bali Bersih Project was carried • Drive the recycling value chain (through out at Sanur Kauh in Bali; and the Collective Dropbox Project was enacted in the Extender Stakeholder Responsibility or ESR). Jabodetabek area. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 56 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information Bali Bersih The Bali Bersih Project establishes a Platform that prepared to facilitate all stakeholders related to BALI BERSIH, including the local Government, Dinas LH, Pemuka Adat, CSO, Academia, and Households. At the upstream the project activities include education and community empowerment as well as improvement in waste collection systems. At the middle stream, we facilitate an increase in the capacity of waste collectors to aggregate more waste. Lastly at the downstream, waste collection is linked to recycling industry / other downstream industry. We also connect the collection activity with PRAISE’s downstream initiatives. Research has also been conducted in developing a hub for integrated data and information management, as well as promoting research on waste related topic. To optimise communication and sharing among stakeholders the Project has created a communication platform for stakeholders to align and accelerate any initiative to develop an integrated waste management in Bali. Collective Dropping Box Dropping Box initiative is a cycle of solution that embraced all relevant stakeholders, includes consumer, government, PRAISE, Waste Banks, and Waste4Change. The programme is designed to create awareness and trigger consumer behaviour change, establishing collection methods that involve all stakeholders to sustainably recover packaging waste. It was introduced to the public during Indonesia Environmental Week (20th-21st July 2018) endorsed by the Indonesia Ministry of Environment and Forestry as well as the Jakarta Environmental Agency. Dropping Box also supported the less waste campaign at Asian Games venues 2018. OUTREACH 100 THROUGH SOCIAL MEDIA once a week DROPPING BOX distributed 800-1,000 COLLECTED WASTE is taken from each dropping box per month, based on number in Jabodetabek of page view Dropping Box initiatives is a transformative innovation which has four unique features: 1. Assured segregation. Consumers are able to segregate and dispose their packaging waste according to type: paper (carton packaging, paper, and cardboard) and non-paper (plastic bottles, food/beverage cans, glass bottles, plastic sachets and refill pouches). PRAISE and Waste4Change are ensuring that all processes of collection, transportation, and waste management are as the same as segregation in the Dropping Boxes. 2. Assured processing. Collected waste is collected by Waste4Change partners and periodically conveyed to proven Waste Bank partners. 3. Assured recycling. Sorted recyclable wastes is transferred to recycling plants and residue is treated by Waste4Change partners, ensuring the collected packaging waste does not end up in landfills. 4. Assured education. The initiative is equipped with various forms of educational media, such as attractive infographics attached to the Dropping Boxes. Sustainable community programmes are also conducted through mass and social media. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 57 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents CIRCULAR ECONOMY FORUM OUR OCEAN CONFERENCE David Blanchard, Chief Research and Development Officer of Unilever Global Unilever supported the Circular Economy As part of our commitment to support said “We aims for all of our packaging Forum (CEF) 2018. The event was environmental conservation, particularly to have the ability to be recycled, reused, organised by Waste4Change in Surabaya in maintaining the sustainability of our and degradable by 2025. CreaSolv® from 28-30th June, 2018. CEF was oceans, Unilever was participated in development is a real step to achieving attended by 450 participants, including the Our Ocean Conference (OOC) 2018. the target. We want this new technology experts and practitioners from relevant The fifth annual event aimed to enhance to be expanded, to benefits many parties, fields who shared their expertise and collaboration and cooperation among including companies in the same sector insight. stakeholders, to bring forth a real and with us”. applicable commitment regarding oceans The main theme of CEF was “Redefining sustainability. To overcome waste issues, besides the Waste Management: From Trash to appropriate technology, the optimum Resource Management”. Three key At the OOC, Unilever conveyed its sachet packaging waste collection subjects were discussed: Indonesia’s commitment to maintaining cleanliness scheme is needed in order to recycle. future plans for waste management, and health of our oceans. One such way Accordingly, Unilever empowers plastic waste and marine debris is by targeting the recycling and reuse thousands of collectors as well as countermeasures, as well as latest efforts of all plastic packaging, and ensuring communities establishing cooperation on the occasion of circular economy era. packaging is degradable in 2025. Unilever between Waste Banks, Government, and also introduced the newest technological local retailers . This mechanism will be The event yielded five recommended breakthrough in waste recycling integrated into a model able to enhance actions: technology, the CreaSolv® Process, the the income of recycling industries and all 1. To ensure a continuous circular latest innovation in recycling flexible involved stakeholders in order to enhance economy implementation. packaging or sachet packaging, which economic growth. 2. The circular economy should usually ends up in landfills or oceans. foremostly be based on equality, transparency and mutual benefits. 3. The use of digital technologies is highly Hopefully, all community elements will support the recommended in disseminating the benefits and importance of the circular commitment and initiatives conducted by Unilever economy to the world nowadays. and the Government, therefore freeing oceans of 4. The concept of the circular economy needs to be communicated as early as waste in the future. possible to the younger generations. 5. Circular economy implementation needs to be actively included in local government budget plans. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 58 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information GREEN INFRASTRUCTURE PERFORMANCE Unilever ensuring that every factory and office building shall obtain relevant environmental certification or rating. ISO 14001 Environmental Management System, Blue Rating of PROPER, and Green Building Certification shall be implemented in all company facilities. These minimal requirements reflect our efforts to ensure that environmental management in all our facilities is conducted in a systematic and continually improving manner. Facility Certificate and/or Rating Cikarang Plant »» ISO 14001:2015 Certificate »» LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) Certificate – Gold »» PROPER – Blue Rating »» ISO 9001:2015 »» OHSAS 18001:2007 Rungkut Plant »» ISO 14001:2015 Certificate »» LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) Certificate – Gold »» PROPER – Blue Rating »» ISO 9001:2015 »» OHSAS 18001:2007 Headquarters »» SMK3 certification Since Unilever’s green building was in fully operational in 2018, we started to measure environmental indicators and performance of our headquarters. A system of measurement and monitoring was put in place to conduct such recordings. zero waste to landfill 8% Reduction in electricity consumption compared to 2017, from 5,245,650 kWh (2017) to 4,862,442 kWh (2018) 83.16% Reduction in energy consumption while participating in Earth Hour 2018 PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 59 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents During 2018, in our headquarters, our plastic waste composition is decreased from 13% to 12%. To achieve this kind of reduction we have promoting some efforts to our employees and visitors of the building, which are: 1. Make a movement campaign to reduce the use of plastic in the office. This movement started by spreading short messages via email to fellows about the importance of reducing the use of plastic such as: »» Carrying our own shopping bag, »» Drinking water tumbler, »» Stop using disposable straws and plastic spoons/forks, »» Reduce products using plastic bags, »» Store products into bottles or jar, »» Use stock boxes for food packaging. 2. Reduce consumption of instant foods that use disposable packaging and switch to eat locally produced foods (fresher, healthier food). 3. Implementing a systematic waste segregation system to ensure optimum utilisation or recycling of waste. Beside all benefits above, green building brings other many benefits to sustainable development. In alignment Green building can Green building design with Sustainable improve people’s can spur innovation & health & wellbeing contribute to climate Development Green building resilient infrastructure Goals, our can use renewable energy, becoming green building cheaper to run Building green contributes infrastructure creates jobs & boosts to 9 goals. the economy Source: World Green Building Council PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 60 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information As a part of our effort to utilise all wastes as a resource, in 2018 Cikarang Ice 327.14 tonnes Animal Feed Cream Factory initiated a new approach Reject product (Maggot) in managing reject ice cream and waste water treatment sludge. This approach is in alignment with Unilever Global Policy to achieve zero waste landfill. We created double benefits, a 71.28% cost saving of 74.77 tonnes Animal Feed 71.28% waste treatment cost and a zero waste wastewater sludge (Maggot) Cost Saving footprint to the environment. In cooperation with third party partners, we utilise: »» Mix ice cream reject products into liquid 150.32 tonnes Animal Feed fertiliser. Rejected Product (Pellet) »» Wastewater treatment sludge into high protein cattle food. This project converting waste into, liquid fertiliser and maggot is conducted in cooperation with one of BPPT (Badan Pengkajian dan Penerapan Teknologi or Agency for the Assessment and Application of Technology) Start-up. It is obvious that we also contribute to create technology entrepreneur in Indonesia. Green buildings use ‘circular’ principles, where resources Green buildings aren’t wasted produce fewer Green buildings are the emissions, helping to Green building design fabric of sustainable combat climate change can improve biodiversity, communities and cities save water resources & Through building green help to protect forests we create strong, global partnership PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 61 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE OF OPERATIONAL ACTIVITIES 100% Zero Waste To Landfill As mandated by Unilever Global, regular Environment Performance Report (EPR) are conducted. Using this reporting system, Unilever Indonesia monitor seven main environmental parameters: 1. Carbon Dioxide (CO₂) emission for Green House Gases reporting, in our Head Office 2. Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD), 3. Energy consumption, 32.78% Decrease in Energy Intensity 4. SOx emission, 5. Hazardous Waste, 6. Non-Hazardous Waste, and 7. Water consumption. (2008 Baseline) 2008 is used as the base year in comparing annual environmental management performance. 33.17% Decrease in GHGS Intensity REDUCING GREEN HOUSE GASES (GHGS) EMISSIONS (2008 Baseline) Many efforts have been made to reduce GHG emissions in our facilities. Solar panels have been installed in factories as well as offices. Solar heaters have also been installed to supply hot water to production processes. In our Personal Care Plant, the initiatives saved 26.26% 6.7 GJ of energy per day. Other efforts to reduce energy consumptions include: »» Installation of high efficiency motors in packing lines, »» Installation of automatic load heaters, Decrease in Water Intensity »» Reduction of compressed air leakages and improvement of air compressor performance, (2008 Baseline) »» Improvement of HVAC performance, »» Installation of automatic blowdown and TDS control for boiler, »» Installation of inverters for transfer pumps, 90.5% »» Installation of Ozone treatment, »» Steam trap replacements. Decrease in COD Intensity (2008 Baseline) Energy GJ/Tonnes 1.28 1.24 1.26 1.12 1.12 1.08 1.02 0.95 0.89 0.89 0.86 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 62 Sustainability Report 2018 1.28 1.24 1.26 sustainable Business Products and Supporting 1.12 1.12 Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information 1.08 1.02 0.95 0.89 0.89 0.86 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 The reduction in energy consumption contributes significantly to reducing GHG emissions. It shows that energy intensity and CO2 emissions have been consistently dropping since 2008. Co2 emission kg/Ton 152.15 147.81 126.66 128.09 124.24 119.76 120.07 119.42 105.40 103.05 101.69 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Biomass Utilisation As energy prices from natural gas are continuously increasing, in 2017, low cost energy including coal, biomass, wood-based and ethanol were assessed. Aligning with the Unilever USLP programme, palm kernel shells were selected for biomass utilisation for the following reasons: 1. Availability of latest technology for Biomass in another Unilever factories worldwide. 2. Availability of and continuity of palm kernel feedstock in Indonesia, particularly from Sumatera and Kalimantan. 3. Small area is required. 4. Fixed price of feedstock for 5 years – ensure the supply when inflation is increasing. The Biomass energy source is implemented in the NSD Powder Factory, Cikarang. This project is started in March 2018 and was fully operational by January 2019. The first spray was conducted in December 26, 2018 and continued with site preparation for full operation in January 2019. The NSD Tower fully uses Biomass since January 4, 2019. The project has brought savings in energy and zero CO2 emissions. We can save our energy bill down by up to 40%. This has remarked our next journey as green factory by using non-fossil fuel for generating of hot air both for our Spray dryer Tower and Steam generator. We calculate the emission using methodology and emission factor from US Environmental Protection Agency and Bioenergy Consult (https://www.epa.gov and https://www.bioenergyconsult.com). PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 63 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents REDUCING WATER FOOTPRINT pollution load. Financial benefit include by »» Improvement in crude Glycerine and saving Rp 54 million/year in wastewater reduce its carry over, reduction, One of the main programmes to reduce treatment cost. »» Change over plan in processing, our water footprint is the reduction of »» Automatic blowdown and Total Glycerine carry over in the Rungkut In addition, the following efforts to reduce Dissolved Solids (TDS) control for boiler, production plant. This programme water consumption were also made: »» Ozone treatment. reduced 100 kg organic in the form of »» Reuse of water from clean-in-place Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) in (CIP) process, 2018. Since 2016 we have reduced 700 »» Wastewater treatment plant PW kg of COD, therefore reducing the water improvement, water consumption m3/Ton 1.78 1.65 1.68 1.43 1.46 1.44 1.35 1.31 1.23 1.19 1.20 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 COD kg/Ton 1.79 1.03 0.69 0.64 0.40 0.29 0.18 0.20 0.17 0.15 0.16 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Even though we reduce significantly, compared to 2008 achievements, our water consumption is increase slightly since 2016 and COD load also increase slightly since 2017. This phenomena are happens due to change of procedure to maintain product quality, the cleaning frequency is conducted twice than before. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 64 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information REDUCING WASTE FOOTPRINT Unilever Indonesia manages hazardous and non-hazardous waste using a full life cycle approach. The approach are reduce, reuse, recycle, and eliminate. Hazardous Waste Reduction Non-Hazardous Waste Reduction »» Substitution of wastewater treatment chemicals »» Return packaging to supplier »» Recycling of laboratory waste »» Segregate waste in a more consistent manner »» Optimisation of beltpress to reduce water content to optimise its utilisation of sludge »» Improve cooperation with supplier to reduce »» CT sludge natural drying waste using reduce, reuse and recycle approach »» Reduce Glycerine carry over »» Recycling garden and yard waste into compost »» Use of lube oil according to its lifetime »» Zero waste canteen. Unilever made an »» Optimisation of scrapper angle to reduce waste agreement with canteen provider to implement »» Rework for the process of toothpaste, finesoap zero to landfill programme. dust and soap. Total waste KG/Ton 39.40 33.69 32.14 30.23 29.35 26.91 26.42 26.23 26.05 24.47 24.07 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 recycled waste KG/Ton 26.21 26.07 25.88 24.32 23.89 21.84 22.18 20.63 18.25 12.78 5.78 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 65 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION As a user of agricultural materials such as black soybean, tea, vegetables, palm oil, and chili, we are responsible for managing biodiversity impacts of our operations. To ensure proper management of biodiversity, we adhere to the Unilever Sustainable Agriculture Code (USAC). USAC clearly stipulates that supply of our materials shall not cause negative impact to biodiversity. We must improve the biodiversity quality of our operations. The following efforts have been made to mitigate biodiversity impact: »» Leading to establish Tropical Forest Alliance 2020 (TFA), a public private partnership among “Consumer Good Forum”. TFA is committed to reducing and gradually eliminating deforestation related to supply of palm oil, soybean, paper, and meat. »» In cooperation with Institut Teknologi Sepuluh November (ITS) to establish mangrove ecotourism and calculation of carbon sequestration of mangrove plants. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 66 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Criteria Unit 2018 2017 2016 WASTE COD (Direct disposal) kg/ton 0.00 0.00 0.00 COD (Discharge to Municipal) kg/ton 0.17 0.16 0.20 Total COD kg/ton 0.17 0.16 0.20 Hazardous waste (non-recyclable) kg/ton 0.00 0.00 0.00 Non-Hazardous waste (non-recyclable) kg/ton 0.00 0.00 0.00 Disposable waste kg/ton 0.00 0.00 0.00 Recycled waste kg/ton 25.88 26.07 26.21 Total waste kg/ton 26.05 26.23 26.42 SOx from boiler kg SO2 0.00 0.00 0.00 ENERGY Total fuel consumption Electricity GJ 539,817 544,492 536,251 from non-renewable Diesel GJ 2,307 2,653 8,976 sources Natural gas GJ 517,991 587,232 573,094 Total fuel consumption Biomass GJ 0 0 0 from renewable sources Solar GJ 0 0 0 Others GJ 0 0 0 Total energy consumption GJ 1,057,808* 1,131,724* 1,118,321 Energy Intensity GJ/ton 0.86* 0.89* 0.89 EMISSION CO2 from Energy kg/ton 101.69 103.05 105.40 WATER WITHDRAWAL Water withdrawal Surface water m3 0 0 0 by source Groundwater m3 0 0 0 Produced water m 3 1,621,880 1,525,957 1,489,932 Total water consumption m 3 1,621,880 1,525,957 1,489,932 Water usage intensity m /ton 3 1.31 1.20 1.19 WATER DISCHARGE Total volume water Oceans m3 0 0 0 discharge by destination Lake m 3 0 0 0 Waste water plant m 3 417,673 441,241 454,163 Total waste water m 3 417,673 441,241 454,163 * in 2017 and 2018 energy intensity calculation exclude diesel, due to in that year diesel only use for logistic process. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 67 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 68 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information NURTURING OUR PRECIOUS TALENTS People with Purpose 70 Managing Human Resources 71 Equal Opportunities 74 Creating a Safe and Healthy Workplace 77 PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 69 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents In 2018 Unilever Indonesia continued to transition to a more futurefit working culture that encourages accountability, agility and experimentation. We are embracing more flexible, collaborative and technology-enabled ways of working that are enabling us to more effectively leverage the talents and passion of our own people as well as others in the open talent economy. We also achieved back to back recognition as Indonesia's Best Companies to Work For from the HR Asia Awards 2018. The award motivates us to continuously improve the well being of Unilever employees. PEOPLE WITH PURPOSE A person’s life purpose consists of central motivating aims which inform decisions, shape 799 out of behaviour, motivate, give direction, and create meaning. By being aware of their purpose, all activities and resources canl be focused in fullfiling it. Unilever Indonesia is very aware of this phenomena. Accordingly, Purpose Workshops are conducted to facilitate our employees at management level to self reflect and find motivating factors and how to 1,437 achieve them. The dynamics of work accompanied with complexity and rapid changes demand employees Management Level Employee to continuously adapt to stressful job circumstances. Unilever’s Individual Development Plan is designed to unlock individual potential. We believe that by understanding their Participate “Purpose Workshop” purpose, employees will become more adaptable and resilient to challenging situations, which in turn creates a better job performance and satisfactions. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 70 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information MANAGING HUMAN RESOURCES The strategies implemented in managing human resources aim to develop our talent, from joining Unilever Indonesia until succeeding in becoming leaders. RECRUITMENT Unilever has designed proactive 7,933 5,543 recruitment programmes, which focus on attracting and obtaining the best talent for all levels of the organisation. Since 2012, we open the opportunity for college ULIP APPLICANTS ULIP APPLICANTS students to join with Unilever Indonesia in 2018 in 2017 through The Unilever Leadership Internship Programme (ULIP). One of the programmes that has been improved in 2018 is the Unilever Future Leaders Programme (UFLP). We have carried out this programme to identify exceptional candidates to fill middle and senior management position in the future. 21,557 15,228 9,204 UFLP APPLICANTS UFLP APPLICANTS UFLP APPLICANTS in 2018 in 2017 in 2016 In addition of gamification (digital technology used in the recruitment process), in 2018 more human interaction was added, including a networking session, where Unilever Leaders directly In 2018 the Crescendo Project was developed to engage with the participants of UFLP for sharing and mentoring. The participants manage talent. We review every need of resources, also undergo three months of business camp and cooperate with fellow then we identify the resources that could be done participants to manage a project in their twelfth month. Their behaviour during by crowdsourcing. Through this project, we aim to the programme was observed in order to acknowledge their real world skills rather improve our organisation capacity, by keeping our than technical skill or what have been written on the paper. talent to be focused on things that matters. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 71 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents CONTINUOUS LEARNING of their roles, and developing professional DEGREED USER AS DIGITAL mastery in their field of work. Better PLATFORM FOR TRAINING Unilever believes that one of the main technical competencies are expected contributors to business growth is to improve decision making, problem employees who give their best effort in doing their jobs. Hence, continuous learning opportunities are essential in increasing knowledge and ability. solving, and quality of execution. The digital platform is an instrument that also be our choice to provide information 2,265 Unilever’s Individual Development Plan and knowledge sharing. In addition to TRAINING HOURS is a long term focus developed by each sustain using degreed that has been 33,485 employee and their line manager. launched 2017, in 2018 we launched ID application for new employees to During 2018 soft competency training was provide information and knowledge about provided, which aims to equip employees Unilever Indonesia since day one. to have appropriate leadership behaviours, able to work effectively and provide short-term results as well as long-term strategic impacts. Technical competency, certification training, and professional skill training, was also provided helping employees to deliver results expected out CERTIFICATION 5 Participants SOFT COMPETENCIES TECHNICAL COMPETENCIES PROFESSIONAL SKILL 2,002Participants 15,506 Participants 1,306 Participants PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 72 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information SUCCESSION PLANNING Unilever’s approach regarding management strategy on placement in the organisation has changed. Previously employees were classified based on their group level. However, in 2017 succession planning for all levels of the organisation was developed in alignment with the potential and skill of each person. We continue the same approach in 2018. INDIVIDUAL DEVELOPMENT, REMUNERATION AND INCENTIVES Unilever Indonesia treats every person in the organisation fairly, equally, and without any discrimination regarding individual development, remuneration and incentives. This commitment is written in the Unilever Code of Business Principles and Code Policies under the ‘Respect, Dignity and Fair Treatment’ policy, which align to SDGs of Reduce People Week Inequalities (SDG10) and Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions (SDG16). In 2018, we transformed our approach in fostering company culture trough People Week. Unilever aims to encourage employees to be more interactive and engaging, through number of activities within three agenda points: STAY CONVERSATION »» Learning. Inspiring our talent through internal and external spokespeople, invited We are sustaining stay conversation programme to identifies early indication to introduce three mindsets: accountability, of employee dissatisfaction, so causes of problems can be address. We also agility and experimentation. facilitate Mini Forum which held quarterly to ensure communication between line »» Wellbeing. Simple medical chek up and manager and employees is maintained. In 2018, not only from their line manager, joint exercise session were conducted we facilitate employee to get feedback of their performance from other function »» Culture. In line with the stay conversation through this programme. programme, we provide coaching clinic to maintain the high spirit among talent. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 73 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES Unilever believes that men and women have equal potential and opportunity in career development. At Unilever, four members of the Board of Directors are women. Inclusiveness and concern for our employees’ wellbeing has always been central to Unilever 40% Indonesia’s culture, in line with the commitments in our Unilever Sustainable Living Plan (USLP). Last year Unilever became one of the first companies in the country to introduce paternity leave. After seeing the positive impact on our employees, in 2018 we extended this from five days to three weeks. Female employees are entitled to four months of maternity leave, a full month longer than statutory leave under Indonesian employment law. Women on Board of Directors 40% Female Manager 17% Female Employees (excluding Directors) PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 74 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information Amparo Cheung Aswin, Supply Chain Director of Unilever Indonesia, and an excellent example of a succesfull Unilever’s female employee said, “We want to realise a world where every woman is able to create the life they want. A life that is not restricted by dangerous norms or stereotypes. We belive that a world where women are economically empowered will be a fairer, happier and more prosperourly place to live. Accordingly, our business will grow simultaneously”. 50 female university students were selected from all over Indonesia to participate. The programme conducted since 2017, aims to provide insight regarding Supply Chain in the fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) industry. During the two days event, participants received direct inspirational insight from UNILEVER SUPPORT INDONESIAN FEMALE TO CHOOSE CAREER Unilevers Indonesia’s Executive Leaders. IN ENGINEERING FIELD THROUGH WULF 2018 PROGRAMME Sharing sessions, focus group discussion, workshops, and mentoring were Unilever believe that male and female has equal potential and opportunity. To support conducted concurently. The participants Indonesian female, particularly female students majoring in engineering to be more had the opportunity to developed their confident in the career of engineering and supply chain field, Unilver Indonesia conducted skills and insights as well as get hands on Women in Engineering Leadership Fellowship (WULF). WULF is also a programme to experience regarding career development. realise our commitment to support Sustainable Development Goals 5 (Gender Equality). PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 75 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents INDUSTRIAL RELATION UNILEVER INDONESIA EXTEND PATERNITY LEAVE FOR MALE EMPLOYEE Unilever Indonesia is committed to Unilever has extended maternity leave for female employees into 4 month. In 2018, protecting employees rights as stated paternity leave was also extended for male employees from 5 days to 3 weeks. This is in the Code of Business Principles and part of our big commitment of Unilever Sustainable Living Plan (USLP), which is impoving Code Policies. These commitments are health and well-being for more than one billion people, including Unilever Employees. reflected through the Collective Labour Agreement (CLA), which is renegotiated Willy Saelan, Director of Human Resources for PT Unilever Indonesia said, “One of the and signed every two years by the most important aspects of well-being for employees is establishing a happy and healthy employee union and management of family. In this regard, Unilever has enacted the Maternity and Paternity Support Platform Unilever Indonesia. All (100%) permanent (MAPS). MAPS is a comprehensive medical facility for employees, their spouses and their employees of Unilever Indonesia are children, including maternity or paternity leave”. protected by rights and obligations set in this agreement. In alignment with facilitating an inclusive culture at Unilever Indonesia, we believe that fathers and mothers have equal roles in child development, since the child is born. Research indicates that there is a positive correlation between paternity leave and child development. The child will benefit from a close relationship with their father in infancy, and grow positively both physically and mentally. A father that engages with their child tend to be happier and have a higher satisfaction feeling in their personal and professional lives. Additionally, the mother will enjoy a better well-being and have better career prospects. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 76 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information CREATING A SAFE AND HEALTHY WORKPLACE Our Commitment We aim for zero workplace injuries. By 2020 we will reduce the Total Recordable Frequency Rate (TRFR) for accidents in our factories and offices by 50% versus 2008. Health and safety is a key factor for all industries in order to promote the wellness of both employees and employers. It is the duty and moral responsibility of the company to ensure the employee protection. Through Central of Safety, Health & Environmental Committee (CSHEC), we promotes the collaboration in creating safer workplaces and promoting health and well-being. CSHEC consists of 5 sub-committees, each led by up to two members of BOD, at site level the similar structure, known as Unit of Safety Health and Environment Committees (USHEC) also established, where each unit is lead by Site Director. To maintain its consistency we scheduled CSHEC meeting every quarter to empower safety management system. Safety Rules, policies and procedures are consistently applied both internally (employee) and externally (Business Partner, Contractors). Not only communicating it to all the respected parties but the principles were being refreshed continually through Safety Trainings, Workshop, Safety Sharing, engagement and many other platforms. However, the educative effort needs to be balanced with the consequence Six Cardinal Rules of Safety management. Hence the Golden Rules (Golden Safety Rules) of Safety are also outlined in the PKB (Perjanjian Kerja Bersama) as part of our commitment to take serious disciplinary Rules that covers Driving Safely, Working at Height, action against violation of the Golden Energy Isolation, Confined Space Entry, Organizing Business Event, Rules of Safety to demonstrate our and Lifting Operation. strong safety beliefs and to protect our employees from harm. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 77 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY INITIATIVES The initiatives carried out in 2018 were a continuation of the previous year initiatives, to emphasize our ‘Vision Zero’ strategy: no fatalities, no injuries, no motor vehicle accidents, no accidents in the work process, and no tolerance of unsafe behaviours or unsafe work practices. Safe Travel »» In 2018 the Defensive Driving Training programme for new comers & refreshers, covered 473 Business Drivers. The programme also includes First Aid training for the drivers. »» The Fleet Driver Risk Index (FDRI), an safe driving assessment programme developed by Cranfield University is a mandatory programme to all Unilever Indonesia’s Business Drivers with achievement of 97% coverage in 2018. »» Completed 100% Route Risk Assessment and the implementation of Journey Management Planning (JMP) for identified high-risk routes which includes reviewing safe route, proper planning & safe locations for rest break, communication protocol, no night driving and other safety precaution for carrying out trips safely. »» The ‘blackbox’ programme; in-vehicle monitoring system (IVMS) devices installed in 417 operational & business vehicles that track the driving behaviour of the drivers and record various details of each trip. »» The Road Safety Campaign, covers Defensive Driving, Safety Riding Awareness, Road Safety Rules, Motor ON Mobile OFF (MOMO), Mudik Safely, Vehicle Fitness, and Safety Riding for beginners for our third parties/business partner teams. »» Regular Vehicle Inspection of Unilever Indonesia’s operational vehicles. 3 for Zero Fatalities »» Conducted Refresher and continued communication of Golden Safety Rules. »» Machinery Safety and Hand in Machine (HIM) campaigns in Manufacturing sites. »» Incident Reporting campaign and communication including to all employees and our third parties/business partners. Conducting FERA audit to 3rd party manufactured Fire & Explosion Risk Analysis (FERA) is a specific Fire Safety Audit rolled out to our Suppliers manufacturing operation to form a gap analysis of Fire Safety compliance against NFPA (National Fire Protection Association) which aligns with Unilever’s FMGlobal/GRC baseline. Our Safety department and Procurement department collaborated in reinforcing this audit to our main suppliers and third party manufactures. Their fire protection systems were audited by TUV. In 2018, we have assessed 27 suppliers in scope, at 32 site locations. The programme was started in February 2018 on site progressively from planning, site assessment, desktop analysis, and report & recommendation. Corrective actions were taken to follow up report findings to improve the fire protection system PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 78 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information Health and Safety Campaign – Unilever Indonesia Safety Day (27 April 2018) COVERAGE THEME OVERALL ACTIVITIES Make the Right Choice All injuries are preventable Head Office, Cikarang Sub Theme in Manufacturing: »» Opening Ceremony with One voice safety message and Rungkut Hand in Machine Safety from Unilever Indonesia’s Chairman, and Safety Manufacturing, message from each Site Director 33 Depots, also in Sub Theme in Depot Office: »» Safety Stand Down and highlighted Top reported Warehouses & third Situational Awareness on the Road and MOMO Safety Behaviour Observation( SBO) parties Manufacturing (Motor-On, Mobile – Off) »» Safety Hero acknowledgement »» Personal Commitment Sub Theme Head Office: »» Quizzes and Competition Emergency Preparedness at Home »» Risk Assessment Identify UA/UC (Unsafe Act/ Unsafe Condition) Sub Theme Warehouse & 3P Manufactures »» Workshop i.e. Basic Life Support Training, Material-Handling Equipment (MHE) Safety Emergency Readiness, Safety Riding »» Emergency & Evacuation Drills HEALTHY AND SAFE BEHAVIOUR The Behaviour Safety Excellence (BeSafE) is a Behaviour-Based Safety programme developed by DuPont is a corporate-wide Recently, 929 employees have been joined initiative, involving all lines of the organisation from factory employees to the board of directors. Unilever integrates BeSafE BeSafe programme. We will continue the with World Class Manufacturing programme at all plants. programme on the upcoming year. The BeSafE programme is designed to increase participants’ understanding of occupational risks and encourages them to adopt safe behaviour by eliminating risks or hazards, both for themselves and those around them. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH Unilever Indonesia’s occupational health programme encourages employee to be healthier so that their productivity will increase accordingly. In 2018, as result of medical check-ups conducted for all of Unilever employees, we facilitated improvement in four areas of health aspects: »» Nutrition: High blood fat level become was the most important aspects. To overcome such health problem, Unilever Indonesia provided high fibre foods in employees canteen, such as vegetable salads, fruits, and juices. We also invited nutrition councelor to provide consultation session with employees, either in class workshop or personal consultation regarding healthy cooking and healthy meal pattern. »» Physical: Revitalise our sports facilities by adding more physical activity classes for our employees. We also conducted a reminder system to invite employee to engage in sport and physical activity. »» Mental: Reminding all employees regarding the availability of Employee Assistant Programme. A hotline service is available 24 hours a day. In this regard, to commemorate World Mental Day (10th October) we conducted a workshop to manage children from gadget addiction. »» Purpose: We provided a reminding system regarding employee’s achievement of their purpose. Unilever provided monitoring team as well as to facilitate them to recognise their achievement level as well as provided advices for follow-up action. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 79 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents Occupational Health and Safety Occupational Health and Safety Performance Evaluation Management System At Unilever, accidents are measured as Total Recordable Frequency Rate (TRFR) per The occupational health and safety 1,000,000 (one million) man-hours. TRFR is defined as all workplace accidents, excluding standards in Unilever Indonesia is in only those that require simple first aid treatment. Therefore, The TRFR calculation is compliant to relevant regulation of the sum of all lost-time accidents (LTA) plus restricted work cases (RWC) plus medical Ministry of Manpower, Ministry of Health treatment cases (MTC) expressed as a rate per one million hours worked. and Ministry of Industry. All of our Home and Personal Care as well as Foods Overall in 2018, Unilever Indonesia has achieved good safety performance results, with Factories are SMK3 certified by the the Total Recordable Frequency Rate (TRFR) of 0.39 (target of 0.41) for Employees and 0.13 Ministry of Manpower and OHSAS 18001 (target of 0.27) for Contractors. Compared to the previous year, the Severity Index has also certified for Occupational Health and decreased to 0.00 (Zero Lost Time Accident). Beside occupational safety, in manufacturing Safety Management System. across all our factories we achieved Zero Process Safety Incident. Overall in 2018, Zero Serious SHE Incident has been achieved as classified by Unilever. In 2018, Our head office the Grha Unilever, also obtained SMK3 certification as per PP 1.00 no 50/2012. The certification was issued 0.90 by the government confirmings that our 0.86 0.80 head office operations implements an 0.70 0.75 effective Occupational Health & Safety Management System and in compliance 0.60 0.58 with Legal requirement and applicable 0.50 0.52 0.49 0.52 health & safety standards. 0.40 0.42 0.39 0.30 0.33 Occupational Health and Safety 0.20 0.28 0.28 of Contractors and Business 0.10 Partners 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Unilever safety standards & requirements TRFR are part of the contractual agreement between Unilever and third parties. We aimed that the standard is fully complied However, we recognise how essential and still required it is the safety improvement at our with whilst performing all business Third Parties & Business Partners. In 2018 unfortunately, we received reports from our activities. Violation against the standard Third Parties & Business Partners, that their team members have been involved in road will lead to consequence management. accident and resulted very unfortunate of four fatalities while driving for business. To ensure meeting the Unilever A central feature of the road safety campaign was the ‘blackbox’ programme; IVMS (inIndonesia’s safety expectation, standards vehicle monitoring system) devices were installed in 417 ULI operational & business & requirements, as well as proper vehicles that track the driving behaviour and record various details of each trip, including implementation of Safety Management, speeds, acceleration, harsh braking, route deviations and rest times. Overall in 2018 our and good safety performance of our drivers have covered over 12,464,392 km business driving. contractors and Business Partners; we conducted Safety Audit to contractors Our safety programme also reaches beyond the workplaces; in 2018 our Safety Start at & business partners regularly both by Home programme, distributed Health and Safety related educations, has reached more internal (by our Safety Team) and external than 900 people (employees with family members and nearby communities). (independent auditing bodies), as well as organizing various Safety workshops and In 2018, Unilever Indonesia has conducted 97 Public Events (symposium, shows, festivals, trainings. concerts, road shows, etc.) involving more than 401,743 participants across the nation and successfully managed the events with Zero Accident. This was achieved through 100% compliance We also continuously maintains a proper to our Safety Assessment and Risk Mitigation for all OBE (Organised Business Event). understanding of standards through various engagement with the Contractors Six of our factories (Liquid, NSD, Skin, TBB, Savory & BCS) achieved in joint over 5.5 and Business Partner’s top level of millions (5,525,708) safe man-hours with Zero Recordable Accident (no accident of Medical management with the objective of getting Treatment Case and above) throughout 2018. the commitment, enhancing awareness and open discussion for continuous Beside the lagging indicators, we also track our leading KPI such as the reporting of Safety improvement. We convey them that Behaviour Observation (SBO) in which employees identified and reported safe behaviour the benefit of the compliance with our and/or unsafe situation (unsafe acts or conditions). The SBO has an objective to nurture standards and requirements is also to positive safety interaction and recognition within the organisation, boost a proactive safety their own business. Good safety is a good culture, as well as to implement any necessary actions in preventing harm or accident. business. In 2018 our SBO rate was 695, which reflected the number of reported SBO per 100,000 manhours. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 80 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information HUMAN CAPITAL PROFILE 2018 2017 2016 NEW EMPLOYEES, THE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY AGE Male Female Male Female Male Female < 30 years old 310 110 328 70 481 105 30 – 50 years old 22 18 12 5 21 23 50 years old 2 0 0 0 1 0 Total 334 128 341 75 503 128 2018 2017 2016 TURNOVER*, THE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY AGE Male Female Male Female Male Female < 30 years old 39 30 35 33 79 33 30 – 50 years old 40 21 87 37 65 31 50 years old 0 1 23 10 20 6 % Turnover 8% 9% 3% 8% 4% 7% % Turnover 9% 3% 4% 2018 2017 2016 THE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY AGE Male Female Male Female Male Female < 30 years old 1,714 375 2,123 431 2,496 478 30 – 50 years old 2,922 569 2,753 551 2,538 534 > 50 years old 121 28 112 37 101 38 Total 4,757 972 4,988 1,019 5,135 1,050 2018 2017 2016 THE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT STATUS Male Female Male Female Male Female Permanent 4,556 927 4,666 987 4,637 949 Non-permanent 201 45 322 32 498 101 Outsource 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total 4,757 972 4,988 1,019 5,135 1,050 PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES BY GENDER 2018 2017 2016 Male 60% 60% 50% Directors Female 40% 40% 50% Male 60% 61% 60% Managers Female 40% 39% 40% Male 83% 84% 84% All (excluding Directors) Female 17% 16% 16% PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 81 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 82 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information SUSTAINABLE SOURCING Ethics in Sourcing 84 Palm Oil 86 Black Soybean 88 Tea 89 Coconut Sugar 89 PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 83 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents Unilever has placed sustainable sourcing as an integral part of our supply chain management processes in order to understand and manage the risks within supply chain. At Unilever Indonesia, sustainable sourcing go beyond legal compliance, it aims directly to address social, environmental and economic challenges. Our codes and initiatives enable us to contribute on several goals of UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): Climate Action (SDG13); Life on Land (SDG15); Decent Work; Economic Growth (SDG8); and Quality Education (SDG4). ETHICS IN SOURCING Our Commitment By 2020, globally, we will source 100% of our agricultural raw materials sustainably. Many of the raw materials we use in our Sustainably sourcing to the highest standards brands come from farms and forests. This from our network of suppliers. means that a secure, sustainable supply of these materials are required for future Driving change through continuous growth of the business. At the same improvement policies with suppliers. time, Unilever’s agricultural supply chain connects us to millions of people. Raising awareness of sustainable The business benefits are clear. Sourcing sourcing among our consumers. sustainably helps secure our supplies and reduces risk and volatility in our raw material supply chains. By using Playing a leading role in the our scale, working with partners and transformation of agricultural sectors harnessing advocacy, we believe we can relevant to our business, particularly help drive transformational change in sustainable tea and palm oil. these global systems while improving the sustainability of our own agricultural raw Protecting biodiversity materials. Our approach has five main strands: PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 84 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information Our commitment to sustainable sourcing, In 2017, the Sustainable Agriculture Code In addition to SAC, suppliers are also underpinned by our Sustainable (SAC 2017) was updated to raise our required to comply with Unilever’s Agriculture Programme, is a crucial part standards further by emphasising five key Responsible Sourcing Policy (RSP). Every of our Unilever Sustainable Living Plan. At areas: aspect of this policy is focused on achieving the heart of the programme is the Unilever »» No deforestation and upholding the Fundamental Principles, Sustainable Agriculture Code (SAC) »» Human rights which are both the foundation and vision to developed to give us and our farmers »» Legal compliance realise our responsible business ambitions. and suppliers a set of rigorous standards »» Migrant labour The Principles are not a Unilever ‘creation’. which will spur on improvements across »» Grievance processes for workers They are anchored in internationally the supply chain. recognised standards. The programme is moving from selfThe code defines what sustainable assessment to third-party certification, The 2017 Unilever’s RSP updated the sourcing means in practice, using 11 to provide greater trust and transparency previous 2014 RSP. Unilever will verify social, economic and environmental and ensure more accurate reporting. alignment to and implementation of the indicators: soil health, soil loss, nutrients, In 2018, globally, we aim to certify an RSP’s Mandatory Requirements through pest management, biodiversity, farm initial 40 suppliers against SAC 2017. the use of supplier self-declaration, online economics, energy, water, social and These suppliers were chosen to ensure assessments and – for designated high-risk human capital, local economy and animal a representative variety of our crops and countries and supplier types – independent welfare. geographies. Our other suppliers will verification including third-party audits. continue with self-assessment against the Unilever Sustainable Agriculture Code Globally, 56% of Unilever total purchases 2010, until they too are invited to transition of agricultural raw material were obtained to SAC 2017. from sustainable sources. THE FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES ARE: 1 2 3 Business is Work is conducted All workers are conducted on the basis of treated equally and lawfully and freely agreed and with respect and with integrity. documented terms of dignity. employment. 4 5 6 Work is conducted All workers are of an All workers are paid on a voluntary appropriate age. fair wages. basis. 7 8 9 Working hours for All workers are free to All workers’ health all workers are exercise their right to and safety are reasonable. form and/or join trade protected at work. unions or to refrain from doing so and to bargain collectively. 10 11 12 All workers have Land rights of Business is conducted access to fair communities, including in a manner which procedures and indigenous peoples, embraces sustainability remedies. will be protected and and reduces promoted. environmental impact. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 85 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents PALM OIL We are committed to sustain our palm oil sourcing as reflected in our Sustainable Palm Oil Sourcing Policy. At the core of the policy Our Five Principles is our commitment to the principle of No Deforestation, No Development on Peat and for Sustainable Palm Oil: No Exploitation of People and Communities (NDPE). We are continuing our efforts to achieve 100% physically certified palm oil and »» No deforestation. its derivatives for our core volumes in 2019. All suppliers need to adhere to our Sustainable »» No development on peat. Palm Oil Sourcing Policy as part of our efforts to transform the palm oil sector. »» No exploitation of people or Palm oil is a highly versatile crop and used communities. across a variety of Unilever products making us one of the largest buyers of palm oil in the »» Driving positive social and economic world. Today, over 85% of all palm oil comes impact for smallholders and women from Indonesia and Malaysia. while protecting forests. »» Transparency. Several initiatives have been implemented in 2018 regarding responsible sourcing of palm oil: PT PERKEBUNAN NUSANTARA (PTPN) PROGRAMME In January 2018, Unilever signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with PTPN. As part of the partnership, we support local mills and smallholder farmers to produce palm oil according to the NDPE standard. The produce-protect partnership will help farmers increase their yields and improve their livelihoods. PTPN is regarded as a strategic palm oil supplier especially after Unilever opened the US$ 150 million palm oil refinery, Unilever Oleochemicals Indonesia (UOI) in 2015 located in Sei Mangkei Special Economic Zone in North Sumatera, Indonesia. This Special Economic Zone is managed by PTPN III In 2018, Unilever and PTPN held a number 3 mills of joint workshops on sustainability and mill certification with PTPN staff. PTPN has continued to advance the certification of mills associated with PTPN III, IV, V. are certified in 2018 PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 86 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information Jurisdiction and Landscapes In 2018, Unilever continued to support Throughout 2018, in Siak and Pelalawan the Jurisdictional Approach in Central districts in Riau, Unilever has been Unilever supports jurisdictional efforts in Kalimantan, Indonesia (with Yayasan working with a large consortium of commodity sourcing and will preferentially Penelitian Inovasi Bumi Inobu) which partners to develop jurisdictional buy from areas that have in place has been running since 2016. Throughout programmes. The goal of the programme comprehensive climate and forest policies 2018, Unilever has supported INOBU’s is to transition large parts of both districts in place. The Jurisdictional Approach continuing work with smallholders in to becoming sustainable landscapes: offers the potential to accelerate and the Tani Subur Village Cooperative (KUD) which produce deforestation and scale sustainable commodity production to map, train and prepare another 500 exploitation free palm oil and maintain initiatives and to be more inclusive farmers for certification. or enhance key conservation areas by of smallholder producers across the building upon existing local efforts and jurisdiction. multi-stakeholder platforms to advance a shared vision of sustainable, inclusive production models. SMALLHOLDERS PROGRAMMES Globally, Unilever aims to support and empower 150,000 smallholder farmers by 2030, with three workstream to achieve the target. 1. Projects supported by Unilever, implemented by civil society partners Working with smallholders is a multiyear journey, which started in 2016 and as a result we have managed to support 253 smallholders in North Sumatra and Central Kalimantan to obtain certification in 2017. During 2018, the focus of the programmes was on the socialisation, mapping and training aspects of smallholder engagement. We expect to increase the number of certified smallholders in 2019 and 2020. supported through additional group strengthening activities and with activities that enable them to access improved planting materials and good quality inputs. The project 2. Disruptive Sourcing programme is in partnership is with PT SKIP, Daemeter and World Education and also involved 4000 In 2017 Unilever launched the first independent palm smallholders surrounding the mill. Farm Start Palm project in Kabupaten Indragiri Hulu, Riau, Indonesia. 3. RSPO Smallholder Certificates In 2018 the training programme Unilever is consistently one of the largest buyers of independent smallholder RSPO expanded to reach another 600 certificates, particularly for Indonesia. Through certificate purchases we directly smallholder farmers around PT SKIP, incentivise and support the livelihoods and sustainable agriculture practices of taking the total farmers engaged in independent smallholders. We have purchased independent smallholder RSPO the programme to 1047 over a twelve certificates from five out of the six independent smallholder groups currently certified month period. In 2019, the training will in Indonesia in 2017. These groups are Amanah Association, Gapoktan Tanjung Sehati, be expanded again to another intake FPS-MRM, UD Lestari, and KUD Tani Subur. of farmers. Farmer trained will be PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 87 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents Supply chain traceability and environmental risk associated with platform of palm oil growers, mills, transparency the mill and identified required action refiners, traders and manufacturers. to addressed the challenges. The tool Though the database will first focus on Palm oil supply chain traceability data we use, the Palm Risk Assessment suppliers in Unilever’s direct and indirect collection is managed, for Unilever by analyzes five environmental factors (i) fire supply chain, it is intended to be developed Rainforest Alliance who conducts a twiceseverity, (ii) extent of forest, (iii) recent and used later by other stakeholders annual survey with Unilever suppliers to deforestation, (iv) peat and (v) overall risk in the industry. Our investments will establish the mills and refineries from across these factors. contribute and strengthen an existing onwhich we buy and their location. line Aidenvironment platform to monitor In December 2018, Unilever entered into compliance towards a palm oil company’s Knowing the mills in our supply chain a partnership with Aidenvironment to NDPE policy. enables us to remotely assess the create a palm oil database and mapping BLACK SOYBEAN It has been more than 15 years, since Unilever Indonesia and Gajah Mada University started developing a programme to increase the productivity of black soybean cultivation, a vital ingredient for Bango sweet soy sauce. A new variety of black soy bean, Mallika, came out of this partnership, a supreme variety of black soybean, whose productivity can reach 2.9 tonnes/ha. Local farmers were engaged and provided technical assistance on increasing yields and improving quality and efficiency of black soy bean harvesting. The implementation of the Unilever Sustainable Agriculture Code (USAC) initiative in black soybeans sourcing, will helps Unilever absorb 100% of its black soybeans from sustainable sources by 2020 as our target. To monitor and supervise the USAC implementation, we establish Internal Control System (ICS) was During 2018, we are sustaining the practice of established, accompanied by consultants USAC at all locations of Unilever Indonesia’s in assisting cooperatives and farmers to black soybean cooperative partners. complete the certification process. “Previously, the supply of black soybeans in Kabupaten Banyuwangi was a supporting area of Unilever’s ​​ black soybean vendor in Kabupaten Nganjuk. In November 2014, we started the Black Soybean Partnership, involving only 8 farmers. We continue to develop the partnership, until in March 2016 Banyuwangi was asked to form and register as independent vendor for Unilever. We established CV Sinar Agro Solusi by implementing the principle of social enterprise. Through assistance and support provided by Unilever, our farmers get knowledge, price guarantees and market guarantees. The community in our surrounding also affected by our activities, starting from additional income, capacity building for the wife of black soybean farmers, to the economy of local transport services for the delivery of soybeans. Now, our business has 10 permanent employees and 16 freelancers, 637 women and +/1,200 soybean farmers involved. Our revenue is approximately Rp15 billion per year.“ Purwidyanto CV. Sinar Agro Solusi PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 88 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information TEA Starting in 2007, Unilever became the Percentage of Purchased Volume first major tea company to commit to from Suppliers Compliant Unit 2018 2017 2016 sustainably sourcing tea on a large scale. with International Standards One of the most important ways to drive change in any agricultural sector is Number of ULI’s suppliers for tea 15 12 11 through certification. In collaboration Number of suppliers having RA Certificate 14 10 6 with the Rainforest Alliance (RA), Unilever Indonesia develops tea suppliers to Total Blends volume (A) Tonnes 19,710 18,250 19,122 get acquire RA certification. Support is provided through consultation and Blends volume from suppliers having RA Tonnes 17,335 12,896 11,897 Certificate (B) advisory to meet RA sustainability certification criteria. Percentage = 100 x (B) / (A) % 88 71 62 We expand our support by involving small holders to acquire RA certification in 2016-2017, we also encouraging traders In 2019 we are expecting other supplier to become to be certified to support our production RA certified to support our goal of 100% RA on 2018 onward. As the result, in 2018 we certified by the end of 2019, one year ahead of have managed to increase RA certified material for our tea blend. target. COCONUT SUGAR 95% of coconut sugar obtain from local farmers. Coconut sugar is one of the key ingredient At the end of 2018 we have involved 900 Foundation. At the end of 2018, 70 farmers of Bango soy sauce. Currently most farmers to plant 176,000 young coconut had been trained in the area. Moreover, of coconut trees are tall, old and their trees on 800 hectares of land. The micro loans were also provided to establish productivity is decreasing. In this context, programme provided coconut seedlings, cooking facilities in order to produce it becomes difficult for farmers to training on good agriculture practices coconut sugar. During 2018, more than 1.3 produce coconut sugar and ensure to the and technical assistance to farmers in tonnes of sugar was produced and sold to next generations a sustainable income. order to ensure a successful plantation local market at a better price than copra, Unilever leads several projects in order to development. This programme is gaining a which was previously produced. When ensure coconut sugar continuous supply lot of interest from farmers and it will be the production volume is large enough, and bring positive impacts to small holder replicated in 2019. Unilever Indonesia is committed to offtake farmers who produce it. coconut sugar coming from the area. Provide alternative incomes to Replanting as an investment for local communities Explore new sources of sugar the future In 2018, Unilever Indonesia also Another project that has been started In 2016 Unilever Indonesia initiated a contribute to develop communities to ensure the sustainability of materials pioneering project to identify local varieties living on forest borders in Kotawaringin and support local communities, is nypa of productive coconut trees and replant Timur (Sampit, Kalimantan), to produce palm sugar production. In collaboration them in collaboration with coconut sugar coconut sugar as an alternative income with our local partner in Pangandaran, small holder farmer communities. In source. In collaboration with Katingan 3 groups of 20 farmers were trained to collaboration with Balai Penelitian Palma, Project managed by Rimba Makmur produce good quality nypa palm sugar a research was conducted to identify Utama. This project objective is to provide as per Unilever standards, got support best varieties of early maturing coconut job opportunities and generate higher to build the cooking facilities and logistic trees. The advantages of these varieties incomes for local communities. to convey their production to Unilever. are faster maturity, higher density of tree As coconut sugar production requires Every week, Unilever buys Nypa palm per hectare and they grow shorter than specialised skills, funding has been sugar from this area and is now looking ordinary coconut trees so that it is easier provided to set up farmer field school in to extend this initiative to outer islands of to work on it. Kotawaringin Timur through the Puter Indonesia where nypa palm are available. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 89 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 90 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Benefits Services Governance Information BUSINESS BENEFITS Fairness in the Workplace 92 Opportunity for Women 93 Inclusive Business 94 Benefits to Shareholders 97 PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 91 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents FAIRNESS IN THE WORKPLACE Our Commitment By 2020, globally, we will drive fairness in the workplace by further building human rights across our operations and advancing human rights in our extended supply chain, developing a continuous improvement roadmap and promoting best practice. Millions of people work in Unilever Unilever continues to value the importance for Unilever to outline how the various operations and our extended supply of human rights with a focus on the eight elements of company compensation chain, helping create the products used salient human rights issues documented packages deliver fair compensation to by billions. In the company’s view, fairness in the company’s Human Rights Reports. all employees. These efforts enable us to in the workplace is about respecting, and To support this, we integrated our Human contributes to the two of UN Sustainable advancing, human in every location and Rights function into our Supply Chain Development Goals (SDGs): Reduce aspect of business. organisation. Inequalities (SDG10); and Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions (SDG16) Fairness in the workplace is a vital element Efforts are made focusing on the in maintaining trust in our business, and is eradication of forced labour in Unilever’s Other initiatives implemented by Unilever directly linked to operation licensing, and global supply chains by supplier audits, Indonesia centred on employment the reputation of Unilever and its brands. raising awareness and training events. A aspects, can be found in the ‘Nurturing It contributes to business continuity, Responsible Sourcing Policy has also been Our Precious Talents’ section of this helps attract and retain the best talent, rolled out to remediate identified issues report. increases productivity, and builds longin our suppliers. The Framework for Fair term value for shareholders. Compensation provides a structured way PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 92 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information OPPORTUNITY FOR WOMEN Our Commitment By 2020, globally, we will empower 5 million women by advancing opportunities for women in our operations; promoting safety; providing up-skilling; and expanding opportunities in our retail value chain. Unilever sees clear benefits in respecting and promoting women's rights and advancing their opportunities. Women are 70% of our consumer base, 50% of the talent pool from whom we recruit our workforce, and play critical roles in the supply chain enabling us to reach consumers with our products. By creating and supporting opportunities for women in society and the economy, Unilever will in turn grow markets, brands and business as well as contributes to Gender Equality (SDG5). The Saraswati women's empowerment programme run by the Unilever Indonesia Foundation since 2007, demonstrates concrete efforts to fulfill USLP commitments. The programme is run in collaboration with local Persada partners, ASPPUK and Spectra . The programme focuses on selfThroughout 2018, we assisted the women individually in building their capacity to develop development, economics and social small businesses and expand their opportunities in terms of loans. affairs, and organisational development to encourage the formation of Kelompok We strive to make these individual groups as a centre of excellence, where they can Unit Bisnis (KUB), Lembaga Keuangan be examples and as a place of learning for their groups. This approach succeeded in Perempuan (LKP), and Kelompok Tani increasing the number of small businesses by 109% and increasing assets by four times Perempuan (KWT). to the number of the previous year. Evaluations are carried out annually, and OUR ACHIEVEMENTS UPTO 2018 in 2018 presented opportunities to provide more significant economic impact. In addition to continuing to provide group assistance, focus was put on individual 46 536 2.1 billions Groups Women Trained Directly of Assets small businesses. 3,500 285 Women Participants SME PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 93 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents INCLUSIVE BUSINESS Our Commitment By 2020, globally, we will have a positive impact on the lives of 5.5 million people, by improving the livelihoods of smallholder farmers, improving the incomes of small-scale retailers and increasing the participation of young entrepreneurs in our value chain. Millions of people help source, make WELFARE OF SMALLHOLDERS OUR ACHIEVEMENTS and sell Unilever products. A network of UPTO 2018 ranging from the smallholder farmers in Unilever Indonesia concerted effort in the extended supply chain, to the retailers developing farmer cooperatives, which and entrepreneurs bring Unilever brands to new and existing consumers. We realise that our business growth is greatly are important commodity vendors for us. Since 2001, Unilever has worked with black soybean farming communities to increase 10,500 Farmers Participated influenced by these people. income and welfare. Training is provided since the beginning in reporting, management, business Unilever is grateful to the people plans, and various other modules aimed of the programme who contribute to our success and at strengthening cooperatives’ abilities to in reciprocation, we want to help to run their businesses and become reliable remove the barriers they face, enabling growth Unilever contributes to economic wellbeing through wealth creation, vendors. In 2018, Unilever took a different 3,300 Active Farmers employment, skills improvement and approach. Partnered with Micra (4 local suppliers) providing access to markets, therefore Indonesia, hands on assistance was creating a productive cycle of growth that given to farmer cooperatives in solving 1,2 both drives, and is driven, by our business. common problems faced by cooperatives, Hence, our initiatives will unlock the related to organisation and management, MT/HA yield opportunity to several goals of UN business, and accountability. The aim is to Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): strengthen their business in the present (increased by 13% from 2017) No poverty (SDG1); Zero Hunger (SDG2); and in the future. As one of the results Quality Education (SDG4); and Reduce the cooperative get access for loan from Inequalities (SDG10). commercial bank Rp6.5 billion. In collaboration with Universitas Gajah Mada (UGM), training was provided to 6.5 billion access to loan farmers through cooperatives to apply organic and safe liquid fertiliser which is easily absorbed by plants. This fertiliser can be made by farmers themselves. In addition, information about the application to estimate the weather wa given, so farmers can be prepared for weather changes. These methodologiest help farmers improve their yields. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 94 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information COCONUT SUGAR QUALITY IMPROVEMENT 25,000 Farmers Participated Unilever Indonesia has expanded scope by making a positive impact on coconut sugar farmers. In 2018, the following initiatives were conducted: »» Placing experienced field assistants from the black soybean project to assist coconut sugar farmers. Mentoring was given to improve the quality of coconut sugar and coconut cultivation. »» Providing training and literature compiled by the Unilever Indonesia Foundation in coconut tree cultivation and coconut sugar production. In partnership with the Palma Research Institute, Unilever Indonesia maximised the opportunity to improve coconut sugar farmers’ income, with the application of early maturing coconut seeds which can be harvested faster, have a higher density and are safer because they are shorter than ordinary coconut plants. CHILI COOPERATIVE cooperatives in an effort to cut the supply provided, in order to establish farmers’ DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME chain of chili and to develop potential for cooperative. We identify the farmer who farmers to increase crop productivity. have the potential to be cooperative Chili is the main raw material for one The ultimate goal is to increase farmers’ managers and provide series of training of Unilever's products, Jawara. This income. to prepare them to run cooperatives. commodity has high risk, from planting to reaching the consumers. This risk In order to help give chili farmers a influence the income of chili farmers Unilever Indonesia is eager to develop greater role in the supply chain, Unilever collaborates with Prestani and Bina Swadaya Consultant. Development and 150 Chili Farmers Involved the establishment of chili farmers' reinforcement for group of farmers are PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 95 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents SELLING WITH PURPOSE Unilever must acknowledge the However, in these times of constant technological updates, some technology is not always contribution of retailers in bringing compatible with retailer facilities. Therefore, in the first half of 2018, our applications were company brands to the households of redesigned and launched in the second half of the year. Indonesia. However, in these modern times, traditional retailers are now in In 2018 we also change our approached to traditional retailer, by learning their context, competition with modern retailers. we can identify what their needs before they join with the programme. Through this way, we able to escalate our impact efficiently and we even could embed this programme with Since the end of 2016, Unilever Indonesia others Unilever Indonesia’s programme has created a specific programme intended to assist traditional retailers in keeping up with modern practices. Through this programme, we introduce technology-based solutions enabling them to compete in the current market. The benefits of embedded technology solutions are: (1) recommendation of suitable products for their shopper, (2) product promos recommendation, (3) lay out recommendation, (4) sales report, and (5) loyalty programme for their shopper. With those benefits, the retailers could manage their bussiness more effective and offer a better shopping experience. At the end they will have their stores developed. 1,128 stores–Go live In 17 cities JURAGAN SERU Unilever Indonesia develop new road to market (RTM) deliver Seru – our new ice cream – to consumers. Small Medium Enterprise (SME) plays a pivotal role in this RTM, to distribute ice cream deep in the traditional stores, closer to consumers. This model allows us to have a true activity of selling with purpose by putting microentrepreneur, or we call them “Juragan Seru”, as our backbone. Juragan Seru come from variety of backgrounds, ranging from stockpoint, food entrepreneur, waste bank community, to Family Welfare Movement (PKK). They are taking the role as salesman, merchandiser, deliveryman and cash collector. Therefore, empowering Juragan is obligatory to ensure quality of service. We equip them with business, operational, and technology training and mentoring throughout the year. A simple mobile technology will also be introduced to Juragan to allow for a seamless, effective and efficient distribution management system. Through this scheme, Juragan Seru are able to get attractive income, flexibility in managing their own time, and self-development through business knowledge and experience for their future. This model enables us to open up a new market offering high quality product at affordable price to low income consumers; while enhancing the livelihoods of our resellers. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 96 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information BENEFITS TO SHAREHOLDERS As a business entity, Unilever Indonesia remains optimistic in developing the business in a sustainable and responsible manner, in Indonesia. By the end of December 2018, the company recorded a net profit of Rp9.1 trillion, thus profit growth increased at 30.1% compared to the same period last year. Unilever able to maintain positive growth by various transformational initiatives which continuously done by the Company, both through the launch of various innovations, and the digitalisation in some aspects of business operations that we have. In terms of innovations, in 2018, the Company entered a new business category through the launch of Jawara chilli sauce, launched a new brand on Skin Cleansing category, as well as various products in the new format. Regarding business operations, the Company has done digitalisation in the Company’s distribution system called Digital Logistics. With a robust strategy throughout the year, Unilever OUR ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2018 Indonesia has adapted to understanding consumer needs and focusing on execution and efficiency across all lines of operations. This has enabled Rp9.1 trillion the company to maintain its commitment to deliver Net Profit on the Year more value and grow competitively. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE (Rp million) 2018 2017 2016 ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED Revenue 41,802,073 41,204,510 40,053,732 DISTRIBUTED ECONOMIC VALUE Operating Cost 27,824,895 30,028,269 29,778,957 Employee Fees 1,791,414 1,804,581 1,702,890 Dividend 6,981,450 6,638,100 6,096,370 Payments to the Government 3,076,319 2,367,099 2,181,213 (Taxes, levies, etc.) Social Investment (CSR cost)* NR* NR* NR* Total Distributed Economic Value 39,674,078 40,838,049 39,759,430 Retained Profit (= Generated Economic Value – Economic Value Distributed) 2,127,995 366,461 294,302 *NR = Not Reported PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 97 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 98 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Productsand Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Services Governance Information PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Brand with Purpose 100 Product and Packaging Innovation 102 Consumer Protection 104 Consumer Voice 105 PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 99 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents BRAND WITH PURPOSE Unilever make some of the world’s best brands used by 2.5 billion people every day. At least 1 Unilever product is likely to be found in every Indonesian home. In addition to creating some of the world’s best known products, Unilever strives to promote cleanliness commonplace; to lessen work for women; to foster health and contribute to personal attractiveness, that life may be more enjoyable and rewarding for the people who use our products. These are the motivations behind every Unilever brand that we created, bring purpose and mission, which we hope can inspire people to make small changes that have a significant impact on their lives. OUR BRANDS THAT HAS REALIsED ITS PURPOSE TO INCREASE POSITIVE SOCIAL IMPACT Purpose Purpose Help mothers ensure their kids fall ill Invite children and parents to grow less often. together through the exploration of the world around them. Mission Mission Educate children and mothers about the Educate children about safe and healthy Purpose importance of handwashing with soap. snacks. Wholeheartedly upholding Authentic Indonesian Cuisine and improve the livelihood of farmers. Mission Popularised Indonesian culinary hawkers through trading forums or markets and support the regeneration of hawker. Purpose Purpose Inspired mothers through Indonesian Encourage people on hygienic behaviour Encourage people to stay active and food recipes. Assisted black soybean at home. remain confident. farmers through training on sustainable farming practices and support the Mission Mission regeneration of farmers to make sure Educate the community, especially Educate high school teenagers to live the Indonesian authentic dishes will not mothers, about how to maintain a cleanly and confidently in achieving life’s gone because there is no regeneration of sanitary floor, toilet, and bathroom to be success. protected from disease. famers to supply the authentic Indonesian ingredients Purpose Mission Improve community’s oral health Educate Primary School children to build morning and night toothbrush habits, and provide free dental check-ups and treatments for the community. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 100 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information Purpose Purpose Purpose Encourage women to use beauty as a Empower women with education & skills Give Indonesian women more than source of confidence, not anxiety. to become self-reliant and not hesitate to daily housework to realise the dream of reach their dream. entrepreneurship. Mission Mission Mission Educate teenagers in increasing selfInspire women to overcome their Provide access to train Indonesian esteem and realizing their potential. hesitation to pursue their dream and women in realizing the dream of give access to higher education through entrepreneurship. scholarships programme. WHOLEHEARTEDLY UPHOLDING delights from all over Indonesia. Through Moreover, Unilever Indonesia through AUTHENTIC INDONESIAN this event, Bango invited Indonesian to Bango and Food Solution organised a CUISINE know, love and the richness of culinary search for the successor of authentic Indonesia. In 2018 we partnered with Indonesian culinary heritage through Unilever always wants to be closer to its the Ministry of Tourism to hold joint digital voting. It was done to ensure customers and Bango is a product that publications to uphold Indonesian cuisine authentic Indonesian cuisine can continue very closely related to Indonesian cuisine. as an important assets of Indonesia to be sustainable, with the new generation Both of these are drive Bango purpose tourism. Festival Jajanan Bango 2018 is becoming successors. to wholeheartedly upholding authentic presented to celebrated the 90 years of Indonesian cuisine. Bango who consistency delivering high We selected three culinary vendor quality soya sauce for Moms, Family & winners, who have passed a series Besides through traditional media and Hawkers to cook authentic Indonesian of assessments related to authentic social media, we hold Festival Jajanan dishes. Indonesian cuisine, which of course the Bango, which presenting authentic winner was entitled to participate in the Indonesian Hawkers who sell culinary 2018 Festival Jajanan Bango. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 101 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents PRODUCT AND PACKAGING INNOVATION Unilever is aware of the environmental impact that can occur in the way consumers discard product packaging after use. Therefore, globally, we are committed to make 100% of our plastic packaging recyclable, reusable, and compostable by 2025, increase the use of recycled plastic content in our packaging to at least 25% by 2025, and reduce the weight of our packaging by one third by 2020. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 102 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information Innovation is at the heart of Unilever’s Our initiatives in 2018 on Foods and Refreshment factories : ambition to ensure sustainably. The »» Reducing the weight of outer case for ice cream innovation process consist of three main »» Removing the tray paper inside outer case of Shaky Shake stages: research, development, and »» Reducing paper size of Sariwangi black tea packaging from 275 gsm to 210 gsm product launch. The implementation »» Using thinner material for Sarimurni bags from PET 12 micron to 9 micron capability at factories and the consumer acceptance to the changes in packaging OUR ACHIEVEMENT IN HOME CARE DIVISION pose a challenge for us. reduce waste LESS PLASTIC Design to value and smart saving programmes are the approaches taken Paper Board Thickness Reduction Optimisation of Powder for innovation in Foods & Refreshment Optimisation for Molto and Sunlight, Sachet Dimension for Rinso factories. We identify all the products Size >100 ml and <1 litre which have opportunities to be redesigned for its packaging without 2,680 tonnes 355 tonnes 120 tonnes reducing product quality. Paper Reduction Plastic Reduction Plastic Reduction Eliminate Paper Box CFA for Intermediate Bag Removal for Rinso Matic 1Kg Rinso Bottle on Molto and Wipol Sachet 142 tonnes 2 tonnes 34.1 tonnes Paper Reduction Plastic Reduction Plastic Reduction Better Plastic Molto Tiffany Bottle 100% R HDPE PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY HALAL WARRANTY ISO 9001 At Unilever, we combine global strength Unilever Indonesia is the first FMCG QUALITY MANAGEMENT with local knowledge to create unique company in Indonesia that obtained SYSTEM products with proven benefits. Product Halal certification from MUI, since we Applied in all Home & Personal design teams take our breakthroughs in have implemented the halal assurance Care factories science and technology one step further, system in 1994. Halal certification for all 9 turning unique insights into the products factories was completed in 2016. that consumers want and need. FSSC 22000 In our factory to produce product which The action we took were driven by the conditions of Indonesia as one of FOOD SAFETY MANAGEMENT meet high quality and safety specification the country with the largest Moslem SYSTEM are prior for us. We manage every populations in the world. Unilever Applied in all Food & step of our production cycle, start business model has made us aware Refreshment factories from procurement, material receiving, of consumer insight, that in addition production process, warehousing, and to quality, halal warranty are high delivering through certain procedures and consideration to consumers in choosing Good tight inspection. and using products. With a halal label, Manufacturing Unilever provides alternative product to We implement and obtain certificate our consumers. Good quality and also a Practices of International Standards for Quality sense of security and comfort to Moslem for Cosmetics and Food safety Management System customer. as assurance of good practice in our Applied in all Personal Care factories. Safety and Environmental factories Assurance Centre (SEAC) Unilever Indonesia guarantees the safety of products and all the processes involved in the production process. All new products Halal Assurance System and new technologies undergo rigorous Applied in 9 factories security testing process and are carried of Unilever Indonesia out by independent parties. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 103 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents CONSUMER PROTECTION Unilever Indonesia, through various forms »» Regularly monitoring the state of »» Applying the GUARD Tool app an of standardisation and certification, strive the market, with assistance from the electronic system to identify counterfeit to protecting consumers from counterfeit authorities. products taht enhances internal products. A monumental effort is made »» Actively fight counterfeiting by knowledge and education in the form of to ensure consumers feel secure and can educating the public about the adverse electronic learning modules. trust Unilever products. effects of counterfeit products, in »» Publishing booklets as guides for collaboration with the Indonesian Antioperational teams when finding The following approaches are taken to Counterfeit Society indications of counterfeit products on ensure safety and protect consumers »» Working with authorities to edify the market. from counterfeit products: counterfeit product introductions. »» Protecting registered trademarks from »» Empowering the company's sales »» Following up cases of counterfeit being used by others. force to meet consumers and retailers products in accordance with applicable to identify counterfeit products in the legal corridors. marketplace. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 104 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information CONSUMER VOICE Our consumers have been the reason for Unilever Indonesia's growth for more than 80 years. Getting feedback from consumers enables us to continuesly innovate and improve products and quality. Interaction with consumers gives us enthusiasm in continuing to develop quality and safe products for them to enjoy. “Suara Konsumen” (consumer voice) The five Unilever principles in is a communication facility enabling communicating with consumers are as consumers to interact with Unilever follows: Indonesia. The company now manages 1. Unilever will always use the personal and develops social media platforms information of consumers and in order to provide convenience for customers in a reasonable and reliable consumers to voice their opinions and manner. ideas. In addition to ease the interaction, 2. Unilever will always be open with social media also provides various consumers and customers, about kinds of information regarding Unilever information that is gathered, what Indonesia's latest products and activities is done with the information, with instantly and directly to consumers. whom data is shared, and to whom consumers and customers can contact THE COMPANY HAS A SPECIAL The ten most common responses each if they have any concerns. SERVICE OF CONSUMER CARE, month that are received from “Suara 3. If consumers have concerns about CALLED CONSUMER VOICE AT Konsumen” are forwarded to senior how personal information is used, we management for review. The Consumer Advisory Service (CAS) is responsible contact them to resolve the issue. 4. All reasonable steps will be taken 0800 1 55 8000 (TOLL FREE) for handling complaints through strict to ensure the security of consumer protocols and issues must be resolved within a specific timeframe, with solutions information. 5. All applicable data protection laws 021 5299 5299 approved by all relevant support functions. and regulations will be complied with, (REGULAR) Complaints are categorised as normal, and cooperation with data protection high priority, or emergency. If a CAS Agent authorities prioritised. is unable to provide an answer, the issue will be brought to the relevant department or division via the designated contact. Unilever Indonesia use scale 1 – 5 for Consumer Management Performance 2018 2017 2016 consumer satisfaction measurement from “Suara Konsumen”, in 2018 we Consumer Satisfaction 87.03% 92,4% 95% achieved point scale of 87.03% in 4 scale, Complain Received 1,379 2,441 1,296 it means the consumer satisfaction level consider to be “Satisfied” Complain Resolved 1,379 2,441 1,296 PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 105 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 106 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Governance Information 107 GOVERNANCE Governance Structure 108 Business Integrity 110 Whistleblower System 112 Engaging Stakeholders 113 PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 107 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents Unilever is fully committed in achieving the Company’s vision and mission. For this reason, the effectiveness and efficiency of business operational must be run well. This will increase sustainable value for stakeholders, while increasing the Company’s competitiveness in the industry. To achieve all of those, good governance that is applied consistently is needed. To measure governance performance, we use the ASEAN Good Corporate Governance Scorecard in evaluating the Company’s governance so the quality is maintained. GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Unilever upholds the five basic principles of good corporate governance (GCG), as follows: transparency Accountability Responsibility Independency Fairness The Company takes The Company is The Company The company is The Company takes the initiative to responsible for complies with the professionally the initiative to consistently provide all decisions and prevailing laws and managed without any consistently provide clear and relevant actions taken, as regulations, acts conflict of interest and clear and relevant information to well as ensures its responsibly towards without pressure or information to shareholders and well managed, fairly, the community and intervention from any shareholders and other stakeholders, as and measureable the environment, so party. other stakeholders, as required by applicable in accordance with that businesses can required by applicable laws and regulations. the interests of develop sustainably. laws and regulations. stakeholders. To apply the above principles, an adequate governance structure is needed. This structure will be the main framework for GCG implementation. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 108 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information The governance structure consist of Board of Directors, Board of Commissioners, and other committees at Unilever Indonesia. GENERAL MEETING OF The governance structure will carry out SHAREHOLDERS (GMS) the mandate of the General Meeting of Shareholders (GMS). GMS The General Meeting of Shareholders (GMS) has function as a decision maker on BOARD OF BOARD OF important policies which are integrated COMMISSIONERS DIRECTORS with the business continuity and operations of the Company. The Government of Indonesia through regulation No. 40 / 2007 about Incorporated Companies, required a company to conduct the GMS and its responsibilities with the Board of Commissioners and the Board AUDIT REMUNERATION AND of Directors. The latest annual GMS COMMITTEE NOMINATION COMMITTEE was held by Unilever Indonesia on May 23rd, 2018. BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS The Board of Commissioners has assist the functional operations of the The main tasks of the Nomination and an important role in making active Board of Directors. This Charter sets Remuneration Committee include: (1) communication to the directors and other the legal basis; duties, responsibilities Provide recommendations to the Board of committees. The function of the board and authorities; business rules; working Commissioners related to the composition, of commissioners is to supervise the hours; and reporting and accountability nomination, evaluation and competence management of the Company which is of the Board of Directors. The charter of the Board of Commissioners, Directors, carried out by the Board of Directors. In is regularly evaluated and updated as Board Committees and the Company’s the arrangement of the GMS, the Board of necessary. executive officers; (2) Determine criteria Commissioners will provide suggestions for identifying, researching and approving and responses to several issues related to COMMITTEES UNDER candidates for the above positions, and corporate management governance. THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS implement the process; (3) Evaluate remuneration policies regularly; (4) Review BOARD OF DIRECTORS There are two committees under the Board and provide recommendations to the of Commissioners: (1) Audit Committee Board of Commissioners on the policies, The responsibility of management, and (2) Nomination and Remuneration structure and amount of remuneration determination and arrangement of Committee. for the Board of Commissioners and the company’s strategic direction are Directors, to be presented at the Annual carried out by the Board of Directors. In general, the Audit Committee provides General Meeting of Shareholders; The Directors are directly responsible to support to the Board of Commissioners (5) Provide recommendations to the the Company’s Board of Commissioners. by monitoring, reviewing and providing Board of Commissioners regarding guarantees on the integrity and the remuneration package for Board The new appointed Directors were given effectiveness of the Company’s financial members, officials and executive full orientation on their responsibilities, statements, risk management and employees; and (6) Assist the Board in the form of an introduction programme internal control, as well as the Company’s of Commissioners in assessing the prepared by the Corporate Secretary. compliance with applicable laws and performance of the Board of Directors This programme includes reviews of regulations. In carrying out its duties, and/or the Board of Commissioners and various documents available in the form the Audit Committee works in close the Board Committees. of soft copy and hard copy, including the coordination with the Internal Audit Company’s Annual Report, Articles of Unit and External Auditors. The Audit Association, CoBP and Committee Work Committee also monitors the internal Guidelines, as well as related rules and audit function, oversees the performance, regulations. qualifications and independence of external auditors, and facilitates external The Board of Directors has a charter, auditors during the audit. which serves as a set of procedures and guidelines designed to facilitate and PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 109 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents BUSINESS INTEGRITY BUSINESS PRINCIPLES OUR VALUES BUSINESS INTEGRITY Unilever’s Code of Business Principles We build business integrity by putting Release at the ASEAN Responsible and Code Policies outline and define forward and practicing the values of Business Forum (ARBF) on 27 August the Company’s ethics, values and each code of our business principles. 2018, PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk is compliance. This guideline describes Every individual who is part of Unilever recorded as top ten companies with the standards of behaviour expected Indonesia practises these values for a highest disclosure rate across the five from employees when interacting with better sustainability of the Company. ASEAN countries based on a publication colleagues, business partners, customers, Integrity, respect for others and personal issued by ASEAN CSR Network (ACN). and consumers. This standard of behaviour and collective responsibility are values explains the behaviours that ‘must or‘ can’t that are summarised in it. The Business Integrity Committee and ’do, through simple guidelines. Business Integrity Officer are part of This awareness continues to be built for Unilever Indonesia in maintaining the Our Business Principles are clear the creation of a good and standardised integrity of its business that works statements regarding our commitment to organisation. independently. They are responsible for the maintain a balance between Company’s implementation of prevention, detection short-term and long-term interests, and response of Business Integrity to all safeguarding the interests of the Company, individuals in the organisation. shareholders, employees, consumers, business partners and society. The three main pillars of the business integrity approach are as follows: prevention > detection > response > 1. Rules and Policy Framework 1. Reporting channel, include 1. Investigation 2. Business communication, whistle-blowing system 2. Business integrity sanction education and training 2. Monitoring, review 3. Improvement and control of 3. Business integrity risk profile and reporting on the deficiencies and compliance by third implementation of parties management 3. Self-assessment and compliance audit In 2018, globally, the business integrity team focusing on Countering Corruption theme. Four of six mandatory learning capsules launched this year are taken from this theme. There are 6 Code Policies under this theme by which 5 of them were launched, including Anti-Bribery that was launched earlier in 2017. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 110 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information To ensure the understanding of Unilever Indonesia’s business ethics, we conduct various types of activities both in the form of training and promotion to stakeholders. Business Integrity activities carried out in 2018 include the following: 4 TIMES 12 MEETINGS 3 WORKSHOP Integrity Moment delivered Business Integrity Committee Business integrity workshop by senior leader in townhall Meeting for third party with high-risk to corruption 9 CAMPAIGN AND TRAININGS Internal campaign and training, consist of: 1. Confidentiality campaign “Share Nggak Ya” to raise employees’ awareness of confidential data and information of Unilever. 2. Activities related to data protection and privacy subjects to support the implementation of General Data Protection Regulation. 3. Business integrity session to Unilever’s logistics team, focusing on anti-bribery code policy. 4. Campaign on Gift & Hospitality 5. Clear desk policy campaign. 6. Campaign on Political Activities 7. Launched five business integrity online training capsules followed by digital campaign. The five capsules are: »»Avoiding Conflict of Interest »»Gift and hospitality »»Protecting Unilever Assets »»Accurate Records, Reporting, and Accounting »»Respect, Dignity, and Fair Treatment 8. In-house investigation training for selected employees. 9. Business integrity campaign in HPC factory Being one of the important areas and part the Company’s organisation, Business Integrity is also subject to audit by the Corporate Audit of Unilever Global in late 2017. The audit report was issued in early 2018 with Satisfactory result for business integrity. Employee signed Annual Code Declaration PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 111 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents WHISTLEBLOWER SYSTEM Unilever Indonesia’s Whistleblower System can be easily accessed by all stakeholders through the whistleblower channel. Various types of reporting can be done through these channels such as reporting violations, allegations, and/or potential violations of business ethics codes and policy guidelines, as well as other violations related to our business principles. Business Integrity Officers handle all received report confidentially and ensure it will be followed up. code Global phone hotline Global website hotline support 021 2975 9204 line www.unilevercodesupportline.com blue umbrella line business integrity officer Blue.Umbrella@unilever.com manager Maria.Regina@unilever.com Whistleblower Activities 2018 2017 2016 Whistleblower report 14 23 31 Case investigated 14 20 31 Case solved 18* 23 17 * include the case from previous year PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 112 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information ENGAGING STAKEHOLDERS The business operations of a company cannot be separated from the active role of stakeholders. Unilever Indonesia is a company that prioritises the active role of stakeholders in running the business and making decisions from the activities carried out. The needs and expectations of stakeholders aim to synergise the company’s performance with the sustainability principles that have been implemented. Stakeholders Basis of Determination Interests and expectations Method of engagement of Stakeholders Consumer D, R, I, P »»Product and Brand »»Social media »»Suara Konsumen (Voice of Consumer) »»Brand activation Employees D, R, T, I, P »»Occupational Health and Safety »»Various internal communication channels. »»Employee development Government R, T, I, DP »»Regulatory compliance »»Bilateral/multilateral meetings and Regulator »»Partnership in sustainability »»Public hearing and socialisation session »»Collaboration on Research and community development project to achieve SDGs and economic growth Shareholders D, R, I, P »»Financial performance »»Reporting of quarterly business performance and Investors »»Clear and up-to-date information regarding »»Face-to-face meetings with investors and corporate actions and strategic direction analysts »»Non-financial performance, progress and »»Conference status »»Annual General Meeting of Shareholders »»Progress of USLP »»Annual Report »»Sustainability Report Suppliers D, R, T, P »»Partnership »»Regular meetings »»Supplier performance reports Media T, I, DP »»Unilever initiatives in sustainability »»Unilever sustainability narrative socialisation to proactively important media, media engagement sessions, discussions and related USLP events, Discussions and various community activities »»Utilisation of media community NGOs and D, R, T, I, DP, P »»Status of progress and progress of USLP »»Collaborative activities and cooperation the Large programmes programmes Communities »»Opportunities to collaborate on various »»Unilever Indonesia’s website and other social USLP programme campaigns media channels »»Information on corporate activities »»Unilever Indonesia brands associated with environmental and social campaigns Basis of Determination of Stakeholders Dependency (D) Unilever’s dependence on someone or an organisation, or vice versa Responsibility (R) The existence of legal, commercial or ethical responsibility towards someone or an organisation Tension (T) Someone or an organisation has an influence on Unilever regarding certain economic, social or environmental issues Influence (I) Someone or an organisation has an influence on Unilever or other stakeholder strategies or policies Diverse Perspective Someone or an organisation has different views that can influence the situation and encourage (DP) actions that did not exist before Proximity (P) Someone or an organisation has a geographical and operational closeness with Unilever PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 113 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents PARTNERSHIP IN SUSTAINABILITY Establishing cooperation with partners is a manifestation of our USLP implementation. our partners come from various kinds of stakeholders within our business scope including the business associations that we run. The partnership programme and our involvement in various associations include the following: No. External Organisation Name Types of involvement 1. PIPIMM Unilever Indonesia is a member. PIPIMM is sheltered by the Ministry of Industry, and used as (Product Information Centre a medium of communication and information with the Government and to find information and for Food and Beverage policies in the food and beverage sector. Industry) 2. APJP Unilever Indonesia just finished its serves as Secretary-General. APJP is useful as a forum for (Priority Line Companies communication and information with relevant government agencies in the field of customs, Association) taxation, transportation, industry and trade. 3. ASRIM Unilever Indonesia is a member in this association. ASRIM is useful to cooperate with various (Association of Soft Drinks parties related to both Government and private entities and provides information about concerns Industry) in the soft drink industry. 4. GAPMMI Unilever Indonesia serves as Deputy Secretary-General in this association. GAPMMI serves to (Association of Indonesian support lobbying and advocacy activities in accordance with Unilever’s agenda, as a forum to Food and Beverage strengthen network with Government stakeholders and industry, and to share information and Entrepreneurs) policy in food and beverage sector. 5. APSAI Unilever Indonesia is a member. APSAI serves to support lobbying and advocacy activities in (Association of Indonesian accordance with Unilever’s agenda in the area of child ​​ protection as well as a forum to strengthen Child-Friendly Companies) lobbying with Government stakeholders. 6. PERKOSMI Unilever Indonesia serves as Chairman in this association. PERKOSMI serves to support lobbying (Association of Indonesian and advocacy activities in accordance with Unilever’s agenda in the field of cosmetics, to be a Cosmetics Companies) forum to strengthen lobbying with Government stakeholders and to share information and policies related to the cosmetics sector. 7. APPINA Unilever Indonesia serves as Chairman of this association. APPINA serves to support and (Association of Indonesian develop communication and marketing activities, supporting lobbying and advocacy activities Advertisers Companies) in accordance with the Company’s agenda in advertising, as well as a forum for strengthening lobbying with Government stakeholders. 8. DPI Unilever Indonesia serves as Chairman of this board. DPI serves to support and develop (Indonesian Advertising ULI communication and marketing activities, supporting lobbying and advocacy activities in Council) accordance with the ULI agenda, as well as a forum for strengthening lobbying with Government stakeholders. 9. EUROCHAM Unilever Indonesia serves as Chairman of the Eurocham Cosmetic Working Group serves to (European Chamber support lobbying activities, advocacy, and strengthen lobbying with Government stakeholders. of Commerce) 10. PEKERTI Unilever Indonesia serves as Secretary-General. PEKERTI serves to support lobbying activities, (Association of Indonesian advocacy, and strengthen lobbying with Government stakeholders for the field of domestic health Domestic Health Supplies supplies. Companies) PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 114 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information No. External Organisation Name Types of involvement 11. PISAgro Unilever Indonesia is one of the founders and board members of PISAgro. As Chair of the Soybean (Partnership in Sustainable Working Group, ULI actively encourages the adoption of sustainable agriculture in this commodity Agriculture) through partnerships between government, the private sector, and public. 12. PRAISE Unilever Indonesia serves as one of the founders and Chair of the Packaging Recycled Association (Packaging Recycled for Indonesia Sustainable Environment (PRAISE). PRAISE serves as an active association Association For Indonesia in supporting the implementation of holistic, integrated, and sustainable waste packaging Sustainable Environment) management in Indonesia. 13. IGCN Unilever Indonesia serves as one of the founders and secretaries general of the Indonesia Global (Indonesia Global Compact Compact Network (IGCN). IGCN serves as a change agent in accelerating the transformation of the Network) country towards the achievement of human rights, competitive labour, sustainable environment, and ethical business practices. 14. IBL Unilever Indonesia serves as a role as corporate partner and as a board member at IBL. IBL serves (Indonesia Business Links) to develop and strengthen the integrity and capacity of enterprises, small/medium enterprises, and individuals in government and the private sector in collaboration with their development partners. 15. IBCWE Unilever Indonesia serves as Supervisory Board within the IBCWE organisation. (Indonesia Business Coalition IBCWE serves to promote women’s economic empowerment and gender equality. for Women Employment) PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 115 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core as a Core Business Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 116 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information Information 117 SUPPORTING INFORMATION Company Information 119 About Sustainability Report 120 GRI Standard Content Index 122 UN Global Compact Principles Index 125 Independent Assurance Statement 126 Sustainability Reporting Team 128 PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 117 Sustainability Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us as a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 118 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information COMPANY INFORMATION COMPANY NAME BUSINESS ACTIVITIES AND PRODUCTS PRODUCED PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Production, marketing and distribution of consumer goods for the Indonesian market, including soaps, detergents, HEAD OFFICE ADDRESS: ice cream, cooking spices, soy sauce, cosmetic products, Grha Unilever beverages including staples of tea and fruit juice. Green Office Park Kav. 3 Jl. BSD Boulevard Barat COUNTRY OF OPERATION BSD City, Tangerang – 15345 Indonesia T: +6221 8082 7000 F: +6221 8082 7002 NUMBER OF FACTORIES Email: unvr.indonesia@unilever.com »» 7 factories in Jababeka, Cikarang, and Bekasi industrial area BUSINESS TYPE: »» 2 factories in Rungkut, Surabaya Foreign investment MARKET SERVED OWNERSHIP We serve market of fast moving consumer goods to all region Unilever Indonesia Holding B.V. (85%) in Indonesia, Household is our main segment, however, we Public (15%) also provide products and benefits to children, teenager as well as adult for all gender. NO DESCRIPTION UNIT 2018 2017 2016 1. Number of Permanent Employees People 5,483 5,653 5,583 2. Net Profit of the Year Rp trillion 9.1 7.0 6.4 3. Equities Rp trillion 7.6 5.2 4.7 4. Total Assets Rp trillion 19.5 18.9 16.7 5. Total Liabilities Rp trillion 11.9 13.7 12 6. Net Sales • Home and Personal Care Rp trillion 28.7 28.1 27.7 • Food and Refreshment Rp trillion 13.1 13.1 12.4 PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 119 Sustainability Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us as a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT REPORT PROFILE SCOPE AND BOUNDARIES Unilever Indonesia is proud to share our seventh Sustainability The main focus of this report on activities at Unilever Indonesia Report. This year’s theme “ Continuous Transformation for includes headquarters, representative offices, factories and Improving Lives” aligns with Unilever Indonesia’s annual report distribution centres throughout Indonesia. We also include aspects and reflects our company’s focus on the future. Through this covered in our range of control, such as human rights, labour Sustainability Report, we hope to provide information transparently practices, regulatory compliance and environmental performance relating to the impact of our operations on the communities and to suppliers and business partners in the supply chain. environments we operate in, as well as showcase our efforts to create sustainable living commonplace. SELECTION OF TOPICS AND MATERIAL ASPECTS This report also acts as a Communication of Progress which is The contents of this report remains the same as the 2017 a manifestation of our commitment to the United Nations Global Sustainability Report, adapted to the topics covered in the USLP Compact (UNGC) initiative. Published in accordance with Global and UNGC principles. Reporting Initiative (GRI) standard, covering the 2018 calendar GRI standard principles were applied in establishing the report year from January 1st to December 31st . contents, which include: 1. Stakeholder Inclusiveness: In the process of preparing the RELATED CONTACTS FOR THE SUSTAINABILITY report, focus was centred on the inputs and responses of the REPORT stakeholders obtained during the reporting year. 2. Materiality: the aspects selected for reporting included We are committed to improving the quality of our sustainability material aspects based on Unilever Indonesia’s sustainability report. Any questions, suggestions, or feedback may be addressed considerations and the views of related interest influences. to: 3. Sustainability Context: This report presents the implementation of sustainability initiatives including the Company’s supply Sinta Kaniawati chain on relevant material aspects. General Manager Unilever Indonesia Foundation 4. Completeness: the data and information presented in this PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk/Yayasan Unilever Indonesia report covers all of Unilever Indonesia’s operating entities in Grha Unilever reported aspects. Green Office Park Kav. 3 Jl. BSD Boulevard Barat In the process of identifying material topics, Unilever Indonesia BSD City, Tangerang – 15345 conducted an overview of the material topics identified by T: +6221 8082 7000 Corporate Unilever, which can be viewed in the ‘Defining Material F: +6221 8082 7002 Issues’, to be adapted to the appropriate sustainability context of Email: sinta.kaniawati@unilever.com Indonesia The results of the review and evaluation, as well as topic boundaries, are presented in the List of Material Topics as follows. PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 120 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information LIST OF MATERIAL TOPICS TOPIC BOUNDARIES SUPPLIER OF GOODS DISTRIBUTORS AND 3RD PARTY FACTORY SOURCE OF RAW OPERATION CONSUMER MATERIAL TOPICS IN THIS SOCIETY TOPICS BY GRI STANDARD REPORT OF UNILEVER AND SERVICES RETAILERS MATERIALS INDONESIA1 Health and Hygiene GRI 413 Local Communities Nutrition FP Healthy and Affordable Food Greenhouse Gases GRI 305 Emissions Water GRI 303 Water Waste GRI 306 Effluent and Waste Sustainable Raw Materials GRI 204 Purchasing Practice GRI 308 Supply Environmental Assessment GRI 414 Social Assessment of Suppliers Fairness in the Workplace GRI 403 Occupational Health and Safety GRI 405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 406 Non-Discrimination GRI 412 Human Rights Assessment Opportunities for Women GRI 413 Local Communities GRI 405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Inclusive Business GRI 413 Local Communities GRI 203 Indirect Economic Impacts Ethics and Integrity GRI 205 Anti-Corruption Business Benefits GRI 201 Economic Performance GRI 203 Indirect Economic Impacts Managing Human Resources GRI 404 Training and Education Product Responsibility GRI 416 Customer Health and Safety Customer Service GRI 417 Marketing and Labelling 1 Operation of Unilever Indonesia including Head Office, Factories and Central Distribution of PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 121 Sustainability Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us as a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents GRI STANDARD CONTENT INDEX This report has been prepared in accordance with GRI Standards: Core option and Food Processing Sector Disclosures. GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES PAGE AND/OR URL DISCLOSURES 2016 ORGANISATION PROFILE 102-1 Organisation name 119 102-2 Major brands, products and services 9, 100 102-3 Head office location 119 102-4 Number of countries of operations 119 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal entity 119 102-6 Market served 119 102-7 Scale of the organisation 119 102-8 Information related to employees and other workers 81 102-9 Supply chain of the organisation 10 – 11 102-10 Significant changes during the reporting period 120 102-11 Prudential principles 62, 84 85 102-12 External Initiatives 54, 56 – 58, 114, 123 102-13 Association membership 114 STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from top management 4–5 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, standards and behavioural norms 15, 110 102-17 Mechanism of advice and ethical considerations 112 GOVERNANCE 102-18 Structure of governance 108 – 109 STAKEHOLDER INVOLVEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 113 102-41 Collective Labour Agreement 76 102-42 Identification and selection of stakeholders 113 102-43 Approach to engage stakeholders 113 102-44 Topics and main concerns 113 REPORTING PRACTICES 102-45 Entities are included in the consolidated financial statements 119 102-46 The process for defining report content and topic limitations 120 102-47 List of material topics 121 102-48 Re-statement of information 120 102-49 Changes in reporting 120 102-50 Reporting period 120 102-51 Most recent report date 120 102-52 Cycle reporting 120 102-53 Contact Points on questions related to this report 120 102-54 Claim reporting ‘compliance with’ GRI Standard 122 102-55 GRI content index 122 – 125 102-56 External checks 126 PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 122 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DISCLOSURES PAGE AND/OR URL OMISSIONS ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Material Topics and Boundaries 97, 121 Management 103-2 Management Approach and its Components 97 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of Management Approach 97 GRI 201: 201-1 Direct economic value generated and 97 Social investment data Economic distributed is not reported, due to Performance 2016 unavailability RAW MATERIAL PURCHASING/ACQUISITION PROCEDURE+ GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Material Topics and Boundaries 84, 121 Management 103-2 Management Approach and its Components 84 – 89 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of Management Approach 85 GRI G4 FPSD: FP1 Percentage of purchases earned in 85 Purchase/Acquisition accordance with the purchasing policy of Raw Materials 2014 FP2 Percentage of purchases verified by 86, 89 international standards INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACT GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Material Topics and Boundaries 93 – 96, 121 Management 103-2 Management Approach and its Components 93 – 96 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of Management Approach 93 – 96 GRI 203: 203-2 Significant indirect economic impact 93, 94 Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 ANTI-CORRUPTION GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Material Topics and Boundaries 110, 121 Management 103-2 Management Approach and its Components 110 – 111 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of Management Approach 110, 112 GRI 205: 205-1 Communication and training on anti-corruption 111 Anti-Corruption 2016 policies and procedures ENERGY GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Material Topics and Boundaries 62, 121 Management 103-2 Management Approach and its Components 62, 63 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of Management Approach 62, 63 GRI 302: 302-1 Energy consumption in the organisation 67 Energy 2016 302-3 Energy intensity 67 WATER GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Material Topics and Boundaries 64, 121 Management 103-2 Management Approach and its Components 64 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of Management Approach 64 GRI 303: 303-3 Water withdrawal by source 67 Water and 303-4 Water discharge by destination 67 Effluent 2018 303-5 Total water consumption 67 EMISSION GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Material Topics and Boundaries 62, 121 Management 103-2 Management Approach and its Components 62, 63 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of Management Approach 62, 63 GRI 305: 305-2 Indirect energy greenhouse gas (GHG) 67 Emissions 2016 emissions (Coverage 2) 305-4 Greenhouse Gas Intensity 67 PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 123 Sustainability Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us as a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents DISCLOSURES PAGE AND/OR URL OMISSIONS EFFLUENT AND WASTE GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Material Topics and Boundaries 50 – 58, 65, 121 Management 103-2 Management Approach and its Components 50 – 58, 65 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of Management Approach 50 – 58, 65 GRI 306: 306-1 Total water discharged based on quality and 67 Effluent and Waste purpose 2016 306-2 Total waste weight by type and disposal 67 method EMPLOYMENT GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Material Topics and Boundaries 70, 121 Management 103-2 Management Approach and its Components 70 – 76 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of Management Approach 70 – 76 GRI 401: 401-1 New Employees and Turnover 81 Employment 2016 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Material Topics and Boundaries 80, 121 Management 103-2 Management Approach and its Components 77 – 80 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of Management Approach 77 – 80 GRI 403: 403-1 Occupational Health and Safety Management 80, 59 Occupational Health System and Safety 2018 403-3 Occupational Health Service 79 403-4 Worker Participation, consultation, and 78, 79 communication on occupational Health 403-5 Worker Training on Occupational Health and 78, 79 Safety 403-6 Promotion of Worker Health 79 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational 80 health and safety impacts directly linked by business relationships 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health 77 and safety management system 403-9 Work related injuries 80 TRAINING AND EDUCATION GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Material Topics and Boundaries 72, 121 Management 103-2 Management Approach and its Components 72 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of Management Approach 72 GRI 404: 404-1 Average training hours per year per employee 72 Training and by gender, and by employee category Education 2016 DIVERSITY AND EQUALITY OF OPPORTUNITY GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Material Topics and Boundaries 74, 93, 121 Management 103-2 Management Approach and its Components 74, 93 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of Management Approach 74,93 GRI 405: 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 74, 81 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 NON-DISCRIMINATION GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Material Topics and Boundaries 74, 92, 121 Management 103-2 Management Approach and its Components 73,74, 92 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of Management Approach 73, 74 GRI 406: Non406-1 Number of incidents of discrimination and 74 Discrimination 2016 corrective action taken PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 124 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information DISCLOSURES PAGE AND/OR URL OMISSIONS HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Material Topics and Boundaries 92, 121 Management 103-2 Management Approach and its Components 92 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of Management Approach 92 Human rights progress reports GRI 412: 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human 92 Human Rights rights reviews and impact assessments Human rights progress Assessment 2016 reports LOCAL COMMUNITY GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Material Topics and Boundaries 35, 94, 121 Management 103-2 Management Approach and its Components 28, 35 – 44, 94 – 96 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of Management Approach 35 – 39, 43, 94 – 96 GRI 413: 413-1 Operations with community engagement, 28, 35 – 44, 94 – 96 Local Community 2016 impact assessment, and development programmes HEALTHY AND AFFORDABLE FOOD GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Material Topics and Boundaries 45, 121 Management 103-2 Management Approach and its Components 45 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of Management Approach 47 GRI G4 FPSD: FP5 Percentage of products produced from 103 Healthy and factories with food safety standards Affordable Food 2014 FP6 Percentage volume of products that have fat, 47 trans fat, salt and lower sugar additives FP7 Percentage of product sales enriched with 47 nutrients in the form of fibre, vitamins, minerals, phytochemicals or other food additives MARKETING AND LABELLING GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Material Topics and Boundaries 103, 121 Management 103-2 Management Approach and its Components 103, 104 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of Management Approach 105 GRI 417: 417-1 Requirements for product and service 46, 103 Marketing and information and labelling Labelling 2016 UN Global Compact Principles Index PRINCIPLE PAGE OR FEEDBACK HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Recognition and respect for Human Rights 85, 92 Human right progress report Principle 2 Not involved in human rights violations 92 Human right progress report LABOUR Principle 3 Independence to union 76 Human right progress report Principle 4 Abolition of forced labour 85 Human right progress report Principle 5 Elimination of child labour 85, 110 Human right progress report Principle 6 Elimination of discrimination at work 85, 92, 110 Human right progress report ENVIRONMENT Implement the precautionary principle 62 Encourage environmental responsibility 50 – 67 Use of environmentally friendly technology 52 – 53 ANTI-CORRUPTION Against all forms of corruption 110 112 PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 125 Sustainability Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us as a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents Independent Assurance Statement Report No. 0519/BD/0015JK To the management of PT Unilever Indonesia, Tbk Scope of Assurance We were engaged by PT Unilever Indonesia, Tbk We provided a Type 2 assurance engagement under (‘Unilever’) to provide assurance in respect to its AA1000AS (2008). This involved: Sustainability Report 2018 (‘the Report’). The assurance 1) assessment of Unilever’s adherence to the AA1000 engagement was carried out by our highly experienced AccountAbility Principles Standard (2008); and assurance team whose diverse and complementary skills 2) assessment of the accuracy and quality of the ensure a high level of competence in carrying out their specified sustainability performance information duties. contained within the Report, in relation to the agreed scope, which consisted of: Independence  Enhancing livelihood  Improving health and well-being We carried out all assurance undertakings with  Preserving environment. independence and autonomy having not been involved in the preparation of any key part of the Report. Nor did Responsibility we provide any services to Unilever during 2018 that could conflict with the independence of the assurance Unilever is responsible for the preparation of the engagement. Report and all information and claims therein, which include established sustainability management targets, Assurance Standards performance management, data collection, etc. In performing this engagement, meanwhile, our Our work was carried out in accordance with ISAE3000 responsibility to the management of Unilever is solely ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews for the purpose of verifying the statements it has made of Historical Financial Information’ issued by the in relation to its sustainability performance, specifically International Auditing and Accounting Standards Board. as described in the agreed scope, and expressing our In addition, the work was also planned and carried out opinion on the conclusions reached. to conform to AA1000AS (2008) ‘AA1000 Assurance Standards (2008)’, issued by AccountAbility. Methodology Level of assurance and criteria used In order to assess the veracity of certain assertions and specified data sets included within the report, as well as By designing our evidence-gathering procedures to the systems and processes used to manage and report obtain a limited level of assurance based on ISAE3000 them, the following methods were employed during the and a moderate level of assurance engagement as set out engagement process: in AA1000AS (2008), readers of the report can be  Review of report, internal policies, documentation, confident that all risks or errors have been reduced to a management and information systems very low level, although not necessarily to zero.  Interview of relevant staff involved in Moreover, the Report was also evaluated in accordance sustainability-related management and reporting with the criteria of AA1000 AccountAbility Principles  Following data trails to the initial aggregated Standard (2008) of Inclusivity, Materiality and source, to check samples of data to a greater depth. Responsiveness. PT. Moores Rowland Indonesia Jl. Sisingamangaraja No. 26 – Jakarta Selatan 12120 Indonesia Tel: +62 21 720 2605 Fax: +62 21 720 2606 www.moores-rowland.com PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 126 Sustainability Report 2018 sustainable Business Products and Supporting Sourcing Benefits Services Governance Information Limitations  Responsiveness Our scope of work was limited to a review of the It is increasingly important to respond in meeting accuracy and reliability of specified data and interviews stakeholder expectations and an assessment was with data providers, persons in charge of data carried out to determine the degree to which collection and processing, as well as persons in charge Unilever demonstrates its accountability in this area. of sustainability performance-related information. Unilever's allocation of resources to stakeholder Conclusions engagement, the timeliness and accessibility of reported information, and the types of Conclusions in regard to adherence to the AA1000 communication mechanisms regularly employed AccountAbility Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality were all indicative of its responsiveness to key and Responsiveness include the following findings: stakeholder concerns and expectations.  Inclusivity As in other areas, however, vigilance is a key and we An assessment was made on whether Unilever has recommend that Unilever conducts regular included all key stakeholders in developing and monitoring and improves stakeholder engagement achieving an accountable and strategic response to procedures where necessary in future reports. sustainability issues. Demonstration of Unilever’s strong commitment to Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing stakeholder inclusivity included the conduct of has come to our attention that causes us to believe the needs assessment surveys and materiality level data of the Report has been materially misstated. survey of the key stakeholder groups. Thus our overall assessment was that Unilever has set in place an effective system that enables key stakeholders to participate in the development of the organization's response in the context of sustainability. Jakarta, May 10, 2019 In order to maintain and strengthen the effectiveness of this inclusivity, however, we recommend that Unilever carries out regular monitoring of its systems and procedures and implements improvements where necessary. James Kallman Chief Executive Officer  Materiality With stakeholders requiring material information on Moores Rowland is an international organization which to base their informed judgments, decisions specializing in audit, accounting, tax, legal and and actions, an assessment was carried out to advisory services. Moores Rowland is a member of determine the extent to which Unilever has included Praxity AISBL, the world's largest Alliance of such information in the Report. independent and unaffiliated audit and consultancy companies. Unilever’s strong commitment to meet stakeholder needs in this field was evidenced by the provision of With more than 33,400 professionals operating in 97 adequately reported and balanced information on countries across the globe, each sharing the same key material issues. Nevertheless, as demands for values and sense of responsibility, Praxity is served by information continue to increase, we recommend Moores Rowland in Indonesia, one of the leading that Unilever conducts materiality tests on a regular sustainability assurance providers. basis for inclusion in future reports. PT. Moores Rowland Indonesia Jl. Sisingamangaraja No. 26 – Jakarta Selatan 12120 Indonesia Tel: +62 21 720 2605 Fax: +62 21 720 2606 www.moores-rowland.com PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Sustainability Report 2018 127 Sustainability Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us as a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING TEAM PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 128 Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability as Improving Health Preserving Nature, Nurturing Our Prologue About Us a Core Business and well-being Reducing Footprints Precious Talents Sustainability Report PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk Grha Unilever Green Office Park Kav. 3 Jl. BSD Boulevard Barat, BSD City Tangerang 15245 Indonesia Tel. (021) 8082 7000 Fax. (021) 8082 7002 E. unvr.indonesia@unilever.com www.unilever.co.id PT Unilever Indonesia Tbk 130 Sustainability Report 2018
