Smart City Lighting Solutions COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 – United Nations Global Compact WWW.NOVALU.ME STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Period covered by our Communication on Progress (COP): October 2018 to October 2019. “ Novalume joined the UN Global Compact two years ago in November 2017 and I am pleased to confirm that Novalume reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this second annual Communication on Progress we describe the actions Novalume is committed to supporting the Ten we have taken to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact Principles of the UN Global Compact relating and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. to Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption, as well as reporting and We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using communicating annually to its stakeholders on progress made in implementing these our primary channels of communication. principles. Sincerely yours, Date of publication: October 18, 2019 (Next issue: October, 2020) The Novalume COP is available on Novalume’s corporate website (novalu.me) and in hard copy form. Kim Krahl Larsen Chief Executive Officer of Novalume United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2019, October 2019 | novalu.me United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2019, October 2019 | novalu.me ABOUT ABOUT NOVALUME NOVALUME Novalume is an innovative Danish company that is committed to delivering Novalume key competencies complete Smart City lighting solutions that fit municipalities’ needs in terms Novalume delivers advanced LED lighting technology of energy efficiency, savings, sustainability and Smart City infrastructure. for Smart Cities We reduce cities’ energy consumption, maintenance costs and In collaboration with Denmark’s export credit agency (EKF), Danish banks CO2 emissions by up to 75%. and other well-known financial institutions around the world, Novalume offers a payment plan that makes investing in LED and Smart City Novalume provides the Lumintell™ Smart City and Lighting technology pay for itself. We call it the ‘pay-as-you-save’ model. Thanks Management System with IoT-ready network to this model, Novalume provides complete Smart City solutions that We enable city leaders to make their city more efficient, can both ensure a completely new LED lighting solution with IoT-ready intelligent and sustainable. network and drastically reduce the electricity costs and CO2 emissions of Novalume offers the “Pay-as-you-save“ Financing Plan its customers by up to 75%. Novalume simply uses the generated savings to cover the payments of the Smart City upgrade. And city lighting management is just the beginning. Novalume’s engineers have created the Lumintell™ Smart City and Lighting Management System that can serve multiple Smart City functions. Thanks to Lumintell™, each Novalume Culture streetlight is connected to an online control and monitoring application that Passionate, Innovative, Solution-Oriented, Predictable and Eco-Friendly: can be accessed via www.lumintell.city on a computer, tablet or smartphone. These are the core values of Novalume’s culture. Through the web-based and user-friendly application, city officials can access a customized Smart City dashboard with precision dimming controls They guide us in our daily work, in the way we do business and in our and profiles, remote diagnostic and proactive maintenance, performance commitment to our customers – a commitment that is bound by trust and graphs, Smart Data and reporting tools that help city managers to take professionalism. data-driven decisions and improve public services. At Novalume, our vision is to develop the best-in-class Smart City lighting Novalume is currently pursuing the expansion of its customer base, solutions and enable our customers to achieve more with less. markets and scope of services in Scandinavia, the rest of Europe, Latin America and Asia and manages several large Smart City LED lighting installations around the globe. After completing the installation of 27,000 LED streetlights in the city of Talca, Chile, last year, implementation of the Lumintell™ Smart City and Lighting Management System and public Wi-Fi network was completed this year. United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2019, October 2019 | novalu.me United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2019, October 2019 | novalu.me NOVALUME NOVALUME OFFICES OFFICES Novalume A/S is headquartered in Copenhagen, Denmark, with two branch offices: in Santiago, Chile and in Bogóta, Colombia. In June 2019, Novalume moved its headquarters from Roskilde to Copenhagen. The new offices are in the Ørestad district of the city, a modern and growing business and residential area that is home to many leading Danish companies and institutions. The new Novalume headquarters are on the top floor of the Neroport building, conveniently reachable by public transport and car, as well as being in proximity to Copenhagen Airport. “Hundreds of cities around the world are switching to LED lighting and building Smart City infrastructure, and the social, economic and environmental benefits are already being documented. Thanks to the existing street lighting infrastructure of cities and our LUMINTELL™ smart system, we can connect cities, reduce dramatically their energy consumption, maintenance costs and C02 emissions, provide in smart data from sensors, and make cities more efficient, intelligent and sustainable.“ Kim Krahl Larsen, CEO of Novalume United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2019, October 2019 | novalu.me United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2019, October 2019 | novalu.me COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS United Nations Global Compact 10 principles HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Our LED lighting solutions enhanced with LuPrinciple 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. mintell™ reduce the cities’ energy consumption and CO2 emissions by up to 75% *** Novalume continues to support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and to make sure that the company is not complicit in human rights abuses. In particular, Novalume takes action to avoid infringing human rights and seeks to make a positive contribution towards the protection and fulfillment of human rights. Continued application of the Code of Conduct In relation to these commitments, in addition to adhering to international and local laws where we operate, the Novalume Code of Conduct continues to be a central document for how we do business. Novalume distributes the Code of Conduct to all new employees and all cooperation partners and insists on compliance as a condition of working with Novalume. The Code of Conduct sets out concrete conduct requirements and states that Novalume will not “conduct business with a Partner engaged in violation of fundamental human rights.” Staff meetings and supplier evaluations Novalume encourages employees to meet and feel comfortable discussing any issues of concern. Staff meetings take place on a regular basis, at least once a month, and issues raised are brought to the attention of management. United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2019, October 2019 | novalu.me United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2019, October 2019 | novalu.me Novalume conducts supplier and sub-supplier evaluations once every two years. In this way, Novalume monitors and evaluates the respect of human rights protection in the supply chain. The next supplier and sub-supplier evaluations are scheduled for 2020. Supporting charity Prior to Christmas of 2018, Novalume and its employees gave financial support to the Danish charity Dansk Folkehjælp (Danish People’s Aid), which works to help vulnerable people in society in Denmark and in other countries. The money donated went towards assisting families in need to buy Christmas presents for their children. Kim Krahl Larsen, Novalume’s Chief Executive Officer, during one of the Supplier Evaluations in China, in September 2018. United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2019, October 2019 | novalu.me United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2019, October 2019 | novalu.me LABOR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. *** Code of Conduct requirements Being founded in Denmark, a country with a strong history of trade unionism and collective bargaining, Novalume naturally upholds the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right of collective bargaining in the countries where it operates. This is affirmed in the Novalume Code of Conduct. Novalume complies with all rules and regulations with regard to labor in the regions where the company is represented. In addition, the Code of Conduct prohibits all forms of forced labor and child labor and seeks to impose higher standards than the legal requirements, for example in the areas of remuneration, leave and working hours. Equal opportunities scheme Novalume is an equal opportunity employer and is committed to not discriminating in any way in respect of employment and occupation. In March 2019, Novalume joined a scheme organized by the Danish Ministry of Employment (Beskæftigelsesministeriet) to offer an internship to a person who is reentering the workforce after having been out of work for an extended period due to illness. Novalume cooperated with the intern’s local job center to design an internship that would take into account the intern’s health circumstances to facilitate a positive return to the workforce. Competitive terms of employment In addition to furthering the Global Compact Principles on Labor, Novalume seeks to go beyond them. Novalume’s new headquarters in Copenhagen provide improved working conditions for its employees, with a high-quality lunch provider, an exceptionally light office environment and comfortable climate-controlled office space. United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2019, October 2019 | novalu.me United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2019, October 2019 | novalu.me Novalume reimburses its employees competitively and has an attractive bonus scheme when sales targets are met. In addition, Novalume pays ENVIRONMENT more than half of employees’ lunch, there is a pension scheme with health Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to insurance cover for all employees, and several staff members benefit from environmental challenges; the use of staff laptops and mobile phones that can be used privately. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Staff meetings, workplace evaluations and supplier evaluations responsibility; and Novalume monitors and evaluates its performance with regard to labor in the same way as human rights protection, as described in the previous Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally section. friendly technologies. Due to reduction in numbers of full-time employees, Novalume no *** longer has an official Work Environment Organization (‘Arbejdsmiljø Organisation’), as was detailed in last year’s Communication on Progress. Conducting an environmental policy in line with the Global Compact’s However, employees are still encouraged to freely unite themselves to environmental principles is still central to Novalume’s business. raise work environment issues and the company voluntarily continues to align itself with the rules and regulations implemented by the former Work Precautionary approach Environment Organization. With regard to taking a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, Novalume deems the main risk of environmental damage In accordance with Danish law, a workplace evaluation due to its activities to be in the supply chain and addresses this risk with (‘arbejdspladsvurdering’) is carried out annually at Novalume’s offices. provisions for environmental protection in the Code of Conduct, which The most recent evaluation was performed in the new offices prior to the must be adhered to by suppliers. The Environmental Protection standards company’s move in June 2019. include, but are not limited to, minimizing pollution in the supply chain. The supplier and sub-supplier evaluations, described in the section on These provisions are intended to ensure that our cooperation partners human rights above, include inspecting health and safety certificates from also protect the environment and adopt a precautionary approach to suppliers and ensuring that the Code of Conduct provisions on working environmental challenges. conditions are being respected. According to the Code of Conduct, Novalume’s products and services both promote greater environmental suppliers are also required to keep records to demonstrate compliance. responsibility among our clients and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Reduction of energy consumption and CO2 emissions One of Novalume’s environmental focus areas is reducing energy consumption and thereby CO2 emissions. Projections indicate that 5 billion people (60% of the world’s population) will live in cities by 2050 and, according to the International Energy Agency, the overall demand for lighting will be 80% higher by 2030 than it was in 2005. With lighting representing a large and increasing share of municipal energy consumption, our LED public lighting solutions – with the Lumintell™ smart system – allow municipalities to drastically reduce their energy consumption and CO2 emissions by up to 75%. This important reduction of energy consumption and CO2 emissions has a direct and Quality Management System OHSAS 18001 Certificate ISO 14001 Cerificate Certificate United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2019, October 2019 | novalu.me United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2019, October 2019 | novalu.me positive impact on the environment. Environmental monitoring with IoT sensors Monitoring our environmental efforts Another of Novalume’s focus areas this year, the incorporation of IoT sensor Novalume monitors environmental protection in the supply chain during plugins for our Lumintell™ Smart City and Lighting Management System, supplier and sub-supplier evaluations. The next evaluations will take place also contributes to promoting greater environmental responsibility and in 2020. developing and diffusing environmentally friendly technologies. Novalume’s Novalume also monitors and evaluates environmental performance using IoT solutions put municipalities in a position to initiate environmental the Lumintell™ system, which provides analytics data, including an energy initiatives regarding air pollution, noise pollution etc. savings analysis, for the installations where the system is deployed. Just as monitoring and responding to key performance indicators is an Novalume’s environmental efforts are further detailed in the Sustainable integral part of business interventions, successful environmental projects Development Goals chapter of this publication. are also data-driven. In order to improve quality of life in a city, it is first necessary to know what the starting point is. Without keeping track of environmental indicators, it would be impossible to know if climate initiatives were successful or if goals were being met. In practice, this means the need for air quality sensors in different parts of cities, sending data in real time. The new Novalume offices Environmental responsibility and sustainability were major factors in the choice of Novalume’s new offices in Ørestad, Copenhagen. The offices are located in the Neroport building, which is owned and operated by the Swedish property company Castellum. Castellum is the Nordic region’s most sustainable property company, having ranked first in the world in the 2019 Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) awards for the fourth consecutive year. Castellum’s approach to the ownership, management and development of the Neroport building and its other property holdings includes focus on resource efficiency and high environmental construction standards. ‘Go Green’ branding Novalume continues to use the ‘Go Green’ label to promote greater environmental responsibility. The logo is used in Novalume’s marketing materials and features prominently in the new offices. United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2019, October 2019 | novalu.me United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2019, October 2019 | novalu.me ANTI-CORRUPTION that air pollution kills nearly 800,000 people a year in Europe alone and the WHO puts the annual fatalities worldwide at 7 million. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, As described in the Environment section above, monitoring and including extortion and bribery. responding to data is key to successful environmental initiatives at a local and national level. Lumintell™, in addition to being an intelligent lighting *** solution, functions as a city-wide IoT-ready network that can be used to connect smart sensors in any location and in any combination. Data from Code of Conduct provision the sensors is then visible directly in the Lumintell™ Front End application, Anti-corruption continues to be an important issue for Novalume. Novalume making it easily usable for environmental monitoring. stands by the Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy set out in the Code of Conduct. Violation of these provisions by a cooperation partner results Real-time monitoring ensures accurate data that allows municipalities to in the termination of the business relationship with immediate effect. take action to reduce pollution. Action that could be taken on the basis of real-time air quality sensor data might be to regulate traffic in specific Management pledge parts of the city at various times or impose restrictions on certain types of Top management in the company is still required to sign and abide by an construction work. extended agreement and pledge on anti-bribery. Goal 7: Affordable And Clean Energy Record-keeping and oversight Novalume’s business practices require the keeping of written records to Target 7.3: “By 2030, double the global rate of improvement in energy facilitate the monitoring of transactions. Novalume also uses the services efficiency.” of consultancy firms in its overseas dealings to ensure the avoidance of personal business interests and control of transactions. Novalume contributes directly to the goal of doubling the global rate United Nations Sustainable Development Goals of improvement in energy efficiency by developing technologies that minimize energy consumption and allow people to do more with less. In addition to its continued support for the Global Compact, Novalume takes action to contribute to the United Nations Sustainable Development With street lighting representing a large and increasing share of municipal Goals (SDGs). energy consumption, our energy-efficient solutions have the potential to make a significant contribution to achieving this goal. Novalume’s activity relevant to the SDGs and the targets that it helps Goal 8: Decent Work And Economic Growth achieve is outlined in the following sections. Goal 3: Good Health And Well-Being Target 8.2: “Achieve higher levels of economic productivity through diversification, technological upgrading and innovation, including through Target 3.9: “By 2030, substantially reduce the number of deaths and a focus on high-value added and labour-intensive sectors.” illnesses from hazardous chemicals and air, water and soil pollution and Target 8.4: “Improve progressively, through 2030, global resource efficiency contamination.” in consumption and production and endeavour to decouple economic One of Novalume’s focus areas this year, the incorporation of IoT sensor growth from environmental degradation, in accordance with the 10-year plugins for the Lumintell™ Smart City and Lighting Management System, framework of programmes on sustainable consumption and production, is directly related to the goal of promoting good health and well-being, with developed countries taking the lead.” specifically regarding the reduction of air pollution. Novalume’s business model makes it possible for municipalities to upgrade Increasing air pollution is a growing global problem and one that requires their lighting infrastructure using electricity cost savings to pay for the action from cities and national governments alike. Researchers estimate investment. This cash-flow-positive financial model means that they can United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2019, October 2019 | novalu.me United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2019, October 2019 | novalu.me invest in other areas, stimulating economic growth. of cities, including by paying special attention to air quality and municipal and other waste management.” Novalume’s energy-efficient products and services also facilitate resource efficiency in consumption and the decoupling of economic growth from Target 11.B: “By 2020, substantially increase the number of cities and environmental degradation. human settlements adopting and implementing integrated policies and Goal 9: Industry, Innovation, And Infrastructure plans towards inclusion, resource efficiency, mitigation and adaptation to Target 9.1: “Develop quality, reliable, sustainable and resilient infrastructure, climate change, resilience to disasters, and develop and implement, in line including regional and transborder infrastructure, to support economic with the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030, holistic development and human well-being, with a focus on affordable and disaster risk management at all levels.” equitable access for all.” Novalume’s products and services facilitate improving air quality and Target 9.4: “By 2030, upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries to resource efficiency in cities, as well as mitigating climate change. make them sustainable, with increased resource-use efficiency and As described in the Environment section of the 10 Principles, Novalume’s greater adoption of clean and environmentally sound technologies and energy-efficient street lighting allows cities to reduce their adverse industrial processes, with all countries taking action in accordance with environmental impact by cutting energy consumption and CO2 emissions. their respective capabilities.” Also, as detailed in the Good Health and Well-Being section above, Target 9.C: “Significantly increase access to information and communications Novalume’s IoT sensors and network provide an effective tool for cities to technology and strive to provide universal and affordable access to the improve air quality and reach other environmental goals. Internet in least developed countries by 2020.” Goal 13: Climate Action Novalume’s street lighting products and services form part of the local Target 13.2: “Integrate climate change measures into national policies, infrastructure where they are deployed. This year, Novalume launched the strategies and planning.” Lumintell™ Deployment and Maintenance App and the new Lumintell™ Novalume’s products and services facilitate the reduction of electricity Node. These technological innovations revolutionize the deployment consumption and thereby of CO2 emissions – a central climate change process for smart lighting and unlock the potential for Novalume’s products measure – and also provide tools used for reducing other forms of pollution to improve lighting infrastructure around the world. that contribute to climate change. The electricity cost savings achieved through upgrading to Novalume’s Goal 17: Partnerships solutions are so significant that they pay for the cost of upgrading, typically Target 17.14: “Enhance policy coherence for sustainable development.” within a few years. This makes the cost of upgrading very affordable. Target 17.16: “Enhance the global partnership for sustainable development, For the same reasons as indicated in the Environment section of the Global complemented by multi-stakeholder partnerships that mobilize and share Compact Principles chapter and the sections above, Novalume’s solutions knowledge, expertise, technology and financial resources, to support the contribute to resource-use efficiency and greater adoption of clean and achievement of the sustainable development goals in all countries, in environmentally sound technologies. particular developing countries.” Novalume’s public Wi-Fi solution also supports the goal of increasing Target 17.17: “Encourage and promote effective public, public-private access to information and communication technology and striving to and civil society partnerships, building on the experience and resourcing provide universal and affordable access to the Internet. strategies of partnerships.” Goal 11: Sustainable Cities And Communities At Novalume, we believe that the key to sustainable and innovative solutions for Smart Cities and our society is the cooperation between organizations, Target 11.6: “By 2030, reduce the adverse per capita environmental impact companies, policy makers and citizens. United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2019, October 2019 | novalu.me United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2019, October 2019 | novalu.me Joining local and international networks is a great opportunity for Novalume to improve our business activities and services, get insight into and inspiration about the latest green tech trends and collaborate with other innovative organizations focused on the green transition, the wellbeing of citizens and smart solutions for cities. Current partnerships and memberships Below you will find our key partners that help us to generate more innovative, more sustainable and greener solutions. GATE 21 – The Gate for Green Growth (Denmark) Gate 21 is a nonprofit partner organization with a vision of making Greater Copenhagen the leading region in the world for green transition and growth. As a partner of Gate 21, Novalume joins some of the most ambitious regions, municipalities, companies and knowledge institutions in Greater Copenhagen, where we participate in working toward the common goal of accelerating green change and growth. More info: gate21.dk LIGHTING METROPOLIS – The largest cooperation platform in Scandinavia for future innovative lighting Member since 2019. Lighting Metropolis works to make Greater Copenhagen (Skåne, Halland & Eastern Denmark) the region where global companies invest in the innovation, testing and demonstration of future solutions in collaboration with cities, scientists and local companies. The new lighting project, called Lighting Metropolis – Green Economy (LMGE), will lead to energy savings in the region. Only one fifth of the public lighting in Greater Copenhagen is classified as energy-efficient today. LMGE exploits this enormous potential to implement qualitative and energy-saving LEDs, and thereby further consolidating the region as a leading metropolis of sustainable lighting solutions. 14 Danish and Swedish municipalities participate in this project together with Novalume and other companies. More info: lightingmetropolis.com DOLL – Lighting the Future of Smart Cities DOLL Living Lab is a leading facility of its kind in Europe, testing and demonstrating intelligent outdoor lighting systems and Smart City technologies. 80+ delegations come and visit DOLL Living Lab annually, experiencing the solutions in a 1:1 scale. Currently, 50+ partner companies such as Novalume and knowledge institutions contribute to the Living Lab’s success. Novalume’s installation is conveniently located next to the visitor center so public decision makers and practitioners from city and United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2019, October 2019 | novalu.me United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2019, October 2019 | novalu.me government levels, as well as Smart City-focused players in general, can discover the full potential of the Lumintell™ solution in live conditions. Read more: doll-livinglab.com SMART CITY CLUSTER DENMARK – Cluster of Smart City Solutions Providers Smart City Cluster Denmark is a new Danish initiative (2019) that creates an overall framework for companies, research environments, cities and projects in Denmark that work with the digitization of cities and local communities Smart City. More info: smartcitycluster.dk STATE OF GREEN – Denmark’s Offical Green Brand State of Green is a not-for-profit, public-private partnership from Denmark. The organization fosters relations with international stakeholders and is a network of Danish businesses, governmental and academic institutions, experts, and researchers. With the other members of State of Green, Novalume will be working to drive the global transition to a sustainable, low-carbon, resource-efficient society. More info: stateofgreen.com CLEAN Cluster CLEAN is a world-leading cleantech cluster based in Denmark with an international focus. Their mission is to accelerate the green and sustainable transition while creating growth for the Danish cleantech companies. CLEAN has four focus areas: Smart Energy, Resource Efficiency, Smart City and Internationalization. The organization creates innovative solutions to some of the challenges that concern us all and as a member of CLEAN, Novalume wants to contribute to this vision. More info: cleancluster.dk EKF Denmark´s Official Export Credit Agency EKF and other international financial partners assist us in securing our international business transactions. More info: ekf.dk ANAP Asociación Nacional de Alumbrado Público (Colombia) Novalume joined the ANAP Group in 2018 in order to promote the evolution of public lighting services in Colombia. All members, through the promotion of work plans and discussion tables, conferences and congresses, develop and pursue constant research and innovation in order to boost the use of new technologies and the preservation of the environment, while improving public services and the quality of life of residents. Novalume will participate at the next Smart City Forum organized by ANAP, Smart City Expo Latam and Alianza Smart Latam in Bucaramanga, Colombia in December 2019. More info: anap.co United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2019, October 2019 | novalu.me United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2019, October 2019 | novalu.me THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT Corporate sustainability starts with a company’s value system and a principles-based approach to doing business. This means operating in ways that, at a minimum, meet fundamental responsibilities in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. By incorporating the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact into strategies, policies and procedures, and establishing a culture of integrity, Novalume is not only upholding their basic responsibilities to people and planet, but also setting the stage for long-term success. Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentallyfriendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. *** More information about the UN Global Compact ‘s SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) by 2030 here: https://www.unglobalcompact.org/sdgs Announcement of Novalume’s support of the principles of the UN Global Compact in the Newsroom of Novalume’s Corporate Website: https://novalu.me/un-global-compact/ United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2019, October 2019 | novalu.me Novalume, signatory of the United Nations Global Compact since 2017 Smart City Lighting Solutions Kay Fiskers Plads 9, West Tower, Copenhagen S, Denmark +45 35 37 88 88 | info@novalu.me novalu.me
