2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report Table of Contents 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report A Message from Our CEO. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 The Chemours Company . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Our Journey. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 Our 2030 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Goals . . . . . . . 8 Inspired People . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10 • Empowered Employees. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 • Safety Excellence. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 • Vibrant Communities. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23 Shared Planet. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .26 • Climate. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27 • Water. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32 • Waste. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36 Environmental Regulatory Compliance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .39 Evolved Portfolio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .40 • Sustainable Offerings. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41 • Sustainable Supply Chain. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46 Performance Scorecard. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .49 Report Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .52 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report 3 A Message from Our CEO Chemours friends, stakeholders, and associates, It is with much pleasure that I share with you this, our second, Corporate Responsibility Commitment (CRC) report. As you peruse it, I think you’ll find we’ve made good progress since we announced our 10 CRC goals in 2018. This much is clear: The demands of our world and its burgeoning population are not going away. With every passing year they become more pressing, more urgent, and it’s up to all of us to face those expectations head-on. No other response will do. At Chemours, we’re proud of the part we play in responsibly producing ingredients and products that power indispensable technologies like the mobile telephones in our hands and pockets every day—the new essentials of life. We’ve challenged ourselves to meet these needs with a good steward’s eye to our shared planet, our inspired workforce, and our evolving portfolio of businesses. In setting our bold 10x2030 goals, we listened to what our partners, customers, employees, investors, and other stakeholders had to say and incorporated their feedback. Moreover, we aligned our targets with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs), and as a participant company, we’re renewing our commitment to the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and to promoting sustainable development the world over. Watching this ambitious program take root in Chemours has been a highlight of the past year. Our low global warming potential refrigerant Opteon™ is in the vanguard of a growing suite of products that will enable us to reach our aim of having 50% of our revenue come from offerings that make a discernible contribution to those UN SDGs, particularly clean energy, responsible consumption and production, and climate action—but more on that in this report. Measuring and reporting on our progress is central to demonstrating our commitment to responsible chemistry, and we have enhanced our protocols to conform to the standards set forth in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards. For specifics on our progress not included in this report, I invite you to take a look at our GRI Content Index companion document. All in all, we’ve made a solid start on our ambitious corporate responsibility commitments, and it looks like we’re on target to achieve them by 2030. But you must judge for yourself. This report outlines our actions to date, as well as the baselines against which we are measuring our progress. Our employees around the world thrive on challenge and change. We’re nimble, decisive, and focused on the future—yet one more reason we think of ourselves as a new kind of chemistry company for a world that demands more. Kind regards, Mark Vergnano President and CEO Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report 4 See GRI Content Index Section 102-1-4 The Chemours Company Delivering the essentials the world demands—responsibly. At Chemours, our purpose is to help create a colorful, capable, and cleaner world through the power of chemistry. That’s a charge that takes on new meaning as the world evolves and as the demands of its burgeoning population intensify. With the help of our customers, we meet those demands—with new technologies, chemistries, and applications that are central to ushering in a battery of changes: the era of autonomous vehicles, the dawn of smart cities, the fifth generation of wireless communications, the coming period of dense and rapid urbanization, the era of renewable energy, and the global effort to combat climate change. But our world needs more than effective and advanced chemistries. It also requires that we enable such essential technologies through an unwavering commitment to safety and end-to-end product stewardship, all at a lower cost to our shared planet. Our Business Segments Our Brands Fluoroproducts • Krytox™ Fluoroproducts are essential ingredients in many of the world’s • Nafion™ modern conveniences, from refrigeration to computing, and from • Opteon™ energy generation to self-driving cars. • Teflon™ • Viton™ Titanium Technologies • Ti-Pure™ Our titanium dioxide enhances some of the whitest, brightest, • BaiMax™ and most efficient applications—brilliant paints, pristine plastics, gleaming laminates, and durable automotive and aerospace coatings. Chemical Solutions • Glyclean™ Our chemical solutions products leverage chemistry to deliver • Glypure™ smarter and safer solutions that enable our customers to meet • Vazo™ the growing demand for precious metals used in electronics and transportation, enhanced-performance personal care products, and other innovative product applications. Chemours at a Glance ~7,000 ~3,700 $6.6B HQ employees customers in net sales in Wilmington, globally 120 countries in 2018 Delaware Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report The Chemours Company 5 See GRI Content Index Section 102-7, 16 Location Map As you can see from this map, there are thousands of us all around the world engaged in this task. But we don’t do it alone. We meet the world’s demands in partnership with our customers, suppliers, and stakeholders throughout the value chain, working with them to harness and extend our portfolio of sustainable and innovative offerings. Office Manufacturing Plant Technical Center Joint-Venture Manufacturing Our Values Building the future on a strong base of values. Our ambition to be a new kind of chemistry company, one dedicated to the principle of responsible chemistry, is embedded in our shared values. These values form an ethical foundation that grounds us, as employees and as a company, and shapes our corporate responsibility commitments. Customer Centered Drive customer growth, and our own, by understanding customers’ needs and building long-lasting relationships. Refreshing Simplicity Cut complexity, invest in what matters, and get to results faster. Collective Entrepreneurship Act like each of us owns the business, while embracing the power of inclusion and teamwork. Safety Obsession Live our steadfast belief that a safe workplace is a profitable workplace. Unshakable Integrity Do what is right for customers, colleagues, and communities—always. We aim to improve the lives of people everywhere through the power of chemistry. We are doing that by becoming a new kind of chemistry company—one that delivers the essentials that the world needs, and doing so responsibly. This is also what the world demands of us, and the marriage of that imperative to our responsible ambitions is what gave rise to our CRC. Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report 6 See GRI Content Index Section 102-18-33 Our Journey Last year marked the kickoff and announcement of Chemours’ CRC and our ambitious 10x2030 goals. In 2018 we shifted our focus to defining how our CRC would act in concert with business operations and our responsible-growth strategy. While we want to act fast to deliver what the world expects of us, we must first lay the groundwork necessary to achieve our goals. Our Guiding Principles That groundwork starts with the principles that guide our CRC efforts. Born from our values, these principles helped shape our CRC goals just as they will inform our ongoing efforts to meet them. More than that, our CRC is intrinsic to driving more responsible chemistry, and these principles guide us in that. It starts Our values guide us as we work together to take action and deliver on our CRC. We invest in our people, our facilities, with us. and our processes to protect the safety and well-being of our employees, our business partners, and the communities in which we operate. We inspire the We strive to think differently and to deliberately disrupt the status quo by challenging the best and brightest at Chemours brightest minds. to offer original ideas and fresh perspectives in an inclusive, rewarding workplace that encourages the development of our employees. We put responsibility at Environmental, social, and economic considerations sit at the heart of our decision-making and efforts to deliver the center of our business. responsible growth. We insist on We are committed to doing what is right, not just what is required. We strive for continuous improvement and will openly high standards. share with our stakeholders how we are doing. We will steward We are setting the standard for how a chemical company can operate, and we will work with our suppliers, vendors, and the value chain. customers to bring them along with us as we advance our responsibility commitment along our value chain. We will encourage our We will make a positive contribution to sustainability through partnering with our communities and with industry leaders partners to change. in our sector and those our products serve to advance sustainable development at scale. The Chemours CRC Governance Structure For our CRC to become part of the way Chemours works, we must embed it into our Board of Directors culture in a way that goes beyond encouragement and messaging. It must become part of our DNA, which is why we established a governance structure that includes our board of directors and employees at every level in the company. CEO We established a leadership team for our CRC. That team works directly with Chemours' executive team to set CRC strategy and goals, drive implementation, Chemours Executive Team and track and report on our progress. We also identified CRC sponsors and champions throughout our global operations and charged them with nurturing the conversation, sharing feedback, and making our CRC a factor in every decision. Corporate Responsibility Leadership Team Ultimately, though, all our global Chemours employees are the ones who bring our CRC vision and purpose to life through formal job assignments, participation in company teams, and various volunteer initiatives. This is collective entrepreneurship Chemours Employees in action: our employees working together to drive positive change in our company and communities. Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report Our Journey 7 See GRI Content Index Section 102-46, 47 Moving from Commitments to Concrete Actions In our first report, we announced our commitment to 10 aggressive CRC goals to be completed by 2030. Our goals were informed by our original 2016 issue assessment and were reaffirmed by our current refresh of this process, also known as a sustainability materiality assessment. Further details about our issue assessment and our approach to stakeholder engagement are available in the GRI Content Index. The matrix below shows how our long-term business success aligns with the priorities of our stakeholders. These findings help us identify opportunities where we can provide the most value, drive our strategy, and share our progress with our stakeholders. The matrix is divided into three levels, with each level having a prescribed plan of action. Action issues are supported by our 2030 CRC goals and are discussed in this report in line with the GRI reporting standards. In addition, we share information about some of our assessed issues. Further details can be found in the GRI Content Index. Issue Assessment Action Issues We measure, evaluate, and report on our performance in these areas, either having set or planning to set goals and targets for each. • Climate Change • Safety Important to external stakeholders Mitigation and Adaptation • Sustainable Sourcing • Corporate Culture • Waste Management Action Issues • Product Sustainability • Water Stewardship Assessed Issues Assessed Issues Audited Issues We measure and evaluate We track our views on these topics our performance in these areas and proactively engage stakeholders to reduce impacts and identify to monitor the potential impact on Audited Issues business opportunities. our company. Influence on Chemours’ success We have three levels of disclosure based on the importance of the issues to our stakeholders, both internal and external. With our foundation—built on our principles, governance, prioritized issues, and goals—in place, we turned our attention in 2018 to putting our CRC plans into action. We began the process by assigning goal leaders and CRC champions to each goal, and then established our 2018 baselines, and followed with a detailed examination of each goal to identify what we needed to do to reach our targets. We also took action in 2018 by becoming a participant in the UNGC. Chemours has always upheld the values of the compact, and formalizing that commitment carries symbolic weight for us. As a UNGC participant, we commit to reporting annually on our progress toward implementing the UNGC’s 10 principles—covering human rights, child and forced labor, the environment, and anticorruption—and to advancing the UN SDGs. We commit to making the UNGC and its principles part of the strategy, culture, and day-to-day operations of Chemours—just as we commit to engaging in collaborative projects that advance the UN SDGs. This report, with its companion GRI Content Index, will serve as the first communication on progress to the UNGC since Chemours became a participant. Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report 8 See GRI Content Index Section 102-12 Our 2030 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Goals Our 10 CRC goals are grounded by our responsible-growth strategy and by what is important to our stakeholders and to society. They fall into three pillars—Inspired People, Shared Planet, and Evolved Portfolio—that are further broken down into eight areas, focusing on our employees, communities, safety, the environment, and our value chain. In keeping with our commitment to the UNGC and our belief that companies have a role to play in achieving the UN SDGs, we mapped our 10 CRC goals to the UN SDGs and their targets to better understand where we can have impact and add value. All 17 of the UN SDGs are important; however, our level of engagement or impact with each of them varies. Our responsiblegrowth strategy and CRC align most closely with three of the UN SDGs—clean water and sanitation, responsible consumption and production, and climate action. Yet we also believe our CRC work contributes, at a minor or moderate level, to the remaining 14 UN SDGs. Each CRC goal plays its part in our overall contribution to these goals. You will see these individual contributions highlighted in the goal listing on page 9, throughout this report, and in the companion GRI Content Index, section 102–12. We contribute to the UN SDGs through: • Refrigerant products that deliver increased efficiency to customers while significantly lowering the global warming potential (GWP) of refrigeration and cooling. • Capital investments in emissions and waste-reduction technologies at our facilities. • Supporting the food system by reducing food waste through refrigeration solutions. • Our high-performance materials, which improve energy efficiency in, and lower emissions from, the automotive and building sectors and provide protection from sunlight degradation. • Ion-exchange materials that help power the renewable energy 17 1 17 1 grid and enable emissions reductions, faster demand response, 17 1 and advanced integration of distributed energy sources. 16 2 16 2 2 16 15 3 15 3 15 3 14 4 14 4 14 4 UT AT E C O N T R I B CONTRIBU R CONTRIBUT AT E C O N T R I B CONTRIBU OR OR 13 IO DER 13 O 13 IN TION IO ER TIO 5 UT 5 5 AJ UT IN M NO IO M M N OD IO M N N 12 6 M 12 N 6 12 6 2 2 16 16 11 7 11 7 11 7 15 15 3 10 8 3 10 8 10 8 9 9 9 4 14 4 14 4 5 13 5 5 12 6 7 11 7 11 9 10 Major Contribution 8 9 10 8 Moderate Contribution Minor Contribution Targets: Targets: Targets: 6.3, 6.4, 12.2, 12.3, 12.4, 2.1, 3.1, 3.2, 3.4, 3.5, 3.7, 1.2, 4.1, 4.3, 4.4, 5.1, 5.5, 12.5, 12.6, 13.2, 13.3 3.8, 7.2, 7.3, 9.4, 9.c, 15.1, 8.4, 8.5, 8.7, 8.8, 10.2, 11.1, 15.3, 15.5, 15.8 11.2, 11.7, 14.1, 16.5, 16.6, 16.7, 17.16, 17.17 OR CONTRIBUTION MAJ TE CONTRIBU CONTRIB ERA TIO R AT E UT D DE IO MO N MO N 2 2 15 Back to OTOC R CONTRIBU AT E C O N T R I B R CO NTRIBU OR C O N T R I BOUN T R AT E C O N T R I B CONTRIBU R CONTRIBUT AT E C O N T R I B CONTRIBU 3 ER OR OR 15 TIO CONTRIBU ER JO TIO TIO 3 CONTRIBU O AJ OR TI U TI A N MIN OR C IBU NOT ID UT AJ IN TION IO ER UT IN TIO OD TI N IO N OD N O O M IN MO IN O M M IO M 6 N M 16 N M N M M N N M N 16 2 2 2 16 14 1 5 16 14 1 5 16 4 5 4 5 4 5 13 15 3 15 3 15 3 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report Our 2030 Goals 9 Our 2030 CRC Goals OUR PILLARS OUR 2030 GOALS OUR CONTRIBUTION TO THE UN SDGs Empowered Employees • Fill 50% of all positions globally with women • Fill 20% of all US positions with ethnically diverse employees Safety Excellence Inspired People • Improve employee, contractor, process, and distribution safety performance by at least 75% Vibrant Communities • Invest $50M in our communities to improve lives by increasing access to science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) skills, safety initiatives, and sustainable environment programs Climate • Reduce greenhouse gas emissions intensity by 60% • Advance our plan to become carbon positive by 2050 Water Shared Planet • Reduce air and water process emissions of fluorinated organic chemicals by 99% or more Waste • Reduce our landfill volume intensity by 70% Sustainable Offerings • Ensure that 50% of our revenue comes from offerings that make a specific contribution to the UN SDGs Sustainable Supply Chain • Establish a baseline for the sustainability performance of 80% of suppliers by spend and Evolved Portfolio demonstrate 15% improvement Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report 10 Inspired People Remarkable people make responsible chemistry. Responsible chemistry is more than a catchphrase. It is the shared vision of more than 7,000 Chemours employees all around the world. It is also the outcome of their concerted efforts to build a new kind of chemistry company—one that delivers innovative and responsible products to the modern world. Our employees—all of us—are the ones who make this happen, and we are dedicated to creating a safe, inclusive, and diverse workplace. Our corporate culture inspires us to make a bigger difference at work and in our communities. Inspired people—within our corporate community and outside of it—hold the key to our success as a company, to achieving our 2030 CRC goals, and to doing our part to help society meet the UN SDGs. Every choice we make to foster responsible chemistry depends on the decision-making of our employees. They are the vehicle in which responsible chemistry will arrive. Making a contribution to the UN SDGs with an inspired workforce Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report 11 Empowered Employees Nurturing the best and brightest among an ethical, diverse workforce. Meeting our commitment to responsible chemistry depends on an empowered workforce—one that holds a multiplicity of viewpoints, stems from a variety of backgrounds, and brings an abundance of different life experiences to work. Our success also depends on attracting the best and brightest in their fields to work in our high-performance and inclusive company. That combination of excellence and diversity is essential to reinforcing our strong track record of uncovering the innovative solutions society needs to support the UN SDGs. Our goal is for our global workforce to reflect the viewpoints and diversity of the communities where we operate. We are developing a long-term strategy to support employees of all backgrounds throughout their careers, establishing an inclusive employee culture that sees difference as a source of strength. We enforce our standards of conduct to ensure employees feel supported and safe in an innovative and inclusive environment. We will deliver progress through a focus on three specific areas: • Ethical Leadership • Workplace Culture • Inclusion and Diversity Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report 12 See GRI Content Index Section 102-16, 17 Empowered Employees Ethical Leadership Responsible chemistry depends on a firm foundation of ethical behavior. While every company faces challenges, we insist on approaching them with unshakable integrity. Each year, we train 100% of our employees on our Code of Conduct, which establishes the ethical expectations for all Chemours employees. Select employees receive additional training on compliance issues ranging from trade laws and political activities to insider trading, based on their areas of responsibility. Ethics are woven into the fabric of our company—so much so that we deputized a network of employees to nurture and champion our ethics culture. These ethics champions encourage, seed, and model ethical behavior, while providing a channel for other employees to raise concerns. Code of Conduct Ethics Champion Network Ethics Hotline Guides our employees to conduct Strongly encourages employees to Ensures secure and confidential business with the highest level of speak up, promoting ethical behavior assistance 24 hours a day, 7 days character and consistent with our throughout the organization a week, and is available to internal value of unshakable integrity. with a drumbeat of messages and external stakeholders. and programs. In 2018, Chemours was certified The News Journal recognized as a great workplace by independent Chemours global headquarters analysts at Great Place to Work®, as one of the Top Workplaces in who conducted an anonymous Delaware in 2018. employee survey with more than 50% of our US employee base. Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report Empowered Employees 13 See GRI Content Index Section 401 Vibrant Employees We need a talented, well-trained workforce to bring responsible Moving forward, we want to increase employee participation chemistry to life, and while we do our utmost to bring the best further, ultimately seeking to hear from every employee. We people to Chemours, we are just as committed to supporting also want to increase our score and place in the top 25% of the development of those already here by creating an inclusive, benchmark companies. This isn’t an arbitrary goal. Research collaborative, and purpose-driven environment. shows that companies with greater employee engagement and top-quartile performance for workplace culture deliver We start by making sure our employees are heard. Each year, we greater return over time. conduct a workplace culture survey to listen to our workforce. The survey collects employee opinions on everything from leadership Of course, improving the health of our organization isn’t to the work environment. We then compare our results to a a once-a-year activity. We look for ways to make a better database of more than 1,700 organizations. This helps us uncover company every day, and we make sure our colleagues are opportunities where we can improve our workplace culture and empowered to help—providing input and creating change. provides a strong predictor of our potential performance. Not only do we want to hear regularly what our fellow In 2018, 80% of employees completed the survey, up from employees are thinking, we also want to identify early 72% in 2017. We also saw an uptick in our score, maintaining any local issues that need improvement so that we can our position in the top half among the benchmark companies. take action. 2030 CRC Goal Snapshot 50% of all positions globally 20% of all US positions filled with filled with women. ethnically diverse employees. Creating systemic change in a multinational organization of more than 7,000 employees takes a methodical approach and planning. In 2018, we started by looking across our three-part employee life cycle to pinpoint areas that can help us achieve our 2030 goals. We track a series of demographic data sets across our employee workforce globally, including gender. Our US employees can opt to volunteer their ethnicity, and we report these numbers against the total number of US positions. Percent of Global Workforce Percent of US Positions Filled Made Up of Women with Ethnically Diverse Employees 2018 Baseline 22% 19% Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report Empowered Employees 14 See GRI Content Index Section 404, 405 Inclusion and Diversity We value difference, consider it a precious strength, and urge Talent Acquisition employees to bring their identity to work with them. We need an We reviewed how and where we posted jobs, and we developed inclusive, diverse, gender-balanced workforce, and are striving a longer-term plan to build a diverse feeder pool of candidates. for that every day. Talent Selection To strengthen our inclusion and diversity, we look to improve In addition to long-term planning, our teams addressed how to our organization at three key points in an employee’s time as both bring in a more diverse slate of candidates and engage a part of our organization: talent acquisition, talent selection, and diversity panel in the hiring process. employee development/retention. Employee Development and Retention In 2018, we began designing a systematic approach for each We introduced new hires to our employee resource groups of these inflection points to form the base of future planning (ERGs) and devised a new training plan, for rollout in 2019, and programming. to teach our employees about unconscious bias. Attract Develop & Retain Maintain a value-based culture where each individual Identify the best talent, internally Attract the best and brightest can be their best self. and externally, representing a through our reputation more diverse range of viewpoints and recruitment. Support resources for and backgrounds. Chemours employees to grow and increase capabilities. Identify Our ERGs are crucial to our diversity and inclusion strategy. conduct learning sessions, host guest speakers, and ERGs encourage employee connectivity, foster professional mentor girls and women in their local communities about development, and provide input and feedback to our CRC STEM. Membership grew by 60% in 2018, and this network program. Chemours has seven ERGs right now, and they cover will continue to be integral in helping Chemours reach its a range of shared qualities. Nearly 10% of our employee base 2030 CRC goals. in 2018 belonged to one of them. Each ERG sets annual goals to build and develop its membership, but they often go In 2018, the Chemours LGBTQA Network (Chroma) further by providing education to Chemours employees and the ERG hosted an event highlighting Sarah McBride, an community at large. American transgender activist and national press secretary for the Human Rights Campaign. Sarah and her father For example, the Chemours Women’s Network (CWN) has shared her story, and she voiced her support for inclusive 13 local chapters and includes more than 400 members. In workplaces. Throughout the year, all networks offer events addition to monthly newsletters and quarterly calls that keep that are open to broader Chemours populations and touch the group engaged, 2018 saw the women in this network more employees. Employee Resource Groups CLARO CBEN CWN Chroma CAG ECN VetNet Chemours Chemours Black Chemours Chemours Chemours Early Career Veteran’s Latin American Employees Women’s LGBTQA Asian Group Network Network Resource Network Network Network Organization Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report Empowered Employees 15 See GRI Content Index Section 102-7, 8, 401, 405 Employee Data Number of Percentage of Global Employees Global Employees 59 1% 1,582 22% ▪ Men ▪ Women 7,079 ▪ Undeclared 5,438 77% Number of Percentage of US Employees US Employees 135 3% 874 19% ▪ Non–Ethnically Diverse ▪ Ethnically Diverse 4,632 ▪ Undeclared 3,623 78% CASE STUDY Cementing Our Values Through Values2Life The workplace culture team cements our shared culture by making our values present in the way we work. In 2018, they launched a new Values2Life initiative to help with that task. Our values are global and apply to every part of the organization. This program has the same breadth and will draw on a series of elements—such as workplace culture, behavior, and development—and pull them together into one coordinated path. The first phase, still underway, seeks to strengthen employees’ understanding of our values and how they shape our culture. Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report Inspired People 16 Safety Excellence Our obsession with safety shines in every part of our organization. We have an obsession with safety and take pride in instilling a strong safety culture throughout Chemours. We strive for all of our employees and contractors to return home safely and injury free each day, and for our processes to not impact our local communities. We empower our employees to take action when needed, and we are always searching for ways to improve. Everyone working for or interacting with Chemours is charged with helping nurture and improve our safety culture. This heavy focus on safety helps us support the UN SDG of decent work and economic growth and also contributes to the overall well-being of our employees. Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report 17 See GRI Content Index Section 403 Safety Excellence Our Safety Principles We live by a set of safety principles that define our obsession. We take care of We are safe We learn ourselves and each other. on and off the job. and share. • Everyone is empowered to raise • We owe it to ourselves, • We train our people to have and resolve safety concerns. co-workers, family, customers, the necessary knowledge and • Leadership is active and visible. and communities to be safe. skills to work safely. • We do things the right way, • We learn from near misses, every time, and always strive incidents, audits, and injuries; to improve. we share our learnings in the spirit of prevention. Our obsession with safety leads us to take care of our employees and people all along our value chain. We believe our commitment to safety extends beyond ourselves and our plants to include our communities and our environment. We labor to constantly improve our results in these five areas: occupational health and safety, people (worker and contractor) safety, process safety, emergency response, and transportation safety. To reinforce our principles and strengthen our management systems, we run multiple auditing systems to be sure we are living up to our expectations and commitments. First-Party Audits Second-Party Audits Third-Party Audits • Completed by site personnel to • Conducted by an audit team of • Conducted by an audit team of verify adherence to local, regulatory, internal subject-matter experts from external subject-matter experts and corporate requirements. different sites within the organization. as part of external certification Audit teams evaluate the site to verification processes. Chemours ensure we meet the requirements may also request a third-party of local and regulatory standards, audit as part of continuous as well as Chemours corporate environmental health and safety standards, in an effort at long-term (EHS) improvement efforts. continuous improvement. In 2018, we completed 26 second-party audits at our global manufacturing sites. These included a safety review of processes, the workplace, distribution, electrical systems, and environmental systems, as well as occupational health and industrial hygiene. We commissioned ISO 14001 third-party audits performed by Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance at five locations in 2018. During such audits, we capture all audit findings digitally and track them through completion. We analyze the findings for trends and monitor progress to make sure that we catch emergent issues and complete any recommended actions. Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report Safety Excellence 18 Responsible Care® The Responsible Care® initiative, organized by the American Chemours has pledged to follow the Responsible Care® guiding Chemistry Council (ACC) and the International Council of principles and is committed to public reporting on a series of Chemical Associations (ICCA), offers principles and practices environmental and safety-related metrics. During 2018, our that significantly enhance performance and improve the health team worked with an outside expert to conduct gap analyses and safety of employees, the communities in which we operate, and create action plans to obtain Responsible Care® 14001 and the environment as a whole. Responsible Care® entails Certification at our US chemical manufacturing sites by the a voluntary commitment to drive continuous improvement in end of 2019. We also hold a multisite global ISO 14001:2015 health, safety, environmental, and security performance. certificate that includes our headquarters and 19 sites. 2030 CRC Goal Snapshot 75% improvement in employee, contractor, process, and distribution safety performance. The safety of our people, our communities, and the environment around us is of primary importance for everyone at Chemours. As part of our planning to meet our 2030 goal, we condensed our safety tracking into a set of four metrics to create our baseline. Each of these four categories is defined by industry-accepted ACC standards. We aim to make an improvement of 75% or better in each category versus our 2018 performance baseline: Category Employee Safety 2018 Total Recordable Incident Rate* 0.28 Contractor Safety 2018 Total Recordable Incident Rate* 0.23 Process Safety 2018 Tier 1 Process Safety Event Rate* 0.04 Distribution Safety 2018 Distribution Incidents (per ACC definition) 3 *Rate is defined as the number of incidents/events per 100 workers. Occupational Safety and Health Our EHS governance process differentiates us from our peers. arises or when an unsafe act could cause an undesirable event. Our simple yet rigorous policies, standards, and management At Chemours, we want employees and contractors to use processes ensure protection of people and the environment. the Pause/Stop approach if an individual or group deems it In 2018, Chemours met the rigorous application requirements necessary to resolve a bigger issue. Each month, EHS releases and was accepted as a member of the Campbell Institute of the a report company-wide that includes a number of safety metrics National Safety Council. The Campbell Institute collaborates benchmarked against ACC large member companies. with high performers in EHS across industry sectors and regions of the world. We developed a safety perception survey in 2018, which was administered in early 2019. Our goal is to learn—from our own Through our training and development network, we help train employees—how we can do better. We will use the results from employees and partners at all of our sites to improve compliance this survey to take concrete actions that improve our safety as and share best practices. Our employees and contractors well as our culture. We report our occupational safety and health completed approximately 20,000 hours of classroom instruction metrics for our employees and contractors by total recordable and an additional 20,000 hours of computer-based instruction incident rates and lost-workday cases. We compare ourselves during 2018. We also offered plant sites the option to provide against our own history as well as industry and government additional training in-house with more proficient trainers. metrics from organizations such as the ACC and the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). We empower every individual to achieve our CRC safety goals. We gave our refreshed Pause/Stop program increased In 2018, we awarded 11 sites with the Environment, Health, emphasis in 2018. The methodology reinforces the basic notion and Safety Excellence Award, which recognized those sites that that it is the responsibility of all individuals­—employees and reached the top quartile of ACC large member company safety contractors­—to pause and stop work when an unsafe condition metrics—an increase from the previous year. Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report Safety Excellence 19 Employee Safety Year Total Recordable Chemours Total Recordable ACC Total Recordable US BLS for Chemical Cases Incident Rate* Incident Rate, Top Quartile** Manufacturing 2016 47 0.60 0.39 1.8 2017 19 0.26 0.31 2.0 2018 21 0.28 0.19 Not Available *Total recordable incident rate is defined as the number of incidents per 100 workers. **Total recordable incident rate of top quartile of ACC large member companies. We recorded 21 total recordable injuries over 15.1M employee hours, for a total recordable incident rate of 0.28, a slight increase from 2017. We are already well below chemical industry averages, but we aim to do better. Accordingly, we are working to rank within the top quartile of companies in our industry as shown above. Contractor Safety Year Total Recordable Chemours Total ACC Total Recordable US BLS Cases Recordable Incident Rate* Incident Rate, Top Quartile** for Construction 2016 12 0.26 0.44 3.2 2017 14 0.31 0.34 3.1 2018 13 0.23 0.20 Not Available *Total recordable incident rate is defined as the number of incidents per 100 workers. **Total recordable incident rate of top quartile of ACC large member companies. We recorded 13 total contractor recordable injuries over 11M contractor hours, for a total recordable incident rate of 0.23, a 1 decrease from 2017. We are already well below construction industry averages, but we aim to do better. Accordingly, we are working to rank within the top quartile of companies in our industry as shown above. CASE STUDY West Virginia Well-Being Program We launched a new program in 2018 that approaches health in a progressive way. Washington Works for Wellness, at our West Virginia facility, improves an employee’s total health and well-being by measuring and enhancing four pillars of health: physical wellness, nutritional wellness, mental wellness, and financial wellness. We conducted an employee survey to understand the best opportunities to improve wellness. We host lunch presentations on mental health, put together softball tournaments, and set up yoga classes. Familyfriendly events promote a more social, people-minded environment for those looking to develop long-lasting wellness. The program engages, educates, and encourages employees with specific and measurable initiatives. Programming extends beyond employees and families to include the broader community as well. Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report Safety Excellence 20 Process Safety Safe operations prevent incidents. At Chemours, we are When incidents occur, we focus on operational learning that committed to safely managing high-hazard chemical processes enables continuous improvement of our systems and share that and achieving world-class process safety performance. We knowledge globally. In 2018, we developed a program to strive to eliminate and reduce risk to people, the environment, redesign our incident investigation processes, with a focus on and the business through resilient systems and a continuouseffective root-cause analysis. improvement mindset, never satisfied on our journey to achieve zero harm. Our core values drive a relentless pursuit of process This multiyear initiative, which is being implemented in 2019, safety excellence to exceed the expectations of employees, will improve training, tools, and the prevailing mindset around communities, and the customers we serve. diagnosing incidents and near misses. In 2018, we enhanced our audit processes and added a hybrid second-party and thirdIn 2018, our Process Safety Competency Team launched a threeparty approach to enhance the efficacy of our audits. year strategic improvement plan intended to enhance process risk management programs, develop organizational resilience, and We track our process safety performance by comparing our encourage our already strong culture around process safety. Also current results to our own historic performance and against in 2018, we launched an enterprise-wide initiative to significantly industry averages, which we obtain from ACC data. We use this improve our equipment reliability. This global effort is delivering to benchmark our performance monthly, as we aim to perform in enhanced systems to manage the design basis and quality the top quartile among ACC large member companies. We also assurance for equipment throughout its life cycle. use this analysis to identify any emerging process safety trends. Process Safety Events Year Tier 1 Events Chemours Tier 1 Process Safety Event Rate* ACC Tier 1 Process Safety Event Rate** 2016 2 0.02 0.05 2017 1 0.01 0.02 2018 5 0.04 0.02 *Number of events per 100 employees. **For the top 25% of ACC large member companies. While there was an increase in incident numbers in 2018, the total number of events indicates a nominal variation in performance across manufacturing facilities in process and management systems. As we always aim for year-over-year improvement, we identified, planned, and initiated enhancements to our safety management systems. Emergency Response We want to prevent incidents. That’s our first priority. However, we plan for the possibility that an incident may occur and make sure our employees are highly trained to respond to emergency situations. We conduct community outreach to keep in close touch with the Emergency Response Teams (ERTs) local to our facilities. These relationships are crucial, and the knowledgesharing that results helps our company and our surrounding communities be better prepared for any situation that may arise. In 2018, we began the development of the Chemours Community Awareness Emergency Response program to deepen these efforts. We will now be recording our community outreach efforts to learn how work is done now and identify opportunities for improvement. Employee training is another key to success. All manufacturing sites that have an ERT follow training guidelines set forth in National Fire Protection Association 600 for Industrial Fire Brigades, and we conduct audits to verify compliance. Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report Safety Excellence 21 CASE STUDY Chemours Emergency Response Outreach In total, we reached 3,100 students and community members In 2018, we worked with the communities surrounding our in conjunction with this training, with an evaluation simulation facilities to connect with local emergency responders to best as the final piece. prepare for potential incidents. In 2018, we reached multiple responders outside of our facilities in Asia Pacific, Latin In 2018, we cosponsored the CI’s first-ever railcar advanced America, and North America. safety training in Monterrey, Mexico. Our ERT worked hand in hand with the CI to make this training possible. This curriculum Our teams in Mexico led webinars and classroom trainings at helps communities prepare for and respond to possible all the local schools around our site. We worked with Mexico’s hazardous materials transportation incidents. Several hundred civil protection agency to train 275 emergency responders first responders and transporters, including our employees in through the Chlorine Institute’s (CI) TRANSCAER® program. Mexico, attended the training. Transportation and Distribution Safety We transport our products to over 3,700 customers in 120 countries. This means our products travel a lot of miles, and we take great care to make sure they do so safely. We track our performance closely and measure ourselves against industry standards with three goals in mind: Simplify the Improve efficiency with Build on way we work. value chain partners. our success. A transportation model should be We know that better collaboration As always, we strive for continuous efficient and effective. In 2018, helps to reduce cost and complexity improvement. In 2018, we chartered we completed a risk assessment while improving customer the Distribution Safety Strategy Team of the routes we use to transport satisfaction. For future reporting, (DSST) to track results and to continue our high-risk material. Additionally, we are evaluating a distribution to minimize transportation incidents. we conducted a series of internal safety severity rating that will allow The DSST built capability in data and assessments at our facilities, us to further benchmark incidents analytics to develop baseline metrics, aimed at eliminating incidents. against our peers and focus on measure performance, and improve prevention of any incident that insight and alignment on enterprise could have community impact. distribution safety performance. Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report Safety Excellence 22 Transportation and Distribution Safety Incidents As a company, we continue to find new techniques, new ways Distribution Incidents to track leading indicators, and better ways to manage risk— all in an effort to reduce distribution incidents. 2016 2 In 2018, the number of our distribution safety incidents fell. We created the DSST to continue this positive trend. This 2017 7 team will review our distribution safety performance, set the strategic vision for the program, and identify key areas of improvement needed to reach our CRC goal of reducing 2018 3 transportation incidents by 75%. Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report Inspired People 23 Vibrant Communities Being a force for good in our hometowns We want to forge and reinforce strong connections with each of our communities, always acting as good neighbors in the places where our employees live and work. We believe in investing in our communities, strengthening our bonds, and building a successful future together. We employ people in countries around the globe, and we engage with all of these communities to improve lives and support development. This global engagement, along with our pointed philanthropy, contributes to the UN SDGs in a supporting capacity while also helping build the highly capable and diverse workforce our industry—and the world at large—needs for the future. Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report 24 See GRI Content Index Section 413 Vibrant Communities We will measure success not only by the dollars invested—$50 million by 2030—but by our ability to improve lives in the communities we call home. We will do this by focusing our efforts on increasing access to STEM skills, improving safety, and nurturing programs that foster a sustainable environment. Effective philanthropy in these areas will bolster our efforts to meet all our CRC goals. For example, helping develop the next generation of diverse leaders in chemistry will support our efforts to achieve gender parity and increased employee diversity. In 2018, we established the new, cross-functional Vibrant Communities and Philanthropy Leadership Team (VC & PLT) to review local community grant opportunities and establish a streamlined system for future grant giving. In 2018, the VC & PLT committed $2.1 million to community projects. Looking ahead, the VC & PLT will establish new procedures, policies, and audit systems grounded in our purpose, our corporate values, and our code of conduct. A critical enabler of that procedure is a simple yet powerful grant-request, tracking, and reporting system, set to launch in the second half of 2019. CASE STUDY Chemours Future of Chemistry Scholarship Chemours awarded its first Future of Chemistry scholarship Chemours awarded a $40,000 ($10,000 per year) Future in 2018. This program will deliver $400,000 in scholarships of Chemistry scholarship to Iyana Cain, a recent graduate of over three years to talented, high-potential young people Alexis I. duPont High School, in June 2018. That fall, she wishing to pursue studies in STEM. entered Delaware State University as part of the class of 2022. Chemours launched this inaugural scholarship through a Since the launch of this award, we have grown the Future partnership with the City of Wilmington and Mayor Mike of Chemistry scholarship program to encompass all of our Purzycki’s signature initiative, Historically Black Colleges and scholarship programs globally and eagerly await its expanded Universities Week. rollout in 2019. Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report Vibrant Communities 25 CASE STUDY Chemours Inaugural Global Day of Service All full-time Chemours employees globally receive a paid day of service each year. This allows them to share their expertise and time with our communities. Chemours hosted its inaugural global day of service in January 2018. In total, 793 employees joined us, contributing 5,860 approved service hours to the communities in which we live and work. Our global headquarters kicked things off by partnering with the United Way for a day of service connected to the US holiday of Martin Luther King Jr. Day. More than 150 Wilmington employees chose to serve. Projects included assembling care packages for the homeless, setting up office space for local charities, and painting STEM-themed murals for a local elementary school. But we didn’t stop there; service projects continued throughout the year and around the world. • In Asturias, Spain, employees from our service center joined our partner ONG Surfrider to spend a day at Playa de Xagó removing plastic and debris from the beach. • At Dordrecht Works in the Netherlands, employees participated in the largest national community event, called NLdoet, or “The Netherlands Works.” Volunteers contributed to a variety of projects, including gardening at a home for the elderly, supporting the workings of a city farm, and providing fresh garden soil to the hedgehog shelter in South Holland. • In Mexico City, employees engaged local children with disabilities in a “Happy Rally,” which included games and activities that focused on resilience and other skills to promote mental well-being. We anticipate strong growth in our global day of service in 2019 and beyond. 2030 CRC Goal Snapshot $50M investment in our communities to improve lives by increasing access to STEM skills, safety initiatives, and sustainable-environment programs. In 2018 we awarded our first Future of Chemistry scholarship, with this inaugural effort working to support high-potential students pursuing studies in STEM. Between January 1, 2019, and December 31, 2030, we will target our giving in three areas: increasing access to STEM skills, safety initiatives, and sustainable-environment programs. The VC & PLT will award grants of $3,000 or more to outside organizations with initiatives in these areas. We will begin tracking our progress toward this goal starting in 2019. Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report 26 Shared Planet We deliver essential solutions responsibly. The growing global middle class spurs demand for the essentials of modern living. We will meet those burgeoning needs—supplying refrigeration and cooling, transportation solutions, coverings and building materials, and the essential components of electronics—without harming the Earth. That will take ongoing innovation, investment, and ingenuity. Being a good global citizen is at the heart of our CRC and is imperative for our business success. After all, that is what our customers, investors, and society demand. Last year, we announced our Shared Planet goals: reducing the intensity of our greenhouse gas emissions, nearly eliminating the release of air and water process emissions of fluorinated organic chemicals, and reducing our landfill volume intensity. This year, we laid the foundation we need to achieve these goals. We set the baselines we will use to measure our progress and prepared our organization to transform the way we work in order to produce the essentials the world needs, all while reducing our footprint and providing meaningful environmental benefits. Our Shared Planet pillar is contributing to the UN SDGs. Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report Inspired People 27 Climate We are learning to meet the world’s needs without challenging the climate. Climate change is one of the most urgent challenges facing society today, and Chemours has an important and complex role to play in the transition to a low-carbon economy. We produce and supply essential products that enable the lower-emissions and energy-saving technologies demanded by our growing world. In our commitment to responsible chemistry, we play a further role by reducing our manufacturing emissions. Whether it be improving our own efficiency or reducing emissions across our value chain, we are unequivocally committed to improvement. Our 2018 efforts were geared toward setting up the internal programs and systems needed to achieve our climate goals. We started with our own infrastructure, measuring our baseline, building the right internal processes, and setting up employee networks to focus on greenhouse gases, refrigeration maintenance, and renewable energy. As we progress in our journey, we will be reviewing and upgrading our internal standards and procedures to share best practices and help all employees contribute to achieving our climate goals. Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report 28 See GRI Content Index Section 302, 305 Climate Reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions is a key part of our responsible chemistry commitment. When we think about our contributions, we start with the GHG emissions generated by our manufacturing operations, including our use of purchased electricity and steam. These are the GHG emissions we control and can target for reductions. But we don’t stop there—we are also beginning to think about all the other GHG emissions generated along our value chain that are indirectly connected to our activities and where we may be able to influence future reductions. These GHG emissions are directly managed by others and include emissions such as those generated from the production of raw materials we purchase, employee business travel, and our customers’—and their customers’—use of our products. In 2018, we undertook a thorough accounting effort, leading to a more complete GHG emissions inventory. This helped ground our starting point as we work to reduce our GHG emissions intensity and move toward our ambitious goal to be carbon positive by 2050. Greenhouse Gas Protocol Scope 2 Scope 1 Scope 3 (Indirect) (Direct) (Indirect) • Purchased Electricity • Manufacturing • Suppliers • Purchased Steam • Energy Production • Purchased Goods • Steam Production • Transportation and Distribution • Travel • Product Use and End of Life • Leased Assets Franchises Greenhouse Gas Emissions To help us understand, track, and report our GHG emissions, we Together, these two GHG emissions categories represent the followed the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting carbon footprint needed to make our products. We calculate the and Reporting Standard. This standard provides best-practice carbon emissions intensity of our products by dividing our total guidance on how to inventory GHG emissions directly generated Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by total sales product, defined by our manufacturing operations (Scope 1) and the indirect GHG as all products and co-products produced for sale to third emissions (generated by other companies) associated with our parties. All GHG emissions data are reported in carbon dioxide use of purchased electricity and steam (Scope 2). equivalents, or CO2e. Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 and 2) (In Million Metric Tons of CO2e) 11.75 1.65 9.82 9.34 10.1 1.46 1.60 8.36 7.74 Scope 1* 4.99 4.74 Scope 2* 4.46 GHG Emissions Intensity** (Per Millon Metric Ton of Sales Product) 2016 2017 2018 *Data are reported for Chemours sites under our operational control. 2016 and 2017 data are restated. For more information, see GRI Content Index, section 305. **2018 intensity has been adjusted to remove contributions from onetime event in 2018. Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report Climate 29 We updated our approach when developing our 2018 GHG Even though our GHG emissions shrank in 2018, an analysis emissions baseline. We elected to include all chemical emissions of sources revealed that a single, onetime event made up a with global warming potential—even adding some not specifically significant portion of our 2018 Scope 1 GHG emissions. We listed in the GHG Protocol. Using this measure, our Scope 1 and elected to exclude the onetime GHG emissions from that event 2 GHG emissions in 2018 were 9.8 million metric tons with a when calculating the 2018 baseline for our 2030 GHG emissions carbon emissions intensity of 4.93 metric tons of CO2e per metric reduction goal. When we remove the emissions to correct for this ton of products sold. This reduction from 2017 is primarily due onetime event, our new adjusted 2018 baseline is 4.74 metric to reduced production volumes and improved control of process tons of CO2e per metric ton of products sold. While this number is emissions at one of our manufacturing facilities. Since we intend lower than our actual 2018 emissions, we feel it more accurately to reduce our emissions further, we continue to look for ways to reflects our emissions intensity baseline, and we will be measuring implement process and operational improvement projects, along our performance against it as we work to meet our 2030 GHG with energy efficiency and renewable energy programs. emissions goal. Chemours Scope 1 and 2 Emissions Total = 9,824,000 Metric Tons of CO2e Scope 1 Fluorinated Organic Scope 2 Indirect Emissions 15% Process Emissions Scope 1 Energy Emissions 10% Our goal of reducing the 1,033 metric 53% tons of fluorinated organic air process Scope 1 Other Process Emissions emissions by 99% will also have a 22% strong impact on reducing this portion of our GHG emissions. Our impact on GHG emissions extends beyond the emissions from helped prevent 34 million metric tons of CO2e emissions from being our manufacturing operations and use of purchased energy. Our released to the atmosphere by replacing refrigerants that had much activities are connected in some way to various sources of indirect higher global warming potentials. This was an increase in avoided (Scope 3) GHG emissions that occur along our value chain, such emissions of 14 million metric tons versus 2017. Our 2018 carbonas the GHG emissions generated in the production of the goods positive baseline indicator of –141 million metric tons of CO2e we purchase and by our customers’—and their customers’—use of was calculated by subtracting the total emissions generated from our products. These Scope 3 emissions are directly generated and Scope 1, 2, and 3 from the total avoided emissions. managed by others and are not owned or controlled by Chemours. Through our actions we aspire to influence reductions in Scope As we progress our journey toward becoming carbon positive, we 3 emissions by partnering with our suppliers and customers to will focus on reducing our current Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions while bring low-carbon products to market. This is why we set a goal increasing the use of our products, like our low GWP Opteon™ HFO to be carbon positive by 2050. For us this means that the GHG refrigerants, that help our customers and their customers avoid emissions avoided by using our products and offerings will be generating more emissions. That is central to our quest to become greater than the sum of our Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions. carbon positive. In 2018, we updated our Scope 3 GHG emissions inventory, Carbon-Positive Footprint Progress assessing all GHG emissions categories that are relevant to GHG Accounting for Carbon-Positive Goal Assessment our company in accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate 0 Accounting and Reporting Standard provided by the World Resources Institute and the World Business Council for –173 Avoided Sustainable Development. We are working hard to understand 2017 20 Emissions the potential impact of our activities on GHG emissions across our –153 value chain. Our estimated 2018 Scope 3 emissions were 165 million metric tons of CO2e, up slightly from 2017, largely due 0 to customer use of our products. Combining our Scope 1, 2, and –175 3 GHG emissions yields an estimated 175 million metric tons of Avoided 2018 34 Emissions CO2e emissions produced by our total value chain activities. –141 We are also working hard to assess the avoided emissions that Emissions (Million Metric Tons of CO2e) result from the use of our products, like our Opteon™ line of low Total Scope 1, 2, and 3 Emissions GWP refrigerants. Currently we calculate avoided emissions based on sales of our Opteon™ refrigerants. In 2018 Opteon™ Avoided Emissions Net Emissions Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report Climate 30 See GRI Content Index Section 302 2030 CRC Goal Snapshot 60% reduction in greenhouse 2050 is the year by which we strive gas emissions intensity. to become carbon positive. In 2018 we updated our calculation methodology for reporting GHG emissions. We also created a series of employee networks to better identify opportunities and share best practices for reducing CO2e emissions within our operations and along our value chain. In calculating our 2018 baseline for GHG emissions intensity, we eliminated the contribution from a single, onetime event. This created a lower baseline of 4.74 metric tons of CO2e per metric ton of products sold, and we will track our progress against this figure. When considering our goal to become carbon positive by 2050, we look to offset our Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions activity with the GHG emissions avoided by using our innovative products and offerings, such as our Opteon™ refrigerants. Emissions Intensity* Carbon Positive Indicator Metric Tons of CO2e / Metric Tons of Sales Product Million Metric Tons of CO2e 2018 Baseline 4.74 –141 *Adjusted baseline, removing emissions impact from onetime event. Energy Total Energy Use Energy use is a major component (25%) of our overall Scope 1 and 2 CO2e emissions. Our total energy 4.70 consumption for 2018 was down from 2017, a variance 4.51 Energy Intensity expected with lower production. Energy efficiency (MWH per MT Sales programs and renewable energy purchases are being Product) 4.19 planned to reduce emissions from our use of energy. By examining our energy use and its GHG emissions impact, we better understand where our energy comes from— renewable versus conventional fuel, electricity, steam, 9.9 and the capture and use of waste process off-gas—and 9.4 9.4 are ready to find improvement opportunities. Total Energy Consumption (Million MWH) 2016 2017 2018 Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report Climate 31 Energy Use Distribution (In Percentages) Purchased Steam 27.6% 41.0% Natural Gas 0.9% Renewable Electricity 16.3% Nonrenewable Electricity 8.7% Off-Gas Biofuels 4.5% 1.0% Other Fuels CASE STUDY Facilities Upgrades When the time comes to replace large-scale equipment at our production facilities, we look for more-sustainable solutions in our pursuit of responsible chemistry. Johnsonville, TN Major GHG Reductions Steam for our Johnsonville, TN, plant comes from a third party, which has been using a coal boiler to generate it. In 2017, the site worked with that third party to upgrade the steamgenerating facilities to a new combined cycle heat and power system that uses natural-gas turbines. The new system started up in January 2018 and achieved a 145,000 metric-ton reduction in GHG emissions over the year. Washington Works, Parkersburg, WV Committing to Significant Upgrades In 2018, we committed to upgrade the coal-fired boilers at Washington Works with gas-powered boilers. We expect this project to be completed by early 2020 and estimate that it will reduce Chemours’ CO2 emissions by 30,000 metric tons and landfill ash by more than 5,200 metric tons. Louisville Works, Louisville, KY Improving Cooling with More-Sustainable Products Our Louisville Works plant has a number of large, lowtemperature industrial refrigeration machines that supply the cooling needed in the manufacturing process. We are replacing the largest of these machines with a unit that will use our own Opteon™ XP10, which is a non-ozone-depleting, low GWP refrigerant. The new refrigeration system will go online in 2020. Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report Inspired People 32 Water Safeguarding this crucial shared resource. Our ethos of responsible chemistry extends well beyond reducing GHG emissions to other areas of planetary concern, and water is one of the most pressing issues. Water is crucial to human existence, and it is a shared resource that we must treat respectfully. The efficient management and protection of water resources are critical objectives under several of the UN SDGs. That’s why Chemours is focused on improving water quality and why we’ve committed to reducing air and water process emissions of fluorinated organic compounds. Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report 33 See GRI Content Index Section 303 Water Fluorinated Organic Process Emissions Being able to access enough clean fresh water is vital to our We seek opportunities to improve the quality of our discharged operations, our supply chain, and our communities. To grow water to meet our stakeholders’ expectations. Our issue responsibly, we need to use water wisely at all our global prioritization assessment identified improving the quality of locations and to balance our growth with a commitment to our water discharges as a top concern for action, and we have responsibly steward the water resources we need to produce set a goal of reducing our fluorinated organic chemical process our products. Our neighbors and surrounding communities emissions into air and Water by 99%. We chose to address air expect us to treat our shared water with respect by minimizing and water emissions because both emission types have the impacts from our manufacturing operations. For us this means potential to impact water quality. Water emissions are directly going beyond our legal and regulatory requirements to address discharged into surface water systems, and air emissions can local community expectations now and in the future. enter both surface water and groundwater systems through atmospheric deposition or rainfall. Our EHS & CR policy and the Responsible Care® principles guide how we steward our water resources. We follow In 2018, we established an emissions-reduction team whose groundwater protection and stormwater management first task was to build a comprehensive inventory of fluorinated practices at our sites to avoid unanticipated impacts to organic air and water process emissions to develop the baseline surface water or groundwater. We are also completing for our 2030 goal. Following a standardized approach to report comprehensive sustainability assessments at each of our emissions data, the team used measured data (and calculated manufacturing facilities to identify new opportunities to estimates when measured data were not available) for each improve how we manage our water resources. In 2018, manufacturing site. The team is continuing its work in 2019 by we completed assessments at five sites and are on track developing a road map to identify the necessary actions and to complete this process by 2021. timeline to achieve our 2030 goal. We will start by applying known abatement technologies to address fluorinated organic Our water stewardship approach includes tracking the volume process emissions while we explore new technologies and of water we use and following specific water quality criteria research innovative methods to further progress our goal. to ensure our discharges are compliant with local permits. Our current plans aim to report significant reductions by 2024. Fluorinated Organic Chemical Process Emissions (In Metric Tons) Water Emissions* 556 Total Emissions* 1,589 1,033 Air Emissions *Includes 525 metric tons of water emissions temporarily being captured and sent off-site for deep-well injection. Water Withdrawal, Use, and Discharge We also monitor water availability and the amount of water we Our sites use water as an ingredient in our products, within our use from our local watersheds. manufacturing processes, for cooling our process equipment (known as noncontact cooling water), and for employee needs. We withdraw most of the water needed to support our Withdrawn water is typically discharged to nearby surface water operations from nearby surface water bodies, with the balance bodies, either directly by us or through local publicly owned of our needs sourced from on-site groundwater wells or treatment works. See our GRI Content Index, section 303, for purchased water. additional information on our water use. Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report Water 34 Water Use in 2018 (In Megaliters per Year) Withdrawal* Use Discharge* 269,000 303,000 250,000 40% 60% Process Cooling Groundwater 33,000 Process water** 120,000 Groundwater — Surface water 228,000 Cooling Water Surface water 239,000 • Once-through 151,000 noncontact Third party 8,000 Third party 9,000 cooling water • Recirculating 32,000 Deep-well injection 2,000 noncontact cooling water and recycled water *The difference between the volume of water withdrawn and the volume discharged is largely due to consumptive losses such as evaporation or use in our products. **Process water includes water used for production and in final products, as well as potable water. 2030 CRC Goal Snapshot 99%+ reduction of air process emissions and water process emissions of fluorinated organic chemicals. In 2018, we conducted a comprehensive inventory of air and water process emissions of fluorinated organic substances at each of our manufacturing sites. Our 2018 baseline data for process emissions into water and into air are below: Process Emissions into Water Process Emissions into Air (In Metric Tons) (In Metric Tons) 2018 Baseline 556* 1,033 *Includes 525 metric tons of fluorinated organic process emissions temporarily being captured and sent off-site for deep-well injection. Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report Water 35 CASE STUDY Improving Water Quality Projects that improve the quality of discharged water can range from short-term to multiyear efforts. Fayetteville Works, NC Our Fayetteville Works plant is committed to working with the residents whose private drinking water wells tested above the North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality (NC DEQ), North Carolina Provisional Health goal of 140 parts per trillion Cape Fear River Watch, and the Southern Environmental Law for HFPO-dimer acid. During August and September 2018, the Center to deliver on the emissions-control and remediation plant manager and technical team held four informal information commitments made by Chemours in 2018 and contained in the sessions for residents who had received offers to install the GAC February 25, 2019, consent order addressing concerns related systems. In these sessions, we provided residents with an upto detection of fluorinated organic compounds in the Cape close look at a working GAC system, explained how the systems Fear River basin. We have been, and will be, investing more than worked to filter out numerous constituents, and answered $200 million in state-of-the-art emissions-control technology residents’ questions about the system. and remediation activities and have committed to both air and water emissions-reduction milestones. The site also reenergized our community advisory board (CAB) to play a larger, more impactful role in our neighbor outreach. We continue to demonstrate our progress in a transparent The site worked closely with the standing CAB to select and collaborative way, as we know that actions are far more a meeting facilitator, define a set of bylaws for the CAB, powerful than words. In addition to submitting information to and recruit new members from areas that may have been the NC DEQ, the plant created a dedicated website to share the underrepresented on the previous board. Meeting agendas latest information on our actions, and it proactively engages with were changed to a more community-driven format. Since various community and church groups to schedule meetings the implementation of these measures, CAB meetings have to listen to and talk with residents. For example, in 2018 the been more productive, and both community members and plant held more than 40 meetings with a wide representation of Chemours are reaping the benefits of collaboration and a better community groups, and it has conducted numerous site tours understanding of community issues. for groups to see firsthand the actions we are taking to fulfill our environmental commitments. In addition, we have invited In 2019 we continue this engagement approach and have numerous media outlets to the site for tours and informationbetter equipped our CAB with information to expand our reach sharing sessions to reach those residents who have not been to an even greater number of local and regional residents, able to participate in person. civic groups, and local/state elected officials. As we continue building our emissions-control facility, we have opened our site In July 2018, Chemours began to widely offer whole-house to numerous groups so they can see the additional progress granular activated carbon (GAC) water filtration systems to for themselves. Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report 36 Waste Greater responsibility demands greater efficiency. We are committed to practicing responsible chemistry in everything we do, and a big part of that is improving the efficiency of how we make products and reduce the associated waste. While waste generation and disposal are unavoidable parts of our business, we are dedicated to ongoing waste reduction. We look to our EHS & CR policy to guide our actions and focus our efforts to reduce the impact from waste, as we do with air and water emissions. Chemours’ waste management approach looks at every step in our production—from research and process design to plant operations and emissions. At each phase, we seek opportunities to reduce or eliminate the generation of waste. Where it is feasible, we reuse or recycle materials, and resort to sending production and business waste to landfills only after all other options have been considered. As with our other CRC goals, we spent 2018 establishing our waste baselines, creating internal teams and management processes, and developing plans to take action to reduce our landfill waste footprint. Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report 37 See GRI Content Index Section 306 Waste While waste is an inevitable part of transforming raw materials In keeping with our focus on baselines and internal readiness, into the essential products we supply, we are dedicated to we established a new landfill volume reduction core team to acting responsibly when it comes to waste generation and create an enterprise-wide approach to reducing waste. disposal. To do so, we must pair efficient management of our planet’s shared resources with responsible waste practices. This team reviewed and improved data collection practices Almost all of our sites produce waste, but the more we can to determine our 2018 baseline for our 2030 landfill volume reduce the volume of it that goes into landfills, the smaller our intensity goal and began developing their plan to reduce our ecological footprint will be. Less waste means less acreage landfill volumes. Read more about our waste approach in our used for landfills and more set aside for nature. GRI Content Index, section 306. 2030 CRC Goal Snapshot 70% reduction in our landfill volume intensity. Since landfill waste is the largest component of our waste management activities, we chose to focus our efforts there. In 2018 we undertook a rigorous waste accounting program, specifying the types of materials being landfilled to help us identify future reduction actions. For this goal, we will be tracking manufacturing waste—including our production and business waste, both nonhazardous and hazardous. It will not include waste from onetime events such as construction or remediation projects. We calculate landfill intensity by taking the total landfilled waste in cubic meters and dividing it by total sales production in metric tons. Landfill Intensity Cubic Meters per Metric Ton of Sales Product 2018 Baseline 0.39 Waste by Type and Disposal Method Total Waste—Annual Data (In Thousand Metric Tons) Hazardous Waste Nonhazardous Waste A first step was to build a complete baseline of all waste generated by our sites and improve our accounting of 2016 394 853 recycled materials and landfilled wastes by waste type. 2017 429 1,024 Data are reported by weight in metric tons, in accordance with standard reporting conventions. 2018 408 1,096 2018 Hazardous Waste Disposal 2018 Nonhazardous Waste Disposal (In Thousand Metric Tons) 1 Recycling/Reuse (In Thousand Metric Tons) 22 Incineration 1 16 Recovery Recycling/Reuse 11 11 Incineration Deep-well Injection* 7 4 Landfill Recovery 408 388 Deep-well Injection* 1,096 1,043 Landfill *Deep-well Injection is reported on a dry basis. Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report Waste 38 The approximate 4% increase in total waste in 2018 relative We calculate landfill volume intensity using waste volumes to 2017 can be explained by annual variations in manufacturing generated by manufacturing activities (production and efficiencies and improvements in our waste accounting business wastes) and exclude waste generated by onetime methodologies. events such as construction activities. The 2016 and 2017 waste information has been restated due to This approach allows us to focus on waste directly connected changes in our waste accounting methods. We made the changes to making products, which provides the greatest opportunity so that our reporting for these years is consistent with the more to reduce landfill volume consumption. In 2018, our total accurate and detailed waste accounting approach developed manufacturing waste volume sent to landfills was 775,000 for our 2018 baseline. For more information on our waste cubic meters, with an intensity of 0.39 cubic meters per metric management approach, see the GRI Content Index, section 306. ton of sales product. Manufacturing Waste to Landfill (In Thousand Cubic Meters) 883 874 775 727 769 Hazardous Landfill Volume 718 Nonhazardous Landfill Volume Landfill Volume Intensity (m3/MT) 0.39 0.37 0.35 *Landfill volume data for 2016 and 2017 estimated using average densities for each 9 9 6 Chemours business. 2016* 2017* 2018 CASE STUDY Reducing Waste Throughout the Value Chain Our product packaging has a direct impact on the amount of waste generated and landfill space used by our customers. As we work to reduce our landfill footprint, we think about how we can impact our customers as well. We continually look for packaging alternatives that can be recycled by our customers or returned to us for reuse. In 2018, almost 50% of our products were shipped to our customers in packaging that was either reusable or recyclable. Examples of reusable shipping and packaging solutions include railcars, tanks, bulk trucks, ISO and FLO-BIN® containers, and barges. Examples of recyclable packaging include static dissipative flexible intermediate bulk containers, plastic drums and pails, and metal drums. Chambers Works: An Example in Recycling The Chambers Works manufacturing plant site was able to recycle over 10 million pounds of steel in 2018. In addition, batteries, tires, fluorescent lamp tubes, mercury thermostats, and mercury vapor lamps are part of the site’s recycling program. To help tackle the general trash, the site also recycles cans, bottles, cardboard, and paper. The site continues to look for other recycling opportunities to reduce landfill waste and participate in the circular economy. Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report 39 See GRI Content Index Section 307 Environmental Regulatory Compliance We believe in continuous improvement and expect that all of further define Chemours as a company that seeks to address us will act with unshakable integrity. While we are unflagging in environmental issues proactively. our efforts to uphold our own environmental standards, we are equally committed to improving them. We reported these environmental matters in our 2018 annual report on Form 10-K. Within that report, there Our robust environmental management system (EMS) ensures were instances where fines and/or proceedings were that we meet these standards. We conduct first-, second-, noted, including the NC DEQ–issued notices of violation, and third-party audits at our facilities to maintain compliance dated September 2017, November 2017, February 2018, with complex global regulatory requirements. We review and and June 2018, relating to alleged violations of North update our EHS & CR policy every year and put in place EMS Carolina groundwater quality standards at our Fayetteville improvements that our auditing processes identify. Works plant. The state of North Carolina filed actions in state court regarding the discharges. Cape Fear River We also believe third-party verification and transparent Watch (CFRW) filed litigation against the NC DEQ and public reporting are essential elements of world-class EHS Chemours, also relating to Fayetteville Works and alleged performance and for building public trust. Most of our sites violations. On November 21, 2018, the NC DEQ, CFRW, in Europe, Latin America, Asia Pacific, and the United States and Chemours agreed to a proposed consent order that have received third-party verification for compliance with would resolve the state’s and CFRW’s lawsuits and other ISO 14001, and we are making progress preparing for our matters. Under its terms, we agreed to pay a civil penalty Responsible Care® 14001 certification audit in 2019. and cover investigative costs, and take additional actions to address site surface water, groundwater, and air emissions, There are times when we must address environmental including installing technology to abate future emissions by regulatory compliance matters, including those that we are specified dates and meeting specified emissions reductions required to indemnify pursuant to the separation-related (with stipulated penalties for failure to do so). Discussions agreements made when Chemours was spun off in 2015. between the parties were ongoing in 2018, and the consent Regardless of how these matters arrive to us, we wish to order was entered in February 2019. Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report 40 Evolved Portfolio We deliver essential solutions responsibly. The essentials of modern life have changed, and because of improved technology and economic conditions, more people than ever before enjoy greater comfort. Things like cooler homes, durable coatings, refrigerated food, better waterproof materials, safer cars, and faster wireless communications are all made possible by chemistry. While the world needs these solutions now more than ever, it also demands that we deliver them responsibly and without harming the planet. Our portfolio must enable meeting those essential needs through our commitment to responsible chemistry. To do that, we’re reimagining what a chemistry company can do, from what we produce to how we produce it. We’re putting sustainability at the center of our business decisions and considering it at every step, from raw materials all the way to the end of the product life cycle. Our evolving product portfolio will help us meet our CRC goals and will lead the way in our contribution to the UN SDGs, particularly to our priority pillars. And while we’re continuing to evolve that portfolio, our products are already making significant contributions. Making a contribution to the UN SDGs through our evolved portfolio. Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report 41 Sustainable Offerings Our products are innovative and essential materials that improve lives and power the future. Modern life depends on chemistry, and as our world changes, chemistry will only grow in importance. While all the wonders of the digital revolution—from the Internet of Things to driverless cars and superfast wireless communications—improve the way the world works, they rely on constant innovations in chemistry. So too do digitally driven advances in the way we grow, transport, and store food; generate, store, and transmit energy; and work, play, and live in our ever-growing cities. In response, we are reimagining our portfolio to help bring about a more advanced world that is also safer, healthier, and more resilient. For us, innovation and sustainability are not just aligned, they are combined. Sustainable innovation is the key to our growth strategy and to achieving our CRC goals. It is also central to our ethos of responsible chemistry. Meeting our 2030 product goals inspires us to integrate the UN SDGs into our product development, thinking not only about a product’s use and effectiveness, but also about its life cycle impacts. Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report 42 See GRI Content Index Section 416, 417 Sustainable Offerings Product Stewardship and Innovation Evolving our portfolio begins with our development pipeline and extends into stewardship of all of our product offerings. We will continue to innovate with responsibility and sustainability in mind, taking care to meet the present and future needs of customers and downstream users. We also nurture a culture of stewardship in our product teams, empowering them to conduct risk evaluations that challenge our employees and partners to think critically, test ideas, and seek information. In 2018, we upgraded our product stewardship program to align with our CRC goals. One crucial step was the development of a new, more comprehensive Product Sustainability Risk Assessment (PSRA). The new PSRA builds on our existing evaluation of potential risks and opportunities by adding new tools and a more integrated and predictive analysis. With these additions, the PSRA provides safer and more sustainable offerings for our customers and theirs. We completed the PSRA redesign and 11 product family reviews in 2018. By the end of 2019, we will have completed 25 more. 2030 CRC Goal Snapshot 50% or more of our revenue will be from offerings that make a specific contribution to the UN SDGs. In 2018, we worked with an outside partner to design a system to assess the impact of our products. To identify which products will be included in the above goal, we are considering manufacturing footprint, landfill waste, greenhouse gas emissions, risks to human health, and each product’s contribution to the UN SDGs. Percentage of Chemours’ Revenue that Came From Product Applications that Contribute to the UN SDGs 2018 Baseline 9.5% Life Cycle Assessments We aim to continuously improve the sustainability of our collaborating with our value chain partners to identify and offerings. Life cycle assessments (LCAs) are used to analyze share best practices. Highlights in 2018 included updates the potential impacts of our products, from raw material and to two important LCAs: a revision to our LCA for our foamresource extraction to manufacture and use, and when possible, expansion agent offering (Opteon™ 1100) and an update to the through end of life. We understand that transparency along the polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) LCA using newly updated facility value chain is vital and we recognize our important role in data from our Dordrecht Works site in the Netherlands. Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report Sustainable Offerings 43 See GRI Content Index Section 417-1 Product Regulatory Compliance and Advocacy We work in a regulated market and insist that all of our products Hazard Communications meet all legal requirements, are safe for their intended uses, and We strive to be customer centered, and one way we achieve instill stakeholder trust that we will do the right thing. that is by listening to our business partners and their customers and providing them with quality, simply presented product At the heart of this is our full commitment to product regulatory safety information. compliance. This is driven by our product stewardship and regulatory management system, which guides our regulatory In May 2018, we continued our Safety Data Sheet (SDS) compliance system. This system helps us make certain we’re standardization project, which started the prior year. We updated adhering to all laws concerning chemical control, hazardousmore than 8,500 SDSs to capture new local and global goods transport, and hazard communications, as well as other regulatory requirements and distributed refreshed SDSs to more required and voluntary commitments. Where possible, we aim than 6,000 customers in over 115 countries. We implemented to exceed these standards. In 2018, we added a new layer of a new semiannual review to ensure we are keeping up with scrutiny by completing the final steps in the Responsible Care® regulatory data requirements and providing our customers with Product Safety Code. We are on track to receive the Responsible the information they need to use our products safely. Care® Management System third-party certification by 2019. Advocacy In May 2018, we completed the final phase of chemical We believe in advocating for beneficial environmental regulations substance registrations under Registration, Evaluation, and in our industry. They serve all of our stakeholders and align with Authorization of Chemicals (REACH), the EU chemicalsour business growth strategy to help us meet the UN SDGs. regulation program, which addresses the production and use That’s why, in 2018, we joined with the Air Conditioning, Heating, of chemical substances and their potential impacts on both and Refrigeration Institute and its member companies, along human health and the environment. We spent the past decade with the National Resources Defense Council, to urge the successfully submitting 137 dossiers and 114 dossier updates successful adoption of the California Cooling Act, which phases to complete REACH registration. Through knowledge and bestdown the state’s emissions of HFCs. practice sharing, we completed regulatory programs across the world, such as Korea’s act on the registration and evaluation of We will continue to be an advocate for improvement and to chemicals (AREC), a program similar to REACH. encourage our stakeholders to join us in such industry efforts. Chemours Fellow Barbara Haviland Minor wins prestigious 2018 SCI Perkin Medal The Society of Chemical Industry (SCI) honored Barbara Haviland Minor for her contributions to the research on and development of new refrigerants, known commercially as Opteon™, that address concerns related to ozone depletion and global warming. This new refrigerant class is providing a significant climate benefit by replacing refrigerants with high global warming potential as it rolls out to supermarkets, forms of transportation, and large-building air conditioning units. CASE STUDY Chemours Hosts Multistakeholder Risk-Assessment Workshops across the US, Europe, and Asia In 2018, the Chemours Product Sustainability team conducted a set of hands-on risk-assessment training workshops. Attendees included internal and external stakeholders from both the public and private sectors in the US, Europe, and several countries in Asia. Attendees learned about the complex and multidimensional decision-making process used to assess and manage the risks associated with chemicals. Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report Sustainable Offerings 44 Sustainable Portfolio in Action We are proud to offer solutions that lead the chemistry industry toward a more sustainable future. Products like Opteon™ HFO refrigerants and Teflon EcoElite™ are already making a positive impact, and we continue to evolve our portfolio to meet global demands while having less negative impact on the planet. Our innovative portfolio already contributes to the larger UN SDGs, and we will continue on this path. Below is a list of our current offerings and their benefits to customers and the environment. Opteon™ Opteon™ HFO refrigerant products deliver increased efficiency while significantly lowering the global warming potential of refrigeration. Opteon™ offers the right solution for a variety of cooling needs, including automotive air conditioning systems, building and supermarket stationary systems, and transportation systems that preserve food from farm to fork. Teflon EcoElite™ Teflon EcoElite™ is the first bio-based, renewably sourced water-repellent fabric protector. It offers no-compromise fabric protection yet is made with 60% renewable content and is recognized by the BioPreferred® program, certified by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). Teflon EcoElite™ chemistry is bluesign® approved. Nafion™ Nafion™ membranes and dispersions, essential in a number of industrial processes, provide cost-effective and long-lasting solutions for energy generation and storage in applications ranging from large-scale power systems to the automobiles of the future. Ti-Pure™ Ti-Pure™ TiO2 products protect everything from solar panels and house paint to bridges and playgrounds. Using Ti-Pure™ Select TS-6300 can benefit the climate by significantly reducing the amount of paint required, boosting efficiency and diminishing transportation and production impacts. Glyclean™ Glyclean™ AM antimicrobial glycolic acid is EPA verified and used as an active ingredient in liquid disinfecting formulations on hard, nonporous surfaces for household, industrial, institutional, and commercial premises. Since it can also be used in formulating disinfecting cleaners for agricultural premises and food processing facilities and equipment, it is an attractive building block for a variety of cleaning formulations. Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report Sustainable Offerings 45 CASE STUDY National Hockey League® and Chemours Team Up for Local Rink Solutions 2018 saw the launch of a multiyear partnership between Chemours and the National Hockey League®, focused on supplying Opteon™ low GWP refrigerant solutions to rinks across North America. The partnership and opportunity to use Opteon™ HFO refrigerants will provide alternatives for community rinks that must address environmental regulations cost-effectively, safely, and sustainably while still providing the perfect sheet of ice and ensuring that hockey thrives at all levels. Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report Inspired People 46 Sustainable Supply Chain Inspiring responsibility in our supply chain. We work with nearly 13,000 vendors, whose support we need to reach our 2030 CRC goals. But beyond that, we see our engagement with these valued business partners as a way to spread our responsible chemistry ethos well beyond our company. This mission forms a natural connection with the UN SDGs, as we strive to harness the full power of our supply base to amplify our efforts. We want to encourage our supply chain partners to join us in practicing responsible chemistry. To do that, we are establishing and implementing our responsible procurement program. Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report 47 See GRI Content Index Section 204, 308, 414 Sustainable Supply Chain We’re committed to adding sustainable value and developing Responsible Procurement Road Map a best-in-class procurement team that can drive responsible behaviors throughout our value chain. As with many parts of We are responsible procurement partners, trusted and valued by our clients, communities, and suppliers. our business, our values of unshakable integrity and safety obsession drive us. We also recognize that our supply chain carries inherent risk. We maintain responsible standards for ourselves and our business partners to minimize risk, and these 2021 standards are essential to our continuing operation. Trusted After announcing our 2030 goals, we established a strategy and Valued and put a plan into action to evaluate our internal processes 2020 and how we assess our suppliers. Engagement, Given the crucial importance of this function, we launched our Alignment, Sustainable Value and Collaboration Procurement Academy in 2018 to foster and improve a range of procurement capabilities company-wide. The academy 2019 shares our knowledge and best practices to enhance our internal capabilities, improve our processes and efficiency in Fundamentals, Standardization, working with internal business partners and external suppliers, and Development and reinforce our commitment to logistics safety. An online assessment measures an individual’s proficiency levels, 2018 and a gap analysis defines each learner’s individual learning plan. Every procurement employee is expected to have a Conception, Strategy, performance objective to complete one Procurement Academy and Road Map course per month in their personal goals and objectives. 2017 Our Partners Economic inclusion is about going beyond traditional supplier We hold ourselves to high standards, and through our diversity. Since diversity and inclusion are crucial to Chemours, we responsible procurement program we expect our supplier want our supplier partners to reflect that same ambition. We make partners to do the same. In fact, in 2018 we extended our a point of welcoming small businesses, local businesses, minorityresponsible chemistry ethos to reach them through our or women-owned-and-operated businesses, and others that are Supplier Code of Conduct, which sets expectations and consistent with our views toward entrepreneurship and economic parameters for doing business with us. We choose to work growth. Economic inclusion fosters innovation and stimulates with suppliers who: economic value for our communities, just as it improves Chemours. We intend to advance our economic inclusion program as part of • Provide a safe workplace and comply with all regulations our business strategy. For example, in 2018 approximately 16% • Protect and advance human rights of our total supplier spend went to local suppliers. As we move • Share our commitment to environmental stewardship forward, we will look to increase our engagement. • Collaborate with us for great results A more specific qualification program for engineered equipment We contracted EcoVadis, a respected third-party expert, to suppliers was created and launched in 2018. Suppliers opting help us develop and roll out our supplier corporate responsibility into and passing our newly implemented desktop prequalification assessment (SCRA) for critical suppliers. With their help, we audit may also complete a full one-day, on-site audit. By the end established four categories to be assessed: environmental of the year, 29 desktop audits and a small number of on-site performance, social performance, ethical performance, and audits had been completed. supply chain. With nearly 13,000 suppliers spread out over 78 countries, this is a complex task. By the end of 2018, we had We have much more to do, and we will continue to develop supplier completed SCRA development, had invited an initial set of practices. Our suppliers are an extension of Chemours. The suppliers to participate, and had fully evaluated 5% of suppliers more sustainable they are, the more we are—and vice versa. By by spend. working in concert, we can build a more sustainable supply chain. Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report Sustainable Supply Chain 48 2030 CRC Goal Snapshot 80% of suppliers by spend will have a baseline for sustainability performance, and suppliers will demonstrate a 15% improvement. In 2018, we developed a new supplier assessment tool as part of a larger responsible procurement approach that will frame how we reach our 2030 goal. Suppliers will be included within our reporting when they complete our SCRA review, which captures a baseline score for each assessed supplier, and which we will use to calculate improvement. Completed SCRA Evaluations Suppliers by Spend 2018 Baseline 5% Our Ways of Working We cannot reimagine our supplier network without also looking the end-to-end cost encompassing the direct and indirect into how we work with our vendors and finding new ways to be costs of the product or service spanning its anticipated life span a good partner. Responsible procurement extends well beyond of use. This convention is critical to helping our clients make our procurement organization. While procurement category the right investment aligned to long-term business strategy managers primarily own the supplier relationships, our other and sustainability objectives. Because TCO is essential for all business segments also play a role in engaging with suppliers. procurement activities, every category manager and sourcing As a result, each business segment has established a strategy leader at Chemours has added TCO to his or her personal goals to reach our CRC goals. and objectives moving forward. TCO is an annual topic for functional training and is included in the Procurement Academy. We will continue to innovate as we center our procurement strategy on providing sustainable value for our stakeholders. Through this work, we are embedding our commitment to Sustainable value is centered equally on the principles of total responsible chemistry and our CRC goals directly into our cost of ownership (TCO) and responsible procurement. TCO is business strategies and practices. CASE STUDY Chemours Is Reducing, Reusing, and Refurbishing Assets We are bringing a fresh view to our sustainable sourcing Additionally, we started development on a refurbished stationary through two programs that have already benefitted our systems equipment program in 2018. Use of refurbished stationary approach and the environment. equipment also produces significant environmental savings. In 2018, we adopted a policy which sets up a systematic These two programs reinforce how we are incorporating creative approach to the reuse or scrap (recycling of steel) of mobile solutions across our value chain. We look forward to these programs assets. The policy covers the three stages—acquisition, expanding and, in turn, reducing our environmental impact. life, and end—of our mobile asset management model. We consider each asset’s contribution to our CRC at each stage. Throughout the process, we look to create benefits for our business and reduce our environmental impact. Where possible, we redeploy assets that we can use at another site or operation venue. We look to sell our scrap materials for others to use. For example, replacing the purchase of trailers with railcars could reduce or avoid some emissions. Contributions from this program are valued through lower carbon emissions as well as through reductions in energy usage and lower carbon emissions in new manufacturing. Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report 49 Chemours 2018 Performance Scorecard BUSINESS OVERVIEW (USD In Millions) FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Net Sales 5,400 6,183 6,638 Adjusted EBITDA 822 1,422 1,740 Taxes on Earnings -18 165 159 Dividends Paid 22 22 148 Capital Expenditures 338 411 498 R&D 81 81 82 INSPIRED PEOPLE FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Empowered Employees Total Number Employees at Year End1 — — 7,079 Women in Global Workforce 1 — — 22% Women in Global Leadership Team 1 — — 33% Women in Chemours Executive Team2 13% 13% 13% Women on the Board of Directors 2 25% 25% 25% Ethnic Diversity in US Workforce1 — — 19% Ethnic Diversity in US Leadership Team1 — — 26% Ethnic Diversity in Chemours Executive Team 2 13% 13% 13% Ethnic Diversity on the Board of Directors2 13% 13% 13% Workplace Culture—Survey Participation 56% 72% 80% Workplace Culture—Benchmark Ranking Bottom Quartile 2nd Quartile 2nd Quartile Vibrant Communities Charitable Giving (USD In Millions)1 — — 2.1 Cumulative Charitable Giving toward 2030 Goal (USD In Millions) 1 — — 0 Chemours-Supported Employee Volunteering (Hours)1 — — 5,860 Safety Excellence Employee Total Reportable Incident Rate 0.60 0.26 0.28 (Number of incidents x 200,000 / total hours worked) Employee Lost Time Incident Rate 0.13 0.03 0.05 (Number of incidents x 200,000 / total hours worked) Employee Fatalities 0 0 0 Contractor Total Reportable Incident Rate 0.26 0.31 0.23 (Number of incidents x 200,000 / total hours worked) Contractor Lost Time Incident Rate 0.02 0.09 0.00 (Number of incidents x 200,000 / total hours worked) Contractor Fatalities 1 0 0 Tier 1 Process Safety Event Rate 0.02 0.01 0.04 (Number of events x 200,000 / total hours worked) Tier 2 Process Safety Event Rate 0.10 0.10 0.11 (Number of events x 200,000 / total hours worked) Distribution Incidents 2 7 3 Total Number Significant Spills 0 0 0 1. Data not available for all reporting years. 2. 2019 changes to the board and executive team membership will impact reported diversity values. 3. We are restating our historic planet data because of improved data completeness and quality. 4. Values adjusted to remove contributions from a onetime emissions release event in 2018. 5. Includes 525 metric tons of emissions currently captured and sent off-site for deep-well injection. Bolded entries represent our 2018 baseline values for our 2030 CRC goals. Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report Performance Scorecard 50 SHARED PLANET 3 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Energy Use Total Purchased Electricity Use (MWH) 1,548,000 1,627,000 1,608,000 Electricity Use—Nonrenewable Sources (MWH) 1,472,000 1,546,000 1,524,000 Electricity Use—Renewable Sources (MWH) 76,000 81,000 84,000 Renewables as Percent of Total Electricity Use 5% 5% 5% Total Fuel Use (MWH) 5,465,000 5,507,000 5,181,000 Fuel Use—Nonrenewable Sources (MWH) 5,349,000 5,370,000 5,085,000 Fuel Use—Renewable Sources (MWH) 116,000 137,000 96,000 Total Purchased Steam Use (MWH) 2,427,000 2,736,000 2,583,000 Total Energy Use (MWH) 9,440,000 9,870,000 9,372,000 US Energy Use 7,297,000 7,470,000 7,302,000 Outside US Energy Use 2,143,000 2,400,000 2,070,000 Energy Intensity (MWH / Metric Ton of Sales Product) 4.51 4.19 4.70 Renewables as Percent of Total Energy Use 2% 2% 2% Greenhouse Gas Emissions Direct (Scope 1) GHG Emissions (Metric Tons of CO2e) 7,743,000 10,097,000 8,366,000 Indirect (Scope 2) GHG Emissions (Metric Tons of CO2e) 1,596,000 1,657,000 1,458,000 Total Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions (Metric Tons of CO2e) 9,339,000 11,754,000 9,824,000 U.S. GHG Emissions (Metric Tons of CO2e) 7,899,000 10,319,000 8,444,000 Outside U.S. GHG Emissions (Metric Tons of CO2e) 1,440,000 1,435,000 1,380,000 Total Scope 1 and 2 GHG Intensity 4.46 4.99 4.93 (Metric Tons of CO2e / Metric Tons of Sales Product) Total Scope 1 and 2 GHG Intensity (Metric Tons of CO2e / $ Net Sales) 0.0017 0.0019 0.0015 Total Scope 1 and 2 GHG Intensity (Metric Tons of CO2e / $ Adjusted EBIDTA) 113,890 8,266 5,646 2018 Adjusted Scope 1 and 2 GHG Intensity — — 4.74 (Metric Tons of CO2e / Metric Tons of Sales Product)4 Indirect (Scope 3) GHG Emissions (Metric Tons of CO2e)1 — 162 165 Total Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG Emissions (Metric Tons of CO2e) 1 — 173 175 Avoided GHG Emissions Enabled by Products (Metric Tons of CO2e) 1 — 20 34 Carbon-Positive Indicator: Avoided GHG Emissions – — –153 –141 Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG Emissions (Million Metric Tons of CO2e)1 Air Emissions Total Fluorinated Organic Compound Process Emissions to Air — — 1,033 (Metric Tons)1 Total NO x + SO x Emissions (Metric Tons) 8,000 3,000 4,000 Total NO x Emissions (Metric Tons) 3,000 2,000 2,000 Total SO x Emissions (Metric Tons) 5,000 1,000 2,000 Total Volatile Organic Carbon Emissions (Metric Tons) 3,000 3,000 3,000 1. Data not available for all reporting years. 2. 2019 changes to the board and executive team membership will impact reported diversity values. 3. We are restating our historic planet data because of improved data completeness and quality. 4. Values adjusted to remove contributions from a onetime emissions release event in 2018. 5. Includes 525 metric tons of emissions currently captured and sent off-site for deep-well injection. Bolded entries represent our 2018 baseline values for our 2030 CRC goals. Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report Performance Scorecard 51 SHARED PLANET 3 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Water Stewardship Total Water Use (Megaliters)1 — — 303,000 Total Water Withdrawals (Megaliters) 296,000 254,000 269,000 Total Water Recycled (Megaliters) 1 — — 32,000 Total Water Discharged (Megaliters)1 — — 250,000 Total Water Consumption (Megaliters) 45,000 45,000 50,000 Water Use Intensity (Megaliters / Metric Tons of Sales Product) 1 — — 0.15 Number of Sites in Stressed Watersheds per Aqueduct Screen1 — — 8 Stressed Watershed Withdrawals / Total Withdrawals 1 — — 5% Total Fluorinated Organic Compound Process Emissions — — 556 to Water (Metric Tons)1,5 Waste Generation Total Waste Generated (Metric Tons) 1,247,000 1,453,000 1,504,000 Total Waste to Landfills (Metric Tons) 852,000 991,000 1,050,000 Total Waste to Incineration / Controlled Combustion (Metric Tons) 20,000 32,000 33,000 Total Waste to Deep Wells (Metric Tons) 375,000 415,000 399,000 Total Waste to Other Disposal Methods (Metric Tons) 1 — — 17 Total Waste Recycled (Metric Tons)1 — 11,000 17,000 Total Waste Incinerated for Energy Recovery (Metric Tons) 0 4,000 5,000 Total Waste Intensity (Metric Tons / Metric Tons of Sales Product) 0.60 0.62 0.75 Total Hazardous Waste Generated (Metric Tons) 394,000 429,000 408,000 Hazardous Waste Recycled/Recovered (Metric Tons) 1 — 0 1,000 Total Nonhazardous Waste Generated (Metric Tons) 853,000 1,024,000 1,096,000 Nonhazardous Waste Recycled / Recovered (Metric Tons)1 — 11,000 16,000 Total Waste Volume to Landfills (m3) 727,000 883,000 775,000 Landfill Volume Intensity (m3 / Metric Ton Sales Product) 0.35 0.37 0.39 EVOLVED PORTFOLIO1 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Sustainable Offerings Revenue from Products That Support the UN SDGs — — 9.5% Products Sold in Renewable / Reusable Packaging — — 47% Sustainable Supply Chain Procurement Spend Covered by Sustainability Assessments — — 5% Procurement Spend with Local Suppliers — — 16% Improvement in Supplier Sustainability Score — — 0% 1. Data not available for all reporting years. 2. 2019 changes to the board and executive team membership will impact reported diversity values. 3. We are restating our historic planet data because of improved data completeness and quality. 4. Values adjusted to remove contributions from a onetime emissions release event in 2018. 5. Includes 525 metric tons of emissions currently captured and sent off-site for deep-well injection. Bolded entries represent our 2018 baseline values for our 2030 CRC goals. Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report 52 See GRI Content Index Section 102-48-56 Report Resources About This Report This Corporate Responsibility Commitment report is our second and covers the period from January 1 through December 31,2018. It serves as our first Communication on Progress report since we joined the UNGC on October 8, 2018. This report marks another milestone for us as it is our first report prepared according to the GRI Standards—Core option. In this report, we revisit the 10 shared goals we released last year and explain how we have expanded on them to include how we will define these goals and the baselines set for 2018. Some data previously reported in our 2017 CRC report have been restated due to improvements in our measurement practices. We welcome any questions, comments, or suggestions at CorporateResponsibility@Chemours.com. Commitments, Policies, and Positions Inspired People CET—Chemours Executive Team • Code of Conduct CFCs—Chlorofluorocarbons • Ethics Hotline CH4—Methane • Environment, Health, Safety, and Corporate CHP—Combined Heat and Power Responsibility Policy CI—Chlorine Institute • Inclusive Environment and Nondiscrimination Policy CO2 —Carbon Dioxide • Statement on Human Rights CO2e­—Carbon Dioxide Equivalent • Statement of Principles on Child Labor, Forced Labor, COP—Communication on Progress and Modern Slavery CRC—Corporate Responsibility Commitment CRLT—Corporate Responsibility Leadership Team Shared Planet DEQ—Department of Environmental Quality • Climate Change: Our Pledge DSST—Distribution Safety Strategy Team EHS & CR—Environment, Health, Safety, and Corporate Evolved Portfolio Responsibility • Conflict Minerals: Specialized Disclosure Report EMS—Environmental Management System • ISO 14001:2015 EMS Certificate ERG—Employee Resource Group • REACH General Statement ERM—Enterprise Risk Management • Statement on California Transparency in ERT—Emergency Response Team Supply Chains Act ESG—Environmental, Social, and Governance • Statement on Conflict Minerals FIBC-D—Dissipative Flexible Intermediate Bulk Containers • Substances of Very High Concern GAC—Granular Activated Carbon (SVHC) General Statement GHG—Greenhouse Gas • Supplier Code of Conduct GRI—Global Reporting Initiative GWP—Global Warming Potential HCFC—Hydrochlorofluorocarbon Acronyms HFC—Hydrofluorocarbon HFO—Hydrofluoroolefin A2E—Ability to Execute HPFO—Hexafluoropropylene Oxide ACC—American Chemistry Council HST—Hand Safety Team AR4—IPCC Fourth Assessment Report I&D—Inclusion and Diversity BLS—Bureau of Labor Statistics ICCA—International Council of Chemical Associations CAB—Community Advisory Board ILO—International Labour Organization CAP—Community Advisory Panel LCA—Life Cycle Assessment CCO—Chief Compliance Officer LCI—Life Cycle Inventory CEASAR—Center for Applied Earth Science LGBTQA—Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Questioning, and Research and Ally Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report Report Resources 53 General Definitions LWC—Lost Workday Cases American Chemistry Council (ACC) MT—Metric Ton The ACC represents a diverse set of companies engaged NAICS—North American Industry Classification System in the business of chemistry. NC DEQ—North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality NF3 —Nitrogen Trifluoride bluesign® N2O—Nitrous Oxide The bluesign® system is the solution for sustainable textile NOx—Nitrogen Oxides production. It eliminates harmful substances right from the NYSE—New York Stock Exchange beginning of the manufacturing process and sets and controls OECD—Organization for Economic Co-operation standards for environmentally friendly and safe production. and Development OHI—Organizational Health Index Carbon Footprint PAC—Product Application Combination The total amount of direct and indirect GHG emissions, PFC—Perfluorocarbon expressed as CO2e. PHA—Process Hazards Analysis PM—Program Management Chemours Environment, Health, and PPT—Parts Per Trillion Safety Excellence Award PS&R MS—Product Stewardship and Regulatory This award is given to plants that reach the top quartile of Management System performance using the ACC industry safety metrics. PSE—Process Safety Event PSM—Process Safety Management Deep Injection Well PSRA—Product Sustainability Risk Assessment Class One underground injection wells are used to inject PTFE—Polytetrafluoroethylene hazardous and nonhazardous waste into deep, isolated rock RCMS—Responsible Care® Management System formations that are thousands of feet below the lowermost SASB—Sustainability Accounting Standards Board underground source of drinking water. The injection zone is SBT—Science-Based Target separated from any aquifers by an impermeable “cap” rock SCI—Society of Chemical Industry called the “confining layer,” along with additional layers of SCRA—Supplier Corporate Responsibility Assessment permeable and impermeable rock and sediment. SDGs—Sustainable Development Goals SDS—Safety Data Sheet Fluorinated Organic Compound Emissions SF6 —Sulfur Hexafluoride These are emissions of fluorinated organic compounds to air SOx—Sulfur Oxides and water from our manufacturing processes. Fluorinated SFST—Shop Floor Safety Team organic compounds are defined as compounds containing SMART—Specific, Measurable, Actionable, Realistic, one or more carbon-fluorine bonds. Air emissions of these and Time-Bound compounds are tracked for GHG reporting purposes, and SME—Subject Matter Expert both air and water emissions will be tracked for our water STEM—Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math quality goal. SVHC—Substance of Very High Concern TCO—Total Cost of Ownership Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) TfS—Together for Sustainability The Global Reporting Initiative has developed the TiO2 —Titanium Dioxide Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, which strive TRIR—Total Recordable Incident Rate to increase the transparency and accountability of UIC—Underground Injection Control economic, environmental, and social performance. UN—United Nations The GRI was established in 1997 in partnership with UNGC—United Nations Global Compact the UN Environment Programme. It is an international, USDA—United States Department of Agriculture multistakeholder, and independent institution whose VC & PLT—Vibrant Communities and Philanthropy mission is to develop and disseminate the globally Leadership Team applicable Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. These VOC—Volatile Organic Compound guidelines are for voluntary use by organizations for VPP—Voluntary Protection Program reporting on the economic, environmental, and social WBCSD—World Business Council of Sustainable dimensions of their activities, products, and services. Development The GRI Guidelines became the GRI Standards in 2016. WRI—World Resources Institute Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report Report Resources 54 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol Corporate Accounting International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) and Reporting Standard The International Council of Chemical Associations is the The GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting trade association of the global chemical industry. Its members Standard maintains requirements and provides guidance include both regional trade associations and national for companies and other organizations that are preparing associations, such as the American Chemistry Council. a corporate-level GHG emissions inventory. The standard Members account for more than 90% of global chemical covers the accounting and reporting of seven greenhouse sales. ICCA is the steward of Responsible Care®, a voluntary gases covered by the Kyoto Protocol: carbon dioxide (CO2 ), scheme to improve chemical safety among its members. methane (CH4 ), nitrous oxide (N2O), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs), sulfur hexafluoride (SF6 ), ISO 14001 and nitrogen trifluoride (NF3 ). It was updated in 2015 An international standard developed by the International with the Scope 2 Guidance, which allows companies to Organization for Standardization (ISO) that determines the credibly measure and report emissions from purchased or general requirements for an environmental management acquired electricity, steam, heat, and cooling. Companies system for voluntary certification. may additionally report GHG emissions from gases not covered by the Kyoto Protocol, such as chlorofluorocarbons Joint Venture and other fluorinated compounds. CO2e stands for carbon A cooperative agreement in which the parties that have joint dioxide equivalent and is a standard unit for measuring control of a legally independent entity have rights to the net carbon footprints. assets of that arrangement. Joint ventures are accounted for using the operational control boundary for reporting • GHG Scope 1 environmental data. Scope 1 emissions are the greenhouse gases produced directly from sources that are owned or controlled Location-Based Emissions by Chemours—for example, from our manufacturing Reflect the average GHG emissions intensity of grids on processes and equipment or from combustion of fuel in which electricity consumption occurs (using mostly national vehicles, boilers, and furnaces. Emissions produced from grid-average emissions factor data). The corresponding renewable fuel sources (e.g., landfill gas or biogas) are not emissions factor is in most cases the national emissions factor. reported as Scope 1 emissions. Market-Based Emissions • GHG Scope 2 Reflect GHG emissions from electricity supplies that Scope 2 emissions are the indirect greenhouse gases companies have purposefully chosen and contracted resulting from the generation of electricity, heating and (or decided against). Corresponding emissions factors: cooling, and steam off-site but purchased by the entity. supplier-specific emissions factor (provided by the Scope 2 emissions physically occur at the facility where supplier) and residual emissions factor (country-based grid electricity and steam are generated and not at Chemours factor, corrected for allocated purchased electricity from locations. renewable resources). • GHG Scope 3 Production Scope 3 emissions are indirect emissions that • I ntermediate Product organizations produce through their activities but that Manufactured products or co-products that are either arise from sources not owned or controlled by the used at the producing site or transferred to another organization. Examples of such activities include business Chemours site to be used as a feedstock in the production travel, commuting, supply chain (procurement), product of another product. use, and activities associated with product end of life. The GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) •S  ales Product Accounting and Reporting Standard, provided by the Manufactured products or co-products that are sold to a World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Business third party. Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), allows companies to assess their entire value-chain emissions REACH impact and identify where to focus reduction activities. A European Union regulatory framework for the registration, evaluation, authorization, and restriction of chemicals; it was implemented gradually and took full effect by 2018. Companies are obligated to collect data on the properties and uses of produced and imported substances and to assess any risks. Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report Report Resources 55 Responsible Care® Value Chain A worldwide initiative by the chemical industry to The successive steps in a production process: from raw continuously improve its performance and achieve materials through various intermediate steps, such as excellence in environmental protection, health, safety, transportation and production, to finished product. and security performance. Science-Based Targets Waste Definitions The Science-Based Targets initiative champions scienceWaste is defined as solids, liquids, sludges, or vapor based target setting as a powerful way of boosting materials that undergo varying degrees of treatment prior companies’ competitive advantage in the transition to disposal (e.g., using landfills, incineration, underground to a low-carbon economy. A science-based target injection wells, or third parties) in accordance with local and is one that is adopted by companies to reduce GHG national regulations. Solid waste may also be recycled or emissions according to the level of decarbonization recovered for beneficial reuse, including energy recovery. required to keep global temperature increase below 2°C compared to preindustrial temperatures, as described Business Waste in the Fifth Assessment Report of the United Nations Business waste includes waste materials generated at office Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC AR5). buildings and materials classified as general trash (office waste, food waste, pallets, etc.) at our operating sites and United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) technical centers. A strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with Chemical Waste Management Program 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human All chemicals are included in the production waste totals and rights, labor, environment, and anticorruption. are not reported on separately. United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Consumer/Customer Product Waste (UN SDGs) Consumer waste is defined as the waste generated by The Sustainable Development Goals are a collection of 17 our direct customers as a result of using our products. A global goals set by the United Nations General Assembly. major component of waste generated by our customers The UN SDGs are part of Resolution 70/1: “Transforming is the packaging materials for our products. We do not Our World: The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable currently collect customer waste data, but are looking for Development.” The goals are broad and interdependent, opportunities to partner with customers to obtain data and yet each has a separate list of targets to meet. Achieving collaborate on new opportunities for reducing waste. all 169 targets would signal the accomplishment of all 17 goals. The UN SDGs cover social and economic Energy Recovery development issues, including poverty, hunger, health, Use of combustible waste containing sufficient heating education, global warming, gender equality, water, value to generate energy through direct incineration, with sanitation, energy, urbanization, the environment, and or without other waste, but with the recovery of heat, social justice. e.g., industrial furnaces and boilers. United States Department of Agriculture–Certified Hazardous Waste Bio-Based Product Hazardous wastes are defined per the local or national The USDA’s BioPreferred® Program Catalog assists legal or regulatory framework(s) applicable within the users in identifying products that qualify for mandatory jurisdiction where the waste was generated. Hazardous federal purchasing and are certified through the voluntary waste excludes process wastewater. labeling initiative. Incineration United States Occupational Safety and Health Waste treatment through high-temperature combustion Administration’s Voluntary Protection Programs (VPP) of materials in an enclosed combustion chamber. Does not The Voluntary Protection Programs recognize employers include open burning. and workers in the private industry and federal agencies who have implemented effective safety and Landfill health management systems and maintain injury and A designed or engineered area of land that receives waste illness rates below national BLS averages for their material. This does not include waste piles. respective industries. Back to TOC 2018 Corporate Responsibility Commitment Report Report Resources 56 Water Definitions Landfill Volume Intensity Cooling Water We define landfill volume intensity as the cubic meters • Multiuse  of landfill space consumed for each metric ton of sales Water that is used multiple times for process cooling by product we produce. using cooling towers that remove excess heat and enable the recycling of water. Nonhazardous Waste All waste that is not defined as hazardous waste, •N oncontact Water used for process cooling on the external side of the excluding process wastewater (per the GRI Content Index). process equipment, keeping it out of contact with process materials. On-Site Storage Storing of hazardous or nonhazardous wastes in tanks, •S ingle Pass containers, waste piles, or transport vessels/vehicles Water that is used one time for process cooling before for subsequent on-site treatment, disposal, or recycling, being discharged to a receiving water body. or for shipment off-site for management during the calendar year (January 1 through December 31). Water Consumed This is water that is lost to evaporation, incorporated into Production Waste products, or returned to a water body other than its source. Production wastes are defined as manufacturing process Water Intake wastes that are a direct nonproduct outflow of a chemical Sources include water drawn directly from surface water, manufacturing operation. Production wastes also include pumped from groundwater wells, and purchased from local chemical wastes from chemical feedstocks, raw materials, municipal treatment facilities. product output, and other chemicals uniquely associated with the production process. Water Use Water is used in our manufacturing facilities as drinking Recycling water for our employees, as a component in some of our Waste that is sent off-site for future use by an agency or products, and for cooling our manufacturing equipment. another company, either for another purpose or to be made World Resources Institute Aqueduct Tool into a new material. Aqueduct is a global water-risk mapping tool that helps companies, investors, governments, and other users Reuse understand where and how water risks and opportunities Materials sent to another company or agency to use as are emerging worldwide. originally intended. Shipped to Wastewater Treatment Plant Wastewater that is transported to an off-site wastewater treatment plant. Back to TOC ©2019 The Chemours Company. Chemours™ and the Chemours Logo are trademarks of The Chemours Company.
