Annual Sustainability Report 2018 Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 1 About Pearson We are the world’s learning company with more than 24,000 employees operating in 70 countries, with a focus on those below. We report by geography because this is how we run the company. We provide content, assessment, and digital services to schools, colleges, and universities, as well as professional and vocational education to learners to help increase their skills and employability prospects. Increasingly, we do this through partnership models where we bring investment, expertise, and scale to help deliver better learning outcomes. Sales by geography North America £2,784m Core markets £806m Growth markets £539m Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 2 We believe that In this report quality education Introduction Introduction from our Chief Executive  1 3 is the key to Welcome from our Chief Corporate Affairs Officer Our 2018 impact  4 5 shaping a better 2020 Sustainability Plan Pillar 1: Reach more learners 7 tomorrow. Improve access to and affordability of products and services 8 Collaborate to reach underserved learners  17 2020 Sustainability Plan Pillar 2: Shape the future of learning 20 By enabling better learning and helping to remove Build skills that foster employability and inclusive economic growth 21 barriers to a quality education, we empower Promote education for sustainable development  26 learners to build a better life for themselves Engage in multi-stakeholder research, dialogue, and collective action to solve global challenges  30 and those around them. 2020 Sustainability Plan Pillar 3: Be a trusted partner 32 Respect and support our people, customers, and communities 33 Protect our natural environment  46 Build a sustainable supply chain  49 Better World Governance 53 Better Life Appendix 57 About this report  57 Key stakeholders 58 Material issues  60 “Our 2020 Sustainability Plan guides us to create Learnin tter g value for both our business and our world. We have Be made good progress this year to improve access to education, strengthen our human rights program, and reduce our environmental footprint.” Linda Lorimer, Chair of the Reputation & Responsibility Committee of the Board Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 3 Introduction from our 2018 was a year of progress for Pearson. We have a lot As we look toward the future, social and still to do, but are increasingly well placed to guide our environmental issues will be increasingly important. Chief Executive customers through a lifetime of learning and help our We need to consider these factors in everything we Delivering partners shape the future of education. To achieve do – in line with our commitment to the United our vision of having a direct relationship with millions Nations Sustainable Development Goals and of learners and to link education to the way people UN Global Compact principles on human rights, value through aspire to live and work every day, we are focused on three priorities: growing market share through our labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. sustainability By becoming a more sustainable company, digital transformation; investing in growing market I’m confident that we will be able to have a positive opportunities; and becoming a simpler, more efficient, impact on learners and our world – and continue and sustainable company. to deliver value for many years to come. In this report, we demonstrate how these priorities John Fallon and our 2020 Sustainability Plan support each other Chief Executive to achieve economic, social, and environmental impact, creating value for shareholders while simultaneously having a positive impact on society. Business priorities 2020 Sustainability Plan Whether it’s offering qualifications that help people get better jobs or providing products and services for learners who are struggling, our Sustainability Impacts Plan drives us to improve quality access to Economic education, innovate in new ways, and reduce Revenue and earnings Investor returns our environmental footprint. Jobs and income Inclusive economic growth Sustainability is important to our company and to our stakeholders. Learners and educators expect our Social business to help improve access through our products High-quality education G  ood labor practices and working conditions and services. Our employees seek purpose in their  ccessible and A affordable learning Diversity and equality jobs, and working toward sustainability objectives E  mployability and Social inclusion and peace can help them find it. Our investors are increasingly 21st century skills interested in environmental, social, and governance (ESG) data. Many of our customers, business partners, Environmental and suppliers share our commitment to responsible  lobal greenhouse gas G S  ustainable production emissions reductions and consumption business and want to understand our practices. Forest conservation Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 4 Welcome from When I joined Pearson in January, I was delighted to In the social innovation space, the Tomorrow’s become part of a company that has social impact at the Markets Incubator identified a second cohort of our Chief Corporate heart of its mission. I have enjoyed learning about how employees to develop new ventures that support Affairs Officer our sustainability work is making an impact on the low-income learners. Our Every Child Learning people who need education the most. From our partnership with Save the Children has expanded Putting our innovations to reach underserved groups and our qualifications preparing learners for jobs, we are and is now advancing education for Syrian refugees and Jordanian children in 19 schools. sustainability working hard to help change lives. Our 2020 Sustainability Plan drives our commitment to We strengthened our reporting in line with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards and were included plan in action integrating social and environmental issues into every aspect of our business and advance the UN Sustainable in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, FTSE4Good, Bloomberg Gender Equality Index, and the Workforce Development Goals. I’m proud of our progress toward Disclosure Initiative in 2018. its objectives this year. We know there is more to do, and I look forward to We published our first human rights statement and working with colleagues across Pearson to help our took action to address gaps and opportunities business have an even greater impact on society. identified through our human rights review. We also Deirdre Latour conducted research on supporting underserved Chief Corporate Affairs Officer learners and advancing education about sustainability, which will shape our work from 2019 and beyond. 2020 Sustainability Plan UN Sustainable 1 Reach more learners 2 Shape the future of learning 3 Be a trusted partner Development Goals SDG 4: I mprove access to and  uild skills that foster B  espect and support R Quality education affordability of products employability and inclusive our people, customers, and services economic growth and communities SDG 8: Decent work and C  ollaborate to reach P  romote education for  rotect our natural P economic growth underserved learners sustainable development environment SDG 10: E  ngage in multi-stakeholder B  uild a sustainable Reduce research, dialogue, and supply chain inequalities collective action to solve global challenges Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 5 Our impact on education 225+ 28,000 new users downloaded our Space Hero math app, designed in collaboration with refugee children as part of our Every Child institutions, including community colleges, Learning partnership p11 31% use the GED College Ready score level p17 to help students progress to the next of BTEC qualifications level of their education sometimes include content about without placement tests or sustainability 3.8m developmental courses p27 100+ 1,800+ ideas received & p23 9 teams selected to develop new business models Nearly 700 twoand four-year colleges that support and universities with 3.8m course BTEC qualifications underserved learners enrollments have access to more awarded to young women through Tomorrow’s affordable materials through our in Ghana, Malawi, Markets Incubator Inclusive Access model Tanzania, and Zimbabwe as part of our partnership p16 p9 with CAMFED Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 6 Our impact as a Selected awards responsible business & recognition 1 st human rights statement p33 5,000 employees trained on our editorial policy for inclusive and appropriate content p36 Corporate Knights Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World 57% £5.7m social contributions p45 of employees participated in the Organizational Health Survey p38 -56% reduction in energy Since we began publishing reports to demonstrate the efficacy of our products, consumption from our we have released reports 2009 baseline, through on products that p36 both the rationalization impact the lives of 18.5m for our tax reporting of our portfolio and energy efficiency p46 learners Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 7 Reach more learners Everyone deserves to be their best self. We work to identify and remove barriers to education for those most in need, both through our core business and our partnerships, to enable learners to reach their full potential. Our efforts are making an impact toward reaching UN Sustainable Development Goal 4 on quality education and 10 on reducing inequality. Our commitments: Improve access to and affordability p8 of products and services Collaborate to reach p17 underserved learners Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 8 Improve In 2018, we continued to advance our commitment to improve access and affordability Research on underserved groups access to and US classrooms have changed markedly in the last for underserved groups through our products decade, with underserved learners comprising a large and services. Some of these underserved groups affordability and growing base of today’s students. These students include low-income learners, rural learners, often come from disadvantaged backgrounds. first-generation college students, students of products who do not speak the dominant language, 60% of community college campuses use Pearson products and services people with disabilities, underrepresented Based on an estimation model developed minorities, and adult learners and others by SRI using 2016 data. facing personal constraints, such as the In 2018, we did extensive research in the US, one of need to balance education with work and family our largest markets, to understand the needs of this responsibilities. Supporting these groups is diverse group of students: challenges and barriers to central to advancing SDG 4 on education and learning; attitudes and behaviors toward education; SDG 10 on reducing inequality. and learning methods and technologies that are most likely to ensure their success. We explored how needs differed between recent high school graduates and those looking to continue their education as adults. Among other insights, we found that underserved In this section: learners could benefit from more use of flexible, guided, and personalized learning formats. Research on underserved groups 8 Building this knowledge allows us to better College readiness products  9 support underserved learners throughout their Inclusive Access 9 lifelong learning journey. GED11 Online Program Management 11 In 2019, we will deepen our understanding of these learners through continued research on the lifelong AcceleratED Pathways 11 learner, engaging the broader ecosystem of educators, Connections Academy 12 employers, and policymakers with this work. Accessibility for people with disabilities 14 Tomorrow’s Markets Incubator 16 Pearson Affordable Learning Fund 16 Pearson Ventures 16 Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 9 Improve access to and affordability of products and services College readiness products Our website includes a results library with In 2018, more than 100 schools began using the implementation case studies from partner Inclusive Access program. Now nearly 700 twoand Preparing learners for success in higher education institutions and educators who have used four-year colleges and universities with 3.8m course Many students and underserved learners arrive each Pearson products to improve college readiness enrollments have adopted Inclusive Access, reaching term without the essential math or English skills they and student success. more than 1.4m students. Inclusive Access is helping need to succeed in college-level courses. Programs See our results library at: these institutions to provide timely access to course are undergoing considerable change as educators www.pearsonmylabandmastering.com/northamerica/ materials and drive down the overall cost of a college educators/results/results-library.php degree. Impact studies with our Inclusive Access explore innovative ways to increase student success and retention. Institutions are looking for ways to partners document measurable increases in student redesign the learning experience – particularly in Inclusive Access outcomes because they have fast access to course developmental, foundational, and gateway courses. materials and can start their studies right away. Making learning more affordable We partner with faculty from a variety of institutions As just one example, at Copiah-Lincoln Community to develop products and solutions that support Pearson Inclusive Access provides students with College in Mississippi, a comparative analysis of course redesign, promote active learning, and access to affordable, high-quality digital course traditional textbook package prices and Inclusive enhance classroom experiences. We are working with materials and tools on the first day of class, better Access costs indicates that students save an average schools across the country to deliver accelerated preparing them for each term and saving them up of 68% off traditional prices when using Inclusive learning and remediation on core skills, like math and to 70% over new print materials. Access course materials. English, that play a key role in student success. With access to course materials such as eBooks, Learn more about Inclusive Access at Copiah-Lincoln Community College: Our developmental products are designed to support MyLab & Mastering, and Revel from the first day of www.pearsoned.com/results/inclusive-access-copiahstudents who have not yet achieved the levels of math class, students have more time to prepare, keep up lincoln-community-college/ and writing proficiency needed to take full-credit with their assignments, and achieve their academic university courses. goals. Educators also gain valuable insights into learning activity through access to data that enables To help students refresh and strengthen their skills, them to track and assess student progress. we have a suite of developmental math and developmental English products that include both digital and print content. We also offer MyLab Foundational Skills, which is often used outside of regular courses, such as in bootcamps before school starts, to help students avoid taking remedial courses. Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 10 Improve access to and affordability of products and services Case study: “Research shows that if you close equity gaps, On-demand everyone in the entire ecosystem benefits.” Lauren Gill, Solutions Portfolio Manager, North America Higher Education Services personalized Smarthinking is a 24/7 online tutoring service that provides on-demand, personalized expertise and expertise and support to suit every learner’s needs, especially underserved and first-generation learners. Accessible to students whenever and wherever support learning moments occur, Smarthinking helps to provide ‘wraparound’ education support and fosters learning beyond the classroom. It provides tools and resources to those who might not be familiar with how to navigate the traditional higher education system or who might be reluctant to ask for help, ensuring high-quality education is available and accessible to all. “Research shows that if you close equity gaps, Smarthinking is a 24/7 online everyone in the entire ecosystem benefits,” said tutoring service that provides Lauren Gill. A recent study conducted at Morgan State University looked at the impact of Smarthinking on-demand, personalized on academic performance. The study found that expertise and support to writing skills, confidence, and work quality improved as a result of student interaction with Smarthinking suit every learner’s needs. tutors. By helping to build learning behaviors, Smarthinking is building a stronger foundation for students’ journey of lifelong learning. Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 11 Improve access to and affordability of products and services GED The GED test has two college-related performance Online Program Management levels, GED College Ready and GED College Ready + Supporting high school equivalency and Credit, backed by the American Council on Education’s Delivering courses and degree programs career readiness College Credit Recommendation Service. By meeting We help institutions expand their educational reach With the computer-based GED, adult learners can certain score thresholds, students may be eligible through effective Online Program Management prepare for college, career training programs, or to bypass a placement test and developmental solutions. By delivering online degree programs or better-paying jobs. The test measures critical-thinking education courses, and in some cases be eligible extending the reach of existing online programs, and problem-solving skills, and it is the only high for credit hours. students have the opportunity to excel at school and school equivalency test fully aligned to state and These programs save GED graduates time and money at work. We currently support more than 40 academic national collegeand career-readiness standards. as they move more quickly into and through college partners and run nearly 350 global programs with programs. Nationally, GED graduates who score at 400,000+ course registrations in 2018. 225+ institutions, including community colleges, the College Ready levels or higher are equivalent to 350 use the GED College Ready score level to help global programs run through our Online students progress to the next level of their the top 27% of graduating high school seniors. GED Program Management service education sometimes without placement graduates are significantly more likely to be prepared tests or developmental courses for, enroll in, and persist in college and career training programs according to data since 2014. AcceleratED Pathways The enhanced GED test program offers a variety of online study tools and guides, opportunities to In 2018, we launched a new professional development Continuing education for working adults explore college and career options, and convenient, track to address the specific needs of educators Many working adults lack access to affordable, flexible online registration and scoring. teaching and administering the GED test in meaningful pathways to learn new skills or take correctional facilities. This is a focus area where their careers to the next level. This can be especially we see the positive impact that education and true for staff whose roles interact with customers, workforce training has in reducing recidivism. Next like retail sales or restaurant waitstaff, as well as year, we will continue to design study tools and those working behind the scenes, like in cleaning instructional resources for this student population. or food preparation. The GEDWorks program grew throughout 2018 as AcceleratED Pathways partners with employers to new employers began offering free GED preparation, help them offer workers the opportunity to obtain advising, and testing to employees. Research has foundational education skills (including reading, shown that GEDWorks students are 38.5% more likely writing, and English), study for the GED, or pursue to earn their diplomas than those studying and paying online degrees and certificates. We deliver these on their own. The program was created specifically for programs to employees, consistent with their These students were recognized as 2018 GED Graduates of working adults, and we expect more employers to offer companies’ mission, financial requirements, the Year for displaying exceptional dedication and scholarship during the preparation and testing process. it in place of classic tuition reimbursement models. and corporate goals. Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 12 Improve access to and affordability of products and services The program addresses many of the unique The AcceleratED Pathways team works with Connections Academy challenges that adult learners face. Education employers to redesign a traditional tuition programs are delivered online and optimized for reimbursement plan into a strategic education benefit Providing solutions through virtual schools mobile devices, so employees can learn anytime that can alleviate the cost and access burden for an Connections Academy schools are tuition-free, and anywhere. A mix of funding sources, including employee, driving participation and persistence, fully accredited, US-based online public schools employer contributions, grants, and school while improving employee engagement and morale. for students in grades K–12. The program offers an discounts, can reduce or remove the cost barrier inclusive, collaborative learning experience that We are implementing programs with Starbucks, for participation. meets the unique needs of learners with a wide Brinker International, and the American Hotel & An important element of the program is that learners Lodging Association (AHLA) and ten participating variety of backgrounds and abilities. have access to bilingual coaches, enrollment advisers, hotel brands. In the past 12 months, our program An alternative to brick-and-mortar public schools, and tutors, who help them develop a personalized with Brinker International received interest from Connections Academy provides a valuable option learning plan that meets their needs. In addition, team members in 41 states. In 2018, 359 team for students who are not finding success in the prior work experience, course credits, and other members were actively enrolled and participating traditional classroom, or who require additional credentials can be applied toward degrees, in Best You EDU™, including 43 graduates from the flexibility or support. Students with serious health shortening the path to educational attainment. GED and foundational education programs. Along issues, who have been bullied, or are struggling or with their peers, several went on to apply to college excelling academically can benefit from attending and started their first semester. Hundreds more are an online school. Our research has found that in the college application and enrollment process, Connections Academy students perform just as or are working towards their GED and foundational well in math and reading on state tests as students education credentials. at traditional schools, and that Connections Academy students statistically outperform students at other virtual schools in reading proficiency on state assessments. 51% of Connections Academy middle/high schoolers say that a benefit of online school is a safe environment “We already work for a company that has the Source: 2018 student satisfaction survey that reflects drive to make our lives better. To see that they the average of all Connections Academy schools. are taking additional steps to help us achieve a more purposeful life is amazing.” Katie McGee, Assistant Manager at Chili’s Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 13 Improve access to and affordability of products and services Case study: A seventh-grade student with congestive heart failure Staying connected often missed school and regular peer interaction due to constant visits to the doctor. Attending California Connections Academy for the last two years of her to school through life allowed her to continue her education online and restore a sense of normalcy during a time of great personal stress. challenging In her two short years at the school, she made a lasting impact and developed relationships with a times number of teachers, including many who came to visit her at her home. As one of her Connections teachers explained, “She felt a sense of belonging and had a family outside the walls of her own home.” Her parents have since created a recognition award for eight grade California Connections students in her honor. “She felt a sense of belonging and had a family outside the walls of her own home.” Connections Academy teacher Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 14 Improve access to and affordability of products and services Accessibility for people In 2019, the new global steering group will redefine Assessment how we measure our success in accessibility and will with disabilities provide pathways to leverage internal and external The accessibility team in our Assessment business provides guidance on the production of braille and We continue to make good progress in accessibility accessibility expertise, to ensure continuous American Sign Language assets, leads usability testing across Pearson. As members of the World Wide Web improvement in this area. Through the leadership with people with disabilities, and completes rigorous Consortium (W3C) and contributors to efforts related of this group our digital learning and assessment accessibility conformance testing with native users to the W3C’s Web Accessibility Initiative, we use the platforms will show measured growth in how we of assistive technologies. W3C’s internationally recognized Web Content support the needs of all learners through inclusive, Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) as our foremost accessible design. In 2018, Assessment partnered with Higher Education accessibility standard. We continue our outreach to Courseware on a study of equation editors for math Pearson will also develop and publish a Global key leaders, associations, and institutions, who and science to identify best-in-class features and to Accessibility Policy in 2019. partner with us on our accessibility work across gather data on the most effective inclusive design Pearson globally. Global Product practices for math and science content. A highlight of 2018 was the formation of a Global In our Global Product business, all new platform Because progress in accessibility depends on our Accessibility Steering Group with executive development includes rigorous testing against WCAG product team’s level of expertise, we conduct an leadership. This group brings together experts from 2.0 AA standards. Fresh content is vetted by annual Summer Accessibility Institute, providing across Pearson’s diverse businesses, with the goal independent third parties and will not be integrated three days of intensive training on disability and to systematically improve accessibility in our digital into our products unless it aligns with these standards. accessibility topics. In 2018, we offered 20 sessions products and support materials. The accessibility competence of all third-party partners with participation from 1,028 team members. We are and tool providers is verified before any contract is also actively involved in accessibility standards work In 2016, a target was published to make 100% of signed or renewed. We expect our partners to place and serve on five working groups within the World our higher education courseware digital portfolio the same emphasis on accessibility that we do. Wide Web Consortium’s Web Accessibility Initiative. accessible for people with disabilities around the While we continue to pivot toward a future state Learn more about the World Wide Web Consortium’s world by 2020. Although there has been good Web Accessibility Initiative at: www.w3.org/WAI progress, we have faced challenges and learned a where products are born accessible, our existing great deal in the process. We will adjust our target assets get equal attention. For example, Mastering, going forward. our market-leading science assessment product, has resolved the majority of its known accessibility defects. We have undertaken massive content remediation of our existing assets and we have updated or replaced the third-party tools that are incorporated into the platform. Where appropriate solutions do not exist in the market, we now look to develop our own. Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 15 Improve access to and affordability of products and services Case study: “Incubator ventures inform how Using venture we think about improving what Pearson delivers today and shape innovation to where we might go with our learners tomorrow.” reach more Teodora Berkova, Director of Social Innovation learners As the Tomorrow’s Market Incubator supports of individual markets. The ventures are focused on employees to design, test, and ultimately launch developing solutions suited to all stages of learners’ new products, services, and business models for journeys, opening doors for future employment underserved learners, it is also delivering value that may not have been attainable otherwise, and for Pearson in other ways. It offers professional supporting Pearson’s lifelong learning focus. development opportunities, identifies commercially The forthcoming business models, products, and compelling investments, and embeds an innovation services have the potential to grow revenue and mindset within the company. reach underserved learners in previously untapped Running since 2016, the incubator relies on a unique markets. By providing a better understanding of venture innovation methodology and process that local markets and new customer segments, as well includes in-market research, extensive financial as pushing the boundaries of technology to meet and operational modeling, and market testing to the needs of those markets, the incubator is helping ensure that each new business responds to the needs Pearson uncover new and sustainable opportunities. Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 16 Improve access to and affordability of products and services Tomorrow’s Markets Incubator For the rest of 2019, the incubator will be focused on: Pearson Ventures prototyping and testing three new venture solutions Innovating for underserved learners in market, designing in-market pilots for successful Investing in the future of education and employment The Tomorrow’s Markets Incubator supports prototypes, and continuing support for the more Building on PALF’s success, our future investment Pearson ‘intrapreneurs’ to develop new products, mature ventures. work will shift to a new approach to align more closely services, and business models for low-income and with Pearson’s five-year strategy, especially our focus underserved market segments. To be part of the Pearson Affordable Learning Fund on lifelong learning and employability. In April 2019, incubator, employee-led teams must demonstrate a Investing in ‘edupreneurs’ we launched Pearson Ventures, a fund to invest in compelling, feasible commercial solution that will growth stage start-ups that are building the future The Pearson Affordable Learning Fund (PALF) invests improve learner outcomes and deliver social impact. of education and employment. With an initial capital ‘patient capital’ – investments with a long time Teams are selected by an investment committee commitment of $50m over three years, Pearson horizon for returns – in independently run, for-profit, comprising Pearson executives to receive seed Ventures will invest in companies building new market education start-ups using innovative approaches to funding and access to innovation coaches, who opportunities using innovative business models, improving learning outcomes and increasing access support them to develop professional skills and future technologies, and new educational to education at scale. By investing in new educational capabilities in venture creation for new markets. experiences. While Pearson Ventures will pursue ventures, we help to increase the quality of education competitive financial returns, equally important From the incubator’s first call for ideas, we have for millions of learners, identify what’s next in the is its ability to collect shareable insights and funded and launched three pilots in market as of world’s highest-growth markets, and generate drive organizational learning to help future-proof 2018: an employability platform in South Africa, attractive financial returns. the company. a distance learning program for Technical and PALF has invested nearly $25m into a portfolio of Vocational Education and Training (TVET) colleges eight companies across six countries. PALF’s last in South Africa, and an educational math gaming investment in low-cost private school chains was system complete with real-time teacher dashboard in 2014, and while it continues to actively support in Australia and the US. existing portfolio companies, it has focused new In June 2018, we launched our second call to action, investments on asset-light models that provide which generated over 100 ideas. Of these, nine were content and curriculum, often digitally enabled. selected to develop their venture concepts and pitch Learn more about Pearson’s position on low-cost them to the investment committee. Three teams were private schools at: then funded to move forward into the next phase of https://www.pearson.com/corporate/about-pearson/ prototyping and piloting, which began in early 2019. our-position-on/low-cost-private-schools.html Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 17 Collaborate No single organization, or sector, can tackle global education challenges alone. We work in Every Child Learning to reach Supporting education in emergencies partnership with international non-governmental Since 2015, Pearson has been working with Save organizations (NGOs), governments, and local underserved the Children on Every Child Learning, a partnership organizations to expand access to high-quality to deliver high-quality education to Syrian refugee education for learners struggling to overcome learners and host community children in Jordan. Working with barriers. By working together, we can make children, parents, teachers, school leadership, and even more progress toward the UN Sustainable the Ministry of Education, the partnership aims Development Goals. to secure measurable improvements in overall academic performance, build resilience, and In this section: strengthen child wellbeing. Every Child Learning 17 Pearson has committed £4.5m to support an Project Literacy  18 in-school program, led by Save the Children, that Unreasonable FUTURE 19 focuses on after-school learning, psycho-social support, teacher professional development, and America’s Promise Alliance: GradNation 19 school-community relations. We also developed a math learning app called Space Hero, which is deployed through the program. The in-school program was piloted in three schools during the 2017/18 school year, reaching 1,336 Jordanian and Syrian boys through access to supplementary math and remedial Arabic, working with 45 parent-teacher association members, and engaging 166 student council members to strengthen the link between communities and schools. In 2019, we expanded the program to an additional 16 schools. Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 18 Collaborate to reach underserved learners Space Hero (Batlalfada) is a fun and engaging math With the program now in 19 schools, we aim to impact learning app, designed by Pearson in collaboration over 25,000 learners in the following ways: with refugee and Jordanian children, aged 9–12, to 9,500 children will take part in a blended learning strengthen their math skills. In addition to being used program using the math app in schools in the in-school program, it is available to the public to download for free on Google Play. In 2018, the app  ,280 children will take part in remedial Arabic to 2 had over 28,000 new users and over 4,000 weekly help them catch up with their peers average users regularly playing the game. It is 14,700 children will take part in sports for Pearson’s highest rated app in the Google Play Store. development classes, helping them to develop To facilitate better understanding of how to integrate effective communication skills, build peer-to-peer the app in schools, Pearson’s Pedagogy and relationships and gain a sense of belonging. Improvement team conducted trainings for over This will be achieved through the provision of 50 math teachers who will be testing the app with training, toolkits, and technical support to 38 their students. For most teachers, this will be the physical education teachers first time leveraging a digital tool for learning. 3  60 teachers will receive subject-based training in addition to child protection and psychosocial support training, aiming to provide more effective lessons Fourth-and-fifth-grade students in a safe and supportive learning environment. in Wadi Al-Seer school in Amman, Jordan play the Space Hero app Project Literacy together during a math lesson Raising awareness and building partnerships Project Literacy is a global movement to make focused on technology, communications, parent significant and sustainable advances in the fight engagement, teacher training, and measuring impact. against illiteracy so that all people have the At the end of their eight-month collaboration, opportunity to fulfill their potential through the the groups will be releasing tools, papers, and power of words. inventories to support global efforts in the fight In 2018, we partnered with Results for Development for literacy access for all. to enhance the impact of Project Literacy’s 100+ Learn more about the partner community at: partner network by developing its potential as a www.r4d.org/projects/convening-in-country-practitioners28,000 new users of Space Hero, to-collaboratively-tackle-literacy-challenges/ community of practice. The partner community, which is Pearson’s highest rated app in the Google Play Store divided into teams, Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 19 Collaborate to reach underserved learners Project Literacy teamed up with our global partner Over the next three years, we will support a portfolio Our work as part of the GradNation initiative has network and actor Idris Elba to imagine IlliteraCity, of 45+ high-growth ventures – companies that are fueled a national movement among education, a fictional representation of a world inhabited by already shaping the jobs of tomorrow – to build a non-profit, local, and state communities. In 2018, people unable to read and write, demonstrating more inclusive future of work for underserved youth research in Minnesota highlighted how to change the personal and societal impact of illiteracy. and at-risk workers. Every year of the partnership, exclusionary school disciplinary policies, such as we will select a cohort of at least 15 ventures to suspension and expulsion, to help more students After running two Project Literacy Lab accelerator participate in a two-week accelerator program along graduate. The report focused on youth perceptions programs supporting 29 ventures, in 2018 we with senior leaders, subject matter experts, and and provided policy and practice foundation for connected the best-performing companies with intrepreneurs from Pearson. legislators, education policymakers, and practitioners investors and Pearson mentors. We also tested a Learn more at: www.unreasonablefuture.com to use to move toward non-exclusionary practices. Literacy Prototyping Fund, through which four Lab In the year ahead, research in Arizona will uncover companies received grants to develop collaborations the barriers students face when they strive to that will help them to scale their reach and impact. America’s Promise Alliance: re-engage with their education after time away Meet the Lab companies: www.projectliteracy.com/lab/ GradNation from the classroom. Improving high school graduation rates Unreasonable FUTURE A high school diploma is key to achieving a better life A global movement to ensure future generations in the US. Recent data, however, shows that the US thrive in the new economy graduation rate for the class of 2018 is only 84.6%. In March 2019, we announced a multi-year initiative This is why Pearson joined the national movement of – Unreasonable FUTURE with Accenture, Fossil partners supporting America’s Promise Alliance and Foundation, and Unreasonable Group that brings its goal to increase the high school graduation rate together disruptive innovators and entrepreneurs to to 90%. design a future in which people and technology work In 2015, we made a multi-year $3m commitment to side-by-side to solve workplace challenges and unlock launch the GradNation State Activation initiative. our human potential. As an initiative of our global With purposeful investment at the state level, strategy office, Unreasonable FUTURE supports Pearson helped fund three $200,000 grants to stateboth our core business and societal impact by level organizations in Arizona, Massachusetts, and fostering an open innovation ecosystem around Minnesota to encourage statewide collaboration, the future of work, in line with our five-year plan’s share knowledge to accelerate adoption of proven focus on employability. strategies, and develop successful models to replicate and scale. The research conducted in these three states was done in partnership with America’s Promise Alliance and the Center for Promise. Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 20 Shape the future of learning We want our learners to be equipped with the skills and capabilities they need to build careers and communities, navigate uncertainty, address the world’s biggest sustainable development challenges, and thrive in the 21st century and beyond. Our commitments: Build skills that foster employability and inclusive p21 economic growth Promote education for sustainable development p26 Engage in multi-stakeholder research, dialogue, p30 and collective action to solve global challenges Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 21 Build skills Education drives social mobility, helping more people play a part in society and enter into Research and thought leadership that foster We are committed to helping learners navigate the the job market so they can build better lives for changes brought on by trends like automation, themselves and their families. Good jobs and employability globalization, and an aging population. Our recent careers transform individual lives, bring stability research with Nesta and Oxford Martin, The Future of to communities, and help economies flourish – Skills: Employment in 2030, provides insight into the and inclusive contributing to UN Sustainable Development future of work and its implications for education. We predict that the future of work will be brighter economic Goal 4’s targets on vocational and technical skills, than some studies suggest, with many of the jobs we as well as SDG 8 on economic growth and decent recognize today remaining in demand in 2030 and growth jobs, and SDG 10 on reducing inequality. beyond. However, the skills required for success are In this section: likely to change, and the findings make it clear that lifelong learning will become an imperative. Research and thought leadership 21 In 2018, we partnered with Jobs for the Future to Personal and Social Capabilities Framework 22 publish Demand-Driven Education: Merging work and Pearson Career Success 22 learning to develop the human skills that matter. BTEC qualifications 23 Together, we identified emerging practices and CAMFED partnership 23 employers who are working to provide diverse Pearson VUE 25 opportunities to employees for a lifetime of work English language learning 25 and learning. One such offering is Best You EDU™, a partnership between Pearson and the restaurant group Brinker, which allows employees to earn foundational, GED, and associate degree credits at no cost (see p12). Future research in this space will include exploration of how learners, aged 14–70, experience and interact with education, as well as work on how we begin to turn lifelong learning from an imperative to a reality. Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 22 Build skills that foster employability and inclusive economic growth Profiling STEM role models leadership, and social responsibility. It was informed demonstrate their skills on LinkedIn and by dozens of frameworks from educational and career through ePortfolios. organizations and institutions, academic literature, 100,000 We have achieved our initial goal of as well as primary surveys and focus groups enrolling 100,000 students conducted by Pearson teams with faculty, administrators, and employers. Students earn digital credentials or ‘badges’ that can In 2018, we reviewed our products to understand the be displayed publicly allowing employers to better extent to which they integrate the skills outlined in the understand their skills and experience. A first tier of Personal and Social Capabilities Framework and the badges covers knowledge of key professional skills, top skills identified in our Future of Skills research. and a second tier enables students to create and While we found that many of our products implicitly showcase concrete projects that demonstrate their help students develop these skills, fewer products ability to apply these skills. We will introduce explicitly teach them. additional badges in 2019. In 2019, we will support the authors of Pearson Studies1 have shown that the students most in need content to integrate explicit instruction in Personal of and willing to take advantage of such extra career and Social Capabilities. guidance are often students of color, first-generation students, and those starting college or career training Nevertheless is a podcast and platform launched Pearson Career Success later in life. CS aims to support all students, regardless by Pearson which tells the story of the relationship A digital platform to prepare students for work of their backgrounds, to gain access to greater levels between technology and the women working to make of employability and more satisfying careers. the world a better place. In 2018, we commissioned Pearson Career Success (CS) aims to meet the needs a set of STEM Role Models posters from across the We have already achieved our goal of enrolling of both colleges and employers by providing a digital world. These posters are created by independent female suite of assessments, learning modules, and tools 100,000 students in CS by 2020, and plan to reach artists and offered under a Creative Commons license. that help students discover career goals, identify and 150,000 enrollees by 2020. Forty-eight institutions have adopted CS to date. Personal and Social fill their skills gaps, and effectively present themselves and evidence of their competencies to employers. At the end of 2020, we plan to publish quantitative Capabilities Framework CS assessments help students to understand their data showing the correlation between the use of Integrating key skills in our products CS and increased interviews and employment offers, level of college and career readiness, identify their The Personal and Social Capabilities Framework personal strengths, preferences, and aspirations as well as qualitative feedback from local employers provides clear definitions of professional skills that that lead to improved likely career goals, and measure on CS-prepared job candidates. students need for success, including critical thinking, Growth, Resilience, Instinct, and Tenacity (GRIT). collaboration, communication, self-management, CS also includes a variety of tools to help students 1 Strada-Gallup 2017 College Student Survey, https://news.gallup.com/ reports/225161/2017-strada-gallup-collegestudent-survey.aspx. Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 23 Build skills that foster employability and inclusive economic growth BTEC qualifications communities in sub-Saharan Africa stay in school, 40% of individuals from the lowest four socio-economic groups (as defined by the learn, and develop key skills for life and work. Providing high-quality vocational education UK Office for National Statistics) progressed The partnership developed relevant learning Pearson BTECs are qualifications that provide to higher education related to their BTEC resources and a professional development program specialist, work-related learning across a range that helps young women train to become mentors, of sectors, in nearly 40 subjects. Delivering the We are committed to increasing the number of BTEC or ‘Learner Guides’, who teach a curriculum we knowledge, skills, and understanding students need registrations outside the UK, particularly in markets co-developed with vulnerable children in rural to prepare for their chosen career, BTECs can where vocational education is developing. As part of schools. We also created a customized BTEC support progression to higher or further education, our financing arrangements, the interest rate payable qualification to recognize the achievements of the apprenticeships, or directly into employment. on the Group’s bank facility is linked to progress in Learner Guides. This qualification is designed to help In 2018, nearly 1m learners signed up to BTEC increasing the number of registrations outside the UK. more girls enter formal higher education, teacher qualifications with the intention of progressing into In 2017, the Group had 30,510 registrations which training, and the workforce by improving their employment or higher education. increased to 32,106 registrations in 2018 (an increase employability potential. Our goal is to award 5,000 BTEC qualifications can also improve social mobility. of 5.2%). BTEC certifications to Learner Guides. As of March On average, 40% of individuals from the lowest four 2019, we have awarded 1,802 BTECs in Ghana, We will ensure that the design of BTECs will support socio-economic groups (as defined by the UK Office Malawi, Tanzania, and Zimbabwe. the transition for post-16 learners as a result of the for National Statistics) progressed to higher education recent skills review carried out by the UK Department In 2018, the Women’s University in Zimbabwe agreed related to their BTEC compared with 20% of those for Education and other governmental departments. to recognize the BTEC for entry to some teacher students who completed A Levels. 35% of students The review seeks to ensure that future technical training courses. In some parts of the target countries studying BTECs from the BAME (Black, Asian, education is as robust and as recognized as academic where there are limited opportunities for further and minority ethnic) groups progressed to higher education, and that learners have an equal chance education, the BTEC is in itself a qualifier for some education compared with 24% of BAME students of progressing to higher education or employment teaching roles, and is considered by employers and with A Levels. With more individuals having access with technical qualifications. local government in hiring decisions. to further and higher education via their BTEC Pearson and CAMFED are continuing to work together qualifications, we are helping to contribute to a CAMFED partnership under the Girls’ Education Challenge to deliver more qualified workforce that will continue to Empowering girls and young women in Africa adapted learning resources for secondary schools improve economic growth. Since 2013, Pearson has partnered with international in Zambia and Zimbabwe, and to review and adapt NGO CAMFED (Campaign for Female Education) the BTEC qualification in order to reach a broader on a project funded by the UK Department for range of young women who have left school. International Development’s (DFID) Girls’ Education Challenge, and supported by relevant national Ministries of Education, to help girls from low-income Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 24 Build skills that foster employability and inclusive economic growth Case study: Tatu is a 26-year-old BTEC graduate and student from “Riding a bicycle miles away Empowering Kilosa District, Tanzania. Earning a BTEC certification to follow up on a drop out has helped her garner the respect of her peers, who see her as a key influencer at her college. student was worth it. I can’t future female think of a better way to change To gain her BTEC certification, Tatu demonstrated competency in: classroom management; facilitating girls’ lives than for them to get leaders with BTEC meetings and study groups; filing and documenting; and conducting community outreach. She also an education.” conducted home visits to encourage children who & CAMFED Tatu, BTEC learner were not attending or had dropped out of school to return to their classrooms. Community outreach was just one component of the assessment process, but it had a lasting impact on Tatu’s future as a leader. “Riding a bicycle miles away to follow up on a drop out student was worth it. I can’t think of a better way to change girls’ lives than for them to get an education,” Tatu shared. Through her BTEC certification, Tatu is empowered to help other women bring transformative change to their communities. Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 25 Build skills that foster employability and inclusive economic growth Pearson VUE English language learning governments, institutions, parents, and learners. They span lowto high-stakes assessments, including Global leader in developing and delivering English is becoming the language for global and PTE Academic, our computer-based fast, flexible, high-stakes assessments business communication, and English language skills fair, and secure test of English for migration and are now a key contributor to individual opportunities visa purposes. Delivering more than 16 million high-stakes exams and socio-economic growth in many countries. every year. Pearson VUE helps individuals advance in To support our learners, the courseware and As a result, governments, companies, parents, their careers through professional credentials and assessment products we create rely on welland individuals continue to prioritize high-quality licensing that verify the skills and knowledge required researched pedagogy and clearly demonstrate English language learning programs within and for a specific job or educational program. A pioneer progression. Our English products are supported outside of the education system, across ages and in computer-based testing, Pearson VUE collaborates by technology that helps learners of all ages and stages. English language learning and assessment with leading test owners to develop and deliver levels of proficiency advance their English language represents one of the greatest growth opportunities assessments in every industry from academia and skills. All new English products are aligned to and for Pearson to make a difference to and impact on admissions to IT and healthcare, enabling learners underpinned by the Pearson-developed Global Scale learners around the world. to reach their potential while expanding the global of English (GSE), which measures skill levels in reach of our clients across the globe. Our English language courseware portfolio offers English reading, writing, listening, and speaking. opportunities for individuals to learn English through This alignment to the GSE supports personalization, The process for certifying professionals protects a range of print and digital materials. Products efficacy, and pedagogy in our blended and virtual the integrity of critical fields like medicine, nursing, support learners in their academic and professional courseware and assessment products. Learners firefighting, technology services, and more. endeavors at any level of proficiency and styles that are provided with valid evidence of their English For example, in North America alone, we provide are suitable for ages ranging from pre-primary to proficiency, as a score on the Global Scale of English, the certification and licensing exams for 95 medical adult. We support teachers to deliver this learning and our vision is for this to be accepted by schools, and nursing specialities. Through these partnerships through a suite of professional development universities, workplaces and businesses, and with our clients, we work to preserve the safety, opportunities and materials. Our English language government authorities worldwide. wellbeing, and continued advancement of our assessment portfolio of products provide valuable global communities. diagnostics and insights for Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 26 Promote In order to shape a better tomorrow for people and the planet, today’s learners must be informed Education for sustainable development strategy education for global citizens who not only understand global issues, such as poverty, inequality, and climate As part of our 2020 Sustainability Plan, we have sustainable committed to advocating for UN SDG 4, target 7 change, but are also equipped with the skills to promote education for sustainable development needed to take on these challenges. By promoting development (ESD) and global citizenship education. ESD is sustainability education, we can explore new a holistic learning approach that includes acquiring opportunities while making a direct contribution knowledge about sustainability, and developing to the UN Sustainable Development Goals skills and capabilities required to advance sustainability. It is supported by a teaching and inspiring the next generation to create approach that enables exploratory, action-oriented, a better world. and transformative learning. In this section: In 2018, we completed a review to determine Education for sustainable development strategy 26 how Pearson can more strategically advance ESD. Sustainability in our content and assessments 27 Our research and interviews found that interest in Advocating for sustainability education 29 education and skills training on different aspects of sustainability is increasing among students, UPSHIFT 29 employers, and employees. As a result, there is a lso an increased demand for relevant teaching materials and guidance. We developed a strategy focused on advocating for ESD, including through thought leadership (see p29); better leveraging existing or creating new products to advance ESD; and ensuring our employees understand sustainable development issues relevant to their jobs. Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 27 Promote education for sustainable development Sustainability in our content BTECs Pearson College London and assessments Sustainability is embedded within 31% of BTEC Pearson College London, Pearson’s higher education qualifications across sectors, including engineering, institution providing a range of undergraduate and Higher education warehouse operations, construction, health, postgraduate degrees, apprenticeships, and short Across our disciplines in the higher education health and social care, science, and IT. courses, offers a dedicated sustainability module and textbook market, we work with a number of authors includes sustainability as part of degree programs Engineering qualifications are about solving problems and professors who are experts in various in accountancy, law, and business. Students visit and improving productivity and efficiency, including sustainability topics and have made it part of the different companies as part of an experiential by reducing waste and cost through environmentally materials they develop for Pearson. learning curriculum, many of which have a focus on friendly methods of production. These changes will sustainability. In addition, students also undertake Sustainability-related topics are central to our assist organizations to meet their own sustainability self-managed learning and research projects, which geosciences, environmental science, engineering, targets and stimulate new employees to think about often focus on sustainability-related topics. and personal health titles, where they are integrated their environmental impacts at work. throughout the main presentations, boxed features, In health qualifications, we explore using technology and digital assets. For example, we offer Mastering to create sustainable health and care systems and Environmental Science, a collection of online develop skills for a sustainable workforce. We also homework, tutorials, and assessment tools, teach our BTEC students in Health and Social Care which is a market leader. about promoting health in society. Our science certifications include a unit on contemporary issues in science, focusing on the ethical, social, economic, and environmental factors that learners must consider in their careers. We were recently awarded a contract by the UK Department for Education and Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education (IFA&TE) to develop new qualifications in the digital and construction sectors. These new technical qualifications will be co-designed by employers who have emphasized the role of sustainability skills for employment within specific occupations. Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 28 Promote education for sustainable development Case study: “One story can’t fully express a Educating students about societal issues is critical, Using video to and it is also complex and sometimes emotionally very complicated concept, but it charged. We are addressing this challenge through can open your eyes to understand Pearson Originals, a high-impact video series that bring complex exposes students to critical topics in today’s world background, structure, and conflict in an unbiased way, equipping them to develop their of a complex issue.” own perspectives and take action on the issues that social issues to life Jeff Marshall, Executive Portfolio Manager, Sociology and Political Science affect them. Through our Revel courseware, Pearson Originals is delivered at higher education institutions across the United States. The Pearson Originals videos students and teachers rely on today grew out of a deeper documentary series that addressed complex and often polarizing topics, such as the Watch Pearson Originals opioid crisis, immigration, and gender transitions. videos at: www.youtube.com/channel/ The documentary videos are available for free UC-DRpDjsSkloj9oOIEmgJfA on YouTube. Through the use of strategic market research, as well as a focus on pedagogical outcomes, the Pearson Originals team ensures that students learn in a way that is most effective for them. The videos show that there is a way to engage in open, constructive discourse on the tough issues. With Pearson Originals, challenging issues are understood more clearly. Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 29 Promote education for sustainable development Advocating for UPSHIFT Together, we reached over 3,000 young people, supporting them to gain the tools and resources sustainability education Collaborating with UNICEF in Myanmar and Vietnam to create their own solutions to the barriers their In October 2018, Pearson collaborated with Business In 2017/18, we supported a UNICEF program called communities face. We also co-created A Guide to Fights Poverty, Arizona State University, and the UN UPSHIFT, which focuses on improving 21st century Becoming a 21st Century Teacher developed together Principles for Responsible Management Education and employability skills for marginalized youth in with Point B and Mawlamyine University. The guide (an initiative of the UN Global Compact) to publish Myanmar and Vietnam. is an aid for secondary school teachers to integrate The Role of Business in Education and Training for 21st century skills into their teaching practice UPSHIFT prepares young people from marginalized Sustainable Development. Based on interviews with and classrooms. low-income communities to identify, analyze, and educators and companies, the advocacy report shares take entrepreneurial action to address social, insights and recommendations for business to help environmental, and economic challenges in their people gain the skills and knowledge required to meet communities. The program consists of a series of sustainability challenges, improve lives, and workshops delivered by local teachers, youth contribute to long-term prosperity and wellbeing. facilitators, and community leaders. The report was launched at Net Impact’s annual conference, and we hosted an online discussion panel Over several months, participants learn critical skills with nearly 2,000 page views. such as problem identification and analysis, project design and management, business plan development, critical thinking, communications and team skills, human-centered design, and prototyping. Read the report Read the report businessfightspoverty.org/ www.pointb.is/21csguide articles/download-centrea guide To becoming a 148-register/ ST c e n T u RY T e ac H e R Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 30 Engage in We are active participants in multi-stakeholder, collective action initiatives that aim to strengthen SDG event sponsorship and participation multi-stakeholder global education systems, explore the role of the private sector in global education and We support events and use our speaking platforms research, dialogue, to help inspire and mobilize other companies and development, and advance the UN Sustainable stakeholders to take action to achieve the SDGs. In Development Goals. and collective 2018, members of our executive team, together with In this section: other employees, participated in numerous events. action to During UN General Assembly Week, the future of SDG event sponsorship and participation 30 work was a priority theme for us, along with refugees Thought leadership reports 31 solve global and gender equality. We spoke at events hosted Key multi-stakeholder groups 31 by WISE@NY; the Global Business Coalition for challenges Education; the World Economic Forum; UNICEF, UNHCR and Save the Children; and Business Fights Poverty. Through these and other speaking engagements, we highlighted how we are supporting the SDGs, particularly SDG 4, 8, and 10, with our 2020 Sustainability Plan and core business activities, as well as with programs, campaigns, and advocacy. Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 31 Engage in multi-stakeholder research, dialogue, and collective action to solve global challenges Thought leadership reports Key multi-stakeholder groups Social innovation Literacy In 2018, we collaborated with Mercy Corps, UNHCR, UNESCO and Pearson launched Guidelines for Thomson Reuters Foundation, Business Call to Action, Designing Inclusive Digital Solutions and Developing and Innovest Advisory to produce a series of briefs Digital Skills to help private sector companies, that provide practical insights into refugee-inclusive NGOs, international organizations and governments business models and recommendations on how to produce content for people with low literacy skills www.unglobalcompact.org www.unprme.org bring them to scale. who are new to digital environments. Read the report In partnership with Read the report businessfightspoverty.org/ en.unesco.org/themes/ articles/download-centreliteracy-all/pearson147-register/ initiative/guidelines www.gbc-education.org www.businessfightspoverty.org Guidelines Designing Inclusive Digital Solutions and Developing Digital Skills www.bsr.org www.netimpact.org Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 32 Be a trusted partner We are committed to being the best partner we can be to learners, educators, suppliers, and communities: living our values through how we do business, treat people, and protect the environment. Our commitment: Respect and support our people, p33 customers, and communities Protect our p46 natural environment Build a sustainable p49 supply chain Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 33 Respect and Our business impacts people in a variety of ways. We protect the rights, privacy, and safety of our Human rights support our people, Our vision is to respect and promote human rights, learners and customers, and ensure we deliver including the right to education, throughout our relevant, easy-to-use, and effective products customers, and operations and with our customers, employees, and services. We prioritize the wellbeing of contractors, and supply chain. We have a corporate our employees and provide them with the communities responsibility to respect human rights, and our opportunity to develop, grow, and be their best approach is guided by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour selves. We are also dedicated to investing in local Organization’s declarations on fundamental principles communities. Respecting and supporting people and rights at work, the UN Guiding Principles on is a baseline expectation to advance the UN Business and Human Rights, and the UN Global Sustainable Development Goals. Compact Principles. We are a founding signatory to In this section: the UN Global Compact, and we are a member of the Global Compact’s UK Local Network. Human rights 33 We respect the rights of our employees to freedom of Privacy and data security 34 association and representation through trade unions, Safeguarding 35 works councils, or any other appropriate forum Efficacy 36 wherever local laws allow. Pearson employees are Editorial policy 36 participants in trade unions in some locations. Product safety 37 We work to prevent discriminatory, illegal, and Our employees 38 inhumane labor practices including child labor, Health and safety 42 forced labor, slavery, and human trafficking. We use Corporate security and resilience 43 our influence with our suppliers to improve standards Volunteering and giving to our communities 45 for their employees. Read more about supporting our suppliers and our work to prevent modern slavery in the supply chain on p49. In 2018, we published our first public Human Rights Statement outlining our approach. Read our Human Rights Statement: www.pearson.com/content/dam/one-dot-com/one-dotcom/global/Files/Policies/Human_Rights_Statement_Draft_ Final_ June2018.pdf Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 34 Respect and support our people, customers, and communities We also developed and began to implement a Pearson’s Chief Privacy Officer manages our data We comply with relevant legislation and contractual roadmap to address the priority human rights privacy program and our Chief Information Security requirements, and monitor regulatory changes to risks and opportunities – related to content, Officer oversees the information security program. assess their impact on our processes and programs. learners, partnerships, technology and employees – Both are accountable to the executive leadership We mandate annual training for all employees on identified through a human rights impact assessment team. Our data privacy and information security information security and data privacy. As part of across Pearson’s operations and value chain. programs are regularly reviewed by Pearson’s this training, employees are required to read and internal audit team. sign an Acceptable Use Policy. We have internal policies in place for addressing key human rights priorities including editorial content The data privacy and information security teams We adapted our privacy program to align with (see p36), safeguarding (see p35), data privacy partner to develop and provide guidance on policies, the requirements of the General Data Protection (see below), and health and safety (see p42). management practices, training, laws and regulations, Regulation (GDPR), which came into force in May 2018. vendor management, incident response, and privacy This resulted in a review and update of our policies We also published our Modern Slavery Statement. and security requirements, which are embedded in and processes to better assess privacy risks, improve Read our Modern Slavery Statement: our product and technology development processes. vendor management, and address user requests, www.pearson.com/corporate/about-pearson/our-positionon/modern-day-slavery.html To inform our approach, we are active participants among other actions. in global, industry-leading associations including the For the fourth year in a row, we made a significant International Association of Privacy Professionals Privacy and data security (IAPP), Software and Information Industry Association improvement to our Information Security Program maturity level score, which is provided by an external At Pearson, we understand the importance of (SIIA), Future of Privacy Forum (FPF), Centre for assessor. Our global information security policies respecting and protecting the rights, freedoms, Information Policy Leadership (CIPL) in Europe, and standards are updated regularly to reflect and dignity of all individuals who entrust us with and the Information Systems Audit and Control best-in-class behaviors and changes to external their personal information, and we strive to Association (ISACA). compliance requirements. implement a robust data privacy and security Our risk management framework is built on See also p72 of our Annual Report: program to protect this personal information. recognized international standards (ISO 27005/31000) www.pearson.com/corporate/ar2018.html Keeping personal information safe reflects our for assessing information security risks and includes values of decency and accountability, as well as a process of reviewing new programs, products, our commitment to human rights. vendors, and changes to legacy programs. Our information security controls are based on ISO 27001/27002 and are regularly tested and evaluated through internal and third-party reviews. Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 35 Respect and support our people, customers, and communities In 2018, we made significant improvements to our Safeguarding 100% outrun of our target to address 85% of data privacy and information security programs and actions identified through our risk processes, focusing on: We are committed to safeguarding and protecting assessment process learners wherever we operate, and particularly in  mbedding ‘privacy by design’ and ‘security by E schools, training and learning centers, and teaching design’ principles into the product development We deliver safeguarding incident reporting to relevant facilities. Our primary concerns focus on ensuring process for all new applications managers twice per year or more frequently when children’s safety and providing safe, age-appropriate needed, and seek to continuously improve reporting  elivering a month-long internal campaign to raise D learning environments for all, in both physical and practices. In conjunction with our practice reviews, awareness of data privacy and information security virtual classroom settings. Safeguarding has been we have started to analyze trends in reporting to among employees through webinars and workshops identified as a principal risk under our enterprise enable a more targeted approach to our training risk management system and is subject to regular I mproving and expanding tools and processes, such and support programs. In 2019, we will be improving reporting to the Reputation & Responsibility as an inventory of the personal information Pearson impact evaluation for our training programs, to better Committee, a Board-level committee. holds, continuous vulnerability scanning, and a understand how participation affects staff and privacy and security questionnaire for vendors In 2018, we agreed a new safeguarding strategy learner perceptions about safety. for 2018–2020 focused on safeguarding in online  roadly deploying multi-factor authentication and B Based on the findings of a human rights assessment and digital environments, and developed related privileged user management for our employees we undertook last year, we have begun to strengthen metrics to better analyze safeguarding practices our processes for learners to raise concerns about Completing an exhaustive ‘review and repair’ effort across the business. harassment or abuse, including by integrating on our most critical applications to ensure alignment We completed a gap analysis on the safeguarding recommendations from the UN Guiding Principles with ISO 27001 controls assurance processes for each business, and on Business and Human Rights into relevant C  ompleting an in-depth review of several key global strengthened internal assurance processes in safeguarding risk assessment frameworks. programs and processes including our processes areas where external policies and processes We briefed safeguarding leads on the criteria for and access controls program for joiners, movers, are inconsistent or – in some geographies – effective remedy, and developed a diagnostic tool and leavers less developed. For example, we support the and process to align our grievance processes with implementation of our sexual harassment policy Regularly assessing our products and applications best practice. In 2019, we will develop action plans to by designating safeguarding leads in our colleges, to ensure compliance to policy. address gaps identified through this assessment. providing regular training, and conducting climate See also p68 of our Annual Report: surveys for learners. www.pearson.com/corporate/ar2018.html Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 36 Respect and support our people, customers, and communities Efficacy By engaging with the education community, and Editorial policy advocating for outcomes-focused, evidence-based, Efficacy is core to Pearson’s mission. We identify product design and transparent reporting about We aim to produce high-quality content that inspires the outcomes that matter most to learners and impact on learning, we aim for our efficacy agenda our customers. We work to earn learners’ trust educators, design products based on evidence of to contribute to shaping the future of learning by that our course materials are not only effective in what works to improve those outcomes, measure positively influencing the global education system. improving learning outcomes, but also relevant, the impact our products can have on learning, appropriate, and inclusive. and continuously improve how they are designed We will continue to report on product efficacy moving forward, which helps us to build trust with learners, Our process includes editorial reviews, internal and and implemented. educators, instructors, and other key stakeholders. external peer reviews, and external commissioning. In April 2018, Pearson became the first education We also conduct testing with teachers, pupils, and Learn more about at efficacy at Pearson at: company to release third-party audited and www.pearson.com/corporate/efficacy-and-research.html independent academic experts. We understand the independently reviewed reports on the efficacy of importance of standardizing best editorial practice, our products – that is, their impact on learning which was one of the reasons we launched the outcomes – fulfilling a 2013 commitment to Pearson Editorial Policy in late 2017. transparency and reporting. Our Editorial Policy is based on principles in the We gathered feedback from educators and thought following areas: leaders around the world about our efficacy reports. 1. Respecting human rights including freedom from While our commitment to efficacy has been widely discrimination and bias celebrated, our stakeholders have asked us to increase the utility of the reports by helping teachers 2. Creating content that embeds an awareness for and to change their practice. We are responding by 2019 Efficacy Reports the promotion of diversity and inclusion including guidance in the 2019 reports about how 3 audited product 2 assessment reports 3. Demonstrating support for learning that is based the findings can be applied to support educators to efficacy reports: on evidence and facts 1. Pearson Test of implement our products. In addition, we are putting a 1. Revel for Psychology in English Academic more explicit focus on implementation in our research 4. Aligning with legal and ethical obligations of content North America 2. GCSE Qualifications creation and production. and working through multiple channels to enhance 2. MyPedia in India our conversations with educators about efficacy. Representing The policy is applied across all markets, business 3. Sistema COC in Brazil 552,000+ units, and varying operating models. It is based upon editorial principles in operation today across our learners business, as well as best practice external guidelines. It applies to all content in all geographies, regardless of whether it is print or digital or if it is created Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 37 Respect and support our people, customers, and communities internally or by a vendor, and provides guidance for Our Editorial Policy is supported by a network of We collaborate with industry partners to maintain a all individuals involved in content creation. 35 policy champions who are responsible for current database of all chemicals that are used to supporting implementation, ensuring local guidelines make our products and classify them according to In 2018, we continued to implement the policy. Almost are aligned to the global policy, and serving as a point relevant safety legislation. 5,000 global colleagues in relevant functions have of escalation for queries in our businesses and taken the online learning module, and many have In 2018, we again had zero product safety incidents. markets around the world. A cross-enterprise steering attended a workshop where these learnings are put We continued to focus on and address relevant committee meets quarterly to oversee progress, into action through case studies. We ensure that the regulations and industry trends (including US chaired by a member of our executive team. policy is broadly communicated to all our employees, Consumer Product Safety Commission, ASTM including functions that do not directly interact with In 2019, we will continue to implement the policy, International (formerly American Society for Testing our content. We also released a Business Partner including by incorporating it into Pearson’s Code of and Materials) toy standard activities and updates, version of the policy that we are currently rolling Conduct, automatically assigning the online learning and EU General Product Safety Directive, UK TSI, out. Over 1,000 editorial freelancers and vendors module to new starters in content-facing and contentEN 71 Part 1, 2, 3). Pearson continues to be an active have been briefed and trained on the Policy. support functions, and ensuring that Editorial Policy member of the Publishing Industry Product Safety checkpoints are incorporated into our product (PIPS) Forum, which is part of the Book Chain project In some markets, we tailor our approach to development processes. in the UK, where trade and academic publishers in the implementing the policy in order to meet particular industry come together to share best practices and needs. For example, in 2018, we piloted a process in our Higher Education Courseware division with a Product safety keep abreast of legislative and chemical updates (see p49). We continued to work with approved suppliers focus on diversity and inclusion, which is central to Pearson takes measures to ensure the safety of our and to date we have seven vendors in PIPS, all of the policy. We contracted specialist consultants to customers. All of our products for young children – which have had training on using the PIPS database. support the creation, review, and copy-editing of physical books as well as other items like marbles, content. We provided in-person and virtual training balloons, puppets, pens, and pencils, among many Going forward, we will maintain our target of zero to diversity and inclusion discipline leads in each others – are age-appropriate and properly labeled product safety incidents or recalls. team, our dedicated quality assurance team, and our with relevant choking hazard warnings. For more information visit: Advocates (see p40 for more about the Advocates). bookchainproject.com/home Our product safety manual sets out procedural and Our infrastructure now includes a risk assessment legislative requirements for product testing, rubric, recommended review workflows, an approved development, and labeling, and is regularly updated escalation path, and a content stylesheet to support to reflect any new developments. We carry out risk all those involved in our product development assessments based on learners’ ages, product use, process. Our work continues throughout 2019 to and materials, and use third parties to test and certify transition the pilot work into a scalable D&I process. compliance with product safety standards. Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 38 Respect and support our people, customers, and communities Our employees and increase scalability in the long term. Our employees in 2018 Unfortunately, this means we have had to reduce our Measuring organizational health headcount. We continue to do all we can to support Employees play an integral role in delivering our colleagues through this transformation, through Pearson’s mission, and the foundation of our work to regular communication and detailed consultation, 24,000+ Employees by region support them is creating the structure for a healthy organization. In October 2018, we launched a and providing support for those leaving the company. For example, in the UK, we follow a legally prescribed employees 14,113 North America new Organizational Health Survey to replace the 5,192 consultation process, under which we consult with engagement survey we had previously conducted. our employees on major organizational changes. The survey was distributed to 22,000 global The length of the consultation is dependent on the Core markets 4,521 employees, and we achieved a 57% completion rate. number of employees that are impacted by the We are in the process of reviewing the results with proposed changes, but as a best practice, we adopt a executive management to produce clear, tangible minimum consultation period of 45 days. We also Growth markets action plans with specific focus areas and measurements that will help drive us forward. support the right to unionize in the UK, and for the part of our UK population that is unionized, we have 496 Other In 2018, we aimed to improve in areas that had been recently revised the collective agreement. identified through a 2017 pilot survey, which included As another way to support those who have left the to ramp up the workforce for a defined period of time strategic clarity, innovation, and learning. As one company, in 2018 we launched the Pearson Alumni to deliver key outcomes for our learners. example, in October, we hosted an Innovation Jam, Network to build and enhance relationships with which was an online, employee-driven discussion to Pearson partners with Allegis Global Solutions, our past Pearson employees. Over 1,000 members openly exchange perspectives and ideas to support a managed service provider for contingent workers have joined the digital platform where they can Pearson’s growth, in line with our five-year strategy. in the UK and US, to ensure that we have an efficient, access recent Pearson news, career opportunities, transparent, and sustainable process for hiring and Managing the impact of our transformation networking and industry insights, research, and managing our contingent workforce. See p52 for business information. In 2019, we plan to grow the Pearson continues to manage considerable amounts more detail. network further and host alumni events. of change both within the business and outside it. Investing in talent The difficult but necessary changes we have been Supporting contingent workers making will allow us to speed up innovation, provide As part of our investment in talent and succession, Contingent workers are an important, valued and better customer experiences, eliminate duplication, we piloted the Talent Brokerage Program at the end of ongoing part of Pearson’s workforce, comprising 2017 to allow our high-potential talent to participate approximately 26% of our total workforce in 2018. 1000+ members of the online Pearson Alumni in an international exchange of knowledge and skills The nature of Pearson’s work in key educational Network across our growth markets. After a successful pilot, business areas is often cyclical, where there is a need the program was expanded globally in 2018 and has Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 39 Respect and support our people, customers, and communities delivered benefits for the participants and the Strengthening our approach to pay transparency Looking ahead business including: talent retention; exposure to Our aim is to offer competitive total compensation As we continue our digital transformation, our different cultures and businesses; sharing ideas and that not just attracts and retains employees long-term focus is to: streamline, digitize, and building skills; and opportunities for longer-term but also motivates employees to deliver integrate our people solutions; become a healthier, international assignments in the future. outstanding performance. more innovative, and more adaptive organization; and Over the past year, we have also introduced several develop leaders who promote a high-performance We want employees to better understand why they efforts to strengthen our leadership pipelines. culture and drive business results. In 2019, our focus earn what they do and how their pay package is One example is Talent Share, a standing agenda will be to: determined. We aim for our pay decisions to be item at our Pearson executive team meetings that supported by tools and frameworks that promote  ontinue to develop our executive and senior C highlights senior leaders across the company fairness in how pay is determined and operate management succession bench with a strong helping us to increase global mobility and encourage without bias and discrimination. emphasis on looking at opportunities within lateral movement. business line, P&L and country MD level roles for In 2018, we focused on educating managers so they Fostering learning and development women and diverse talent understand our compensation philosophy, feel Education and development for our employees enabled and empowered to have pay conversations  rogress on our journey toward greater pay P remains a cornerstone of our commitment to our with their teams, and can make more informed transparency and what that means to Pearson people. In 2018, we focused on continuing to build decisions. We also continued to publicly report on through education and standardization our Pearson employee learning platform through the gender pay (see p40). Next year we will provide P  rovide integrated people solutions that empower curation of content for key skills, including in digital, additional education and training for managers the business to drive results, outcomes, growth, innovation, and transformation areas. and employees on pay transparency. and employability for learners Our leadership development programs aim to close Supporting our people in and out of the workplace U  se the outputs from the Innovation Jam and the skill and experience gaps and develop a wider array We are committed to offering benefit programs results of our Organizational Health Survey to of talent, especially among our female populations. that make our employees’ lives easier, simpler, and create clear, tangible action plans. The programs bring a mix of internal and external more rewarding. Our programs vary globally and For employee data, see: activities, enlist Pearson Executive leaders and Board include benefits such as health insurance, disability www.pearson.com/content/dam/one-dot-com/one-dotmembers as teachers and coaches, and include com/global/Files/sustainability/2018-reports/2018_ coverage, retirement savings matching, employee both cohort and individual development activities. Sustainability_Performance_Data.pdf stock purchase options, commuter benefits, tuition reimbursement, and programs that support wellbeing See also p65 of our Annual Report: www.pearson.com/corporate/ar2018.html and work–life balance. Helping our employees outside of the office leads to higher levels of employee engagement and productivity at work, and improves individual wellbeing. Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 40 Respect and support our people, customers, and communities Foster a diverse workforce and an Following the review, we designed and deployed a In March 2019, we published our second Pearson inclusive workplace new strategic framework for the diversity and Great Britain gender pay gap report. Our overall inclusion (D&I) practice at Pearson. Our D&I focus median gender pay gap as of 5 April 2018 is 14%, At Pearson, we value a diverse workforce and a is to capitalize on different perspectives and leverage a small improvement on 2017’s figure of 15%. workplace which reflects our learners – the customers diversity to spur innovation, growth, and shared Our mean gender pay gap remains steady at 21%. we serve around the world. Through celebrating and ownership through an inclusive culture and We know there is work to do, and understanding the leveraging our diversity, we can better harness our environment. This incorporates a new diversity challenges we face means we can accelerate the pace collective skills and talents, our imagination and ideas framework, governance and measurement of change. Our roadmap to address the gap, aligned to design and deliver the best services and solutions mechanisms, a set of global priorities, and a maturity with our D&I efforts, is outlined in the report. for all learners. model for evolving our employee resource Read our Gender Pay Report: In 2018, we appointed a senior global leader to drive groups into business resource groups. Our new www.pearson.com/corporate/news/media/newsthis agenda and conducted a comprehensive review approach includes: announcements/2019/03/pearson-publishes-2018-genderof the diversity and inclusion practice at Pearson. pay-report.html  new Diversity and Inclusion Council led by the A The review assessed the current state of diversity CEO to provide strategic oversight and to extend As part of our target to embed diversity concepts and at Pearson both quantitatively and qualitatively, our work into many more markets and countries. principles into our employee learning, we introduced embracing feedback from a wide range of The Council includes business leaders, allies and a new training module on unconscious bias in 2018. stakeholders and partners, and benchmarked advocates as well as representatives from our ten Pearson relative to competitor companies as well We also met our goal to develop a D&I dashboard that employee resource groups as globally-recognized companies renowned for is reported quarterly to each business leader and to their diversity practices. A set of seven priorities which will guide our 2019 the Pearson Executive Management Committee. This action plan and major initiatives dashboard primarily provides a gender breakdown of employees and new hires by career grade and covers Employee gender diversity in 2018 A significantly expanded global network of Diversity the top 10 largest markets by headcount. This is part and Inclusion Advocates who provide support to of an ongoing effort to work toward more deeply 62% 30% advance our practice in their businesses and integrating D&I into organizational goals and geographic locations performance assessment. female Board positions held  plan to help our ten employee resource groups at A 38% by women 31% Pearson evolve and mature. The networks are for women, women in technology, parents, veterans, male senior leadership Latinos, the LGBT community, generational positions* held differences, people with disabilities, and employees by women of black and/or African ancestry. * two reporting lines from the Chief Executive Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 41 Respect and support our people, customers, and communities Case study: “Being able to report publicly about women in the The WILL team also implemented lactation rooms for Supporting the workplace is important. So many studies say that to new mothers at all Pearson locations in the country be truly innovative and impactful in society, and created a mechanism for employees to submit companies that will last – and thrive in the emerging suggestions for how Pearson Brazil can better success of women conscious consumer economy, are those who are support diversity and inclusion. transparent in terms of their practices internally and In the UK, Zerin Karim is leading a new employee externally,” Zerin Karim, Solution Delivery Manager. through employee resource group, Women in Technology (WIT), For Pearson to succeed in the future, diversity across which aims to celebrate underrepresented women our teams will be of the utmost importance as those in technology, open pathways for women outside resource groups designing our products and services need to reflect of technology to gain digital skills, and influence those using them. key business functions to be more gender inclusive in their operations. In Brazil, Pearson WILL (Women in Learning and Leadership) looks to address gender equality issues To help bridge the gap between our learners and at a corporate and broader societal level. The group our business, WIT also hosts digital career events and aims to support women at Pearson to be advocates edTech workshops for our communities globally for their own success, sharing lessons on how to with a focus on educating young female students communicate with leadership and express their on STEM subjects. professional goals and capabilities. Through its internal and external activities, WIT is In the past year, the WILL Brazil team has grown to helping Pearson achieve greater gender balance in over 60 members, nearly tripling in size. Team the technology landscape both within our members such as Luciane Lazaretti Dias Moises, organization and across the industry. a mother balancing a career in legal services and family, helps to host events for couples and families to discuss work/life balance and panels featuring inspirational female leaders in business. Luciane translated an unconscious bias training to Portuguese so it could be inclusive to all Brazilian employees. Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 42 Respect and support our people, customers, and communities Our work on diversity and inclusion continued to Health and safety The number of employees globally who are aware of gain external marketplace recognition. In 2018, the 2018 H&S Policy continues to grow, with 87% of Pearson was: Our people work in many diverse locations around employees successfully completing our online Global the world, including schools, colleges, test centers, Health and Safety Policy & Standards course.  amed in the 2018 Forbes list of America’s N offices, home offices, working remotely, data centers, Best Employers for Diversity call centers, printing sites, and warehouses. Our A robust H&S assurance program has also been health and safety management system is designed to established and is essential for ensuring that we are Scored 100% in the 2018 Corporate Equality Index prevent injuries and ill health, which could include actively identifying hazards, regulatory compliance run by the Human Rights Campaign musculo-skeletal disorders, traumatic injury, chemical concerns, and non-conformance with the policy. Recognized as having one of the top 50 leading This is supported by a global network of nearly exposure, falls from height, among others. Simply put, global LGBT Ally Executives by the FT/OUTstanding 150 H&S Coordinators, who work to ensure the we cannot be a sustainable company and a trusted Awarded the Dynamic Mentoring Organisation of partner unless we ensure the safety and wellbeing H&S management system is implemented and the Year for a second year by the 30% Club, which of our people, our learners, and all who come into managed in their business locations. advances women on boards, and Women Ahead contact with our operations. for a programme led by our employee resource Health and Safety in 2018 The global Health and Safety (H&S) team develops, group on gender. maintains, and supports our H&S Policy, and the We also continued our series of monthly Board’s Reputation & Responsibility Committee #DiscussDiversity Twitter chats reaching over monitors H&S performance. While we have seen 3m active users. To advance diversity and inclusion in 2019, we will: our risk decrease from outsourcing many of our warehousing and printing operations, we continue 92% 83 of our H&S standards H&S Coordinators were to monitor high-risk activities, such as test processing have been fully trained and successfully C  ontinue to work toward our goal to extend our and printing, direct delivery of educational services, implemented around certified in Institution reporting on gender pay to cover our global driving for work, and occupational illness risk from the world of Occupational Safety operations by 2020 and Health (IOSH)’s office ergonomics, international travel, and I nstitute an annual D&I dashboard review and occupational stress. 96% Managing Safely course in 2018 goal-setting session with each business and Pearson Management Services, the company in the of open H&S findings from audits prior to 2018 function leadership team. UK that manages our head office, is certified against have been fully resolved BS (OHSAS) 18001, an internationally recognized H&S management standard. This standard is being replaced by ISO 45001, and our head office targets certification to the new standard in 2021. Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 43 Respect and support our people, customers, and communities We continue to evolve our assurance program. In Occupational road risk Corporate security and resilience 2019, 65% of audits will begin as informal ‘advisory Ergonomics management We work in increasingly complex locations, societies, reviews’ through which we work with new locations to become aware of their priorities and address actions H&S documentation and record keeping. and global times, with new and emerging security before a formal audit takes place. challenges – geopolitical threats, terrorism, crime, Assessments were completed, and management and natural disasters, for example. Pearson has a The global H&S team has become a registered center frameworks are developed or in progress for all areas responsibility to help minimize and manage these to teach the Institution of Occupational Safety and except occupational road risk, whose assessment is risks for our people, and our goal is zero harm. Health (IOSH) Managing Safely course. In 2018, ongoing with completion deferred to 2020. we delivered training to 83 H&S Coordinators Throughout 2018, our corporate security and Key future plans include: around the world, with a 100% certification rate resilience program was steadily developed to become as verified by IOSH.  omplete remaining assessment work in areas of C more agile. While we faced fewer external incidents occupational road risk and establish improvement than 2017, we responded to complex people, process, In line with the plans we set out last year, we have action plans as appropriate by 2020 and technology incidents. reviewed the global H&S Safety Management System information management requirements to be more I mplement initial action plans for global incident A range of risks to our employees and learners digital and efficient. We will continue to develop the reporting, documentation and record keeping, remained in 2018, and we responded to an increased Pearson Risk Information & Systems Management and occupational health coming out of the review number of significant internal incidents related to our platform, where we track incident reporting and other beginning in 2019 products, staff, and supply chain at a regional and internal metrics, throughout 2019 to expand the local level. We continued to keep employees apprised  arry out annual H&S audit and assurance program, C reach, capability, and accessibility. of relevant local events, and we have trained achieving at least 95% of plan in 2019 employees and learners on how to remain vigilant In 2018, we undertook five significant review projects F  urther assess and establish key performance and what actions to take when faced with a highin order to assess management and control indicators and other program measurements, impact event, such as active shooter, marauding processes, and to determine action required for with continuing effort to target further alignment vehicle or knife attacks, or other incidents. This type continual improvement. These projects included a with GRI metrics. of training will continue in 2019. review of: For H&S performance data, see: Incident reporting and investigation www.pearson.com/content/dam/one-dot-com/one-dotcom/global/Files/sustainability/2018-reports/2018_ Occupational health and wellbeing Sustainability_Performance_Data.pdf See also p68 of our Annual Report: www.pearson.com/corporate/ar2018.html Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 44 Respect and support our people, customers, and communities Case study: “If we make sure the people Invest in an we have are at their best, it’s good for them, good for us, and good important for business.” stakeholder: Simone Wright, VP, Human Resources Asia Pacific our people Pearson WELL is an internal program in Core’s Asia Pacific region using human-centered design principles to improve employee wellbeing to optimize performance. The wellbeing strategy is a researchbased approach that incorporates prevention, wellness, particularly as a continued driver of high intervention, and recovery. These three layers performance,” says Wendy Demarte, Director, Health, are crucial in helping Pearson to build a mentally Safety, and Environment. Last year, the Australian healthy and resilient culture. Human Resources Institute awarded Pearson WELL the Allan Fels Mental Health Award, which recognizes Helping to build an ecosystem that supports people the support for mental health in the workplace. at work, it’s a key example of sustainability in action The group was also a joint winner in the National with Pearson acting as a trusted partner to one of Safety Council of Australia’s Best Health & Wellbeing its most important stakeholder groups – its own Program for 2018. employees, sponsored by David Barnett, MD Asia Pacific, as a leader-led program. Pearson WELL operates under the belief that wellness drives performance individually and at the group “In a modern-day context, people are expected level. “People first. Results will follow,” says Simone to bring even more innovation, ambition, and Wright, VP, Human Resources Asia Pacific. “If we make sophistication to the workplace. With more sure the people we have are at their best, it’s good for distraction, more overload, and more expectations them, good for us, and good for business.” than ever, it’s important to focus on employee Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 45 Respect and support our people, customers, and communities We visited and reviewed approximately 20 countries Volunteering and giving to For the 13th consecutive year, we supported Read and 35 Pearson locations, including both higher and for the Record, the world’s largest shared reading lower risk, to understand security risks. The travel our communities experience, with over 560 colleagues participating. security program continued to advise and support Educational opportunities and outcomes are closely Pearson Campus Ambassadors also organized 26 employees traveling to higher-risk locations and saw a linked to the prosperity of local communities and Read for the Record events nationwide. Colleagues 126% increase in volume from 2017. We implemented global development. In 2018, our social contributions in both China and India made the volunteer event an online traveler security course, which is available comprised £4.7m in community contributions and international, sharing over 200 books with local to all staff and required for those embarking on £1.0m invested in socially innovative business children, and over 70 employees volunteered in higher-risk travel. In addition, sales teams, particularly initiatives. Together, this was equivalent to 1.1% of their own unique way with causes that mattered in South Africa, India, and Mexico, were engaged to our pre-tax profits for the year. We are a member of most to them. better understand the specific local and regional the London Benchmarking Group, a global standard Through our giving programs, employees have the travel risks they face. for measuring corporate community investment, chance to donate to specific charitable organizations. which allows us to track and report on our in-kind Our physical security work focuses on protecting We offer matching programs for charitable donations and cash contributions to community causes. people and assets, such as buildings or our for all UK and US employees and a payroll giving reputation, from unauthorized access and preventing Learn more about the London Benchmarking Group: program in the UK. www.lbg-online.net harm to our staff or intrusion into our systems and Since 2015, Pearson has partnered with Kiva, an network. In 2018, during the review of Pearson online microlending platform, to provide small loans 1.1% of pre-tax profits invested in community Institute of Higher Education in Midrand, South Africa, contributions and socially innovative to entrepreneurs around the world without access we were able to meet with student council, who business initiatives to traditional banking systems. In 2018, we made were appreciative of the changes we had made on $434,425 in Kiva loans to 7,099 Kiva borrowers in campus to engage with the students to prevent As part of our commitment to support our 60 countries, for a total of $2.1m loans as of the end risk and simplifying our manned guarding and communities, we provide employees with of 2018. technology solutions. opportunities for volunteering and giving. All global Learn more at: www.kiva.org We also published a new Business Resilience Policy employees can use up to three paid volunteer days a and Incident Management Framework aimed at year for charitable work. We also offer companyachieving stronger and coordinated company organized volunteering opportunities with non-profits responses to incidents that have a wider impact that align with our company’s mission. to our people, learners, systems, and reputation. Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 46 Protect our Responsible environmental stewardship helps to create a healthy and sustainable planet for Our carbon neutral strategy natural Climate and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions our learners and all of society. Minimizing our are material sustainability issues for the company. environmental impact is not just the right thing to environment In 2018, we maintained our climate neutral status for do; it helps deliver cost savings and manage risk. our directly controlled operations – a commitment We continue to do our part to address climate first introduced in 2009. Our strategy is: change and deforestation, which are the global 1. Reduction: We reduced our energy consumption environmental challenges that are most relevant from our 2009 baseline by 60% through the to our operations and impacts. reduction of our building portfolio, energy efficiency initiatives, and the sale of business units. In this section: 2. Renewable energy: We maintained our record Our carbon neutral strategy 46 of purchasing 100% of the electricity we use Reduction 47 from renewable sources. We generate our own Renewable energy 47 renewable electricity at four of our sites, which is Offsetting 48 down from five following the sale of one in 2018. Our management practices 48 3. Offsetting: Since 2009, we offset the emissions from our energy and fuel consumption and business travel. Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 47 Protect our natural environment Reduction 2009 2013 2016 2017 2018 We have been working toward two targets to reduce Absolute emissions our emissions and energy use: Total GHG emissions (tonnes) location based 210,306 188,692 126,385 104,384 84,649 % reduction in total GHG emissions (vs 2009) 40 50 60 1. To reduce our global climate footprint by 50% by Total energy use in our buildings (MWh) 285,590 201,040 147,384 127,083 2020 using 2009 as the baseline year. As of 2018, we have reduced our operational emissions vs our % reduction in building energy use (vs 2013) 30 48 56 2009 baseline by 60%. Intensity ratios CO2 (tonnes) per employee 2. To reduce absolute energy use in our buildings by (scope 1,2location based & 3) 5.66 3.86 3.44 3.48 50% by the end of 2020 using 2013 as the base year. In 2018, we achieved this goal with a 56% reduction CO2 (tonnes) per m office space 2 from the baseline. (scope 1,2location based & 3) 0.15 0.14 0.13 0.12 CO2 (tonnes)/Sales revenue Factors behind our performance include: (scope 1+ 2 location based +3) 37.39 27.76 23.13 20.50 Changes in the business with the sale of a number of business units Given that part of our absolute CO2 reduction is due See more environmental performance data at to the divestment of a number of business units, it is www.pearson.com/content/dam/one-dot-com/one-dot ur shift to digital content and the related move O more appropriate and meaningful to measure our com/global/Files/sustainability/2018-reports/2018_ toward outsourcing print-related infrastructure Sustainability_Performance_Data.pdf performance by intensity metrics relative to our such as distribution number of employees, square footage of office T  he adoption of new communications technologies space, and sales. Since 2009, we have seen a 38% Renewable energy that reduce the need for business travel and reduction in CO2e per employee using location-based For six of our key markets we buy renewable energy facilitate more flexible and remote working measurement, or 68% using market-based through green energy tariffs or renewable energy measurement 2; 20% reduction in CO2e per m2 certificates (RECs) in the country of consumption. I mprovements in electricity transmission and a shift location-based, or 60% market based, and a 45% This accounts for 90% of our electricity use. We buy in the mix of energy sources toward lower-carbon reduction in CO2e per £m location based, or 75% RECs regionally for the remaining 10% in those options and reduced emission factors. market based. markets where have a small presence. 2 This year we have reported both our marketand location-based scope 2 emission for the first time. The location-based method reflects the average emissions intensity of grids on which energy consumption occurs. The market-based method reflects emissions from electricity that we have purposefully chosen. For the purpose of reporting our scope 2 market-based emissions, we only account for market-based emissions factors in those countries where we buy renewable energy credits in the country of consumption as zero carbon. For the remaining countries and consumption, we have used default location-based factors. Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 48 Protect our natural environment Offsetting We have embraced Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED), the green buildings Emissions that we are not able to reduce or avoid are standard in the US. We currently have four buildings offset through forest-based projects. In 2018, we certified under the LEED standard which together bought 36,000 tonnes of carbon offsets to cover the account for over 800,000 square feet and carbon associated with our scope 1 and 3 emissions approximately 10% of our footprint. (business travel, waste, and water) and the printing of our annual and sustainability reports, through a We publicly disclose our performance on carbon Brazilian forestry project that is certified to the REDD+ management, water, and forest management to the and VCS standards. 3 We are also part of RE100, joining Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). over 100 companies helping build a global market for Our 2018 environmental data has been verified by renewable electricity. Corporate Citizenship. The assurance statement covers the methodology, data collection, and accuracy Our management practices of data reported. In 2018, we were recertified against the Carbon Trust See the assurance statement at: Standard for our global operations. Pearson was the www.pearson.com/corporate/sustainability/reportingpolicies.html second organization to secure the standard, which recognizes leadership in measuring, managing, and reducing year-on-year carbon emissions. Looking ahead We continue to be certified against ISO 14001, the In 2018, we also started to map the wider carbon environmental management standard in the UK and emissions from our supply chain in more detail. Australia. This standard incorporates both internal Going forward we will continue to work with our and external audit. In other parts of the world, we suppliers to better understand the sustainability risks apply our own global environmental management and opportunities associated with the products and system (EMS) based on ISO 14001 standards. services we buy. Our global EMS is available at: www.pearson.com/content/dam/one-dot-com/one-dotcom/global/Files/sustainability/01_Pearson_ 3 Reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation EnviroManSystem_Sept2016.pdf (REDD+) is a mechanism developed by the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). It creates a financial value for the carbon stored in forests by offering incentives for developing countries to reduce emissions from forested lands and invest in low-carbon paths to sustainable development. The Verified Carbon Standard (VCS) is a standard for carbon offsetting. It provides a set of criteria that provide integrity to the voluntary carbon market. VCS ensures that all project-based voluntary emission reductions are independently verified to meet its criteria. Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 49 Build a Doing business with partners who share our commitment to human rights and the Labour Organization’s declarations on fundamental principles and rights at work, and the UN Guiding sustainable Principles on Business and Human Rights (see p33 for environment strengthens our supply chain more on our commitments). The UK Modern Slavery relationships and reduces risk. supply chain Act, which requires companies to specify the steps In this section: they have taken to ensure that their business and supply chains are slavery free, also guides our Sourcing policies 49 approach to supply chain sustainability. Direct supply chain 50 Our Modern Slavery Statement is available at: Indirect procurement 51 www.pearson.com/corporate/about-pearson/our-positionon/modern-day-slavery.html Last year, Pearson purchased over £2.1bn of goods and services from over 66,000 third parties in over We are a founding member of Book Chain, a 24 countries, ranging from large multinationals to partnership between publishers to enhance industry smaller specialist companies and sole traders. standards relating to labor standards and human The vast majority of the products and services that rights, product safety, and paper sourcing. Working Pearson and its operating companies purchase together with industry partners helps reduce the globally are sourced from suppliers in OECD compliance costs for suppliers as well as to reinforce countries, mainly those in North America and Europe. the importance of adopting high standards. Pearson divides its supply chain into two broad areas: Sourcing policies direct and indirect. Our direct supply chain relates to the textbook production supply chain – paper, print, As part of our approach to responsible sourcing, and transportation. More detail about our paper Pearson looks to work with partners and businesses supply chain is on p50 and more about our print that have standards that reflect our own. We have a supply chain is on p51. Our indirect supply chain number of policies and processes relating to working covers all other categories of spend, which include with third parties – the most important of which is consultancy services, contingent workers, content, our Business Partner Code of Conduct. the digital supply chain, marketing, and facilities. The Business Partner Code of Conduct (Partner Code) Our relationships with suppliers are guided by our clarifies the responsibilities and expectations we commitment to the UN Global Compact and other have of our business partners (which include joint human rights standards including the Universal venture partners, vendors, franchisees, distributors, Declaration of Human Rights, the International suppliers, contractors, consultants, and agents) for ethical and responsible business practice. Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 50 Build a sustainable supply chain The Partner Code sets out our support for universal human rights (including equal employment, freedom What goes into our products? of speech and of association, and cultural, economic, and social wellbeing), good labor practices, and Direct  aper P decent working conditions. It also sets out our Relates to  rint P the textbook  ransportation T expectations for supply partners to oppose production discriminatory, illegal, or inhumane labor practices, supply chain including slavery and human trafficking. The Partner Code forms part of new contracts and it is included when contracts are renewed or updated. Indirect  rofessional and consultancy services P Covers all  ontent development C Compliance with the principles in our code is a other categories  igital supply chain D minimum standard of behavior outlined in contracts. of spend  arketing M The Partner Code also states that it is the  acilities F responsibility of business partners to ensure that subcontractors doing work for or on behalf of Pearson meet the same high standards of ethics and compliance required for business partners. Paper sourcing Forest Certification (PEFC) system of certification. Our Business Terms of Reference provide us with PEFC endorses national schemes of certification. Timber production and forestry has been identified the power of audit and, if necessary, the right to The two most significant schemes for us endorsed by Pearson as a higher-risk industry due to the terminate a relationship if we find issues of nonby PEFC are the Canadian scheme – the Canadian potential for human rights abuses, including the compliance. This means our responsible purchasing Standards Association (CSA) – and the Sustainable use of forced, indentured, and child labor. Paper principles of behavior are contractually enforceable. Forestry Initiative (SFI), which is used in both the production is linked to a number of important US and Canada. environmental issues, such as climate change, Direct supply chain deforestation, and illegal logging, and the loss of In 2018, we purchased over 100,000 tonnes of paper While we have a growing digital products and services natural forest cover is a significant source of globally. To help to reduce our impact, we have supply chain reflecting our increasing shift to digital, greenhouse gases. retained Chain-of-Custody accreditation from the our traditional paper-based products remain the FSC in the UK, which enables Pearson products to Pearson has a longstanding responsible paper most significant area of risk and impact. Our supply carry the FSC logo. Of the more than 12,000 tonnes sourcing policy that recognizes this risk. This policy chain function manages our purchases of paper for of paper we purchased in the UK, 86% was certified to sets out our preference for papers that hold Forest books and our contracts with printers and work with an environmental standard, such as FSC or PEFC. Stewardship Council (FSC) certification, and we also distributors and shippers who bring our products recognize the Programme for the Endorsement of to market. Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 51 Build a sustainable supply chain We have identified the potential supply of paper from Our due diligence process also includes print Indirect procurement Indonesia as an area of moderate risk for social and production departments visiting suppliers around environmental concerns. No paper manufactured the world to assess compliance with our standards Of the indirect suppliers paid in 2018, over 55% of in Indonesia or paper that contains pulp from and to encourage suppliers to address issues with our total spend (£910m) is with our top 100 suppliers, Indonesia currently meets our supply standards. non-compliance. These visits provide a valuable and approximately 870 suppliers account for 80% of We communicate our standards to printers and opportunity to reinforce our commitments to our global spend (over £1.3bn). Our top 20 suppliers others who purchase paper on our behalf. eliminating all forms of child, forced, and compulsory account for 33% of our total spend (£548m). These top labor, as well as promoting environmental 20 suppliers are located in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Print production China, India, Italy, Mexico, Singapore, South Africa, stewardship and other standards covered by the We rely on third-party suppliers to print our UN Global Compact. Spain, the UK, and the US. textbooks and course materials. Globally, we have In September 2017, Pearson introduced a new, Our printers in China (representing 14% of UK spend) over 200 print suppliers representing approximately centralized approach to supplier due diligence and and Malaysia (representing 10% of UK spend) are £91m in spend. We have a single global policy and onboarding in the UK covering all categories of spend. visited at least annually and a visit report with followapproach for managing risk in our print supply The system provides centralized management that up actions is completed after each visit covering both chain, which covers supplier risk assessments and helps to facilitate audits of suppliers. commercial operations and labor standards. In 2018, visits, third-party audits, and remediation of our two printers in Malaysia and three printers in In 2018, we expanded this onboarding system in the compliance issues. China were visited by our direct supply chain team. US and Canada, so that it now covers roughly 29% of We require suppliers rated medium and high risk our indirect suppliers. We will continue to complete We maintain a printer register to monitor the over a threshold spend of £100,000 to undertake the rollout across North America. environmental performance of suppliers, which an independent third-party audit before they are includes over 90% of our printers by value. We survey As part of this expansion, we have incorporated approved as a supplier and to agree to regular review our global printers every two years to assess their: additional due diligence questions across a range of audits as an existing supplier at least once every use of a recognized environmental management non-financial risk issues, including modern slavery, 24 months. We rate suppliers as medium or high system; and measurement and reduction policies for safeguarding, anti-bribery and corruption, conflict of risk based on a Book Chain tool designed specifically water, ink, solvents, alcohol, energy, and waste. interest, sanctions, health and safety, sustainability, to help publishers identify labor and environmental risks in the supply chain. The audits are carried out We continue to be concerned that the release of diversity, and accessibility. through Book Chain. volatile organic compounds (VOCs) present in inks Through the risk assessment, due diligence, and and solvents is managed effectively and reduced. clarification process, we are working to ensure that We encourage our printers and operating companies our suppliers are in compliance with our requirements. to monitor reduction targets for VOCs. Any questionable response or behavior demonstrated in their response prompts further discovery before approving or denying supplier engagement. Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 52 Build a sustainable supply chain In 2018, we vetted over 1,550 potential suppliers By entering into a relationship with an experienced We regularly support our Assessment and North in the UK, US, and Canada utilizing contracts service provider, we have been able to strengthen America businesses with customers’ Request with updated terms and conditions to ensure and standardize our processes to ensure that our For Proposals (RFPs) that have supplier diversity supplier compliance with our social, ethical, and contingent workers have the same protections as our requirements. We collaborate internally by locating environmental policies. regular employees. AGS ensures that contingent and identifying qualified diverse suppliers to partner workers and the agencies that manage them receive a with to meet customer compliance regulations. In 2019, we will require all active suppliers to complete detailed supplier manual outlining how Pearson our expanded third-party risk due diligence This proposal development support is essential to people policies apply to them, and AGS holds assessment so that we maintain standard levels maintaining our current customer contracts and contingent worker agencies accountable for ensuring of transparency across our supplier population winning new business. It also provides the that workers are informed of these policies. AGS also and are better equipped to manage and mitigate opportunity for our diverse partners to provide ensures that we are in compliance with all relevant our risk exposure. meaningful subcontracting services to support our local regulations. customers and learners. Contingent workers Supplier diversity By the end of 2019, our goals are to: increase our In late 2017, we began to work with Allegis Global Our supplier diversity program focuses on local, spend with diverse suppliers; adopt a corporate policy Solutions (AGS) to manage the relationships with our small, diverse businesses – such as those that are on supplier diversity, and include supplier diversity contingent workforce population in the US and UK, small, underutilized, or women-, minority-, LGBT-, language in our RFPs; and work with our prime (Tier I) which we define as any individuals who are working or veteran-owned. Building strategic partnerships suppliers to integrate diverse utilization goals and at, or for, Pearson but who are not Pearson with diverse suppliers helps make us more spend targets in order to increase our overall diverse employees or suppliers and who are paid through competitive and in some cases reduces costs. spend with the Tier II suppliers that supply goods and means other than Pearson’s payroll. They include It demonstrates our commitment to sustainability services to Tier I suppliers. independent contractors and payroll agency and diversity and inclusion, and it is important to employees. Our contingent workers frequently fill ensure that we meet the needs and expectations of roles such as engineers, developers, exam graders, our customers, investors, employees, and project managers. Contingent workers make and communities in which we operate. up 26% of Pearson’s workforce and represent approximately £55m of spend in the US and UK. Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 53 Governance Sustainability governance at Pearson Board of Directors Our strong governance structures Board committees and internal systems are key to Audit Nomination & Governance Remuneration Reputation & Responsibility manage risks and embed Committee Committee Committee Committee sustainability, responsibility, and ethics across our business. Pearson Executive Management (PEM) Chief Executive Chief Human Resources Officer President North America Chief Financial Officer Chief Legal Officer President UK and Core Markets Board oversight Chief Technology and Operations Officer Chief Strategy Officer President Growth Markets Chief Corporate Affairs Officer President Global Product President Pearson Assessments Our Chief Executive and our Board are ultimately accountable for everything we do as a company. The Board is deeply engaged in developing and Human measuring the company’s long-term strategy, Resources Legal performance, and value. Read more in our Annual Report: Chief Corporate Affairs Officer www.pearson.com/corporate/ar2018.html Corporate Operations Affairs & Marketing Responsible Business Reputation & Leadership Council Responsibility Committee Sustainability & social The Board’s Reputation & Responsibility Committee innovation team Efficacy & (RRC) provides important oversight of our Research Product Sustainability Plan. The RRC is a formal committee of Audit & the Board providing ongoing oversight and scrutiny Compliance across all of our responsible business activities. Read more about the RRC on p106 of the Operational responsibility leaders Annual Report: www.pearson.com/corporate/ar2018.html Global operations across Pearson Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 54 Responsible Business Code of Conduct Raising concerns Leadership Council The Pearson Code of Conduct underpins our We operate a free, confidential telephone helpline Our Responsible Business Leadership Council (RBLC) values by setting out the global ethical, social, and and website for anyone who wants to raise a concern, is an internal governance group of senior executives environmental standards of behavior we expect from and we have a clear non-retaliation policy in place to from across the business that helps to integrate employees, and we have a companion code for encourage honesty and openness. Cases that pose sustainability throughout the company. Led by the business partners. The Code was reviewed and significant risks to our business are reported to the Chief Corporate Affairs Officer, the RBLC meets in refreshed in 2018, and included an interactive training Pearson Audit Committee with ultimate ownership line with the RRC to provide guidance and input on course combined with the certification of the Code. by the Board. In 2018, 80 concerns (87 in 2017) were sustainability strategy and activities. We make sure everyone in Pearson is aware of the raised and investigated. Of them, 25 concerns (31%) Code and confirms they understand and will related to human resources matters and 55 concerns Key activities in 2018 included advising on: comply with it. (69%) related to financial irregularities or violations sustainability strategy and reporting; global of our policies – none was classed in our highest standards and policies; risks and opportunities In 2018, we achieved our target of 100% completion risk category. We took appropriate steps to resolve related to the efficacy agenda; values and culture; by all employees. The Code is also assigned as part these issues, mainly through employee training, human rights; and initiatives including the of the on-boarding process for all new Pearson policy improvements, or disciplinary action. Tomorrow’s Markets Incubator and Every employees. In 2019, we will do a complete review of In 2018, there were two terminations as a result Child Learning. the Code content and refresh the design of the Code. of these investigations. Employees and new hires will be asked to re-certify Risk management that they have read, understand, and agree to comply Anti-bribery and with our Code of Conduct. Pearson’s goal in managing risk is to support See also page 37 of our Annual Report: corruption program the business in meeting its strategic and www.pearson.com/corporate/ar2018.html As part of our commitment to conducting business operational objectives. fairly, honestly, and lawfully, we have a zero-tolerance Our Annual Report describes our approach to risk policy towards bribery and corruption of any kind. management on p60-76, and a table mapping the This includes compliance with all applicable antimaterial issues in the 2020 Sustainability Plan with bribery and corruption laws, including the US Foreign principal risks can be found on p33. Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act 2010, See our Annual Report at: as well as local ethics and bribery laws. We aim www.pearson.com/corporate/ar2018.html to work and partner only with those who share this commitment. Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 55 Over the past several years, Pearson has steadily Work will continue in 2019 where we will focus our Public policy committed greater resources to strengthening and efforts on Western and Central Europe, the UK, the improving our global compliance office and our US, and Canada, as well as our VUE business. We are Government officials around the world make daily anti-bribery and corruption (ABC) program. We have also working with our global procurement teams on policy decisions that have a direct impact on an ABC Policy in place, which was revised in 2018 the launch of our new global procurement system, education and our business, and our government along with our Third Party ABC and Due Diligence to embed the due diligence process in the system relations teams are responsible for tracking political Policy, and Sanctions Policy. All of these were rolled as a prerequisite to the on-boarding of any new and legislative trends. The teams develop and out globally during our first Corporate Compliance supplier (see p51). maintain relationships with key government and Ethics Week in November 2018. representatives, associations, membership In 2018, we also published our Global Conflict of organizations, and third-party institutions to help Alongside the Third Party ABC and Due Diligence Interest Policy and rolled it out globally, and we inform policy discussions. These relationships ensure: Policy, we commenced the rollout of a global ABC launched our SpeakUp campaign with a revised that we are able to work in partnership on shared third-party due diligence program. We implemented a Raising Concerns and Anti-Retaliation Policy. An agenda items; that our company is well positioned new due diligence system and completed due annual declaration process for potential, perceived, and represented; and that our work is fairly and diligence on all in-scope third parties in South Africa or actual conflicts of interest will be rolled out with accurately conveyed. (including the Rest of Africa), the Middle East, India, our Code of Conduct beginning in 2019. Mainland China and Hong Kong, Asia Pacific, Brazil, In all our engagements with government, we act in We have established a network of local compliance accordance with multinational, national, state, and Hispano America, Italy, and Central and Eastern officers (LCOs) in our geographies and businesses to local laws and regulations, and are guided by our Europe. We visited the offices located in these regions, advise and guide business partners on conducting corporate values and Code of Conduct. met with key stakeholders and relationship owners, business fairly, honestly, and lawfully, and establish conducted due diligence on all third parties we Pearson expressly prohibits the use of company funds appropriate internal controls. We have introduced deemed ‘in scope’ for due diligence, trained staff on for making political contributions. Pearson does not and rolled out to many of our geographies and how and when to conduct due diligence for all new make direct contributions or donations to political businesses a system and tool automating the request engagements, and introduced remedial measures parties or candidates anywhere around the world, and approval process for gifts and hospitality. or terminated relationships where required. During nor do we operate a Political Action Committee. the course of this exercise, in excess of 20,500 third In 2018, through our LCO network, we provided During 2018, we contributed to policy discussions parties were screened, which includes all of our training and raised awareness of our Anti-Bribery on issues including workforce training, intellectual testing centers globally. and Corruption Policy, and conducted ABC risk property, the Sustainable Development Goals, assessments in businesses in three parts of the refugee education, education and technology, teacher world in those places in the world that have higher development, and improving learning outcomes. risk according to Transparency International’s For more information on how we engage in the Corruption Perceptions Index. global dialogue on global issues, see p30. See also p74 of our Annual Report: www.pearson.com/corporate/ar2018.html Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 56 Public policy activities are overseen by the Board’s This is important as tax contributions – from Reputation & Responsibility Committee. individuals as well as businesses – are fundamental to See also p66 of our Annual Report: a healthy society. These contributions are the www.pearson.com/corporate/ar2018.html lifeblood that funds vital public services, including education, as well as investment in infrastructure to Taxation fuel economic growth and promote a more equal society. We believe that, as a large, publicly listed Our approach to tax is guided by our corporate company, we have an ongoing responsibility to values, and by our Code of Conduct. Our tax principles enhance awareness and provide transparency on have been published on our corporate website since our position on tax. 2014. These were reviewed and refreshed during 2017 and they guide our global tax strategy at Pearson, This approach was acknowledged when we were which applies to all our businesses. awarded the 2018 PwC Building Public Trust Award for Best Tax Reporting in the FTSE 350. We believe in the importance of transparency in See also p71 of our Annual Report: regard to our tax affairs and voluntarily disclose www.pearson.com/corporate/ar2018.html information on the tax we pay on business profits and the contributions we make to public finances in the countries in which we operate. We are one of the few FTSE100 companies to publish a standalone tax report. The report also includes our approach to tax governance, risk management, attitude to tax planning, and being transparent with the UK and other tax authorities. Read our tax report: www.pearson.com/corporate/about-pearson/our-positionon/tax.html Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 57 Appendix Assurance Our environmental data (p47 and in the performance data table), and our data on social contributions (p45 and in the performance data table) were assured About this report by independent external assurance providers Corporate Citizenship. Our 2018 Sustainability Report covers data from 1 January to 31 December 2018, and it was released Statements are available for download at: www.pearson.com/corporate/sustainability/reportingon 29 May 2019. policies.html Our reporting frameworks Contact us We have applied relevant international reporting standards and frameworks, including the Global This report has been prepared by Pearson’s Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, UN Global Pearson’s 2018 Annual Report includes a summary sustainability and social innovation team in Compact (UNGC) Ten Principles, and the of the issues covered in this report and, as required consultation with other key departments within UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). by 2013 amendments to the UK Companies Act, Pearson. We welcome your thoughts and feedback. comprises a separate strategic report with disclosures Please email sustainability@pearson.com with any This report has been developed in accordance with on human rights, gender diversity, and greenhouse questions or comments. the GRI Standards and serves as our UN Global Compact Communication on Progress. gas emissions. To view this report online, visit: www.pearson.com/sustainability Performance data and targets Our GRI/UNGC/SDGs content index details how we are meeting these requirements. Our performance data and targets overview provides www.pearson.com/content/dam/one-dotan overview of key metrics and performance data, com/one-dot-com/global/Files/ a summary of targets in this report, and table to sustainability/2018-reports/2018_Content_ navigate where in this report we discuss progress Index.pdf on last year’s targets. View our performance data and targets overview: www.pearson.com/content/dam/one-dotcom/one-dot-com/global/Files/ sustainability/2018-reports/2018_ Sustainability_Performance_Data.pdf Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 58 Key stakeholders When we developed our 2020 Sustainability Plan, We participate in a number of multi-stakeholder we worked with a leading sustainability organization initiatives that provide valuable opportunities to identify and prioritize our key stakeholders, and we to engage and collaborate with stakeholders continue to strive to find the most effective channels across sectors. for interacting with each of these groups. Employees Shareholders Learners Educational institutions Employers Governments & educators & Regulators We have over 24,000 We have a broad range of Our learners are in school, We work with teachers, Employers, trade associations, Local, state, and national WHO THEY ARE employees in over investors who entrust their higher education, vocational instructors, and educators and industry bodies are looking governments set standards 70 countries around the capital with us. Investors training, and continuing across all stages of education. for education systems to help that address students’ needs, world, who are a driving increasingly seek better professional education. In a cost-conscious drive innovation, tackle the close skills gaps, and meet the force behind our success. information and more reliable They have different environment, educators global skills gap, and contribute demands of the workforce. As brand ambassadors, data about how we are nationalities and backgrounds, are focused on delivering to long-term economic growth They also set policy to help it is critical that they continue addressing sustainability. and their learning needs are high-quality educational by ensuring that learners are drive sustainable growth and to embody our purpose just as diverse. They expect experiences that set their better prepared to succeed in ensure that learners have and values, and help us modern, engaging, and students on a course to a their careers. Increasingly, access to affordable education continuously be better. personalized educational better career and life for employers want their future and training opportunities. experiences that allow them them and their families. employees to have the to be successful at every knowledge and skills to address stage of their lives. social and environmental challenges. See p26. In 2018, we invited all of our We communicate with our We regularly talk to and We collaborate with educators Through assessments and We are committed to building OUR ENGAGEMENT employees to take part in a investors regularly, including survey learners to understand on thought leadership and qualifications, online learning, strong relationships with survey to better understand at our financial results, our how learning is evolving, product development. and professional badging, political and educational where we can continue to Annual General Meeting, and changing demographics, We aim to provide more among other solutions, leaders. We do not make improve. We also held town and at investor meetings and attitudes, and buying engaging ways to connect we are supporting the efforts policy. Instead, we share halls with senior leaders and conferences around the globe. behavior. We also have educators with their students. of industry to prepare workers best practices, inform the global conversations with We respond to requests for conversations through For example, the move to for the jobs of today and of the policymaking process, and our CEO. We are working to environmental, social, and social media and often digital enables more timely future. We have listened to forge Innovative partnerships develop talent, drive diversity governance information from involve our students in feedback on student employers and are designing aimed at increasing student and inclusion, ensure greater investors and raters, including internal and external progress to help set them products that meet their access, affordability, employee engagement, and the Dow Jones Sustainability panels at conferences. up for success. needs of industry. See p21. and success. spur innovation. See p40. Index (DJSI) and FTSE4Good. Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 59 Key stakeholders Business partners & Communities International, nonMedia Parents suppliers governmental & nonprofit organizations From technology providers Educational opportunities We listen carefully to the The media and journalists Parents want to see their WHO THEY ARE to suppliers, channel partners and outcomes are closely insights of organizations play an important role in children succeed in school to our authors, we have a linked to the prosperity working to improve analyzing and reporting on and in life. Research shows broad range of partners. of local communities and education for vulnerable business and corporate that, while parents want to We believe that working global development. Our and marginalized groups, behavior, education, and help their children progress with partners who share communities around the as well as those looking sustainability. They also help in school, some struggle to our commitments to best world are interested and at the impact of business us to raise awareness about understand how federal, practice and international engaged in how we are using in society. our business, share state, and local policies standards for human our products, services, and our stories, and engage and curriculum, and factors rights and environmental community investments to other stakeholders. beyond academics have an stewardship strengthens reach the learners who need impact on their child’s our value chain and reduces it most and the steps we are academic progress. our business costs and risks. taking to have a positive impact on society and the environment. We build bilateral We partner with organizations In addition to maintaining We work to help the media Pearson sponsors the Parent OUR ENGAGEMENT relationships with partners working to improve education bilateral relationships, understand who we are as Toolkit, which is produced and suppliers. Our suppliers for vulnerable, marginalized we participate in multia company and how we are by NBC News, to support the agree to our Business Partner groups, and those focused stakeholder initiatives that working to improve lives needs of parents. The Parent Code on the impact of business on aim to strengthen global through learning and Toolkit is a free resource of Conduct and terms of society and the environment. education systems. These advance the UN Sustainable designed to help parents business, which outline We also encourage employees relationships allow us to share Development Goals. navigate a student’s our expectations for to get involved through experiences, capabilities, We maintain bilateral educational journey from responsible business volunteering and giving. and perspectives; respond relationships, respond to pre-kindergarten through practices. We conduct due See p45. quickly to opportunities and media requests, and develop high school and beyond. diligence and regularly engage criticisms; and help shapethe external materials for Learn more at: in dialogue, training, audits, global education debate. traditional and social media. www.parenttoolkit.com and remediation with our See p30. suppliers when needed. We collaborate with industry working groups to improve sustainability in our supply chain. See p49. More information is also available in our Annual Report: www.pearson.com/corporate/ar2018.html Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 60 Material issues Materiality matrix With our 2020 Sustainability Plan and approach to reporting, we focus on the issues that matter most to our business, our learners, and all of our stakeholders HIGH Economic Learner Data privacy empowerment expectations (see p59-60 for more about our stakeholders). and security Competitiveness Academic quality We undertook a comprehensive materiality of digital products assessment in 2015, following best practice Progression High-stakes testing outlined by the international reporting standard, the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Based on consultation and an analysis of the areas 21st century skills that are most important to our stakeholders, we Access Security, health, identified a shortlist of 19 issues that are most and safety relevant to the sustainability of our business. Stakeholder concern Girls’ and women’s Through further consultation with senior leaders Literacy empowerment Affordability at Pearson, we narrowed these down to nine issues and equality Education for sustainable Corporate we believe are most material at this time. development L  obbying and public governance policy To determine materiality, we took into account: GHG emissions and The degree of influence and immediacy of climate change Digital infrastructure opportunity we have to tackle the issues T  he risk posed to our business, considering what steps we are already taking to address the issues Disruptive distribution models  he relative impact of the issues on maintaining T Nine material issues or building our reputation and business success. in our Sustainability Plan and reporting Following the 2015 process, we made minor Degree of control adjustments to our material issues in 2016 to reflect input from our stakeholders. We continuously High Medium Low evaluate the relevance of our material issues and LOW we refresh our analysis when appropriate. LOW Business impact HIGH Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 61 Our material issues are broken into Societal issues four categories: Economic empowerment Corporate functions Education is an important source of economic growth. Providing a quality education helps increase learners’ Competitiveness of digital products earning potential, allowing them to improve their The potential impact on the business and learners standard of living, and providing an economic value if digital products are not perceived to be, or that extends to future generations. experienced as, leading in applicability, convenience, price, or other elements of overall competitiveness Education industry and functionality. Access Data privacy and security Ensuring equitable access to our products for all Ensuring personal information about our customers learners, including those with disabilities and and learners is kept safe and secure, with appropriate special needs. systems and procedures in place to prevent privacy Affordability breaches and information loss. Offering products and services that are affordable Security, health, and safety to different income groups. Ensuring the safety and security of all employees, 21st century skills learners, and suppliers (including through policies and practice, training, monitoring, and disclosure). Providing products and services that equip learners with the skills and competencies – such as creativity, Corporate governance entrepreneurship, and critical thinking – needed for Establishing a framework and set of processes success in the 21st century. promoting ethical conduct, transparency, and accountability to our stakeholders. Environmental issues GHG emissions and climate change Managing and mitigating our greenhouse gas and climate emissions throughout our value chain. Reach more Shape the future Be a trusted Pearson Sustainability report 2018 Introduction learners of learning partner Governance Appendix 62 CBP00019082504183028 Designed and Produced by Friend www.friendstudio.com Print Pureprint Group, a Carbon Neutral company This report has been printed on Edixion Challenger Offset which is FSC® certified and made from 100% Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) pulp. The mill and the printer are both certified to ISO 14001 environmental management system and registered to EMAS the eco management Audit Scheme. Photo credits: David Keith (p11), Brinker International (p12) and Save the Children/Ahmad Muhsen (p18), CAMFED (p24). Principal offices www.pearson.com/sustainability @pearson 80 Strand London WC2R 0RL UK T +44 (0)20 7010 2000 F +44 (0)20 7010 6060 221 River Street Hoboken, NJ 07030 USA T +1 212 390 7100 Pearson plc Registered number 53723 (England)
