Sustainability Report 2018-19 CONTENTS Voice of leadership 3 SUSTAINABLE MINDTREE Sustainability overview 7 Governance for sustainability 14 Materiality and stakeholder engagement 19 #BeTheGiveR 30 CREATING A BETTER WORLD Brief overview 31 Volunteering 33 Leveraging technology 34 Sustainable transformation: THEME STORY making rural societies ﬂourish 37 On the path of green energy 45 PROTECTING THE FUTURE Environmental stewardship 45 Technological leverage for stewardship 49 Sustainable sourcing 53 People satisfaction 56 NURTURING PEOPLE Developing talent 62 Focus on diversity 67 BUSINESS CREATING Creating consistent value 72 SUSTAINABLE VALUE Great quality, delivered faster 73 Performance data 76 ANNEXURES Data assumptions 92 UNGC & NVG application 94 Boundary setting for material issues 98 GRI content index 99 Assurance statement 107 Glossary 111 Sustainable Mindtree VOICE OF LEADERSHIP KRISHNAKUMAR NATARAJAN ROSTOW RAVANAN Executive Chairman CEO & MD Journey towards new drivers of value creation Sustainability strategy of Mindtree covers short term, midterm and long term sustainability risks and opportunities, with our present-forward and future-backward approach. Skilling our people for the future, enhancing the solar component in our energy mix, and leading the digital space are a few of our key responses and accomplishments in this context. Staying sensitive to stakeholders forms a key part of our vision, and creating sustainable value for all stakeholders, our broad purpose. As true believers in the new model of conscious capitalism, we serve our communities, especially the disadvantaged and the marginalized, in diverse and impactful ways, striving to address inequalities, to contribute to sustainable development. We are convinced, ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) factors would strongly drive success and sustainability of organizations in the years to come. Our performance on ESG has been consistently strong. Our commitment to guidelines, frameworks and standards on responsible business such as UNGC, GRI, CDP, IIRC and NVG principles would continue to help us create, measure and communicate sustainable value across bottom lines. Welcome to possible 3 N.S. PARTHASARATHY PRADIP MENON Executive Vice Chairman & COO Chief Financial Oﬃcer Trust is an integral part of a socially Sustainability is good responsible business. for business. Our industry encounters increasing automation Mindtree has been addressing economic risks which is a mixed bag of opportunity and risk. for sustainability such as global risks, cyber We have strived hard to leverage the opportunity security, margin pressures and attrition through and mitigate the risk. both proactive and on-the ground strategies. Our diversiﬁed portfolio, enhanced scale of Our conscious eﬀorts in this direction have taken information security, multi-pronged approach to away the fear of automation from people’s minds economic eﬃciency, transformational skilling and in the last couple of years, and have prepared our people engagement strategies have served well people for the future through our skilling initiatives for the purpose. The fact that we have grown and holistic learning journeys. Our diversity and above the industry’s average growth rate is people engagement initiatives continue to keep a testimony to our success. our people engaged and inspired. Sustainability and long term success Trust deﬁcit is a key concern for our industry are positively correlated. Our CSR and and society today. Deep engagement with all sustainability initiatives reﬂect our our stakeholders help us to have 360 degree purpose beyond economic value. of expectations from us. Not scale-driven but impact-focussed, our work Transparency, especially on ESG (Environmental, for communities goes deep and stays long lasting. Social and Governance) factors is a new imperative The theme of this report shares the way we today. A range of non-ﬁnancial reporting commitments contribute our committed eﬀorts towards help us to stay transparent. Sustainability reporting rural transformation. brings us beneﬁts of continuous improvement in sustainability performance. We are on the learning curve of integrated reporting as of now. Going further, we would be Welcome to possible looking at new steps in integration within, and evolve the reporting journey. Welcome to possible 4 ABRAHAM MOSES PANDURANGA PAI Head, Mindtree Foundation General Manager, Infrastructure To boost nation-building, rural focus Sustainability is an integral part is a must for CSR. of infrastructure design. A nation, whose population predominantly Green infrastructure directly contributes lives in rural areas, cannot be strengthened to Mindtree’s sustainability strategy and our cost with urban-focussed CSR. Mega initiatives by metrics are evaluated with the long term horizon the government or by businesses cannot succeed in mind. in the overall development if they do not have a rural focus. All the buildings designed and owned by us are green-certiﬁed (LEED), with two existing ones Mindtree dreams of sustainable social change, Platinum rated, and two new ones up for certiﬁcation. and we do not walk out of a chosen village Our Bengaluru Whiteﬁeld location winning the UGBC until our dream is fulﬁlled. Our projects are Platinum Emerson Cup in 2017-18 is a testimony to modelled not to bring the rural folks from our commitment and excellence. agricultural backgrounds into the urban areas for capacity-building, but to oﬀer alternative State-of-the-art water management system livelihood skills for times of natural disasters and insulation envelope being tried out in or calamities. our Kalinga location are examples of our endeavours in innovation, experimentation Our integrated projects in education, and technology leverage. disability, livelihoods have managed to bring about a transformation which is Our building management platform is fully truly heartening for us. automated to accrue constant beneﬁts in costs, energy eﬃciency and awareness among people. We are committed to continue to serve the Our 550 KW modern solar power plant at Mindtree rural regions with our unique and holistic CSR Kalinga can meet 30% of the power requirement models, always ensuring no disruption in the of the location. cultural fabric while the CSR projects are executed. Our strategy lies in not looking at short cuts but in At Mindtree, we remember to serve with humility, building sustainability into the design rather than oﬀering dignity to them, and not charity! adding it post-design. Welcome to possible Welcome to possible 5 PADMANABHAN KANNAN CHITRA BYREGOWDA General Manager, Administration & Facilities Head, Sustainability & Diversity Sustainability is about the business, Transparency is key to the progress the environment and the lifestyle. of a sustainable business. Sustainability at Mindtree is a smart strategy which beneﬁts both, the business and the Sustainability at Mindtree is a mission of environment. Our constant pursuits to conserve transformation inside and outside. It is as resources like energy and water, reduce emission much about mandates, practices, targets and and increase waste management eﬃciencies have achievements as about mind-set, culture and been successful strides over the years, with futuristic vision. constant learning. Moving to renewables, Sustainability performance and its enablement particularly in-house solar, has been a matter here have been a progressive journey of learning. of pride. Leveraging technology for resource And so has transparency. Our sustainability monitoring is our current focus, as our IoT reporting journey which began in 2012 has now platform gets ready to roll. completed seven cycles, evolving from GRI 3.0 to GRI Standards in the current year. Our most recent Our aspirations lie ahead of our current report was published in June 2018. It has helped achievements, not only in the form of organizational us to see our achievements and shortcomings in initiatives, but in terms of people advocacy a broad perspective and framework, generating and awareness. collective pride in the organization and also challenging us to further improve ourselves. At Mindtree we have taken several initiatives to advocate sustainable living and working. We are Stepping into Integrated Reporting has been our keen on fostering sustainability thinking across the recent endeavour, as we prepare to learn more along organization, and to inﬂuence people in the way they the path ahead. work and live. We also look forward to engaging with our partners in collaborative modes of further We invite our stakeholders to continue to be a part evolving sustainability practices. of our journey and share their feedback with us. Welcome to possible Welcome to possible 6 SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW Mindtree is an IT consulting and technology consulting company, headquartered in Bengaluru, India, and New Jersey, USA, with global presence. It was started twenty years ago with a purpose of not only building meaningful technology solutions for businesses but also to make societies ﬂourish. Stakeholder-centric and multi-bottom lined, Mindtree has grown phenomenally to a strength of 20,204 people, 1,001 million USD in revenues, 349 active clients, sharing the sustainable value created with multiple stakeholders, in a true model of inclusive growth. CSR and sustainability are innate to Mindtree’s sustainability performance along key material vision, values, culture and organizational DNA. issues identiﬁed across the material topics, Expertise-led and culture-backed, we lead on while sharing our essence and cultural facets the cutting edge of new technologies, garnering which make us a sustainable, inclusive 50% of our revenues from digital. Collaborative organization. spirit, relentless dedication and expert thinking deﬁne our success. We are in the process The report maps to UNGC principles of evolving our humane culture and talent (as a Communication on Progress report for capabilities to create a memorable Mindtree. UNGC) and also to the National Voluntary Guidelines of the Government of India. It is Mindtree started its journey of annual externally assured by DNV GL. The economic Sustainability Reporting in 2012, and has evolved data pertains to global performance. The to integrated reporting and GRI Sustainability social and environmental disclosures pertain Reporting Standards (GRIS) now. This annual to our Indian operations where the impacts Sustainability Report (FY 2018-19) attempts to are signiﬁcant due to size of facilities and present our sustainability performance based people-strength, while operations outside on GRI Standards, in accordance with the India being of minimal impact. ‘Comprehensive’ option of reporting. However, this being our ﬁrst year into the adoption of the The report also shares the theme story on GRI Standards, we are yet to strengthen certain Mindtree’s way of making rural societies disclosures to fully meet the ‘Comprehensive’ ﬂourish, with a few select narratives of reporting option of the Standards. We share our rural transformations. 7 Mindtree Sustainability Framework WORKPLACE ECOLOGICAL SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY Diverse workforce Carbon footprint reduction Inclusive workspace Resource conservation Labour regulation Environmental legislation compliance Employee engagement GOVERNANCE AND ADVOCACY Green infrastructure Policies Code of conduct Risk management Reporting and disclosure Financial compliance Values guiding us HONESTY INTEGRITY FAIRNESS TRANSPARENCY 8 Highlights Creating a better world Historical impacts Current year impacts • 122,306 students have beneﬁted so far • 18,342 students beneﬁtted by our by the Mindtree Foundation’s educational education projects this year. initiatives. • 2,050 sustainable livelihoods created • 6,227 sustainable livelihoods created. by 4 projects of the Foundation. • 6,207 people with disabilities supported • 1,434 people with disabilities supported with life-changing initiatives. during the year. • The Foundation’s 18+ CSR projects • 9,876 volunteers impacted 11,446 beneﬁciaries. beneﬁted 134,740 people till date. • 188 global volunteers from across the globe added to the volunteering impacts this year. • Assistive technologies by us (DIGNIFY: Digital Netra for Eyes, and VIKAS: Visual Intervention Kit with Analytics for children with special needs for the vision impaired) saw development of their Lite versions. 9 Key impacts through Mindtree.org Mindtree.orgMindtree's digital platforms for social inclusion Mindtree.org has made steady progress towards • I Got Skills (IGS) launches a pan-India establishing itself as a Public Goods Platform at skilling and employment marketplace, a national level. to bridge the demand-supply gaps and • I Got Crops (IGC) is actively working with State information asymmetry in the blue governments for state-wide rollouts to improve collared sector. income for 10 lakh farmers. This is after building • University of Commons is working with proven models by working with 50,000 farmers state governments, NSS, leading for over four years, and seeing 2 to 7 times universities in India, and 2,000+ young increase in their income. change-makers to build and deploy • I Got Garbage (IGG) supports the rollout of a grassroots solutions. National Plastics Recycling marketplace by UNDP • Mindtree.org Consulting group is actively and is supported by Hindustan Coca-Cola working with governments, non-proﬁts Beverages in 13 cities. It will be scaled to 50 and multilateral organizations to design cities, recycling 100,000 tons of plastics annually socially relevant solutions based on and generating livelihood for 30,000 emerging trends, and platformise waste-pickers. socioeconomic models. (Our Annual Report describes these impacts in detail.) 10 Nurturing people • This year was a milestone year, with our people strength crossing the 20,000 mark. Our people-strength now stands at 20,204. • 31% of our people are women. • 41 people with disability contribute to Mindtree’s growth. • 50% of our campus recruits were women this year. • Cohort-speciﬁc people development has taken centre-stage at Mindtree. • Stage-speciﬁc proﬁling of talent potential launched: First Five and Next Five. • Yorbit, our digital learning platform scales • MiFootprint, a program for supporting to 2,600+ courses, with 120 new courses in holistic growth of Lady Mindtree Minds emerging technologies alone. with a few years of experience, launched. • Yorbit has further evolved to be more • Our program Refresh created new pervasive, intelligent, granular and opportunities for women returning to account-speciﬁc. work after a break. • Mindtree launched its ‘Culture app’ to • Placed in Top 100 best Companies for strengthen culture internally through women by Working Mother and Avtar, for story-telling of real-life incidents. three consecutive years. • Mindtree Kalinga gets chosen as one of • Conferred the Arogya World Healthy the few campuses for the Prime Minister’s Workplace Platinum award, in collaboration Self4Society interaction program. with Public Health Foundation India. • Received recognition for our workplace wellbeing initiatives at the Roundglass Festival of Wellbeing, 2019. 11 Protecting the future • Our energy consumption has reduced by • A focussed drive to eliminate plastic runs on nearly half in the last four years. the ground now, with alternatives replacing • Our absolute energy consumption has it in various areas. come down over the previous year. • Our IoT platform has gone live for resource • 67% of our energy is now renewables. monitoring at two buildings (Kalinga and Mindtree West Campus at Bengaluru runs Bengaluru). on 88% wheeled hydro power where as • In addition to the existing code of conduct, Mindtree East campus uses 74% solar. we are initiating a self-declaration clause Our Mindtree Chennai facility runs on for all our vendors at contract renewal 95% wheeled wind and solar energy. stage, to rule out violations in labour related • Our campus at Kalinga with a 550 KW stipulations. in-house solar plant is designed to meet 30% of its requirements and is looking at additional capacity in the coming year. Pune location awaits the entry of solar panels on its rooftop. • Two of our own buildings are now LEED Platinum certiﬁed―with one at Bengaluru (Whiteﬁeld) having received the prestigious IGBC Platinum Emerson Cup award in 2017-18. • Our reduce-recycle-reuse principle for water consumption has been robust. Our per capita water consumption has further reduced, despite increasing employee base. • Two of our locations (Pune and Kalinga) are now zero-discharge sites, recycling 100%. • We harvested 6,393 kl of water through sub-soil this year, thus reducing private buying of water and increasing water quality. • We continue to manage our waste in eﬃcient ways, with 91.01% recycled, and food composting eﬀectively producing manure for us and for the farmers around. 12 • Our commitment is spreading its inﬂuence • Mindtree received a mention in the Guinness on our partners and we are constantly world record book and received a certiﬁcate exploring collaborations for resource for the largest training program in energy conservation on larger scale. eﬃciency, organized by the campus builder • Our people continue to volunteer for TRIL, in Chennai location. environmental causes such as running safety • Mindtree Chennai has been recognized and drives, planting avocado saplings with rural awarded for eﬀective Emergency Response people around Bengaluru to augment rural & Training (ERT) participation by TRIL among incomes and so on. 37 occupant companies. Business creating sustainable value • Our revenues in the year: 1,001 Million USD • ‘Digital Inside’ makes strong in-roads as • Our proﬁts after tax crossed 100 Million USD we leverage its power for internal beneﬁts. • Active clients: 349 • Quality and delivery get deeper focus to • High customer satisfaction levels follow our mantra of ‘great quality, achieved consistently. delivered faster’. • Our growth continues its inclusive journey, • LEAN and DRIVE projects continue to with consistent economic value added enhance internal optimizations and and distributed. eﬃciencies. • We continue to create strong sustainable Mindtree crossed USD 1 Billion in revenues, USD 150 value across social, environmental and Million in EBITDA, USD 100 Million in PAT and 20,000+ Mindtree Minds in the 20th year of the organization. economic bottom lines. 13 GOVERNANCE FOR SUSTAINABILITY our Vice Chairman and COO bringing the leadership vision and energy to all our sustainability initiatives, including reporting. The EES responsibilities are held by key leaders at Mindtree: The CFO being in charge of the economic sustainability, the Vice Chairman and COO holding the environmental and CSR responsibilities and the Mindtree.org reporting to the Chairman, the EES execution mandate is further delegated to the respective function heads, with the Head of Sustainability driving Sustainability as a function. The Board of Directors sets the direction and Governance and advocacy, a pillar of our strategies for sustainability on the basis of our sustainability framework, anchors us to our organizational values and ethics. The Board philosophy and core values. The public looks into our progress on sustainability and platforms we are engaged with provide us also concerns, if any (including stakeholder the opportunities for advocacy on causes concerns), during CSR Committee meetings and commitments dear to us in the space every quarter. It updates itself on both CSR and of business responsibility. sustainability through periodic reporting, and We endorse a range of global and guides further progress. The Board is committed national guidelines, principles and to nonﬁnancial reporting, and seeks out external standards on diverse aspects of assurance on the report, with the CXOs business responsibility, and have set up a policy architecture to provide reviewing the Sustainability Report, providing direction for our intent on inputs and feedback every year. responsible business. Our Board represents a wide range of diverse The structure is conducive to bring both top expertise, sustainability included. Some of level over sight as well as ground level action to our board members are personally involved the forefront to march ahead on sustainability. in contributing to social causes, setting an Our CSR committee of the board, the CSR example and inspiring individual responsibility. steering committee and the CSR policy provide Some of our Board members carry EES guidance and direction, setting the agenda. (Economic, Environmental and Social) goals Sustainability is owned at the CXO level―with in their professional role and mandate as well. 14 Our Board is anchored on sustainability as Independent Directors. The evaluation is responsible business forms an integral part not a self-assessment. The board members, of leadership vision, values, commitment other than the one who is being evaluated, and training. participated in the evaluation. The outcome of the evaluation is presented to the Board The company has a detailed on-boarding by the external agency and the Board works program for new directors. An expert on an appropriate action plan in the area independent external agency was engaged of ﬁndings. However, there were no such by the company to evaluate the performance instances of ﬁndings which demanded of the Board, Committees, Chairperson and change in membership or organizational individual Directors for the FY 2018-19. practice during the year. Every Director has the liberty to express (For more details on the Board, please refer to our Annual Report 2018-19) his or her opinion on the performance of the Board, Committee, Chairman and Our Board of Directors Name of the Director Age Designation/Position Mr. Krishnakumar Natarajan 62 Executive Chairman Mr. N.S. Parthasarathy 58 Executive Vice Chairman & COO Mr. Rostow Ravanan 48 CEO & Managing Director Mr. Subroto Bagchi 62 Non-Executive Director Ms. Apurva Purohit 52 Independent Director Mr. Milind Sarwate 59 Independent Director Mr. Akshaya Bhargava 62 Independent Director Mr. Bijou Kurien* 60 Independent Director *Appointed as Independent Director with eﬀect from July 17, 2018. 15 Our Board committees Composition of various committees of Board of Directors Audit Committee Name of the Director Position Mr. Milind Sarwate Chairperson Mr. Akshaya Bhargava Member Mr. Bijou Kurien Member Stakeholders Relationship Committee Name of the Director Position Mr. Bijou Kurien Chairperson Mr. N.S. Parthasarathy Member Mr. Rostow Ravanan Member Nomination and Remuneration Committee Name of the Director Position Ms. Apurva Purohit Chairperson Mr. Akshaya Bhargava Member Mr. Subroto Bagchi Member Mr. Krishnakumar N Member Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Name of the Director Position Mr. Subroto Bagchi Chairperson Mr. Krishnakumar N Member Mr. N.S. Parthasarathy Member Mr. Milind Sarwate Member 16 Risk Management Committee Name of the Director Position Mr. Krishnakumar N Chairperson Mr. Rostow Ravanan Member Mr. N.S. Parthasarathy Member Mr. Akshaya Bhargava Member Administrative Committee Name of the Director Position Mr. Krishnakumar N Chairperson Mr. Rostow Ravanan Member Mr. N.S. Parthasarathy Member Our governance philosophy Act in the Do what is Provide Follow spirit of law right and complete openness in our and not just not what is transparency communication the letter of law convenient on our to all our operations stakeholders 17 Values Policies in responsible Endorsements Reporting guiding us business Honesty OECD principles CDP Integrity policy Integrity UNGC signatory BRR Anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy Fairness NVG-SEERB GRI Whistle-blower policy Transparency The Precautionary IR Principle Prevention of sexual UNGC harassment policy Internationally NVG-SEERB proclaimed Code of conduct for human rights our people Code of conduct for suppliers Non-discrimination policy Equal remuneration policy Environmental health and safety policy CSR policy Maternity policy Reasonable accommodation policy Advocacy platforms 18 MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT They indicate how Mindtree extended its inclusivity to larger stakeholders from the very beginning, even before it adopted GRI framework with its insistence on stakeholder identiﬁcation and engagement. Mindtree’s committed contributions to communities in the areas of education, disability and healthcare well precede the days of the CSR mandate in our country. This reﬂects the fact that communities were treated as an important stakeholder by Mindtree, from the very beginning. The GRI framework brought in a formal process to the philosophy already being practiced at Mindtree. We were more than glad to engage with the formal process of identifying and prioritising stakeholders. The materiality determination exercise, ﬁrst carried out by an external agency, has been periodically modiﬁed and reﬁned internally. From the very beginning, Mindtree has The exercise for the year 2018-19, guided by the been an inclusive enterprise, including approach recommended by GRI, considered the various larger stakeholders beyond the primary sources for the issue inventory, screened and stakeholders, both within the organization shortlisted them. Stakeholder consultation on and at various touchpoints of engagements sustainability aspects formed a key part of the exercise. with the society. The vast range of stakeholder forums bringing in constant inputs and feedback, we realise, is a great Creating opportunities for people way to link materiality to stakeholder concerns on one with disabilities, working with NGOs hand, and for material goal-setting and strategizing, as close partners, contributing to on the other hand. communities well before the mandate of compliance came up and so on, have been historical hallmarks of The key topics of concern ranged from people-related Mindtree culture. to resource-related issues. Fear of skill redundancy due to automation, need for upskilling in the digital world, 19 time scarcity for upgrading knowledge, Principles of report quality (accuracy, responding to millennial talent, low presence balance, clarity, comparability, reliability of women in technology and leadership roles, and timelines) have been borne in mind and role of families in work-life balance and applied to the maximum extent possible. wellbeing, cultural barriers from the community A combination of qualitative information in beneﬁciaries of CSR and so on formed the set of the content sections and the quantitative concerns which informed the materiality exercise data presented in the annexure provide the and the goal-setting that followed. information as expected by the GRI Standards, which is indexed towards the end The exercise yielded eight material issues across the three bottom lines. of this report. The material issues were mapped to their Material issues are guided by well-deﬁned respective GRIS topics, and the boundaries management approach and strategy aligned were set across all of them. Report content to organizational values and strategies. is deﬁned as per the GRIS norms, on the basis Policy architecture covers all the material of the material issues determined, the GRIS issues. Grievance mechanisms are wide topics within, and the initiative and impacts enough to capture grievances, if any, from of the organization across them. GRI principles across all material issues. for report content (stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability context, materiality and The material matrix, the material goals set, completeness) have been followed in and the stakeholder forums are presented content generation. in the following tables. Materiality matrix Signiﬁcance of social, environmental & economic priorities People Satisfaction Talent Development Sustainable Sourcing Sustainable Livelihoods Diversity Focus Environmental Stewardship Going Green Great Quality Faster Delivery High Medium Low Stakeholder expectations/priorities 20 Focus areas and goals for materiality The goals on material issues were part of the respective function’s overall goals. The rationale for why a goal is a material goal was established from the fact that the goal owners analysed and strategized on various ways to address the material issues, and then set goals on the basis of their potential contribution to the material issue. They also looked at it from the evolutionary perspective of progressing over the traction gained in the previous years on the material issue and the function as a whole. Respective sections explain the performance on these issues and goals as well as the approach and strategy adopted to achieve the impacts. People • Create a smarter workplace; enhance people experience by using technology. ‘Digital Inside’ is a core focus. • Sustain the culture that Mindtree Minds value. • Overall outcomes through all of the above would be to ensure increase in people satisfaction and reduced attrition. 21 Diversity • Groom talent in various groups (campus to senior leaders) with a strong focus on diversity, through focused and curated interventions for each group. • To build career eco-system for women in C3-C4 competency. • To engage ‘men as advocates’ for women’s advancement in career. • To make a strategic focus on increasing women at senior leadership level. Talent development • Drive 301 (Skill full-stack and lead) programs innovatively and eﬀectively. • Cover 150 accounts on Yorbit. Create skilling plans for 50 of these accounts. • Pilot 2 new KM practices. • Run Osmosis, our tech fest, in a diﬀerentiated and futuristic way. • Enhanced workﬂows for individual, organization and account skilling. • Roll-out and evolution of skill proximity model. • Create a digital marketing plan and roll-out via Yorbit. • Enhance the reporting/analytics module on Yorbit. 22 Sustainable procurement • To drive sustainability as a key agenda point with supply chain partners. • Identify enterprises that are minority or women-based entrepreneurs, and encourage them with proportion of procurement spending on local suppliers. • Maintain the focus on labour conditions, regulations & compliance, code of conduct and policies regarding suppliers. Sustainable livelihoods • Impact lives through livelihood skills such as computer data entry, Tally, tailoring, embroidery, carpentry, entrepreneurship skills, Quick Service Restaurant (QSR), and Industrial Sewing Machine Operation (ISMO), and also through child development, preschool education, health, nutrition, social work, computer education, spoken English and preparation of teaching aids. • Continue to increase quality and depth of ongoing projects in education and disability support. • Continue to bring attention to the linkages between disability, poverty and education, and serve in an integrated manner. Green IT • Achieve 20% or more clean energy component in the overall energy consumption – in a three year timeframe. 23 Environmental stewardship • Reduce per-capita emissions by 1% in the next year. • Reduce per-capita energy consumption by 2% • Reduce per-capita water consumption by 1% • Increase waste recycling by 1% over last year’s performance. Environmental compliance and management • ISO 14001:2015 Certiﬁcation for pan-India facilities • Stringent environmental compliance Great quality, delivered faster • Achieve greater quality across projects. • Achieve faster delivery. • Continue to maintain high customer experience levels. • Delivery Excellence, Automation, Sales Transformation and Make Mindtree Agile are the four strategic priorities. 24 Employees Ongoing Engagement Periodic Engagement PeopleHub – content rich intranet portal PACE – Performance Management System The intranet houses comprehensive organization• Performance appraisal discussions (Annual) wide information accessible by Mindtree Minds, • Formal mid-year review discussion (Half-yearly) across the globe. All policies, practices, programs, people systems and applications are available on PeopleHub. Genie Award Functions An online resolution & interaction platform for • Chairman Awards (Annual) any queries. • Pillars Awards (Annual) Global Contact Center All Minds Meet Call center help desk available 24/5 serving A platform to interact with the senior Mindtree Minds globally on queries related to management, ask questions and voice employee beneﬁts, payroll, expense reimbursements. opinions (Quarterly) Senior management interactions & webcast Open Sessions New changes within the organization are addressed CEO interaction with middle management at open house sessions by senior management. and above (Biannual) Blogs & discussion groups Konnect Mindtree’s social platform MindSpeak A platform to promote equity at the workplace, where Mindtree Minds can raise a dialogue on issues relating to career progression & promotion, favoritism/ discrimination at the workplace, performance management. All dialogues are attended to by the concerned People Function representative, involving the respective stakeholders, and brought to closure to ensure satisfaction and redress. Whistleblower Mindtree’s platform ensures a ‘Fair and Equitable Workplace’ by providing an opportunity to blow the whistle against anyone who bypasses the integrity norms of the organization. Open door policy Encourages accessibility, openness and transparency in communication. One can reach out to anyone, including the Chairman of the Company, to address concerns at any point in time. Skip level meetings To help sort out concerns that one might not be comfortable discussing with the immediate manager. Speciﬁc engagement events for diﬀerent groups To help Mindtree Minds celebrate their respective business function related events (e.g.: IMTS Bash, Mindtree Got Talent, Ethnic Day) 25 Customers Ongoing Engagement Periodic Engagement Customer Experience Survey (CES) – Project feedback through surveys CXO and Sr. level contacts (Annual) Project Feedback Survey – Customer visits Operational and mid-level contacts (Quarterly) Steering committee meetings for larger customers (Quarterly) Communities & NGOs Ongoing Engagement Periodic Engagement Engagement with communities and Through periodic volunteer programs NGOs through all CSR projects and sponsorship programs Partners & Suppliers Ongoing Engagement Periodic Engagement • Supplier satisfaction survey Operational reviews, vendor meets • Supplier / Vendor evaluation (Annual) Investors & Shareholders Ongoing Engagement Periodic Engagement Dedicated email ID for investors, Stakeholder • Annual Report • Annual general meeting Relationship Committee • Quarterly shareholder reports/ updates • Investor/ Analyst meets Newsletters on Mindtree website 26 Regulators & Public Policy Makers Ongoing Engagement Periodic Engagement Participation in NASSCOM, CII events and Workshops other regulatory bodies Panel discussions Steering committees 27 Creating A Better World Approach CSR for Mindtree is a non-strategic Our educational projects, disability support and responsibility that has historically been sustainable livelihood projects have not only beyond compliance. The Mindtree Foundation caused positive outcomes, but also have served has been serving the society with focussed the interlinkages, causing life-changing impacts. themes for two decades, and the IGG platforms have brought the technological edge to the We aim to continue to serve the society by causes of society and environment in bringing in our passion, capabilities and our innovative and scalable ways. own vision of integration. Rural development will continue to be our primary area of focus. Our CSR policy, the CSR committee of the We will continue to deliver on our CSR with an Board, the CSR Steering committee and deep integrated approach and consistent depth in the involvement by the leadership guide our focus coming year. Our assistive technology projects and action. Our hands-on approach to social will gain further momentum in several ways. issues, involvement, need assessment and self assessment studies on impacts at the grass-root level, our NGO partners who align with our vision, our technological strengths and integrated models for sustainable social change and our direct approach to assessing our impact characterize our CSR. 29 #BeTheGiveR CSR by Mindtree has had multi-fold impacts Our critical success factors, we believe, across the Foundation’s themes of education, are several. At the policy and structural sustainable livelihoods, and beneﬁting people level, multiple enablers are in place, guiding with disability, since 2007. The committed us in many ways. Our leadership committed initiatives, sustained over decades, have wholeheartedly to CSR as a ‘non-strategic brought in lasting changes in the societies responsibility’ is a source of inspiration. we have engaged with. Our able NGO partners, deep involvement at the grass-root level, the energy of our ‘#BeTheGiveR’ characterizes our spirit volunteers and our capacity for visualising of giving back to the society, which integrated solutions to interlinked issues lies at a level deeper than just ‘doing (e.g. disability, poverty, lack of education, CSR’. While compliance goads one to lack of livelihood) are our true strengths in ‘do CSR’, we believe it is the heart of the giver that can lead and make a bringing about real transformations beyond lasting impact beyond a mere change. a mere input-focussed, ‘compliant CSR’. Having beneﬁtted 122,306 students, 6,207 people with disabilities and 6,227 people in need of sustainable livelihoods successfully so far, the Mindtree Foundation is further strengthening its work on assistive technologies. The current year saw 21,826 beneﬁciaries of CSR, through partnering with 20 NGOs across 20 projects spanning education, sustainable livelihood and disability support. 30 Brief overview of the year 13,876 students We made great progress towards bringing hands-on experiments in science for 13,876 students from elementary schools in the entire Pune Taluk in Maharashtra and Kanakapura Taluk in Karnataka. This was achieved by partnering with Agastya International Foundation. 2,500 women/girls 2,500 women/adolescent girls in villages were provided MYPad Dignity Kits, and awareness programs about hygiene were conducted in Kandhamal District, Odisha. Goonj is our NGO partner. 700 students 700 students from rural government school received civic learning classes in Kanakapura Taluk in Karnataka, in association with Jannagraha. 1,800 rural youths 1,800 rural youths were trained by BRDO in livelihood skills such as computer data entry, Tally, tailoring and embroidery at Bychapura and Kortagere, Karnataka. 576 rural children 576 rural children with disabilities provided with early interventions and home-based physiotherapies in Tiruvallur Taluk, Tamil Nadu, through SPASTN. 89 women, youth & children 89 urban poor women, youth and children were trained in entrepreneur skills and computer education, with the help of UMBC. 307 rural children 307 rural children with disabilities provided with mobility aids, corrective surgeries, physiotherapies, and access to school education in Bijapur Taluk, Karnataka, partnering with APD. 214 rural children 214 rural school children provided with quality education, residence and food in association with Rani Kajal Jeevan Shala, village Kakrana, Alirajpur, Madhya Pradesh. 23 rural youth Dream2Reality, our program to support the dreams of children from the rural hinterlands, continues to anchor 23 rural youth in their journey of potential fulﬁllment. 10 rural youth Udaan, designed for a ﬂeet of 10 rural youth who want to give back to their villages as medical professionals, continues to support their evolution over a number of years since high school level. Other projects across our chosen themes, and with the support of our committed NGO partners-Gram Tarang Employability Training, Spastics Society of Karnataka, AMBA, and Beem Rural Development Organization continue to strengthen our CSR impacts in multiple ways on the ground, reaching our spirit of giving to hundreds of beneﬁciaries each. 31 Livelihood for women prisoners Women prisoners in the Central Prison, Parappana Agrahara, Bengaluru, held captive not only by their crime but also by helplessness and despair, needed a helping hand. The Mindtree Foundation decided to take its livelihood ideas right into the prison for these women. The Karnataka Prisons Department being open and welcoming, it wasn’t long before the Foundation set up a skill development site within the prison premises and brought in NGO support for skill training. Soon, 125 women found themselves being trained in various skills such as computer, tailoring, embroidery, mushroom cultivation and horticulture. The program enables them to earn their remissions, resulting in reduction of prison sentence, especially as a reward for good behaviour. The women now are not only earning income from their work but also reduction of tenure of imprisonment. This acts as a good incentive for the women. More than anything, it is the shift from despondency to dignity which is gratifying for them to experience and for us to witness. While the project sailed well and smooth for long, So far, nearly 200 women in the we encountered a new challenge recently. Much older prison, young and old, have now women prisoners, who were unable to take up the skilling found productive engagement, program, felt alienated and expressed their feelings with income and dignity in their lives. Enabling dignity where it has the Head of the Foundation. Not willing to exclude these been robbed, and restoring hope older women, the Foundation came up with a livelihood in circumstances which breed project suited to their capacity. The old women now sit hopelessness lie at the very heart around, peeling, cleaning and sorting the famous of CSR, the Foundation believes. Bengaluru beans, which reach the market, fetching the women money for each kilogram of the processed pulses. The remission oﬀer applies to them as well. 32 VOLUNTEERING The spirit of volunteering at Mindtree has been alive since the beginning, led and guided by our founder leaders. The wave has grown by leaps and bounds since 1999, from a bunch of volunteers to 47,414 volunteers now touching 93,316 beneﬁciaries (cumulatively). Organizational inputs and contributions are important for making a diﬀerence to the society, and when they are supplemented by such immense ﬂow of energy of volunteering, the diﬀerence made in the society gets the human touch, a crucial component of ‘doing good’. Our motto ‘#BeTheGiveR’ reﬂects this This year saw our volunteering going signiﬁcance and inspires our people across. more alive across the globe. The Bake Sale fundraiser in the UK, the Support Salvation Our volunteers say they enjoy volunteering, Army in Australia, the Beach Clean drive in and beyond the satisfaction of ‘doing good’, Dubai, the Serve a Meal in the US, Self4society they also receive a sense of joy and meaning at Kalinga in Bhubaneshwar, Bengaluru, in their lives. Champion volunteers take up Hyderabad and Chennai, and a host of other causes with undying zeal, and mobilize activities brought in the uniﬁed spirit of people, resources and other support needed, volunteering to the fore. on a constant basis. They engage themselves with volunteering, Our volunteers exemplify our ‘high tech, high touch’ motto in action, and throughout the year. The book collection drive constantly strengthen the human in July, the blood and stem cell donation drive visage of Mindtree. in August, a safety drive in September, the clothes donation in October, Volunteers’ day in December and so on, a constant ﬂurry of campaigns keeps the volunteering alive at Mindtree. 33 LEVERAGING TECHNOLOGY Assistive technologies for people with disabilities DIGNIFY: The Digital Nethra, for eyes Prototyped by Mindtree and validated by This innovation, we believe, will help us Aravind Eye Hospitals, this cost eﬀective and take the product down to the underserved aﬀordable solution for the visually impaired, segments of people with disabilities, and translates text into voice messages. help us meet our ambitious goal of beneﬁting one million children with The regular equipment at less than INR 2,000 visual impairment. (excluding the cost of smartphone, headset We also aim to make it available in all and keyboard), is a great assistive device 23 Indian languages, enable it to read that Mindtree Foundation is proud to have pictures, and bring in machine learning developed and launched with the help and deep learning components, in the of collaborators. near future. The gadget now sees its Lite version, using a corrugated board box, at a much more aﬀordable price of INR 500 (excluding the Scan to watch smartphone, headset and keyboard costs). the video 34 VIKAS (Visual Intervention Kit with Analytics for children with Special needs) The software for children with cerebral visual This is a huge step in capacity building for impairment (CVI), developed under the families dealing with the visual impairment. leadership of the Foundation, now gets ready to oﬀer its Lite version. VIKAS, a collaboration between Mindtree Foundation, General Motors and Aravind Eye Lack of aﬀordable solutions, and centres of Hospitals, is set to transform the lives of rehabilitation for CVI being few and far children in signiﬁcant ways in the future. between, parents face issues in training and empowering their children. VIKAS oﬀers a home-kit enabling them to train Scan to watch and monitor the children at home, conveniently. the video Upcoming assistive technologies GLASs @Maze (Glow at sight) is our Our collaboration with collaborative project with SPASTN, this solution Aravind Eye Hospitals and oﬀers aid in independent Signovus, designed to be Stroller movement of hands, used by therapists or This collaborative project for children with parents of children with Aravind Eye Hospitals cerebral palsy. with ADHD. would support children with low vision, with a stroller ﬁtted with LED and sensors to make their walking safer. 35 Making Rural Societies Flourish SUSTAINABLE TRANSFORMATION Theme Committed to sustainable transformation, Mindtree strives to make rural societies ﬂourish. Making rural societies ﬂourish Rural development is an essential part of sustainable development in India, since most of the country lives in the rural hinterlands. Feeding the rest of the nation and yet suﬀering poverty, malnutrition and related issues, rural India calls for urgent and long lasting corporate contributions. It is here that sustainable development No CSR is truly complete and impactful for sustainable goals should focus and succeed, in particular. development without being inclusive of and serving the rural, we believe. The Mindtree vision is to not only Rural is the sphere where the cause of nation deliver superior technology solutions building for sustainable development and to businesses, but to also make societies our organization’s inclusive vision meet ﬂourish. Our CSR is focussed on ‘making most naturally. Hence the perseverance of our CSR on making rural societies ﬂourish. rural societies ﬂourish’. 37 Moving rural dreams to reality Our education work with government schools in Tamil Nadu, in the lesser known village of Somanahalli in the Taluk of Dharmapuri, brought us face-to-face with not only severe limitations of the prevalent educational infrastructure, but also some very bright minds with high potential caught up in helpless circumstances. These were the children with dreams in their hearts, stars in their eyes, but shackles of circumstances around them. Visionary leaders of Mindtree decided to ‘adopt’ a bunch of such dreamers to help turn their dreams into reality. The Dream2Reality (D2R) project started with The number of children thus adopted grew eight such high potential kids from eighth over the years. standard. They were to be given the support Today, nine of these children have moved from needed, but not in the conventional way of their ‘dream’ stage to the stage of reality, merely writing a cheque or paying their fees. having turned into well-qualiﬁed and The children were taken up in an adoptive high-performing teachers, engineers, lecturers, mode. Mindtree leaders turned into their IT engineers and so on―one of them has ‘blessed parents’. Young Mindtree Minds joined us as a software engineer. Another 23 became their ‘blessed siblings’. are still being ‘parented’, pursuing studies in engineering, pharmacology, nursing, high Each child had a ‘parent’ with committed school and other streams. sponsorship, inspiration and guidance, and a ‘sibling’ for regular interaction, counselling D2R is not a scale-driven CSR project but and encouragement. D2R took oﬀ in 2007, a project of deep and irreversible impact. meeting not just the economic needs of This is about individual social responsibility these children but the entire range of moving together with organizational CSR. physical, mental, psychological and ﬁnancial It is in fact an alternative model to the hard needs, while the children pursued studies and quantitative CSR often caught up in the and careers of their choice. conﬁnes of compliance. It is a model which 38 aims to deeply touch the society, one this monetary input, we believe, is a small individual at a time, with an integrated part of the whole model. Bigger contributions approach, and creates winners out of come in intangible ways. seemingly helpless situations. Sensitiveness to the rural dreams, time that the leadership has spent Somanahalli, as inconspicuous as any village with the kids to mentor them, personal in India, has its heroes now, ﬂying in their involvement, Mindtree’s volunteering chosen careers, each an aspirational role spirit, and the way in which the model in their surroundings. Each, we hope, children have been nurtured by a model inspired by family values will be a change-maker not only for their own have all been the real success families but for the world around. factors behind this transformation. Though we do spend for their journey, from Together, corporates and individuals can their ‘dream’ to their desired ‘reality’, make rural societies ﬂourish, in unique ways. Disability needs a full-spectrum support Empathy for people with disabilities and The murals of the corporate oﬃce in encouraging their innate potential have been Bhubaneswar, Odisha, display the art of hallmarks of Mindtree’s inclusive values children with disabilities. People with since inception. disabilities have always been an integral part of our stakeholder scope. Well before the days of formalized norms of corporate support for disabilities, Mindtree’s earliest batch of recruits included Our approach to making a diﬀerence in people with disabilities. Mindtree’s ﬁrst the lives of people with disabilities within corporate logo was designed by a child communities includes the entire spectrum with disability (the logo used by the Mindtree Foundation now). of related issues and across age groups. 39 Often, unidentiﬁed disabilities in childhood Apart from diagnosis, corrective measures turn into irreversible limitations in the future; and access to schooling, we have learnt early screening and interventions are rare. that addressing disability at the family Another issue is that of suitable access: and care-givers level is of paramount accessibility to school, infrastructure at home importance. Understanding the limitations and at schools, due which early schooling on the ground and every day realities of becomes almost impossible. Lack of skills for families is key to sustainable change. employment is the major deterrent for the older ones, hindering their capacity to In our project at Tiruvallavur, for instance, contribute to their families and to the society. we saw how frail mothers struggled to bring their growing children to our mobility training Our approach starts at the grassroots at centres. We realised the need to extend screening and identiﬁcation of disabilities transport and other support systems to make in children at an age as early as the ﬁrst few the therapies at community-based rehabilitation years. Disabilities come in innumerable ways, centres sustainable. We devised ways to from cerebral palsy to congenital defects to encourage and incentivize the care givers. relatively more manageable forms. Our project, with the help of our experienced NGO partners, We cannot isolate the issue of disability from identiﬁes the disabilities and decides interventions its contexts while trying to lend our support. that vary from the simple to the complex, from inexpensive to expensive ones, from tissue or We believe, support at the contextual muscles releases to complex surgeries, all of level – including the culture, mindset, which are inconceivable for poor rural parents. empowerment, resources and infrastructure, Interventions are followed by mobility aids, is the only way to make the change sustainable. with adequate training. Access and mobility issues at homes are looked into and addressed at the family level. Access to school is the next barrier to cross. The Mindtree Foundation supports over 180 community schools and ﬁve model schools that make schooling possible for these special children. These children are further supported till they ﬁnish their middle school. 40 Our project in Odisha takes up the other industries employing the trained youth end of the age band. It focuses on inclusive and giving us positive feedback, we scaled training for both youth with disabilities and the program, further professionalizing it. youth from economically weaker sections Enrolments grew as we set up a carpentry with employable skills. lab in 2017. With our Foundation bringing in the needed The project has proved to be a investment for setting up the skill lab, life-transforming opportunity for many a Centurion University bringing in knowledge, youth from the region, taking them beyond assessment and certiﬁcation, Gram Tarang, our the prior limitations of their disabilities. partner NGO, mobilises, trains and also places Today, the project has opened its doors to youth with disabilities in various industries. include women and economically weaker Started as a pilot project in 2014, with sections of the local areas as well. Empowering women Bychapura is a tiny village in the Tumkur district of Karnataka which has seen the lives of several women change for the better, in a span of a few years. Having studied up to high school or tenth standard and married into poor families, these women felt a pressing need to augment the incomes of their families. Neither illiterate nor complacent, they were limited only by their lack of skills. Our skill training project with BRDO (BEEM Rural Development Organization, our NGO partner) has brought opportunities to right where they are. The project includes men as well, who are getting placed in a range of jobs. 41 Women’s active participation in this project True empowerment goes beyond just represents a heartening example of economic providing employment for women, empowerment. The women are glad to work in for it can now better the prospects of garment Companies in the local area, earning their children and help the families to change the economic destiny of INR 7,500 to INR 9,000 monthly, apart from the next generation. other beneﬁts, or in data entry functions, making INR 8,500 to INR 12,500 plus beneﬁts. Skilling and empowering a woman, it is Their families are now enjoying the beneﬁt of proved, has multiplier eﬀect on the future double income. of her whole family and impacts generations. 42 Protecting The Future Approach Mindtree considers ‘Going green’ and environmental stewardship to be material issues that hold a signiﬁcance for the organizational sustainability. We believe ecological conservation serves the planet as well as our business interest, in addition to the satisfaction of being a responsible corporate citizen. Ecological sustainability is one of the three pillars of our sustainability framework. inﬂuencing partners and collaborating with Continuous focus on reduction of our energy external entities further characterize consumption, adopting clean energy, going Mindtree’s way of approaching ecological solar, containing emissions through multiple responsibility. initiatives and improving water conservation form key components of our strategy. These We share the details of our eﬀorts and results pursuits, in response to the risks of climate of the past year here, and reiterate that we change and resource depletion, are a part of will continue to focus strongly on solar power, our way of endorsing and following the green buildings, IoT for resource conservation, precautionary principle. and people advocacy for sustainability in the next couple of years. Sustainable procurement, sustainable infrastructure, green buildings and automating resource tracking add to our commitment. Advocating sustainability in the lives of our people, spreading the ownership of environmental risks across our people, leveraging automation for occupant comfort, 44 ON THE PATH OF GREEN ENERGY Reliance on wheeled hydro power (88%) at An additional 200 KW solar plant is planned Bengaluru West location, solar (74%) at the to come up in the coming year on another East location, wheeled solar and wind power rooftop at Kalinga campus and our Pune oﬃce (95%) at our Chennai location brings our will also see a 300 KW plant on its rooftop. renewables component to 67%. The 550 KW solar power plant we have installed at Mindtree Kalinga, is designed to meet 30% of our power requirement, and in the current year, it is utilized for about 16% of our energy needs. The eﬃcient, latest technology we have adopted produces up to 5.5 units/KW/day vis a vis conventional panels which produce up to 3.8 units/KW/day. Our mobile app tracks the performance of the plant on a constant basis enabling remote monitoring and timely corrections. ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP All of our India facilities achieved ISO 14001:2015 certiﬁcation Energy eﬃciency Our energy consumption has been on the decline for several years, and has nearly halved in four years. 20.00 Energy Conservation Trend 15.38 15.00 14.04 12.82 11.67 10.34 9.52 10.00 Units in Million 5.00 0.00 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 Our Bengaluru West campus alone, over four years, saved 5.86 Million units and reduced CO2e of 5,329 metric tons through adoption of best practices and upgradation of systems. 45 A range of small steps add up to contribute a large size of savings on energy in an organization as large as ours. Our CFL to LED transformation since 2016 has given us 50% reduction in costs, 11.11 lakh units of energy and INR 8,748,535 Our UPS battery optimization measures saved per annum. This is the environmental have contributed to our accumulated savings equivalent of planting 43,000 trees per year. on energy over the years. Since 2015, the initiative has yielded an average annualized In 2018 alone, the replacement of CFL saving of 702,623 kWh, which is CO2e of 492 down lights with LED down lights gave us tons per year and reduction in number of savings of 5.32 lakh units of energy and battery purchase/battery waste generation INR 4,112,000. by 390. Containing emissions Mindtree adopts a range of eﬀorts indicating our strong performance on in reducing emissions that occur across emissions management. (Please refer to the performance data in the annexures for details.) diﬀerent areas of the organization. Beyond the preference for clean energy Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions have further and energy eﬃciency measures, transport reduced over the previous year. Also the per has been a key area for our attempt at capita GHG emission shows a decrease, reducing emissions. 46 Sustainable transport Our common bus system at Global Village, Shift rationalization for our West campus Bengaluru, continues to contribute to in Bengaluru brought down the number emission management. The metro at of trips by 32% and contributed to Bengaluru has added further savings emission reduction. to the footprint of employee commute. We have taken measures to encourage and We implemented the Routematic software, incentivize green commuting by our people. thus deriving optimum utilization of We continue to look for opportunities in transport, resulting in reduction of trips sustainable transport, thereby contributing operated and carbon emission. to lower footprints. Conserving water Our total water withdrawal from across We are now working with experts on making most sources has reduced over the last our Kalinga campus water-neutral. The idea year, but per capita consumption remains is to harvest enough rain water to meet the same. (This year we have measured pet water bottles requirements throughout the year, without usage as well. Data details available in the annexures.) resorting to purchasing of water. Some measures are already in place, such as recycling treated Our ‘reduce-recycle-reuse’ principle water from STP for ﬂushing, installation of has helped us focus on reducing our aerators in all taps and so on. dependence of purchased water, and on conserving the ground water table. Our IoT platform is expected to bring in greater For instance, at our Whiteﬁeld location, eﬃciencies in water management. The water the STP ensures, with 160 kl capacity of neutrality plan for Kalinga is designed to meet sustainability goals for the business and the tank, 29,502 kl of drainage water gets planet, educate engineers of tomorrow, and recycled and gets used for gardening and demonstrate the signiﬁcance to our clients rest rooms. Deep drip irrigation introduced visiting us. in the gardens has started accruing water savings. Two of our locations, Pune and Kalinga, have taken the 100% recycling path, and are zero-discharge locations. 47 From waste to wealth Our waste management stands strong as Mindtree has not only been working on ever with 91.01% recycled in the year, up waste management but also strongly from 89% over the previous year. advocating waste reduction, building awareness campaigns around the imperative. Several locations of Mindtree have taken As a result, we have seen our overall per up food composting and garden waste capita waste generation trends dip, and management. For instance, at our Whiteﬁeld segregation discipline improve. We believe Bengaluru campus, after a meticulous that as a group of more than 20,000 people segregation of waste from diﬀerent areas, across the globe, we can do much more in an average of 1,700 kg of food waste enters the coming years. the food composting process each month, producing around 3,182 kg of rich compost that feeds our gardens; it is given to interested Mindtree Minds for their own gardens, and is also distributed to the farmers around our campus. Garden waste is processed too, and is used for garden compost and food compost. Inorganic waste of around 500 kgs is incinerated every month, reducing the landﬁll burden. Rest room waste goes for incineration now, reducing landﬁll burden. Mindtree Kalinga, Hyderabad, Pune and Chennai locations have followed suit, implementing their own on-site projects, inﬂuencing other stakeholders around. 48 TECHNOLOGICAL LEVERAGE FOR THE STEWARDSHIP IoT A typical example of our ‘Digital Inside’ mantra, Gladius is a full-ﬂedged building IoT solution, which integrates all aspects of building management systems with the IT systems. Initiated at Mindtree Kalinga and another building at Bengaluru West campus as of now, the system monitors energy consumption on the building ﬂoors and prevents avoidable energy losses. It controls energy-intensive equipment such as chillers by modifying the cooling based on ambient conditions. Occupant comfort being highly important for productivity, the system helps avoid the extremes of shutting down or idle consumption of cooling equipment by optimising heating and cooling requirements as per the comfort needs. The initiative achieves sustainability goals without compromising on people comfort. IoT has high potential for sustainability impact on the triple bottom lines of business, environment as well as people. We are set to replicate it across locations in the future, and expand its beneﬁts. 49 Green buildings With two of our own buildings certiﬁed LEED Sustainability-integrated design, in-house platinum, with one awarded with the innovations, people-centric stance prestigious IGBC Emerson Cup in 2017, and technology leverage characterize Mindtree is committed to green certiﬁcation our approach. of two more buildings in the near future. Strategy of sustainable infrastructure at Energy from green sources is a subject Mindtree believes in integrating sustainability close to our heart. 550 KW solar power right from the conceptualization. plant at Mindtree Kalinga is running With innovation, experimentation and successfully. technology to boost the eﬀorts, the result is an infrastructure designed for the future, ‘Magic bricks’ at our Kalinga campus add to available today. the innovation story of our green buildings. Made right on the site, with the mud People comfort being an issue of paramount procured from within the site and readied importance at Mindtree, we plan to use for use, the in-house earthen bricks of pride insulation of a special kind in our new building have stood tall as the very walls of our exteriors at Mindtree Kalinga, to cut down the building at Kalinga. Having manufactured need to cool the rooms in the hot region of more than a million bricks so far, Bhubaneshwar during nights. This will help we continue to make some more, to line passive cooling system to be more eﬀective. the interiors walls of our new building We also plan to have state-of-the-art water at Kalinga next. management system, where every drop of water is measured. Individual consumption tracked and controlled on a software platform developed by Mindtree. The state-of-the-art building management system platform monitors the performance of HVAC (a major consumer of electric power) and many other building services. It is now possible to check consumption trends, analyse losses and failures, in real time, and to remotely control any service with the click of a button. 50 Sustainability as a lifestyle Our internal advocacy drives on water conservation, reduction of waste, waste segregation have borne fruit in behavioural changes towards sustainability. Our drive on anti-plastic stance has gained momentum with replacements ﬁnding their way to even drinking water consumption points and dustbins. The drive will get more rigorous going forward. Our safety drive continues to sensitize our people and external stakeholders at Bengaluru Global Village regarding safety in commuting. Our safety programmes include the little toddlers at the crèche in our premise; we have trained them on evacuation imperatives in emergencies, if any. We continue to encourage green commuting through a range of incentives and support systems. Pedal-a-watt to stay ﬁt!! Cycling for two hours, apart from several health beneﬁts, generates 600 Wattage of power and operates for ﬁve hours. 55 garden lights (600 Wattage) are powered by this energy. 51 External advocacy An environmental conclave organized by Mindtree, hosted in the Bengaluru campus in January 2019 brought in external peers in a collaborative forum to learn from each other. We believe that peer platform with external fraternity is a great way to share experience and also to learn. Mindtree also looks forward to external collaborations to advocate and implement the cause of environment in several ways, and exploring possibilities in this direction. Outlook Going forward, we will be strengthening all our eﬃciency eﬀorts. Pursuing our 20% solar energy goals for the medium term, we plan to boost the solar component further and target energy, water and waste management eﬃciencies to higher levels. A new solar installation will be coming up on the rooftop of our Pune location, and our solar capacity at Mindtree Kalinga is all set to see an enhancement. Two more buildings will go in for the green certiﬁcation. A new building at Mindtree Kalinga will deploy expandable polystyrene material for the insulation, and combined with passive cooling, would oﬀer impressive beneﬁts. Mindtree Kalinga is set to go water neutral. The IoT platform for resource monitoring would go full swing, bringing in more insight and actionables through predictive analytics, accruing further eﬃciencies in the coming year. Our eﬀorts at inﬂuencing lifestyles and collaborating for ecological conservation will continue as strong as ever. 52 SUSTAINABLE SOURCING Mindtree’s supply chain is vast and clustered around all our locations, owing to our norm of local sourcing. 93% of local suppliers testify our commitment to local sourcing. We continue to include women-led enterprises and suppliers from marginalized backgrounds. The code of conduct includes the normative clauses on EES parameters such as labour (child labour, forced or compulsory labour) and working conditions at supplier sites. It applies to new suppliers as well. Human rights is a one of our key concerns, and all our internal and external relationships stringently adhere to human rights principles. In addition, we initiated a self-declaration clause for our vendors to be incorporated at contract renewal stages, in order to ensure that they are compliant to labour-related norms. Procurement at Mindtree aligns totally with the organization’s sustainability focus, the green infrastructure imperatives and organization-wide application of This has opened a larger scope of exposure sustainability. This implies green to our partners from the US and UK. procurement, with its screeners based on not only quality and cost but also on ‘Digital Inside’ being the focus, iProcure, our the environment impacts of purchase new, in-house developed tool is now available and usage over long time horizons. for vendor on-boarding and updating, oﬀering real time beneﬁts and also cost savings. It augurs well for vendor convenience and Over the recent years, we have put in great conﬁdence as well. eﬀorts to rationalize our supply chain and consolidate our base in a more eﬃcient We engaged with speciﬁc segments of our manner. Post our global acquisitions, partner vendors across cities (Pune and Hyderabad) consolidation has been achieved to standardize during the year and plan to continue to do so our terms of business, bringing uniformity in other cities in 2019-20, to strengthen our across the globe. strategic alignment. 53 Nurturing People Approach Mindtree is a people-centric organization that has a ‘People Function’ and not a ‘HR function’. People satisfaction is of paramount signiﬁcance to its success and sustainability. Workplace sustainability is one of the three pillars of Mindtree’s sustainability framework, and nurturing people individually lies at the Meticulous designing of learning engagement heart of our philosophy. meant for the future is what characterises Mindtree’s approach to talent transformation. Clear strategies and a host of measures Committed to non-discrimination and equal ensure people satisfaction at the organization, remuneration in principle and practice, with which is closely linked to talent development. a diversity charter to guide us, we pursue a Talent development is designed to meet strong agenda for gender balance, and have current needs of our dynamic market and is made inclusive room in our hearts, space also strongly focused on emerging and systems to accommodate and nurture expectations of the new digital world. It is people with disabilities. a matter of ‘talent transformation’ for us. 55 PEOPLE SATISFACTION People satisfaction is a key outcome for a our humane approach and principle people-centric organization. Our ideologies, of respecting human rights. values, ethics, policy architecture, systems and strategies are geared towards nurturing our We have strived consciously to preserve the human touch amidst people as individuals. We, as an organization, the pervasion of technology, ever are as committed to their individual growth as growing digitization and automation. we are to the organization’s growth. It is only together that we can grow in this While it is challenging to maintain this people-driven, talent-based industry. balance while growing at industry-leading growth rates, our founding values, intact Our insistence on growing as a humane DNA of humaneness and the anchor of our organization, our progressive policies and practices regarding performance culture are what help us to safeguard the evaluations, rewards, safety and balance between high-tech and high-touch. wellbeing, our various stakeholder This feat undoubtedly has its impact forums constituted for feedback, on people satisfaction. the leadership connect the learning environment that fosters people’s Performance management at Mindtree growth and the progressive Mindtree culture are some of the success factors follows progressive practices. While the behind people satisfaction. beginners have absolute ratings, we have moved away from the bell curve methodology for relative ratings, placing high importance In this knowledge-intensive industry with high on continuous development and feedback rate of talent obsolescence and need for from appraisers. reinvention, growth in learning acts as a major determinant for people’s engagement and At middle and senior levels of the satisfaction. (Some details of our eﬀorts in this organization, there are no ratings involved: direction are shared in the next section, talent qualitative feedback, contribution to the development). organization and impact hold emphases. Conceived as a ‘humane organization’, we endorse the global principles of human rights and protect, safeguard human rights at all levels of the organization as well as in the touch points with external stakeholders. Our contractual staﬀ, security staﬀ, suppliers and other stakeholders are included in 56 Feedback, on the whole, is given high A host of metrics keep an eye on people importance in performance management, satisfaction and engagement. Feedback, with suﬃcient training going into how concerns captured through multiple stakeholder feedback is given, received and worked upon. forums, high overall retention, high return to work after maternity/paternity, productivity Our ongoing initiatives such as Mindsight, improvements, cycle time reductions, high the data dashboard, oZone, the internal customer satisfaction and other related opportunity portal, norm of local hiring, the measures indicate positive scenarios for us. Pillars program for our star performers, our Our project level engagement survey and practice of sourcing talent from ‘n-1’ levels customer experience survey results indicate (immediate lower levels) for replacing exits, the a highly motivated and engaged talent pool. Spot-on program of rewards and recognitions, the Chairman’s awards for celebrating Several ex-Mindtree Minds keep joining us internal champions and change-makers and back on a regular basis under our so on, go a long way in holding our people Home-coming program, and this, we believe, engaged enthusiastically with us. is a strong indicator of people satisfaction. 57 Wellness Health and safety is a key area for us at policy and practice level. OHSAS certiﬁcation for health and safety covers all locations. We focus on holistic wellbeing physical, emotional and ﬁnancial wellbeing, with carefully designed initiatives and activities for each of the constituents of wellbeing. HEALTHY MIND HEALTHY BODY Our program for wellbeing covers a vast Wellbeing programs cover health camps, range of initiatives. Our policies, physical webinars, counselling and other initiatives. and emotional infrastructure are geared to Health and ﬁtness, psychological wellbeing, ensure satisfaction on this front. The Healthy diet, nutrition, mindfulness and several Workplace Award we received in 2017 (Gold other themes form the array of our level) and in 2018 (Platinum level) is a initiatives. Our approach encourages our testimony to our endeavours. people to choose and take up challenges to boost health and ﬁtness, with the As a special feature of our holistic approach, we have opened our support of an online portal (zoojoo.be), counselling and lifestyle modiﬁcation and we see our people inspiring each webinars to families and partners other through such challenges taken of our people too, thus extending our inclusiveness. and accomplished. 58 Mapping talent potential Mindtree has embarked upon a few new This program ensures a smooth plug-in initiatives, looking at the organization as for the next level leadership gaps in tech a sum of potential proﬁles rather than management. a group of current roles alone. Next Five, our plan for the years after We have launched a systemic the initial ﬁve, involves multiple programs, mapping of the talent proﬁles in covering project managers, delivery 2018 to track, retain and develop managers and so on. We also have the talent pipelines needed at various enterprise leadership programs designed levels and roles in the future. for general managers and above. The approach goes beyond focus on roles, Our leadership programs continue to a focus on potentials, beyond ‘top talent’ to evolve, and our gender-focussed to ‘right talent’. Such proﬁling leads to deep initiatives do so as well. people development initiatives for speciﬁc cohorts of people: Campus Mindtree Minds In sum, the entire range of talent pool in the initial ﬁve years, Mindtree Minds in thus being mapped and groomed for subsequent levels and also business continuous growth, creates a win-win, groups and so on. by contributing to people satisfaction with respect to their own growth as well First Five, as we call it, is the program as organization’s need for readily where diﬀerent functions come together available talent at all levels. to collaborate to select and groom the right talent during the ﬁrst ﬁve years of engagement with Mindtree. 59 An App for Mindtree Culture! Mindtree is an expertise-led, culture-backed organization grows and morphs, and as organization, our culture often acting as a part of our ‘emotional infrastructure’ our diﬀerentiator. Culture, beyond its for holistic learning environment, formal deﬁnitions, comprises a multitude we have launched an app for culture. of little things that do not and cannot get into a rulebook or policy or code. Yet they Mindtree believes in the power of stories. determine behaviours on the ground. Diverse stories with ﬁrst hand narration, ‘Culture is what people do when no come together as a collage for viewing one is looking’, we say. Mindtree through the eyes of several narrators. Ours is a distinct culture based on the natural expression of our DNA and core Through stories Mindtree Minds go beyond values, tended to with conscious care the ‘words’, to actually ‘experience’ and grown with uncompromising integrity. the culture. These stories are part of the As a part of our endeavour to preserve ‘Living Tree’, where each leaf is a story and pass on this culture, as the and each story, a part of Mindtree. 60 What could be a better way of sharing this special culture other than by telling real life stories! These stories also strengthen the ethos further among the not-so-new Mindtree Minds, reaﬃrming the thread that connects With diﬀerent themes like cascading leaves us all, beneath the structural and against a serene backdrop or leaves ﬂoating operational boundaries of day to day work. on water, with ripples reaching outward, the application opens up a world of stories. Having launched the app in February 2019, we plan to continue to add to it, making it This is a delightful collection of stories each a growing anthology on our distinct culture. a personal narration by a Mindtree Mind recounting incidents and experiences that touched him or her as ‘Mindtree Culture’. Well told, well shot, the compelling stories open up new and lateral entrants to the humane, inclusive culture that Mindtree is, beneath its cutting-edge, futuristic technology prowess. 61 DEVELOPING TALENT We recognize that holistic learning not only needs an intellectual component and a physical infrastructure to support, but also digital infrastructure and emotional support. Hence the approach to talent grooming involves physical, emotional, intellectual and digital infrastructure, each involving its own components, plans Talent development is at the heart of our and programs, to oﬀer holistic learning expertise, and in the new age of digital as ‘journeys’ to our people. transformation of the world; it in fact entails ‘talent transformation’. Acquiring talent happens through our ‘star seeker’ events across campuses where we Learning has always been at the centre of screen and explore potential talent in our our talent development, with a focus on own distinct ways, sharing with them our learner-led modes, experiential learning vision and ways, culture and commitments, and ever-evolving methodologies. The edge stories and anecdotes, assessing not only of expertise we enjoy in the digital space of knowledge and skills but alignment and the market would have been inconceivable potentials as well. ‘Coﬀee with talent’ engages without our visionary approach to the with them more deeply at post oﬀer stage. emerging expectations of the new digital We now use AI-based tools to shortlist proﬁles world. Present-forward and future-backward and deploy paperless processes, in the true are not just our market strategies but the spirit of sustainability. underlying philosophy towards our talent development, to meet urgent needs of the Across diﬀerent stages of talent current business and to anticipate and acquisition, we digitized the processes to save paper, thereby respond to future needs. The principles of saving 24 trees in the current year. ‘Run’ (sustain regular business) and ‘Grow’ (transform for the future) apply to business outside as well as talent development inside. Talent transformation at Mindtree takes a holistic stance towards people potential and its growth, through internal frameworks of learning journeys, technological leverage, analytics, along with the humane touch and people-centricity. 62 Creating full stack engineers Engineers of tomorrow cannot be created technology and professionalism forming with today’s frameworks or competitive, other key elements of design. external benchmarks but only with a vision for tomorrow. Apart from thriving in its new-age learning environment with ever evolving curricula Mindtree Kalinga, our proud investment in and pedagogies, Mindtree Kalinga state-of-the-art Global Learning Centre for continues this year to ‘learn from unusual creating ‘full stack engineers’ illustrates the sources’, from workshops on traditional ‘learning organization’ that Mindtree is. heritage of Odisha, to supporting ‘make in Odisha’ initiative, to being one of the few The 90 days training for fresh talent is not campuses chosen to participate in the a typical induction but is an experiential Prime Minister’s Self4Society initiative. journey involving a touch of real life, carefully crafted to develop technical, business and social mindsets in the engineers of tomorrow. Responsibility is insisted upon as a key learning outcome intended in all learning engagements here, apart from the emphasis on curiosity and courage. Sustainability is embedded into the design of learning programs, along with organization, business, engineering, Mindtree has initiated an experience survey this year for Campus Mindtree Minds, after their 90 days program at Kalinga. We also shared best practices across global locations to standardize the induction training. Lateral entries into Mindtree entails not only technical and role-based training but also behavioural training, communication training, leadership development and a highly 63 deliberate enculturation. We believe that Beyond these new skills, the complex, talent training is never complete without an disruptive environment also needs immersion into Mindtree culture. We are a parallel set of capabilities―spontaneity, keen for our talent to be expertise-led and agility, problem solving, ability to connect, culture-backed. communicate, lead and so on. We have been designing and launching learning engagements Three pillars of our growth are: being for developing these capabilities. consulting-led, humane automation and package focus (with modular designs). The digital wave of the new world that has brought in new market expectations has made the need to rapidly transform domain knowledge and skills very important. We train and certify an increasing number of engineers in skills in analytics, big data, Cloud, DevOps, enterprise portals, scripting, mobility, Salesforce, web technology and so on. YORBIT Turning our digital skills inward for the With 2,600+ courses so far, including beneﬁt of our internal skilling, we designed 120 new courses in emerging technologies and launched Yorbit, our multi-channel alone, and 95,000 completions in the content integrator and learning platform. ﬁnancial year 2018-19 alone, Yorbit has proved to be a great tech-innovation tool In two years, Yorbit has transformed the way for talent transformation, and a wonderful we approach learning and talent development testimony for our current mantra, at Mindtree. Taking the virtual learning ‘Digital Inside’. component to 98% through it diverse courses, balancing the push and pull factors involved But we are not stopping at that. Yorbit has in learning, and reducing the learning costs been built with the user experience at the by 40% per course, the bite-sized, modular fore-front. As we continue to focus on this, platform has helped us reskill, upskill and we are now building ‘journeys of learning’ cross-skill at a large scale. It has shifted our for our Minds and strengthening the learning to make it more strategic, proactive ‘intelligence’ of the system to align and customized to individuals and with the nature and expectations account needs. of the millennials. 64 Osmosis 2018: Our Annual Tech Fest Techie of the year Develop It Yourself External Track Three winners out of 2,249 registrations 5 Tracks Internal Track 13 sessions One winner, 20 shortlisted 300 participants from 532 registrations AI Wizarda TechTalks Three winners from 8 tech talks with 99 teams 1,200 participants 215 participants We have established multiple Centres of Our learning engagements cover all levels Excellences across business groups that of the organization, as well as, speciﬁc act as learning hubs. Structurally, these cohorts such as business groups. Our delivery are geared to bring attention and energy mangers and project managers were also to promote learning goals. covered under learning programs speciﬁcally designed for them. We have our Competence Development Managers, Account Learning Managers With our digital capabilities applied for internal purposes, we are building and Project Learning Managers working the expertise to go deeper and more together with our Learning and contextual in our learning. Organization Development functions to design our learning engagements. 65 We have introduced account-speciﬁc and Senior leaders sponsor and guide the project-speciﬁc learning. This is open to learning engagements. Leaders themselves Minds speciﬁc to the account and projects, go through a leadership development ensuring that we are compliant with client journey, which Mindtree co-created with IP norms. We have 40% of our total accounts Korn-Ferry International. The leadership covered this year by account landscaping model measures and develops learning on Yorbit, thus enabling account-speciﬁc agility, leader competence, with on-boarding and skilling. ‘self-awareness’ being the magic multiplier. 66 FOCUS ON DIVERSITY Our Diversity Charter People with Disabilities Sexual Orientation Ethnicity / Nationality Gender Our charter for diversity, EDGeS guides us in our 31%, and brace ourselves to pursue a higher plans and programs on diversity. We launched our goal ahead. Achieving 50% gender balance diversity index last year, to provide real-time data at campus levels does give us an initial boost dashboard for leadership oversight, monitoring for our gender agenda, and our comprehensive progress towards our goals and conduct any policies, practices and support systems strive speciﬁc enquiries at any level as required. hard to keep the gender balance high along Our policies on non-discrimination, equal their subsequent journey with us. remuneration and reasonable accommodation give direction for our diversity goals and plans. Refresh, our drive to source talented women who want to pursue their career after being 41 people with disabilities form an integral on a break for six months to two years, part of the Mindtree talent pool, and are brought in 15 women into the talent pool supported by the physical, emotional and social this year, ﬁlling in slots in testing and digital infrastructure designed for them. They contribute areas. A 45 days’ training program is designed richly to the value Mindtree creates for its to align and ready them for Mindtree. clients and are growing as expert professionals in their careers. Our policies and support facilities create a conducive environment for Lady Mindtree With Mindtree crossing 20,000 mark in people Minds. All our locations have childcare strength this year, we are glad to inform that facilities on premise or within a 500 we are maintaining our gender proportion at metre distance. 67 Return to work post maternity leave and Mifootprint, a program for Lady subsequent retention up to at least one year Mindtree Minds in mid management have consistently been excellent at Mindtree, aims to create an ecosystem to indicating high engagement levels. learn, get coached, and to craft (Annexures share the relevant data.) purposeful careers. Technology-based support is brought in too, Broken down into two key phases, the through our MiLady app which not only shares program oﬀers inspiration and bite-sized important information to the women on leave, courses with certiﬁcation in the ﬁrst phase but also makes their re-joining after the break, and moves on to oﬀer coaching and smooth and seamless. Our transport mechanisms exclusive learning in the second phase. that ferry women safely, the ecosystem created Integrating knowledge, behaviour-shaping by Dhriti, our women community group, and and life skills, oﬀered on Yorbit and linked several other initiatives create a safe and to the zoojoo.be platform (where they can nurturing work environment for our Lady take up and announce challenges for skill Mindtree Minds. Our wellness programs which building), the program is built to oﬀer follow a holistic approach consciously factor a holistic support path for aspiring in sensitivities needed for women’s wellbeing Lady Mindtree Minds. and are designed to address them as well. To bring in inclusivity, trainings on 'men as advocates' are being conducted across locations to remove 'unconscious bias'. Exuberance, our leadership development program exclusively meant to create future leaders out of experienced middle level Lady Mindtree Minds, has produced 106 potential leaders so far, including the batch of 30 who underwent the program this year. Going forward, we would be taking stock of the impact of the program on leadership potential created and enhanced. 68 Leap: Learn-Empower-Aspire-Progress (towards tech) Our Chennai campus came up with a unique program this year with a goal of furthering the cause of creating tech-leaders among women. Owned and run by a group of passionate Lady Mindtree Minds given to the cause of women tech-leaders, the program takes upon itself the tough task of changing the mind-set, creating cohesive work environment, skilling and reskilling and mentoring on the journey. Described by the team as ‘subtle in process but dramatic in impact’, the program is a ﬁrst in Mindtree to bring in such sharp focus on technology grooming exclusively for women. Having been placed for the third consecutive year in the Top 100 Best Companies for Women in India Working Mother and Avtar, being conferred the Arogya World Healthy Workplace award platinum level and the Roundglass recognition for our wellness programs, we are glad to be recognised for our humble eﬀorts in the diversity imperatives, and are looking at further strengthening the journey, as more needs to be accomplished. 69 Business Creating Sustainable Value Approach Mindtree believes in pursuing social and environmental bottom lines along with the economic bottom line, and hence our economic growth has been inclusive and responsible. The economic value we add every year reaches several stakeholders beyond primary stakeholders. This inclusivity is at the heart of all the economic value we create and grow every year, leveraging the multiple capitals we are privileged to own and nurture. Our multiple capitals come together to create a sustainable value. Mindtree has performed exceedingly well on its ﬁnancial bottom lines consistently, thus generating consistent Quality is value perceived by the customer, economic value add and meaningful and we see quality and delivery as closely value for our larger stakeholders the society and the planet. interconnected imperatives. Being agile and sharp on delivery is signiﬁcant for Our performance on ﬁnancial parameters has our success. Hence our material focus been excellent. Our customers acknowledge on ‘great quality, delivered faster’, which high levels of satisfaction of our services and is also what delivery excellence means encourage our strides in emerging technology to our customer. domains. Ever balancing the present-forward and future-backward modes of strategic Data security is of highest signiﬁcance to thinking, Mindtree remains a future-led gain customer conﬁdence and cyber security technology provider, relevant and agile today. being prime concern, Mindtree adopts high standards in its approach to data privacy and The strategic priorities are engineering data security. Mindtree’s IT security and Data excellence, proﬁtability, consistency and agility. Protection Oﬃce has implemented technical The sharpened focus on delivery excellence measures to protect the data at rest and data and agile emerged as ‘great quality, delivered in motion. Mindtree’s high level of customer faster’ in our materiality reﬁnement exercise, satisfaction and zero data breach violation in the context of sustainability performance are a testimony to our strength in the area and reporting. of data privacy and data security. 71 CREATING CONSISTENT VALUE Mindtree has oﬀered consistent performance Our partnerships also have further strengthened on revenue, growth, and stable margins over today as we focus on bringing in partners of the years. Our market capitalisation and stock choice who align with our values and strategy. performance have been on a constant rise. With partners such as Microsoft, SAP, Adobe, Salesforce, and several start-ups, together, Our ‘economic value generated and distributed’ we create the future. reﬂect how our operations have economically beneﬁtted stakeholders engaged with us. (See Our focus on excellence and agile being the annexures for the data tables on economic translated into ‘quality delivery, delivered value added.) The economic value we add faster’ in terms of customer requirement cascades to the government, to employees, and our internal implication, they were suppliers, and also to larger stakeholders in further deﬁned as our key material issues the form of CSR. from the sustainability performance and Our early shift from traditional reporting perspective. domain of coding, testing and IT infrastructure to SMART, agile, Automation and innovation, while continued AI and so on has paid oﬀ well. Born digital, we took the tech-revolution to focus externally on bringing eﬃciency and bull by its horn and led our clients novelty to our service for the customers, also with our ‘present forward’ and saw an inward movement, which we termed ‘future backward’ approach. as ‘Digital Inside’. ‘Run your business’ and ‘Grow your business’ ‘Digital Inside’ was born as a CEO-led endeavour, are our oﬀers to the market, covering the keen on leveraging our capabilities for present and the future, for our customers. streamlining our internal processes. Mindtree oﬀers an integration of the traditional The pervasive intent grew over the year, run-the business silos for high quality and touched many functions and units, inspiring eﬃciency and also oﬀers innovative solutions initiatives from across the organization, for gaining competitive advantage, based on which committed to use the digital strength digital and other futuristic strengths. This is for internal purposes. Yorbit has been our also consistent with our present-forward and ﬂagship on the path of ‘Digital Inside’. future-backward strategy we believe Several others have joined the ﬂeet: Gladius in and adopt, simultaneously working on the with IoT capability, iProcure for sustainable present and folding the future in. Our digital procurement, Shotclass, Inspect mind and revenue component stands at 50%, a testimony vision analytics apart from GCB IoT, MVisage to our position at the digital frontier. and so on. 72 GREAT QUALITY, DELIVERED FASTER A material issue for economic sustainability, and a mantra for Mindtree, ‘great quality, delivered faster’ is not only about defect-free delivery; it is about making our deliveries ‘ﬁrst time right’; it is about innovating to deliver faster to enable ‘faster time to market’; it is about the whole experience of delivery. Our industry-leading customer experience survey results are a testimony of driving this philosophy in action. Our internal communication media and platforms Recently launched, our delivery portal carry a periodic call of ‘great quality, delivered exclusively focusses on sharing project faster’ in the form of periodic newsletters, experiences on delivering great quality quarterly updates, success stories and so on, and faster delivery to our customers in which keep Mindtree Minds inspired and focused challenging environments. In addition, on the mantra. Using our state-of-the-art the delivery portal shares insights from proprietary delivery management platform delivery leadership and point of views ‘One Mind’, our project teams provide monthly from industry experts for the beneﬁt of updates on quality of delivery, and our leadership our project teams’ knowledge, and to equip team continuously monitors the project them for delivery on the promise of high performance of quality and faster delivery. quality and speed. Deepening governance for quality We believe that quality and delivery are inseparably interconnected, and for delivery excellence, quality should be intrinsically built deep within. Hence we focus on building governance within line functions and across levels. Apart from sample audits, self-enquiry and assessments are of paramount signiﬁcance when it comes to quality delivery. Monthly project management reviews at delivery managers’ level facilitate corrective measures at project levels. Portfolio performance reviews ensure thematic improvements at delivery partner levels. The early warning systems built in enable timely checks and balances in the processes. 73 People-centric Delivery is predominantly a people-driven Our investments in people are gratifying, function. Our ‘consulting ﬁrst’ approach in this context. coupled with our customers’ expectation of us in leading them in their tech roadmaps, places We recognize the need that the managers have to be not only a rigorous expectation on our people in terms specialists but all-rounders as well. of skills and mind-set. New changes in the digital world have brought in new requirements Technical as well as application knowledge in capacity, capability and competence of should be built into their repertoire. Studying the people, changing the way we must build our emerging needs from this perspective, and talent pool for delivery. To keep our leadership mapping the current capabilities, we strive edge in the digital world, nurturing delivery to transform our talent pool into one that is becomes an imperative. future-ready today. Talent transformation Behavioural training and skilling complement We aligned our talent acquisition to the need the technical trainings. Yorbit and oﬄine for future-ready skills, and made it sharper at learning opportunities help the transformation pre-screening and screening stages. We will be in a big way. ‘Digital Inside’ as an approach focussing on Cloud-ready recruitments and also supports talent transformation immensely, redesigning our learning curricula at Mindtree in our experience. Kalinga to strongly reﬂect the emerging needs. In the current year, we trained 800 engineers on Cloud, to add to the over 1,000 engineers already trained. Managing customer experiences was the agenda of learning for our delivery managers and leaders. We established a project management practice centre, as a superstructure to our services and verticals, to bring in consistency and standardization to our delivery. 74 Being agile is imperative in the context Innovation, experimentation and systems of our industry with fast-paced dynamics and which are designed to cut down ineﬃciencies the pace of the digital. Our proven strengths in and optimise eﬃciencies in operations help emerging technologies and our increasing span bring in faster delivery. Project DRIVE, of the digital are our levers for the future. launched in 2016-17 continues to optimize Agile methodologies and DevOps processes cost, time, quality, automation and related of continuous integration and continuous operational measures in a signiﬁcant way. deployment are increasingly being adopted Project LEAN, spanning across locations for better business solutions today. now, continues to release, reroute and redeploy our talent, cutting redundancies, increasing eﬃciencies, wave after wave. Our Agile Centre of Excellence works with talent development in leading With a combination of direct training and this transformation as capability for training on Yorbit, learning and improvement agile is carefully being built into out are inbuilt as the DNA, to deliver the value learning and training systems. that the customers seek from Mindtree. Indian IT-BPM market is estimated to touch USD 350-400 Billion by 2025 and the digital growth, 30% year-on-year. With our forte in the digital space, and our widespread global presence (Refer our website/Annual Report), we are best placed to take advantage of the big opportunity and to deliver sustainable value to all our stakeholders. 75 PERFORMANCE DATA Economic value generated and distributed (INR in crores) Direct Economic 2018-19 2017-18 2016-17 2015-16 2014-15 2013-14 2012-13 Value Generated (A) Revenue (through core 7,021.55 5,462.83 5,236.39 4,672.97 3,561.90 3,031.60 2,361.82 business segments) Other income 89.33 190.22 55.33 83.90 83.50 49.59 35.03 (through other sources) Total 7,110.87 5,653.05 5,291.72 4,756.87 3,645.40 3,081.18 2,396.85 Economic Value Distributed (B) Operating cost 1,552.33 1,167.53 1,134.15 1,067.71 794.25 654.33 493.82 Personnel expenses 4,397.64 3,550.19 3,392.92 2,780.68 2,057.20 1,767.24 1,413.82 (wages+beneﬁts) Interest charges 2.95 16.91 19.10 16.04 0.08 0.45 1.04 Taxes and royalties (given to various govt. wherever business units 232.74 172.22 136.23 170.60 154.52 127.47 84.73 are located) Taxes expenses Taxes and royalties (given to various govt. wherever business units 37.80 25.37 32.57 39.40 29.15 17.99 8.06 are located) Dividend tax paid Dividends (payments 180.51 148.79 167.93 209.50 142.40 104.15 49.70 to capital providers) Donations (political parties/politicians) Community development/CSR 7.04 4.60 4.8 3.60 1.25 1.78 investments paid to Mindtree Foundation Total 6,411.01 5,085.61 4,887.69 4,287.53 3,178.86 2,670.39 2,052.95 Economic Value Added (A-B) 699.86 567.44 404.03 469.34 466.54 410.79 343.90 76 Exemptions received (INR in crores) Financial assistance 2018-19 2017-18 2016-17 2015-16 2014-15 2013-14 2012-13 received IT exemption 339.28 301.22 282.75 352.40 273.12 208.40 166.14 Land provided at subsidised rate Incentives Custom, excise 18.5 6.38 6.54 14.95 14.67 26.49 4.64 duties waived# Others Total 357.78 307.60 289.29 367.35 287.79 234.88 170.78 *Central Government holds 563,315 shares (0.34%) of Mindtree. 77 78 Our increasing talent pool M Male, F Female, T Total 2018-19 2017-18 2016-17 2015-16 2014-15 2013-14 2012-13 Categorization M F T M F T M F T M F T M F T M F T M F T By Employee Category Associates (T4-C4) 10,560 5,685 16,245 9,357 4,672 14,029 8,600 4,222 12,822 9,113 4,162 13,275 8,105 3,561 11,666 5,789 2,836 8,625 6,587 3,083 9,670 Middle Management 3,119 563 3,682 2,680 443 3,123 2,621 425 3,046 2,415 368 2,783 2,014 286 2,300 3,493 748 4,241 1,581 219 1,800 (C5-C7) Senior Management 228 23 251 196 17 213 170 15 185 138 10 148 127 9 136 37 1 38 101 7 108 (C8-C9) Top Management 25 1 26 19 1 20 17 1 18 15 2 17 16 1 17 21 1 22 13 0 13 (C10C12) Subsidiary Employee 0 0 0 126 54 180 5 5 10 52 22 74 By Employee Contract Permanent 13,932 6,272 20,204 12,378 5,187 17,565 11,413 4,668 16,081 11,733 4,564 16,297 10,262 3,857 14,119 9,340 3,586 12,926 8,282 3,309 11,591 Contract 1,667 864 2,531 991 328 1,319 849 282 1,131 869 345 1,214 869 317 1,186 726 223 949 634 223 857 By Employee Type Total no. of 13,932 6,272 20,204 12,378 5,187 17,565 11,413 4,668 16,081 11,733 4,564 16,297 10,262 3,857 14,119 9,340 3,586 12,926 0 employees in FTEs Full Time Employees 13,932 6,272 20,204 12,378 5,187 17,565 11,413 4,668 16,081 11,733 4,564 16,297 10,262 3,857 14,119 9,340 3,586 12,926 8,275 3,236 11,511 (Headcount) Part Time Employees 1,667 864 2,531 991 328 1,319 849 282 1,131 869 345 1,214 869 317 1,186 0 0 0 7 73 80 (Headcount) By Region India 10,864 5,514 16,378 9,707 4,635 14,342 9,016 4,230 13,246 9,437 4,161 13,598 8,571 3,629 12,200 7,866 3,400 11,266 7,140 3,174 10,314 UK 358 86 444 316 91 407 206 44 250 226 50 276 174 33 207 168 25 193 126 20 146 US 2,299 598 2,897 1,970 399 2,369 1,780 340 2,120 1,637 296 1,933 1,185 157 1,342 955 126 1,081 767 86 853 Others 411 74 485 385 62 447 411 54 465 433 57 490 332 38 370 351 35 386 249 29 278 By Age <30 5,848 3,945 9,793 5,285 3,276 8,561 4,951 2,959 7,910 5,570 3,018 8,588 5,128 2,640 7,768 4,889 2,552 7,441 4,565 2,481 7,046 30-50 7,801 2,269 10,070 6,878 1,862 8,740 6,303 1,673 7,976 6,024 1,509 7,533 5,051 1,206 6,257 4,380 1,022 5,402 3,660 824 4,484 >50 283 58 341 215 49 264 159 36 195 139 37 176 83 11 94 71 12 83 57 4 61 Total 13,932 6,272 20,204 12,378 5,187 17,565 11,413 4,668 16,081 11,733 4,564 16,297 10,262 3,857 14,119 9,340 3,586 12,926 8,282 3,309 11,591 By Region & Working Type India UK US Others Permanent 16,378 444 2,897 485 Contract 1,931 34 548 18 New hires M Male, F Female, T Total 2018-19 2017-18 2016-17 2015-16 2014-15 2013-14 2012-13 Categorization M F T M F T M F T M F T M F T M F T M F T By Employee Category Associates (T4-C4) 4,055 2,136 6,191 2,817 1,267 4,084 1,998 1,040 3,038 3,482 1,613 5,095 3,009 1,170 4,179 1,880 739 2,619 1,675 753 2,428 Middle Management 604 108 712 305 42 347 388 54 442 498 81 579 345 39 384 560 106 666 156 21 177 (C5-C7) Senior Management 30 5 35 25 3 28 28 3 31 19 2 21 24 3 27 10 0 10 16 2 18 (C8-C9) Top Management 1 0 1 3 3 2 2 1 1 2 1 0 1 2 0 2 1 0 1 (C10C12) Subsidiary Employee 0 0 0 162 69 231 0 0 0 59 28 87 By Region India 3,896 1,974 5,870 2,681 1,162 3,843 2,065 994 3,059 3,546 1,580 5,126 3,092 1,159 4,251 2,265 791 3,056 1,706 738 2,444 UK 42 8 50 142 61 203 12 3 15 19 2 21 11 0 11 8 3 11 6 0 6 US 675 249 924 445 139 584 309 92 401 428 126 554 226 44 270 139 44 183 101 33 134 Others 77 18 95 44 19 63 30 8 38 66 17 83 50 9 59 40 7 47 35 5 40 By Age <30 2,732 1,710 4,442 1,971 1,072 3,043 1,377 835 2,212 2,509 1,322 3,831 2,143 949 3,092 1,638 681 2,319 1,054 574 1,628 30-50 1,861 517 2,378 1,247 288 1,535 994 252 1,246 1,472 374 1,846 1,200 259 1,459 792 157 949 770 198 968 >50 97 22 119 94 21 115 45 10 55 78 29 107 36 4 40 22 7 29 24 4 28 Total 4,690 2,249 6,939 3,312 1,381 4,693 2,416 1,097 3,513 4,059 1,725 5,784 3,379 1,212 4,591 3,297 1,848 776 2,624 79 80 Attrition among new hires M Male, F Female, T Total 2018-19 2017-18 2016-17 2015-16 2014-15 2013-14 2012-13 Categorization M F T M F T M F T M F T M F T M F T M F T By Employee Category Associates (T4-C4) 416 201 617 195 67 262 172 78 250 291 106 397 170 45 215 233 124 357 128 49 177 Middle Management 52 11 63 23 7 30 32 7 39 38 8 46 129 28 157 38 9 47 3 10 13 (C5-C7) Senior Management 2 1 3 1 1 1 1 1 1 14 2 16 0 0 0 0 0 0 (C8-C9) Top Management 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 (C10C12) Subsidiary Employee 0 0 0 36 15 51 0 0 0 7 6 13 By Region India 331 172 503 162 58 220 153 66 219 287 108 395 272 67 339 250 124 374 122 48 170 UK 3 2 5 24 13 37 1 1 2 1 1 2 0 2 0 1 1 1 0 1 US 124 38 162 58 15 73 49 17 66 47 12 59 34 6 40 20 8 28 14 4 18 Others 12 1 13 11 3 14 2 1 3 2 2 5 2 7 1 0 1 1 0 1 By Age <30 242 154 396 105 57 162 99 44 143 189 77 266 186 54 240 201 115 316 84 41 125 30-50 208 54 262 135 29 164 101 38 139 142 39 181 121 20 141 68 16 84 54 9 63 >50 20 5 25 15 3 18 5 3 8 6 4 10 6 1 7 2 2 4 2 0 2 Total 470 213 683 255 89 344 205 85 290 337 120 457 313 75 388 404 131 59 190 Total attrition M Male, F Female, T Total 2018-19 2017-18 2016-17 2015-16 2014-15 2013-14 2012-13 Categorization M F T M F T M F T M F T M F T M F T M F T By Employee Category Associates (T4-C4) 2,713 1,143 3,856 1,889 784 2,673 2,286 928 3,214 2,205 957 3,162 2,072 877 2,949 1,213 597 1,810 1,265 535 1,800 Middle Management 474 85 559 399 61 460 417 69 486 348 54 402 368 63 431 440 103 543 247 25 272 (C5-C7) Senior Management 33 8 41 21 3 24 24 24 22 2 24 26 0 26 9 1 10 22 1 23 (C8-C9) Top Management 1 0 1 2 2 4 1 5 4 4 7 0 7 3 0 3 0 0 0 (C10C12) Subsidiary Employee 2 1 3 36 15 51 0 0 0 7 6 13 By Region India 2,596 1,064 3,660 1,854 741 2,595 2,298 903 3,201 2,249 976 3,225 2,189 878 3,067 6,134 671 6,805 1,423 534 1,957 UK 65 21 86 41 17 58 11 5 16 16 1 17 19 5 24 10 3 13 6 5 11 US 489 134 623 367 88 455 358 80 438 267 39 306 221 51 272 130 27 157 78 17 95 Others 73 18 91 85 17 102 64 10 74 54 3 57 44 6 50 27 0 27 27 5 32 By Age <30 1,491 771 2,262 947 495 1,442 1,278 610 1,888 1,385 654 2,039 1,267 592 1,859 929 479 1,408 710 358 1,068 30-50 1,650 443 2,093 1,331 353 1,684 1,411 372 1,783 1,170 359 1,529 1,179 343 1,522 709 218 927 811 199 1,010 >50 82 23 105 69 15 84 42 16 58 31 6 37 27 5 32 27 4 31 13 4 17 Total 3,223 1,237 4,460 2,347 863 3,210 2,731 998 3,729 2,586 1,019 3,605 2,473 940 3,413 1,665 701 2,366 1,534 561 2,095 81 82 Rate of turnover (Values in %) M Male, F Female, T Total 2018-19 2017-18 2016-17 2015-16 2014-15 2013-14 2012-13 Categorization M F T M F T M F T M F T M F T M F T M F T By Employee Category Associates (T4-C4) 25.7 20.1 23.7 20.2 16.8 19.1 26.58 21.98 25.07 24.20 22.99 23.82 26 25 25 21 21 21 19 17 19 Middle Management 15.2 15.1 15.2 14.9 13.8 14.7 15.91 16.24 15.96 14.41 14.67 14.44 18 22 19 13 14 13 16 11 15 (C5-C7) Senior Management 14.5 34.8 16.3 10.7 17.6 11.3 14.12 0.00 12.97 15.94 20.00 16.22 20 0 19 24 100 26 22 14 21 (C8-C9) Top Management 4.0 0.0 3.8 10.5 0.0 10.0 23.53 100.00 27.78 26.67 0.00 23.53 44 0 41 14 0 14 0 #DIV/0! 0 (C10C12) Subsidiary Employee #DIV/0! #DIV/0! #DIV/0! 28.6 27.8 28.3 0.00 0.00 0.00 13.46 27.27 17.57 By Region India 23.9 19.3 22.3 19.1 16.0 18.1 25.49 21.35 24.17 23.83 23.46 23.72 26 24 25 16 19 17 17 16 17 UK 18.2 24.4 19.4 13.0 18.7 14.3 5.34 11.36 6.40 7.08 2.00 6.16 11 15 12 1 1 1 5 25 8 US 21.3 22.4 21.5 18.6 22.1 19.2 20.11 23.53 20.66 16.31 13.18 15.83 19 32 20 #DIV/0! 1 #DIV/0! 10 20 11 Others 16.2 23.1 17.2 22.1 27.4 22.8 15.57 18.52 15.91 12.47 5.26 11.63 13 16 14 0 0 0 11 17 12 By Age <30 25.5 19.5 23.1 17.9 15.1 16.8 25.81 20.62 23.87 24.87 21.67 23.74 25 22 24 19 19 19 16 14 15 30-50 21.2 19.5 20.8 19.4 19.0 19.3 22.39 22.24 22.35 19.42 23.79 20.30 23 28 24 16 21 17 22 24 23 >50 29.0 39.7 30.8 32.1 30.6 31.8 26.42 44.44 29.74 22.30 16.22 21.02 33 45 34 38 33 37 23 100 28 Total 23.1 19.7 22.1 19.0 16.6 18.3 21.17 23.50 21.85 22.04 22.33 22.12 24.10 24.37 24.17 #REF! #REF! #REF! 19 17 18 Standard beneﬁts provided India US UK ROW Standard Beneﬁts Full Time Part Time/ Full Time Part Time/ Full Time Part Time/ Full Time Part Time/ Provided Contract Contract Contract Contract Group Term Life Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No Insurance Health Care Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No Medical Insurance Disability Yes Yes No No No No No No Eg : Cab Facility Parental Leave Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No Retirement provision Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No (Superannuation (PF+Gratuity) in Australia) Stock Ownership Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No (as approved by (as approved by (as approved by (as approved by Comp Committee) Comp Committee) Comp Committee) Comp Committee) Counselling Program Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Wellness Program Yes Yes Yes Yes No No No No Personal Accident Yes No Yes No No No No No Insurance Special Needs Leave Yes No No No No No No No Emergency Yes No No No No No No No (salary advance (salary advance (salary advance Medical Fund covers medical emergencies) covers medical emergencies) covers medical emergencies) Loans & Advances Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No (House deposit, (Car, House, Salary) Two wheeler, Salary advance) Reduced Working Hours Yes No Yes Yes Yes No Yes No Sabbatical Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No Child Care Vouchers No No No No Yes No No No Flexible Work Hours Yes No No No No No No No Day Care Facility Yes Yes No No No No No No 83 Women to men ratio of remuneration Employee India (in INR) UK (in GBP) US (in USD) Others (in USD) Category Male Female Ratio Male Female Ratio Male Female Ratio Male Female Ratio Associates (T4-C4) 247,205 214,432 0.87 44,706 44,262 0.99 70,881 70,963 1.00 54,650 50,872 0.93 Middle Management 597,781 505,511 0.85 72,847 68,474 0.94 101,042 104,927 1.04 80,482 82,252 1.02 (C5-C7) Senior Management 1,268,634 1,238,431 0.98 134,807 138,342 1.03 172,489 210,067 1.22 168,128 (C8-C9) Top Management 2,509,946 190,986 241,632 1.27 291,831 (C10C12) Remuneration** Associates (T4-C4) 796,265 666,165 0.84 44,706 44,262 0.99 75,496 75,620 1.00 54,846 51,244 0.93 Middle Management 2,199,067 1,921,664 0.87 80,787 75,555 0.94 119,394 124,537 1.04 87,993 92,796 1.05 (C5-C7) Senior Management 4,855,108 4,419,727 0.91 170,292 176,740 1.04 224,567 271,443 1.21 205,780 (C8-C9) Top Management 9,709,872 263,501 346,500 1.31 448,064 (C10C12) Note: For UK and Others, AG has been considered for the basic salary. Training and development Category/level/ Total No. of Employees No. of Hours of Training Average Hours of Training per per Category per Category Year per Employee Grade of Employees Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Associates (T4-C4) 10,560 5,685 16,245 930,676 593,369 1,524,045 88.13 104.37 93.82 Middle Management 3,119 563 3,682 66,272 14,103 80,375 21.25 25.05 21.83 (C5-C7) Senior Management 228 23 251 679 36 715 2.98 1.57 2.85 (C8-C9) Top Management 25 1 26 33 33 1.32 1.27 (C10C12) Total without SC 13,932 6,272 20,204 997,660 607,508 1,605,168 71.61 96.86 79.45 Sub-Contractors (SC) 1,667 864 2,531 1,405 535 1,940 0.84 0.62 0.77 Total with SC 15,599 7,136 22,735 999,065 608,043 1,607,108 64.05 85.21 70.69 Performance reviews Male Female Total Total Number of Employees 14,021 6,306 20,327 Total Number of Eligible Employees 12,220 5,093 17,313 Total Number of Employees submitting 11,935 4,998 16,933 regular performance appraisals (Annual Appraisals submitted) Percentage 97.7% 98.1% 97.8% 84 Near 100% return and retention post maternity/paternity leave No. of No. of No. of No. of Return to Retention 2018-19 employees employees employees employees work rate Rate entitled to that took who returned who returned parental parental to work after to work after leave leave leave ended leave ended and were still employed after 12 months Maternity Leave All full 320 317 313 99% 98% time women employee Paternity Leave Mindtree Minds 817 817 745 100% 91% who become father with a child birth or in cases where his wife undergoes pre-mature termination of pregnancy are entitled for the paternity leave Our supply chain Active % of Region Filtered Active Total Region Spend (USD) % Spend Suppliers Suppliers India 6,636 1,179 7,815 India 1,179 54% 91,742,760 40% ROW 1,156 293 1,449 ROW 293 13% 7,239,509 3% UK 453 190 643 UK 190 9% 15,038,744 7% US 1,700 532 2,232 US 532 24% 115,102,297 50% Grand Total 9,945 2,194 12,139 Total 2,194 100% 229,123,310 100% Spend Spend in USD % Suppliers #Active Suppliers % of Suppliers Women owned 4,400,134 1.9 Women owned 14 1% enterprises 85 Environmental performancea snapshot 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 2018-19 Category Performance Performance Performance Performance Target Performance GHG Emissions 3.29 tons CO2e/ 2.44 tons CO2e/ 2.29 tons CO2e/ 2.17 tons CO2e/ 2.15 tons CO2e/ 2.04 tons employee/ employee/ employee/ FTE/ employee/ CO2e/ FTE/ annum annum annum annum annum annum Energy 189.22 (kWh/ 167.6 (kWh/ 170.74 (kWh/ 167.25 (kWh/ 163.91 (kWh/ 157.59 (kWh/ employee/ employee/ employee/ FTE/ employee/ FTE/ month) month) month) month) month) month) 1.03 kl/ 0.91 kl/ 1.02 kl/ 0.85 kl/ 0.84 kl/ 0.85 kl/ FTE/ Water employee/ employee/ employee/ FTE/ employee/ month month month month month month 80.62% 89.66% 89.28% 89.99% 90% 91.01% Waste (recycled) (recycled) (recycled) (recycled) (recycled) (recycled) 0 % ,30 63% 98 ,148 29 22,379 2% 669,923 Emission FootPrint Energy (tons CO2e) FootPrint 3 (kWh) 12 4% ,2 71 3% 1,062 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope3 DG Units Electricity Purchased 86 % .01 % 60 ,332 91 .14% 8.8 0 4% 97 4 6,3% 3% 93 4,702 Water Waste FootPrint Disposal % (kl) 33 52 % ,37 1 Ground Water Extraction Municipal Corporation Recycle Incineration Private Suppliers Packaged Water Landﬁll Emissions Location-wise Emissions Performance 22,379 10,157 8,741 Bangalore MTE Bangalore MTW 1,800 1,883 2,448 948 1,478 Hyderabad 1,461 19,814 Chennai 182 Pune Kalinga Scope 3 Scope 2 Scope 1 49 172 150 11 176 501 1,062 Scope2 Emissions(tons CO2e) Scope1 Emissions(tons CO2e) 2017-18(tons CO2e) 2018-19(tons CO2e) 87 88 547,498 348,588 88 Rail Owned Vehicles 226,252 244,571 313 726 Road 2017-18(tons CO2e) Fugitive Emissions (HFC) Business Travel 250,139 227,981 119 154 Client Cabs 2017-18(km) Fuel Usage (LPG) 154,152 385,250 587 608 Air-Domestic Fuel Usage/ Energy Generated (Diesel) 2018-19(tons CO2e) Scope1 Emissions Source-wise 2018-19(km) 2,401,359 1,573,059 Air-Short Haul 71,600,433 88,308,249 Air-Long Haul 112 Freight 48 134 137 6,69,923 Waste 2017-18(tons CO2e) 717,083 2017-18 DG Units 8,419 10,398 Business Travel 28,408,536 Electricity Purchased 2018-19 11,213 11,732 Employee Commute 2018-19(tons CO2e) Energy Performance 29,148,300 Scope3 Emissions Performance 327 10,663 1,983,213.70 Pune Pune 377 9,298 2,070,068.60 Hyderabad Hyderabad 3,207,890.00 117 41,708 Packaged water supply Kalinga Kalinga Municipal corporation water (kWh) 4,079,276.82 434 16,323 Chennai Chennai 4,041,910.00 6,393 Bangalore MTE 598 10,206 Private water supply 13,765,941.00 Water Consumption Location-wise Bangalore MTE Electricity Purchased Location-wise Bangalore MTW 87389 Ground water extraction (kl) 2,822 Bangalore MTW 21,775.50 Pune 40,350.43 Hyderabad 0 Recharged to ground 91,193.00 Kalinga 3,039 (kWh) 0.00 Rainwater harvested (kl) DG Units Location-wise Chennai 51,344 158,930.00 Total water recycled Bangalore MTE Water Conservaion (kl) 357,674.00 Bangalore MTW 89 Waste Management Performance 218,303 80,643 192,555 48,463 26,884 31,975 15,620 79,489 Other Packaging Organic Inorganic Hazardous Electronic 26,261 40,153 8,598 14,389 2017-18 2018-19 Waste Disposed Location-wise 115,287 40,908 31,060 Bangalore MTW 25,952 Bangalore MTE 54,513 Hyderabad 3,773 Chennai 23,541 Kalinga Pune 17,124 24,075 12,359 1,063 0 15,820 6,728 5,371 8,090 1,861 0 1,598 24 31 7 5,643 1,446 14 0 13,953 17 0 372 Electronic waste Hazardous Organic Inorganic Packaging/ other 90 Workplace injuries By Gender By Region Category Overall Male Female MTW MTE Total No. of Injury Incidents 269 157 112 248 21 This can include: Injuries inﬂicted at the workplace Injuries inﬂicted during travel, commuting etc. Occupational Disease Incidents like ergonomic injuries, both major and minor like RSI, Stress, etc. No. of lost days due to injuries * 28 3 25 27 1 Total No. of Person Hours Worked 25,881,174 17,858,010 8,023,163.94 22,492,998 3,388,176 Total No. of Employees 10,893 7,516 3,377 9,467 1,426 Incident Rate per 100 employees = 2.28 2.09 3.32 2.62 1.47 No. of Incidents X 100 Total No. of Employees Frequency Rate = 1.04 0.88 1.39 1.10 0.62 No. of Incidents X 100,000 Total Person Hours Worked Severity Rate = 0.11 0.02 0.22 0.11 0.05 Total No. of Lost Days Total No. of Incidents *3.59% of our workers ﬁnd representation in various committees, including health and safety. Wellness Activities Online platform (zoojoo.be) No. of campaigns 4 Total no. of employee participation 13,143 No. of health challenges taken 1,689 No. of online sessions conducted 39 No. of onsite sessions 0 No. of newsletters sent 36 One-to-one support Total no. of counselling sessions 460 Total no. of self-assessment tests 588 Total no. of articles 793 Total no. of counselling follow ups 190 Total no. of priority alerts 143 In-house sessions #sessions #People Impacted Health talks 18 1,260 Health Camps 21 2,100 Wellness Sessions 39 2,730 Marathon Training Classes 80 2,400 Yoga Classes 96 2,880 91 DATA ASSUMPTIONS Company The company owns four vehicles. An assumed average of 30 km per day is used. Mindtree has arrived at the owned average distance commuted by assuming the average round distance of Mindtree facilities from the center of vehicles the city. Thus, by multiplying the average km per day by the assumed number of working days in a year (250) we arrive at the total kilometers travelled. Emission factors are bifurcated into petrol and diesel based on the make of the vehicle. Fuel usage Weight of one full LPG gas cylinder is considered as 19.5 kg. This ﬁgure has been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of LPG gas cylinders being used as opposed to the kg. Refrigerant a) For HFC's the global warming potential of the refrigerant along with a conversion factor of 0.001 is converted into CO2e using standard conversion formulas. Employee a) For company leased vehicles, the fuel make of the vehicle is considered to determine petrol vs. diesel Commute vehicles. An average of the monthly petrol and diesel prices of all major Indian cities has been considered to compute the total liters consumed. Emissions are overstated by at least 20% as the fuel claim also includes personal travel on the part of employees. b) Assumed an average of 30 km per passenger per day for public transport. We have arrived at the average distance commuted by assuming the average round distance of Mindtree facilities from the center of the city. Thus, by multiplying the average passenger km per day by the assumed number of working days in a year (250) and the number of employees who use the service, the total kilometers travelled are computed. It is assumed that the emission factor for public transport to be that of bus (type unknown) as a majority of employees using public transport commute by bus services. c) Public transport: We have arrived at the number of employees who use public transport by inference, i.e. by subtracting the total of the number of employees who use cars, two wheelers and Mindtree operated buses from the total number of employees in the India operations. d) Mindtree uses parking lot ﬁgures to determine a factor of the employees using fourand twowheelers. e) For fourand twowheelers, the emissions on account of employee commuting have been computed based on the assumption arrived from the company leased vehicles that 70% of fuel costs assumed are be associated with petrol, 30% of fuel costs assumed to be associated with diesel. The kilometers are calculated by assuming an average of 30 km per passenger per day – with a similar principle to that of public transport. Business a) GHG protocol provides diﬀerent emission factors for domestic, short haul and long haul ﬂights. A distance travel based classiﬁcation into these categories is more appropriate. Based on an assumption and a study of available (international literature, Mindtree has considered the following categorisation to classify all ﬂights as per the categorization & domestic) below: Domestic, less than 463 km Short haul, between 464 and 1,108 km Long haul, greater than 1,108 km With this categorization, a majority of the ﬂights (98%) are long haul with the balance under short haul (1%) and domestic (0.2%). Waste a) Weight of one UPS battery is considered as 11.70 kg. This ﬁgure has been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of batteries being used as opposed to the kg. b) Weight of 1 litre of used oil is considered as 0.88 kgs. This ﬁgure has been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of litres of used oil being disposed as opposed to the kg. c) Weight of one CFL bulb is considered as 126 g. This ﬁgure has been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of CFL's being disposed as opposed to the kg. d) Weight of one tubelight is considered as 250 g. This ﬁgure has been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of tubelights being disposed as opposed to the kg. 92 e) Weight of one DG ﬁlter is considered as 1.5 kg. This ﬁgure has been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of DG ﬁlters being disposed as opposed to the kg. f) The average weight of Municipal solid waste (wet/dry) generated is considered as 0.5 kg/person/month. 50% of this is considered as dry waste which is recycled. g) In the event that waste (Oil soaked cotton and DG ﬁlters) have been disposed but there is no record of the same, averages of the available data have been considered for those months. h) Emissions associated with waste disposed have been considered as opposed to disposed + generated + stored. i) Since clarity on the disposal methodology is not available, more conservative emission factors are used. Freight Emission factor for domestic is used for domestic air freight and emission factor for international is that of long haul. Water > For smaller locations where the builder maintains the total water consumed, ﬁgures are obtained by assuming one employee consumes 65 liters of water per day. 65 litres is derived based on ratio of the total water consumed in locations with accurate measure by the total number of employees. > Drinking water is collected in the form of number of cans. This is multiplied by 20 litres (capacity of the bubble top) to provide the total number of litres. Air emissions > Air emissions are not measured monthly, and hence are extrapolated for the months not measured. * The rupee to US dollar conversion factor was taken at the rupee-US dollar exchange rate of INR 45.6013 for the year 2010-11, INR 47.5709 for the year 2011-12, INR 54.2107 for the year 2012-13, INR 60.5237 for the year 2013-14, INR 61.0106 for the year 2014-15, INR 65.5510 for the year 2015-16, INR 67.1533 for the year 2016-17, INR 64.5118 for the year 2017-18 and INR 70.12 for the year 2018-19. 93 THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) GUIDELINES THE TEN PRINCIPLES Principles Statement Page no. HUMAN RIGHTS Businesses should support and respect Principle 1 the protection of internationally proclaimed 18 human rights Make sure that they are not complicit in Principle 2 human rights abuses 53 LABOUR Businesses should uphold the freedom Principle 3 of association and the eﬀective recognition NA of the right to collective bargaining The elimination of all forms of forced Principle 4 53 and compulsory labour Principle 5 The eﬀective abolition of child labour 53 The elimination of discrimination in Principle 6 respect of employment and occupation 18 ENVIRONMENT Businesses should support a precautionary Principle 7 18, 41 approach to environmental challenges Undertake initiatives to promote greater Principle 8 44-51 environmental responsibility Encourage the development and diﬀusion Principle 9 of environmentally friendly technologies 44-51 ANTI-CORRUPTION Businesses should work against corruption in Principle 10 18 all its forms, including extortion and bribery 94 NVG Report Application SUB PART ASPECTS PAGE NO. Part A of the report includes basic information and data about the operations of the business entity. A Thus, the reading of the report becomes more contextual and comparable with other similarly placed businesses. It may be written in a free format incorporating at least the following: A-1 Basic information about Name Front page the business Nature of ownership AR 168 Details of the people in top management 15, 16 Location of its operations AR 12, 13 National and International Products and services oﬀered AR 8, 10 Markets served AR 12, 13 Sales 13, 16 Net proﬁt 13 Economic and Financial Data Tax paid 76 Total assets AR 114 Market capitalisation AR 17 Number of employees 76 Management's commitment statement to the ESG Guidelines 3 A-2 Priorities in terms of the principle and the core elements 3 Reporting period/ cycle 6 Whether the report is based on this framework or any other framework 6 Any signiﬁcant risk that the business would like its stakeholders to know AR 19 Any goals and targets that were set by the top management for improving 21-24 their performance during the reporting period Part B of the report incorporates the basic parameters on which the business may report their B performance. Eﬀorts have been made to keep the reporting simple keeping in view the fact that this framework is equally applicable to the small businesses as well. The report may be prepared in a free format with the basic performance indicators being included in the same. In case the business entity has chosen not to adopt or report on any of the principles, the same may be stated along with, if possible, the reasons for not doing so. B-1 Principle 1 – ethics, Governance structure of the business, including transparency and accountability committees under the Board responsible for organizational oversight. In case no committee 14-16 is constituted, then the details of the individual responsible for the oversight Mandate and composition (including number of independent members and/or non-executive 15 members) of such committee with the number of oversight review meetings held State whether the person/committee head responsible for oversight review is independent 15 from the executive authority or not. If yes, how 95 SUB PART ASPECTS PAGE NO. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the 15 Board/Chief Executive Processes in place for the Board/ Chief Executive AR 110, 163, 172 to ensure conﬂicts of interest are avoided Internally developed statement on ethics, codes of conduct and details of the process followed to 18 ensure that the same are followed Frequency with which the Board/ Chief 14 Executive assesses BR performance Principle 2 – products life Statement on the use of recyclable raw NA cycle sustainability materials used Statement on use of energy-eﬃcient technologies, designs and manufacturing/ service-delivery 44-51 processes Statement on copyrights issues in case of the products that involve use of traditional knowledge NA and geographical indicators Statement on use of sustainable practices used in 53 the value chain Principle 3 – employees' Total number of employees with percentage of 79 wellbeing employees that are engaged through contractors Statement on non-discriminatory employment 18 policy of the business entity Percentage of employees who are women 78 Number of persons with disabilities hired 67 Amount of the least monthly wage paid to any 83 skilled and unskilled employee Number of training and skill upgradation programmes organized during the reporting period 78 for skilled and unskilled employees Number of incidents of delay in payment of None wages during the reporting period Number of grievances submitted by the employees AR 100 Principle 4 – stakeholder Statement on the process of identiﬁcation of 19 engagement stakeholders and engaging with them Statement on signiﬁcant issues on which formal dialogue has been undertaken with any of the 19, 20 stakeholder groups Principle 5 – human Statement on the policy of the business entity on 18 rights observance of human rights in their operation Statement on complaints of human rights 100 violations ﬁled during the reporting period Principle 6 – environment Percentage of materials used that are NA recycled input materials Total energy consumed by the business entity for 87 its operations 96 SUB PART ASPECTS PAGE NO. Statement on use of energy-saving processes and the total energy saved due to use of such processes 44, 45 Use of renewable energy as percentage of total 11 energy consumption Total water consumed and the percentage of water 88, 91 that is recycled and reused Statement on quantum of emissions of greenhouse 46, 47 gases and eﬀorts made to reduce the same Statement on discharge of water and eﬄuents indicating the treatment done before discharge and 47 the destination of disposal Details of eﬀorts made for reconstruction 50 of bio-diversity Principle 7 – policy advocacy Statement on signiﬁcant policy advocacy eﬀorts 18 undertaken with details of the platforms used Principle 8 – inclusive Details of community investment and growth development work undertaken indicating the 30, 31 ﬁnancial resources deployed and the impact of this work with a longer-term perspective Details of innovative practices, products and services that particularly enhance access and 31 allocation of resources to the poor and the marginalized groups of the society Principle 9 – customer value Statement on whether the labelling of their products has adequate information regarding product-related customer health and safety, NA method of use and disposal, product and process standards observed Details of the customer complaints on safety, labelling and safe disposal of the products NA received during the reporting period C Part C of the report incorporates two important aspects on BR reporting. Part C-1 is a disclosure on by the business entity on any negative consequences of its operations on the social, environmental and economic fronts. The objective is to encourage the business to report on this aspect in a transparent manner so that it can channelize its eﬀorts to mitigate the same. Part C-2 is aimed at encouraging the business to continuously improve its performance in the area of BR. C-1 • Brief report on any material / signiﬁcant negative consequences of the operations Nil. of the business entity. C-2 • Brief on goals and targets in Social 23 the area of social, environmental and Environmental 24 economic responsibilities that the business entity has Economic 24 set for itself for the next reporting period 97 BOUNDARY SETTING OF MATERIAL ISSUES Materiality topic Linkage to GRIs GRIs disclosures Topic boundary material aspect People Satisfaction Employment 401-1, 401-2, 401-3 Internal Non-discrimination 406-1 Internal Occupational Health 403-1, 403-2 Internal and Safety Responsible Procurement Procurement Practices 204-1 Internal & External Child Labour 408-1 Internal & External Forced or Compulsory 409-1 Internal & External labour Sustainable Livelihoods Indirect Economic Impacts 203-1, 203-2 External Local Communities 413-1, 413-2 External Compliance 419-1 External (under Society Performance) Talent Development with Training and Education 404-1, 404-2, 404-3 Internal Diversity Focus Diversity and Equal 405-1 Internal Opportunity Equal Remuneration for 405-2 Internal Women and Men Great Quality, Economic Performance 201-1, 201-3, 201-4 Internal & External Delivered Faster Anti-Corruption 205-2 Internal & External Anti-Competitive Behavior 206-1 Internal & External Environmental Compliance 307-1 External Stewardship Going Green Energy 302-1, 302-2, 302-3, Internal 302-4 Water 303-1, 303-3 Internal Emission 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, Internal 305-4, 305-5 Eﬄuents and Waste 306-1, 306-2, 306-3 Internal 98 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Standard Disclosure Disclosure Page number(s) Number Title Individual and/or URL(s) disclosure items ('a', 'b', 'c', etc.) are not listed here General 102-14 Statement 3 Disclosures from senior decision-maker General 102-15 Key impacts, 3 Disclosures risks, and opportunities General 102-1 Name of the Front page Disclosures organization General 102-2 Activities, brands, AR 8-10 Disclosures products, and services General 102-3 Location of 7 Disclosures headquarters General 102-4 Location of AR 12, 13 Disclosures operations General 102-5 Ownership and AR 168 Disclosures legal form General 102-6 Markets served AR 12, 13 Disclosures General 102-7 Scale of the 7 Disclosures organization General 102-8 Information on 78 Disclosures employees and other workers General 102-9 Supply chain 53, 86 Disclosures General 102-10 Signiﬁcant None Disclosures changes to the organization and its supply chain General 102-11 Precautionary 18 Disclosures Principle or approach General 102-12 External 9, 10 Disclosures initiatives 99 GRI Standard Disclosure Disclosure Page Number Title Individual number(s) disclosure items and/or ('a', 'b', 'c', etc.) URL(s) are not listed here General 102-13 Membership of 18 Disclosures associations General 102-45 Entities included Disclosures in the consolidated AR 3 ﬁnancial statements General 102-46 Deﬁning report Disclosures content and topic 20, 98 Boundaries General 102-47 List of material Disclosures topics 20 Management 103-1 Explanation of 98 Approach the material topic and its Boundary General 102-48 Restatements Disclosures of information None General 102-49 Changes in Disclosures reporting 6 General 102-40 List of stakeholder 25-27 Disclosures groups General 102-42 Identifying Disclosures and selecting 19 stakeholders General 102-43 Approach to Disclosures stakeholder 19 engagement General 102-44 Key topics Disclosures and concerns 19 raised General 102-50 Reporting Disclosures period Front page General 102-51 Date of most 6 Disclosures recent report General 102-52 Reporting 6 Disclosures cycle General 102-53 Contact point 6, back page Disclosures for questions regarding the report 100 GRI Standard Disclosure Disclosure Page Number Title Individual number(s) disclosure items and/or ('a', 'b', 'c', etc.) URL(s) are not listed here General 102-54 Claims of reporting 6 Disclosures in accordance with the GRI Standards General 102-55 GRI content 99-106 Disclosures index General 102-56 External Disclosures assurance 107 General 102-18 Governance 14-16 Disclosures structure Management 102-19 Delegating 14 Approach authority General 102-20 Executive-level 14 Disclosures responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics General 102-21 Consulting 19, 20 Disclosures stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics General 102-22 Composition of the 15-17 Disclosures highest governance body and its committees General 102-23 Chair of the 15 Disclosures highest governance body General 102-24 Nominating and AR 107, 156 Disclosures selecting the highest governance body General 102-25 Conﬂicts of AR 110, Disclosures interest 163, 172 General 102-26 Role of highest 14 Disclosures governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy General 102-27 Collective knowledge 14 Disclosures of highest governance body 101 GRI Standard Disclosure Disclosure Page Number Title Individual number(s) disclosure items and/or ('a', 'b', 'c', etc.) URL(s) are not listed here General 102-28 Evaluating the 15; AR 108, Disclosures highest governance 157 body’s performance General 102-29 Identifying and 14; AR 65-67, Disclosures managing economic, 113 environmental, and social impacts General 102-30 Eﬀectiveness of AR 65-67, Disclosures risk management 113 processes General 102-31 Review of 14 Disclosures economic, environmental, and social topics General 102-32 Highest governance 14 Disclosures body’s role in sustainability reporting General 102-33 Communicating 14 Disclosures critical concerns General 102-34 Nature and total 19 Disclosures number of critical concerns General 102-35 Remuneration AR 107 Disclosures policies General 102-36 Process for AR 107 Disclosures determining remuneration General 102-37 Stakeholders’ AR 107 Disclosures involvement in remuneration General 102-38 Annual total AR 116 Disclosures compensation ratio General 102-39 Percentage increase AR 116 Disclosures in annual total compensation ratio General 102-16 Values, principles, 17, 18 Disclosures standards, and norms of behavior General 102-17 Mechanisms for 18, 25 Disclosures advice and concerns about ethics 102 GRI Standard Disclosure Disclosure Page Number Title Individual number(s) disclosure items and/or ('a', 'b', 'c', etc.) URL(s) are not listed here General 102-43 Approach to 19 Disclosures 102-44 stakeholder engagement Key topics and concerns raised Management 103-1 Explanation of the 98 Approach material topic and its Boundary Management 103-2 The management 29, 44, Approach approach and its 55, 71 components Management 103-3 Evaluation of the 18, 21-24 Approach management approach Economic 201-1 Direct economic 76 Performance value generated and distributed Economic 201-3 Deﬁned beneﬁt 83 Performance plan obligations and other retirement plans Economic 201-4 Financial assistance 77 Performance received from government Indirect 203-1 Infrastructure 31; Economic investments and AR 133-139 Impacts services supported Indirect 203-2 Signiﬁcant indirect 31 Economic economic impacts Impacts Procurement 204-1 Proportion of 86 Practices spending on local suppliers Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed 100% for risks related to coverage corruption Anti-corruption 205-2 Communication and 100% training about coverage anti-corruption policies and proceduress 103 GRI Standard Disclosure Disclosure Page Number Title Individual number(s) disclosure items and/or ('a', 'b', 'c', etc.) URL(s) are not listed here Energy 302-1 Energy consumption 87 within the organization Energy 302-2 Energy consumption 87 outside of the organization Energy 302-3 Energy intensity 87 Energy 302-4 Reduction of 45, 87 energy consumption Water 303-1 Water withdrawal 88, 91 by source Water 303-3 Water recycled 91 and reused Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) 87, 89 GHG emissions Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect 87, 89 (Scope 2) GHG emissions Emissions 305-5 Reduction of 87 GHG emissions Eﬄuents 306-1 Water discharge by 91 and Waste quality and destination Eﬄuents 306-2 Waste by type and 91, 92 and Waste disposal method Eﬄuents 306-3 Signiﬁcant spills None and Waste Environmental 307-1 Non-compliance None Compliance with environmental laws and regulations Employment 401-1 New employee hires 79 and employee turnover Employment 401-2 Beneﬁts provided 83 to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 104 GRI Standard Disclosure Disclosure Page Number Title Individual number(s) disclosure items and/or ('a', 'b', 'c', etc.) URL(s) are not listed here Employment 401-3 Parental leave 85 Occupational 403-1 Workers 91 Health and representation in Safety formal joint management–worker health and safety committees Occupational 403-2 Types of injury and 91 Health and rates of injury, Safety occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Training 404-1 Average hours of 84 and Education training per year per employee Training 404-2 Programs for 62-66 and Education upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs Training 404-3 Percentage of 84 and Education employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews Diversity and 405-1 Diversity of 15, 78 Equal governance bodies Opportunity and employees Diversity and 405-2 Ratio of basic salary 84 Equal and remuneration Opportunity of women to men Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of AR 100 discrimination and corrective actions taken 105 GRI Standard Disclosure Disclosure Page Number Title Individual number(s) disclosure items and/or ('a', 'b', 'c', etc.) URL(s) are not listed here Child Labor 408-1 Operations and None suppliers at signiﬁcant risk for incidents of child labor Forced or 409-1 Operations and None Compulsory suppliers at Labor signiﬁcant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor Local 413-1 Operations with 31 Communities local community engagement, impact assessments, and d evelopment programs Local 413-2 Operations with None Communities signiﬁcant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities Socioeconomic 419-1 Non-compliance with None Compliance laws and regulations in the social and economic area Notes • No signiﬁcant changes in structure or nature of operations during the year, which may have a bearing in the sustainability reporting. • ROW (Rest of the World): Australia, Japan, Malaysia, Singapore and UAE. • All our employees and security personnel are trained in human rights policies, procedures and also in Integrity policy. They follow a code of conduct. • None of our operations are complicit in child/forced/compulsory labour; Our contracts with suppliers include clauses covering the same. • We have no trade unions and no collecting bargaining agreements. • The GRI Standards content Index prepared as per GRI Standards 2016. • Wherever AR is mentioned preﬁxing a page number, it denotes our Annual Report. The non-preﬁxed page numbers imply the location of the disclosure in this Sustainability Report. 106 ASSURANCE STATEMENT 107 108 109 110 GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS Acronym Expansion ADHD Attention Deﬁcit Hyperactive Disorder AI Artiﬁcial Intelligence AR Annual Report BoD Board of Director BRR Business Responsibility Report CDM Competency/ Career Development Manager CDP Carbon Disclosure Project CFL Compact Fluorescent Light CIS Corporate Information Systems CO2e Carbon Dioxide equivalent COO Chief Operating Oﬃcer CSR Corporate Social responsibility DG Diesel Generator EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization EDGES Ethnicity, Disability, Gender and Sexual Orientation EES Economic, Environmental and Social EHS Environmental, Health and Safety ESG Environmental, Social and Governance FY Financial Year GCB Gladius Connected Buildings GHG Green House Gases GJ Giga Joules GRI Global Reporting Initiative GRIS Global Reporting Initiative Standards HFC Hydro Flouro Carbon HVAC Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning IGBC Indian Green Building Council IGG I Got Garbage IIRC International Integrated Reporting Council INR Indian National Rupee 111 Acronym Expansion IoT Internet of Things IR Integrated Reporting ITBPM Information Technology and Business Process Management KM Knowledge Management KW Kilowatt kWh Kilowatt Hour LED Liquid Crystal Display LEED Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design LPG Liquid Petroleum Gas NGO Non Government Organization NOx Oxides of Nitrogen OD Organizational development OECD The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and NVG RBSEE Economic Responsibilities of Business OHSAS Occupational Health & Safety Assessment Sequence PwD People with Disability ROW Rest of the World SEBI Securities Exchange Board of India SOx Oxides of Sulphur SPM Suspended Particulate Matter STP Sewage Treatment Plant UNGC United Nations Global Compact UPS Uninterruptible power supply USD United States Dollar 112 Feedback and communication: We welcome any feedback and suggestions which will further strengthen our sustainability programs. Contact details: Chitra Byregowda Head – Sustainability & Diversity Chitra.Byregowda@mindtree.com Registered address: Mindtree, Global Village, RVCE Post, Mysore Road, Bengaluru 560 059 Karnataka, India. Telephone: +91-80-6706 4000 Fax: +91-80-6706 4100 Courtesy: This Sustainability Report is designed by Vitamn India Pvt. Ltd. and developed by Bhairavi Business & Consultancy. Limited edition of hardcopy of our Sustainability Report is printed on 100% recycled paper certiﬁed by the UK-based National Association of Paper Merchants (NAPM) and Germany-based Blue Angel. www.mindtree.com The report can be downloaded at http://www.mindtree.com/sustainability/mindtree-sustainability-report.pdf
