Pentland Group 2018 Corporate Responsibility Review the right way isn’t The easy way always Contents 1.0 Introduction A message from our Chairman 4 2018 highlights 5 About Pentland Group 6 Our story 8 Pentland Group’s approach to Corporate Responsibility 9 UN Global Compact: ten principles 10 UN Sustainable Development Goals: our contribution 11 2.0 Corporate responsibility at Pentland Brands Ltd Pentland Brands’ corporate responsibility strategy 13 Our company 15 Our products 23 Our communities 37 3.0 Corporate responsibility at JD Sports Fashion plc Ethical sourcing 44 People 45 Environment 46 JD Foundation: changing lives, saving lives 47 Finish Line Youth Foundation: 20 years of giving back 47 2 1.0 Introduction A message from our Chairman Respect for people and As a Group, we have long maintained Its Diversity and Inclusion Network continues achieved its highest ever score from a commitment to treating the people in our to go from strength to strength. the Carbon Disclosure Project, outperforming the environment has long business and our supply chain, together the average score for both the retail and The division has been tackling plastic waste been at the heart of our with the environment, fairly and with respect. in its offices, its stores and its products. This regional sector. business, and we strive We are aligned with the United Nations year, Berghaus worked with fabric supplier Our commitment to giving back to Global Compact in our commitment to to make all our decisions ensuring the way we operate is sustainable Polartec® to turn over two million used plastic communities runs through the entire group bottles into a new range of polyester fleece, and since it was established in 2015, the in good conscience. and socially responsible. while Speedo increased its sourcing of JD foundation has raised £2.5m to support Every year, the importance of being a recycled materials for swimwear. charities across England Wales and Scotland. responsible business grows, and our Pentland Brands signed up to Action This year US-based retailer Finish Line also employees play a vital role in helping us be Collaboration Transformation (ACT’s) new became part of JD Sports Fashion plc. The responsible. In this report, I am delighted to ‘global purchasing practices commitments’ Finish Line Youth Foundation strives to make share our highlights from 2018. and continue to work with partners to embed a difference in the lives of disadvantaged This year, our Pentland Brands division a best practice approach to both identifying, youth and people with disabilities. launched a new strategy to guide its and mitigating, modern slavery risks within I’m proud of what we’ve achieved across the corporate responsibility activities. The our supply chain. group this year, and I’m confident that we will strategy focuses on three areas: Pentland We’re a family business and giving back to have more great progress to report in 2019. Brands’ actions as a company, its impact our communities is part of who we are. In line through its products, and its responsibility to with this, Pentland Brands has entered new the communities in which it operates. three-year charity partnerships that aim to R. Stephen Rubin Pentland Brands has made a significant empower 10,000 women and inspire 5,000 Chairman, Pentland Group investment in creating inclusive workplaces young people to be more active. where everyone is welcomed, supported, and In 2018, JD Sports Fashion plc stepped up its encouraged to grow and contribute. management of environmental impacts and 4 2018 highlights Pentland Group Plc JD Sports Fashion Plc • P  entland Group won the MADEKIND™ for the environment • J D Sports Fashion plc achieved an above Queen’s Award for Enterprise 2018 • 1  00% of the durable water repellent waterproof sector average B rating from the Carbon for outstanding achievement in fabrics in Endura’s Autumn/Winter 2018 Disclosure Project (CDP) and sourced 85% of International Trade. This is our collection are PFC-free its electricity from renewable sources globally sixth Queen’s Award • E  mployees at JD Sports Fashion plc received •  entland Brands trained more than 190 people P •  e remain committed to upholding the W in factory-facing, warehouse and distribution over 7,000 hours of face-to-face training to help principles of the UN Global Compact centre roles to identify risks of modern slavery develop their knowledge and skills and supporting the UN Sustainable •  he JD Foundation has raised £2.5m to support T • In partnership with Homeworkers Worldwide, Development Goals charities since it was established in 2015 Pentland Brands helped to improve wages for homeworkers employed by one of its footwear Pentland Brands Ltd suppliers in India Communities Company •  entland Brands established new three-year P • ‘In good conscience’ is one of four charity partnerships to empower women and Principles launched by Pentland inspire young people to be more active Brands •  0,000 people received free swimming lessons 6 • In the UK, over 40% of Pentland to improve water safety with Speedo’s Swim Brands’ senior leaders are women and Generation programme we’re working to increase that figure •  entland Brands donated surplus products to P Products support 520 charities via In Kind Direct • B  erghaus developed new Polartec® fleeces made from recycled plastic bottles and 45% of its range was 5 About Pentland Group Pentland Group plc is a Since our founders sold their first shoe in Liverpool In 2018, Pentland Brands welcomed cycling brand in the 1930’s, we’ve been building global sports, Endura, and Fitco, the UK’s leading supplier to privately owned, global fashion and outdoor brands loved by people gyms and swimming pools, to its family of brands. brand management worldwide. Our business is continually changing, Pentland Brands is the licensee for Kickers in the company operating in but our people and our values remain at the heart UK and Ireland, and has a joint venture partnership of what we do. for Lacoste footwear.1 It also became the global the sports, outdoor and Headquartered in the UK, Pentland Group employs footwear licensee for Karen Millen in 2018. fashion markets. more than 50,000 people and has annual sales of Pentland Brands focuses on active and footwear $6.7 billion USD. brands, employs people in 12 countries globally We have three business groups: Pentland and sells products in over 190 markets. Brands Ltd, JD Sports Fashion plc, and Pentland JD Sports Fashion plc Investments which manages our investments and Pentland Group’s retail division comprises the trading subsidiaries. activities of JD Sports Fashion plc, the UK’s Pentland Brands Ltd leading retailer of branded sportswear, fashionwear Pentland Brands is the name behind some of and outdoor clothing and equipment, in which the world’s best sports, outdoor and fashion Pentland Group holds a 57% share. brands. It owns Speedo, Berghaus, Canterbury Investments and trading subsidiaries of New Zealand, Boxfresh, ellesse, SeaVees, Through its Pentland Investments Division, KangaROOS, Mitre and Red or Dead. Pentland Group is also a shareholder in other companies such as Hunter Boot Ltd, Heidi Klein and Tracksmith. 1 I n 2018 Pentland Brands was also the global footwear licensee for Ted Baker. 6 Pentland Group plc Pentland Brands Ltd Pentland Investments JD Sports Fashion plc (57%) Owned brands Footwear joint venture Associates & JVs Retail fascias Footwear licenses2 Trading subsidiaries Owned & licensed brands 2 For 2018 (the period covered by the report) Pentland Brands was the global footwear licensee for Ted Baker’ 7 Our Story Scope of this report We open an office in Hong Kong, strengthening our ability to source shoes We sell our share in Reebok The rugby brand This report provides an overview in Asia and we become and invest in Speedo Canterbury joins of Pentland Group plc’s corporate a public company listed Europe, International and the group responsibility strategy and performance on the London Australia Stock Exchange for the 2018 calendar year (referred to Berko and Minnie Rubin Outdoor We purchase We acquire Californian as ‘this year’), focusing mainly on the Established set up the Liverpool Shoe footwear and a minority sneaker brand activities of our Pentland Brands division. Company, a small family We buy a 55% clothing brand stake from the SeaVees business selling shoes stake in a small Berghaus joins founders of As a separate publicly listed company, athletic footwear the Pentland JD Sports JD Sports Fashion plc publishes its own brand called family Annual Report, where you can find out Reebok USA more about its corporate responsibility approach and performance. A brief overview is also included at the end of The company We purchase a this report. name changes controlling stake to Pentland JD Sports Fashion plc is excluded in JD Sports Industries Ltd from our Group level data, except for Endura and Karen Millen energy and carbon emissions data (in We’re appointed become the most recent line with the requirements of the Carbon UK distributors The company is privatised brands to join us Reduction Commitment Energy We expand into for ellesse and reverts to being a fully Efficiency scheme). manufacturing shoes and Kickers owned family business again We build a strong relationship with the Lacoste family and become the worldwide licensee for its footwear 8 Pentland Group’s approach to corporate responsibility We believe that good business is good for business. We’re committed to behaving ethically and respecting people and the environment. This commitment is at the heart of ‘Our Standards’ and we have detailed policies to help us put these into practice. Our policies make our expectations clear to our employees, business partners and suppliers. All Group companies in which we hold 50% or more equity are required to comply with our policies and we use our influence to help others increase their impact where we can. Pentland Group is a signatory to the UN Global Compact and we support the UN Sustainable Development Goals. We partner with NGOs, academics and others in our industry to create change for the better. 9 Partnering for progress We work with partners We founded the Pentland Centre for Sustainability “Our role is to support in Business at Lancaster University in 2015 to in academia, industry those businesses that support innovative research on sustainability in and non-governmental business to find practical solutions to real-world are already convinced organisations to social and environmental challenges. that sustainability is deliver specific aspects Strategic research areas include climate change, a problem. We can supply chain sustainability, waste and the of our corporate provide the most circular economy, and global ecosystem risk. responsibility strategy. This year, researchers at the Centre will be progressive companies These partnerships publishing a paper on the findings of a four-year with the knowledge interdisciplinary EU-funded project to understand are referenced in and solutions to and quantify the risks arising from changes in the relevant sections the Arctic marine environment. Professor Gail support what they of this document. Whiteman, Rubin Chair in Sustainability, is also the are doing and help to founder of the Arctic Basecamp at Davos, a unique We also support accelerate impact.” science-solution outreach event. academic institutions In partnership with the UCL School of Public Policy Professor Gail Whiteman to advance the wider and NYU Wagner Graduate School of Public Pentland Centre for sustainability agenda. Service in New York, we also sponsor individual Sustainable Business scholars from Africa, Asia-Pacific or Latin America at the early stages of their career to help them complete their studies and go on to make an important contribution to public service. 10 UN Global Compact: ten principles We’ve been a signatory to the UN Global Topic UN Global Compact Principle Location in our report Compact since 2001. We fully support its ten principles on human rights, labour, Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection P29: Protecting human rights and environment and anti-corruption. This of internationally proclaimed human rights; and improving conditions for people report is our Communication on Progress 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. who make our products for 2018. The table below shows where P16: Supporting our people we report information relevant to each principle. Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the P29: Protecting human rights and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; improving conditions for people 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; who make our products 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and P16: Supporting our people 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary P20: Reducing the environmental approach to environmental challenges; impact of our operations 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater P24: Reducing the environmental environmental responsibility; and impact of our products 9. encourage the development and diffusion of P24: Reducing the environmental environmentally friendly technologies. impact of our products P37: Our communities Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all P9: O  ur approach to corporate responsibility its forms, including extortion and bribery. P15: Doing business ethically 11 UN Sustainable Development Goals: our contribution We support the UN Sustainable Development Goals and believe we can make the biggest contribution to eight of them: We highlight our contribution to these goals throughout the report. 12 2.0 Corporate responsibility at Pentland Brands Ltd Pentland Brands’ corporate responsibility strategy In 2018, Pentland Brands launched a new strategy that focuses on the areas where we can have the Our strategy most impact: how we We focus on... act as a company, how we’re developing more Our company Our products Our communities sustainable products and •  educing the environmental R • F  inding innovations for the • Empowering disadvantaged protecting the rights of the impact of our operations materials of tomorrow communities people that make them, and • B  eing a diverse and inclusive • E  nsuring our products meet • H  elping people live a more how we’re creating positive employer and suppporting our the highest quality and safety active and healthy lifestyle people to do their best standards change in communities. •  artnering with academic P • R  educing the environmental and industry bodies on impact of materials and sustainability processes • Doing business ethically • P  rotecting the human rights of those within our supply chain 14 Mobilising our people Commitment to transparency and partnership Our people have a vital role to We have a long-held commitment play in helping us deliver our to transparency in our corporate responsibility strategy. partnerships with suppliers, and we cannot achieve our In 2018, we held a Corporate Responsibility Week to launch our new strategy and raise strategy without them. awareness across the business. This included a We believe this commitment helps us make better campaign to encourage employees to reduce their decisions about how to design and produce our environmental impact, use their Give Back Days to products and source more sustainable materials, help out in their communities, support our charity while protecting the rights of everyone involved in partners or advocate a cause close to their hearts. our business. We took the opportunity to remind people how We publish a list of all our direct (tier 1) suppliers important it is that they stay up to date with on our website and we’re engaging with suppliers corporate responsibility policies and training deeper into our value chain. relevant to their roles. Intranet articles about responsibility topics had over 1,300 views during Corporate Responsibility Week. Change adds up: employee pledges We also encouraged employees to make their own personal commitment to making a change – however small – because change adds up. Our people made 219 pledges at our pledge station, which toured our offices in London, Nottingham, Sunderland and Hong Kong. See some of the individual pledges listed here. 15 Our company Doing business ethically Our Principles We believe in doing the As a family business, honesty, fairness, respect Success is a team game: and hard work run through all that we do. right thing, not the easy Our individual strengths are ‘Our Standards’ booklet explain what this means amplified when we work as thing, every day – both in practice, including our zero-tolerance policy on teams, sharing skills and with as individuals and as bribery or corruption in any form. We insist that shared ambition. Living our Principles an organisation. That everyone who works with us should follow these standards. We launched our new Principles at the means doing business With clarity and courage: start of 2018. To bring them to life, we Last year, we launched a new Manifesto for our ethically, supporting our business which emphasises that each individual Clear in our ambitions, bold and set out specific behaviours that our direct in pursuit of them. people are encouraged to demonstrate people, minimising our has the power to help shape the Pentland of the day to day. impact on the environment future. We shared our four Principles to help them do this (see box) and ran a series of workshops on Better as standard: We have introduced a series of half-day and partnering with Living our Principles (see case study). workshops on Living our Principles to Creating, learning, improving; others to drive our Reputation is earned and we believe that behaving getting better at what we do is raise awareness and help our people connect to our Principles by sharing sustainability agenda. ethically will help our business grow sustainably. our business as usual. stories and networking with their That’s why we’ve created a monthly ‘in colleagues. The message is clear: it’s good conscience’ forum to discuss risks and In good conscience: not just about what we achieve, but opportunities to ensure we can continue to act how we achieve it. In 2018 we ran Reputation is earned; we responsibly. It includes representatives from five Living our Principles workshops believe in doing the right our supply chain, distribution and corporate in London, including an initial session thing, not the easy thing, responsibility teams. with our senior leaders, as well as both as individuals and as an We encourage our people to speak up if they have organisation. four workshops across our Hong Kong any concerns about unethical behaviour. They can and Shanghai offices. We plan to roll report concerns via our independent whistleblowing out a further 30 workshops across the hotline, which is managed by a third party. We take business in 2019. these reports seriously and investigate each one. 16 Supporting our people Pentland Brands employs Treating people with respect dedicated HR advice and support to make sure the process was as smooth as possible for everyone transitioning into people in 12 countries We want our people to know they belong to a company that puts them and their interests at the the new business. around the world. We heart of all it does. ‘Our Standards’ make this clear. Being an inclusive employer want to help them thrive They set out our commitment to treat everyone We strive to create an inclusive workplace where everyone with us by treating them fairly, and with dignity, honesty and respect. can be themselves. with respect, being We’re committed to paying the Real Living Wage Our global diversity and inclusion strategy focuses on (RLW) to people working at Pentland Brands in an inclusive employer the UK. This goes beyond the statutory National improving gender balance and ethnic diversity, addressing unconscious bias and promoting a culture of inclusion. It’s and helping them Living Wage and minimum wage to pay an amount sponsored by our Diversity & Inclusion Steering Committee, achieve their best. that better reflects the cost of living. RLW rates which is made up of a group of senior leaders within our are published by the Living Wage Foundation business. in November each year and we align our pay This year, we have enhanced our diversity and inclusion rates the following April as part of our annual policy, and nurtured an inclusive culture by refreshing our salary review. When we acquire new businesses, guidelines on flexible working and improving our support for we develop a plan to roll out the RLW to their people returning to work after leave. employees if this is not already in place. We’ve been running training sessions for all our senior When we acquire new businesses we review the leaders to help them identify and tackle unconscious bias, business standards of employment and, if required, and are now continuing to roll this training out across the we work with the management team to transition organisation. their employees to a living wage and train them in our policies and procedures, including those Creating an inclusive culture regarding identifying modern slavery risks Dedicated employee networks encourage our people to When we set up a footwear joint-venture business connect and share ideas about how we could increase SDG #3 Good health & wellbeing with The Lacoste Group in January 2018, we diversity and inclusion in our workplaces. The first network SDG #5 Gender equality was set up at our London headquarters in 2017 and in 2018 consulted with employees and provided them with SDG #8 Decent work SDG #10 Reduced inequality 17 we introduced additional networks at our sites in We know how hard it can be to enter creative Supporting our people who go on Nottingham and Sunderland. They hold regular careers and we provide opportunities for people extended periods of leave meetings and their ideas are considered by the from a variety of backgrounds to achieve design We recognise that people sometimes need or want to Steering Committee. roles at Pentland. For roles like these, our focus go on extended periods of leave. For example, they We also have a Diversity & Inclusion Lead in Asia is on the creativity that talented people can bring may take parental leave, be on long-term sick leave or who works with employee volunteers to implement to our business, rather than on possessing certain choose to take a sabbatical. our strategy in our offices in that region, including degrees or qualifications. In 2018, we conducted a review of the support we in Hong Kong and Shanghai. Developing talent provide for people in these situations, with guidance To raise awareness among employees, many We give people opportunities to gain valuable skills from our Diversity & Inclusion Steering Committee and of our sites around the world held afternoon tea and experience by learning on the job, and we input from our people. Feedback indicated that we events in honour of Inclusion Week. We also provide mentoring and coaching to support them. needed to be more consistent in the support we offer celebrated International Women’s Day by inviting Employees can also access training resources and empower managers to support their teams. people to show appreciation for women in the online through our MyLearning platform. In response, we created new global guidelines and business via our internal social media. In 2018, more than 200 people took part in five resources to provide consistent support for employees. We continued our series of talks by external Power Hour sessions to learn from colleagues in Our UK diversity and inclusion networks helped us test speakers on specific topics relevant to diversity other parts of the business about their areas of these to ensure they were effective and easy to use. and inclusion. These included talks on female work. The sessions covered wide-ranging topics The new resources include a re-induction pack for representation in rugby, the importance of inclusion including Pentland’s design pool, innovation people returning from extended leave, a calendar for and inclusive leadership, and the importance of activities and disruption labs. Participants also keeping in touch, clearer guidelines on flexible working gender diversity in the male dominated agricultural heard from Pentland Group swimwear brand Heidi options and guidance on how to have conversations industry. Klein, Berghaus athlete Leo Houlding, and long about returning to work. Recruiting diverse talent distance swimmer Lewis Pugh on his quest to promote ocean preservation (see page 40). In 2018, we widened our university and college search to reach a more diverse talent pool, We’ve standardised our induction process across including visiting more universities and careers fairs across the UK. 18 all our UK sites to ensure everyone joining us has “After being awarded the Catwalk Textiles Prize at Graduate the right start at Pentland. Fashion Week ’17, I was partnered with an industry We have also introduced tools and practices to mentor at Pentland Brands and invited to spend some time support new ways of working, including resources working at the company. That experience challenged me that enable leaders and individuals to be more to reconsider my preconceptions about the more corporate effective. design world. For many years, we have offered in-house I completed an initial placement working on a project apprenticeships for people looking to enter design researching sustainability with the innovation team and careers. This year, we started a new 15-month now I am a Junior Designer in Pentland’s Design Pool. This apprenticeship programme that will enable offers an amazing opportunity to be able to learn and gain participants to achieve a recognised Level 3 relevant and practical experience while also being paid for Apprenticeship qualification. Our first apprentice your work – something that is disappointingly rare within has already started as a junior graphic designer. the fashion industry. With his capability and enthusiasm, he’s a great I have been really impressed by the positive environment asset to our team and we will be looking to hire fostered at Pentland and how employees are really looked another apprentice later in 2019. after. I have already had the chance to work with some Targeting diverse leadership great brands and my self-confidence and technical abilities have improved hugely, while gaining real-world learning We aim to improve diversity across the opportunities that will help me when moving forwards in my organisation by targeting improvements in the career.” diversity of our senior leadership community. This will help to drive improvements at all levels as we Maddie Williams develop future leaders. Junior Designer, Pentland Brands We publish an annual gender pay gap report for our UK employees in line with regulations. In the UK, women now represent over 40% of our senior leadership team and we have a goal to increase 19 that to 45% by 2020. The latest UK gender pay gap accountability by checking we have the right systems and processes in place to report can be found on our website. achieve our targets, understanding the role of each of our functions and making The ethnic diversity of our senior leadership team better, faster decisions. has also improved slightly to 10% ethnic minorities Our people managers are using the survey results to create tailored action plans (non-white). to respond to feedback from their teams and improve engagement levels. We’re Listening to our people also developing a guide for managers to help them understand the importance of engagement and their role in it. We invite feedback from our people to help us continually improve – both informally and through In response to feedback from the last year, we have formalised our strategy for formal surveys twice a year. internal communications to improve the way we cascade information and the way we communicate changes in the business. In 2018, 71% of Pentland Brands employees responded to our most recent engagement survey. Keeping our people safe and well Although this response rate was slightly lower than We’re committed to ensuring the health, safety and wellbeing of all employees, the previous year’s 72%, the overall engagement contractors, visitors and others who visit or work on our premises. Our Health and score for the organisation has increased year on Safety Policy sets out clear guidelines. year. We communicated the results and what they Everyone at Pentland Brands is expected to take reasonable care for their own mean for our people. and others’ health and safety, observe all safe working procedures, rules and The survey highlighted key strengths, such as instructions, and report all incidents, injuries and hazards. our people’s belief in our purpose, products and To help them do this, we provide training on health and safety as part of their managers, and the ability to progress their careers induction on joining the company and regular refresher training thereafter. We use fairly, regardless of their background. an online accident management system to log, track and manage accidents and We appreciate employees taking the time to near misses, and we report performance to our Executive Team monthly. provide their feedback and we responded by We also offer a range of resources to promote employee wellbeing. This includes assembling a group of senior leaders to identify an employee assistance programme to seek support on issues that are affecting the areas we need to focus on improving globally. their wellbeing at work or at home. In 2018, we piloted an online tool to support These include improving decision making and mental health and wellbeing which we’ll roll out globally next year. 20 Reducing the environmental impact of our operations We aim to minimise the In the UK, our offices use 100% renewable energy. This year, we’ve also installed further electric impact of our operations vehicle charging points to encourage more people Taking plastic off the table on the environment by to choose electric or hybrid vehicles if they drive Plastic waste can cause all sorts of problems for cutting our carbon footprint, to work. wildlife and the environment. We’ve taken steps to minimising waste and We report our greenhouse gas emissions at Group cut out single-use plastics and promote recycling at level in line with the requirements of the Carbon engaging our employees. Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency scheme. the restaurant in our London headquarters. We removed all plastic bottles from drinks fridges. This includes emissions from the energy we use in We switched our disposable water cups from Pentland Brands’ offices and distribution centres conventional plastic to recyclable plant-based and in the operations and retail stores run by JD materials. We replaced polystyrene takeaway boxes Sports Fashion plc in the UK. In 2018, Pentland with cardboard, and plastic cutlery with wooden Group’s UK carbon footprint increased by around alternatives. 11% to 38,330 tonnes of CO2 emissions, as a result of acquisitions, including Pentland Brands’ At our on-site coffee shop, employees can get a 10 addition of Endura’s office and manufacturing pence discount on every hot drink when they bring facility in Livingston, Scotland. their own reusable cup and we raised awareness of the issue with a ‘bring your own cup’ day in 2018. We send zero waste to landfill from Pentland We also swapped disposable coffee cups made of Brands’ UK offices and distribution centres. wax-coated paper with plastic lids for compostable Anything that can’t be recycled is used to generate alternatives. energy. As a result of these initiatives, in just six months we In March 2018, we celebrated WWF’s Earth Hour were able to avoid using over 4,100 conventional disposable coffee cups and plastic lids by using compostable plant-based alternatives. SDG #12 Responsible consumption & production SDG #13 Climate action 21 Pentland Group UK carbon footprint: CO2 emissions in tonnes with a power-free Power Hour discussion at our London headquarters where we invited employees to share their ideas about how we can reduce our 50000 environmental impact. We’ve already acted on some of their ideas by: • S  treamlining waste management to make it 42,234 easier for people to recycle in bins for combined mixed recyclables 40000 39,294 38,056 38,330 • S  owing wildflower seeds to encourage biodiversity 34,540 •  utting out single-use plastics from our on-site C catering facilities (see case study) 30000 Teams around the business are also doing their bit for the environment. In Australia, our Brisbane office is 70% paper free and in Vietnam, the lights are turned off during lunch breaks. 20000 10000 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 22 Our Our approach products Doing the right thing Our approach is built on close relationships Mapping our supply chain with our suppliers – and their suppliers – who means making our We map our supply chain so we can better manufacture our products. Our supply chain is understand and manage social and environmental products in the right complex and includes: risks. We publish a list of all tier 1 suppliers on way. We strive to •  uppliers that cut, sew and assemble our S our website and we’re focusing on mapping tier 2 make safe, high finished products (tier 1) suppliers. Having established our list of preferred tier 2 suppliers in 2018, we worked with them quality and sustainable • S  uppliers that provide materials and components (tier 2) to understand what sustainability certifications products. We aim to they hold (see page 42). We are now working on • Suppliers that provide chemicals (tier 3) protect people and mapping locally-sourced material and component • Suppliers of raw materials (tier 4) suppliers that we presently do not have a the environment We have a direct relationship with tier 1 suppliers, relationship with. through every stage of and we only work with suppliers that meet our strict a product’s lifecycle, ethical, social and environmental standards. We also use a licensing model where we work with from sourcing raw licensee partners who manage their own supply materials to design, chain to make and distribute our products. production and use. In 2018, we reviewed our materials sourcing and identified the most strategic tier 2 suppliers for us to have a closer relationship with. These preferred suppliers produce fabrics, leathers, trims and components that we specify in technical packs shared with tier 1 manufacturers. Around 60% of our materials spend is with preferred suppliers. The remaining materials are sourced locally by manufacturers. 23 Reducing the environmental impact of our products We’re working with We use three of the SAC’s Higg Index tools suppliers and others in to measure and reduce our industry to reduce the our supply chain impacts Higg Brand Higg Facility Higg Materials impact of our products (see diagram). & Retail Module Environmental Module Sustainability Index on the environment. Helps us assess our own performance, Enables tier 1 and tier 2 suppliers Contains data on 80 materials to including our approach to corporate to self-assess and disclose their help us compare and assess their Working with industry through the responsibility, the environmental and environmental performance by environmental impacts. Sustainable Apparel Coalition social impacts of our products across measuring and sharing information the lifecycle of materials sourcing on their environmental management We’re a member of the Sustainable to end of use, and operations in our system, energy use and greenhouse Apparel Coalition (SAC), the apparel, distribution centres and retail stores. gas emissions, water use, wastewater, footwear and textile industry’s alliance emissions to air, waste management for sustainable production. The Coalition and chemical use. brings together brands, retailers, NGOs and manufacturers to achieve industryIn 2018, we took part in the beta H  aving previously used this tool In 2018, we used the tool to wide change. test of the tool and we’ll complete to gather data from Berghaus better understand the footprint of it in 2019 so we can benchmark suppliers, in 2018 we used the more sustainable materials used We’ve met the requirements for our performance against other Higg platform to connect with tier in our Speedo swimwear and Foundation Level membership and are SAC members. 1, tier 2 and packaging suppliers watershorts ranges. working towards achieving Strategic Level from across our supply base. In 2019, we’ll apply it to more of membership – the next tier – by increasing Around 13% of our tier 1 suppliers the materials we use. our use of SAC tools and encouraging our are already using the tool and suppliers to do so too sharing data with us. In 2019, we plan to increase the SDG #6 Clean water & sanitation number of tier 1 suppliers using SDG #9 Industry, innovation & infrastructure the tool, and we’ll introduce it to SDG #12 Responsible consumption & production more of our tier 2 suppliers. SDG #13 Climate action 24 Ensuring product quality and safety Ensuring our products are Sourcing standards We carefully manage chemicals to ensure our products are safe for customers and prevent harm to workers or the environment during safe and high quality is Our policy on the use of animal skins, furs and feathers sets out clear standards for suppliers to production. fundamental to our ethos source raw materials responsibly. Leather, down Our Restricted Substances List sets out which chemicals are and our commitment to and feathers must be sourced in line with industry completely banned and which must be carefully managed by customers. We set strict best practice on animal welfare, and we never use suppliers. It includes a risk matrix to guide suppliers on the types fur. of fibres and materials that are most likely to contain restricted standards for suppliers We are a member of the Leather Working Group substances. This year, we translated the list into Chinese to make it and our quality control (LWG) and encourage our suppliers to source easier for our suppliers in China to understand and comply with our teams check products at leather from tanneries awarded a LWG gold, silver requirements. every factory to ensure or bronze certification. Certified tanneries minimise As a member of the Apparel and Footwear International Restricted their environmental impact, with less water and Substances List Management Group (AFIRM), we’re working with they meet our quality energy in used in production and chemicals others in our industry to reduce the impact of harmful substances and safety standards. managed responsibly. Of the preferred tanneries across the footwear and apparel sectors. Our Restricted Substances identified by our Footwear division in 2018, around List aligns with AFIRM’s and in 2018 we adopted its list of restricted For us, quality also means 60% already have a LWG certification and over a substances specifically for packaging. This covers any paper, third are gold-rated. plastics, metals, textiles, dyes and coatings used to ship, deliver or our products must be sell products to customers. Some Berghaus products contain down to keep made from ethicallypeople warm in extreme conditions. All down We require suppliers to comply with our chemical management sourced raw materials used in Berghaus products is certified to the standards and applicable legislation. We ask them to provide and must not contain Responsible Down Standard (RDS). Certified evidence that high risk materials and components are compliant and down comes from known farms with high welfare to remediate any issues before production. any harmful chemicals. standards for ducks and geese, that never forceWe’re developing a chemicals management policy to set out our feed or live pluck birds. requirements and expectations of manufacturers in more detail. Eliminating harmful chemicals SDG #3 Good health & wellbeing SDG #6 Clean water & sanitation 25 Certified sustainable materials Percentage of preferred tier 2 suppliers Replacing PFC in water repellent finishes – chemicals management with third-party certification in 2018 Our customers need waterproof products to keep them dry outdoors. However When possible, we prefer to work with suppliers Fabric Trim Leather the PFC compounds used to treat fabrics to make them water repellent can that have achieved a third-party certification to suppliers suppliers suppliers damage the environment, so we’re replacing them where we can. show they’re managing chemicals carefully. (apparel) (apparel)(footwear) Berghaus aims to be PFC-free in its durable water repellent (DWR) materials These include: by 2020. It’s achieved this for more than half the range already. In 2018, bluesign® Berghaus collaborated with fabric supplier, Gore-tex®, to eliminate PFCs of • bluesign®: a system for sustainable textile 54% 21% n/a certified environmental concern from waterproof jackets. production that eliminates harmful substances across the manufacturing process More than 80% of Speedo’s range and 100% of Endura’s DWR materials in •  eko-Tex : a system for testing textiles O ® its Autumn/Winter 2018 season are also PFC-free. to show they’re free from over 100 Oeko-Tex® 82% 88% n/a harmful substances certified • L  eather Working Group: certified tanneries Performance gear that’s responsibly manage their chemical use MADEKIND™ for the planet Leather In 2018, over 95% of Speedo’s swimwear and MADEKIND™ is Berghaus’ approach to Working watershorts range was covered by the n/a n/a 60% taking better care of our world. Products with Group Oeko-tex® certification. The main fabric used MADEKIND™ on their swing tag have at medal-rated in 59% of Berghaus’s products had bluesign® least 50% recycled content, are made with approval in 2018 and over a third of all styles used Colourkind™ fabrics, or contain at least 90% at least 90% bluesign® fabrics. bluesign® approved fabrics. We’re engaging with our preferred tier 2 suppliers At least one In 2018, more than 45% of the Berghaus range to grow the share of materials covered by of the above 91% 85% 60% was MADEKIND™. For Autumn/Winter 2018, certifications. In 2018, 85% of our preferred trim certifications Hydroloft™ and Hydrodown™ jackets were suppliers and 91% of our preferred fabric suppliers 100% MADEKIND™ for the first time too. had at least one sustainability certification. This included 100% of Endura’s preferred fabric mills. 26 Finding the materials of tomorrow Developing more We’re developing a sustainable materials policy Our suppliers are helping us increase the recycled to identify options to source and manufacture content of the packaging for our footwear. In 2018, sustainable products means more sustainable products and give our suppliers Berghaus shoes were shipped in 100% recycled finding more sustainable clearer guidance. We’re exploring options to create boxes, and the boxes for ellesse, Lacoste, materials and instigating the same great products with innovative and SeaVees and Boxfresh shoes contained at least more sustainable manufacturing techniques, for 85% recycled content. new design approaches. instance, by using less water or fewer chemicals. We’re also extending the life of surplus stock by Turning waste into resources donating it to charity (see page 58). As well as We support the principles of a circular economy, helping others, this reduces our environmental where resources are recycled and reused as many footprint by preventing products we can’t sell from times as possible. going to landfill. In the textiles industry, less than 1% of material used to produce clothes is recycled into new clothing. Our innovation team is exploring options for closed loop production systems, where waste garments and footwear are broken down and reused to make new products. We’re also using more recycled materials in our products and packaging. In 2018, 20% of Speedo’s watershorts range was made of recycled fabrics and we’re looking for ways to increase this in future seasons. Speedo’s H2O Active women’s swim range uses recycled nylon made from waste fishing nets, plastics and carpet. Endura offers a cycling jersey made of recycled manufacturing waste. SDG #9 Industry, innovation & infrastructure SDG #12 Responsible consumption & production 27 Turning plastic bottles into fleeces with Polartec® Less than 10% of the world’s plastic is recycled. Up to 12.7 million tonnes of plastic waste enters our oceans each year and plenty more ends up in landfill. By reusing this plastic to create new fabrics, we reduce the amount of waste sent to landfill and help to prevent plastic from polluting our waterways. This reduces our dependence on oil and cuts our CO2 emissions too. Berghaus has been using recycled materials in its products since the 1970s, when it began reusing old tractor inner tubes to make waterproof gaiters. In 2018, Berghaus teamed up with fabric supplier, Polartec®, to put plastic waste to better use. Together, we developed a range of recycled polyester fleeces made from plastic bottles. The fabrics used to make 10 styles of Polartec® fleece contain between 80% and 100% recycled content, diverting over 2 million plastic bottles from landfill. 28 Protecting human rights and improving conditions for people who make our products We believe everyone Our ethical supply chain approach has the right to fair We outsource the majority of our manufacturing, but we do own one factory, the Endura facility in pay, safe working Scotland, and we also co-own three factories in Sri conditions, and to be Lanka and one in Vietnam. There are over 123,300 treated with dignity people working at our tier 1 suppliers alone. We engage with our suppliers and partners to ensure and respect. We’re working conditions are safe and that workers are working hard to tackle paid fairly and treated with respect. the risks of modern We’re transparent about who we source from slavery and we strive because it helps us work in a more constructive, open and collaborative way with our suppliers, to protect rights and customers, other brands, non-governmental improve conditions organisations (NGOs) and civil society. It means: for everyone in our •  actories are more accountable for their F supply chain. standards •  e can collaborate with brands that source W from the same factories as us • P  eople can alert us if they’ve found an issue at one of the factories we source from SDG #5 Gender equality SDG #8 Decent work SDG #10 Reduced inequalities Sourcing country 29 Our standards Working with suppliers to Starting a relationship ‘Our Standards’ booklet sets out what we expect improve standards from our employees, partners and suppliers. It We continuously assess suppliers to • We carry out a social audit of new factories includes guidance on how to do business ethically, check compliance with our standards •  hey must be approved before our brands can place any orders T with integrity and with respect for people, and is and we conduct social audits of all tier 1 with them available in 13 languages. See page 45 for details assembly factories to identify areas for • We conducted 41 initial audits in 2018 on how we audit factories against improvement. these standards. Detailed supplier questionnaires help us We have detailed policies in place to protect three identify factory-level risks. In 2018, we Monitoring standards types of vulnerable workers in our supply chain, reviewed and expanded the questions to which are available on our website: understand our suppliers’ approach on • We regularly re-audit every factory • Child labour and young worker policy more labour relations issues, including • In 2018, we carried out cyclical audits for 34 of our factories freedom of association and gender • Migrant worker policy equality. • Homeworking policy Improving standards Our established factory review process In 2018, we introduced our Corporate helps us monitor suppliers from the • If we find areas for improvement, we make recommendations, Responsibility Charter for suppliers. It outlines moment we consider working with a new agree an action plan and follow up to check on progress. We our ethics and governance requirements and how supplier. encourage manufacturers to include workers in the process and we expect our suppliers to protect people and the to consult them on the changes environment. We contacted every supplier and asked them to commit to the Charter in 2018. • In 2018, we made 13 targeted audits to check up on improvement progress, understand the root causes and gauge We’re also supporting our own people to make the impact on workers sure they’re confident in partnering with the right suppliers. This year, we developed a guide to •  e regularly contract an independent local interviewer to join our W ethical sourcing to support our buying teams in visits and speak directly with factory employees about working selecting new suppliers and ensuring existing conditions suppliers comply with our standards. 30 Building suppliers’ and licensees’ capabilities Supporting vulnerable homeworkers in India If we find a supplier isn’t meeting our standards, There are many homeworkers involved in handwe work with them to improve their capabilities and stitching parts of our footwear, and we aim to conditions for workers. Our approach is to use our support them as a vital part of our supply chain. influence as a buyer to encourage improvements, In 2016 we began working with Homeworkers instead of simply walking away. If a factory refuses Worldwide and Cividep on a pilot programme to to engage with us and make positive changes, map homeworkers for one supplier in our leather we will terminate the relationship responsibly to shoe supply chain in India. minimise disruption for workers. Since the programme began, our NGO partners For licensees, where we don’t have a direct have mapped the network of agents and “Homeworkers Worldwide has been delighted to commercial relationship with the factories making homeworkers in the supply chain of one of work with Pentland Brands on this project, and our products, we build the licensees’ capability to our suppliers. Since September 2018, these appreciates their commitment to improving the pay ensure their suppliers are upholding good social homeworkers have been paid at a higher ‘piece and conditions of the homeworkers in their Kickers standards. Our Licensee Sourcing Manual makes rate’ – a fixed amount for every piece they stitch. supply chain. We look forward to working with it clear that we expect licensees to follow high Their pay now meets minimum standards, taking them in 2019, to verify the important achievements ethical standards and tell us which factories they into account commission that agents charge to thus far, and to develop and implement a model source from. track orders and quality control. for the good employment of homeworkers, which We’ve also supported the supplier to register we will then be promoting to other brands and their homeworkers and introduce a simple paper-based suppliers in the sector.” system to track orders and payments made. Lucy Brill Homeworkers Worldwide 31 Supplier audits in 2018 Eleven of the zero tolerance issues have been In 2018, we conducted 104 audits (compared with resolved and we’re working closely with suppliers 96 in 2017). Sixteen of these were part of the to resolve the remaining issues by training Better Work programme. supervisors, helping them improve their recordkeeping systems and building their capacity to The number of audits increased due to the addition comply with our standards. of new brands. We also trialled using semiannounced audits where we audit a supplier within Number of factory audits by type: a two-week timeframe, but don’t give an exact date of our visit. 2018 Most instances of non-compliance were minor, but 31% of instances were classed as critical (up from 20% in 2017). The increase in critical issues Initial audits 41 is partly due to new factories supplying our brands this year. The most common critical issues related Cyclical audits 34 to inconsistences found in workers’ wage records, inadequate holidays provided to workers, lack Targeted audits 13 of social insurance provision, health and safety issues, and excessive working hours. Total 88 We identified 21 zero tolerance issues in 2018, compared with one in 2017. Twelve issues were related to health and safety, such as inadequate fire exits. The remaining issues were related to payment of living wages and excessive working hours that could be indicators of modern slavery. 32 Factory audits by country Issues identified by type in 2018 Preventing modern slavery There are millions of modern slavery victims worldwide. We’re using our influence to support global efforts to tackle modern slavery and we’re working hard to negate any related risks in our supply chain. Our position is clear: modern slavery is unacceptable. We report more detail on our modern slavery approach and performance in our Modern Slavery Statement 2018. In 2018 we worked with locally-based international NGO, Issara Institute, to begin embedding our modern slavery investigation process at a second factory in Thailand. This work is ongoing and we’ll report on progress in future years. We’re also working with Issara Institute to improve ethical recruitment practices in Thailand (see page 48). 52% China 10% Indonesia Zero tolerance 2.1% We’re pleased to have improved wages for homeworkers of 10% Vietnam An issue that has an unacceptable impact on worker a footwear supplier in India, with the help of Homeworkers 8% India rights or conditions. It could lead us to suspend or Worldwide and Cividep (see page 31). 4% Cambodia even end our relationship with a supplier if they do not 4% Thailand We also strengthened our approach to managing modern immediately engage in sustainable improvement. 3% Portugal slavery risks at our UK distribution centre in partnership 3% Taiwan with the international NGO, Hope for Justice. We have 1% France Critical 30.9% continued to train our people to spot modern slavery risks 1% Italy An issue of serious concern that could turn into a zero1% Malaysia and piloted an app for buyers to flag potential issues during tolerance issue. 1% Mexico their routine factory visits. 1% New Zealand Minor 66.9% 1% Pakistan 1% Romania Less significant breaches. Individually, they can be 1% Sri Lanka quickly tackled, but in clusters they can identify a need for improved management practices. 33 Embedding ethical recruitment practices in Thailand It’s common for migrant workers to be recruited for low skilled work in Thailand, often from neighbouring countries such as Cambodia and Myanmar. Together with Issara, we’ve eliminated recruitment fees at one of our Thai suppliers. The factory now deals with a recruitment agency in Myanmar directly, instead of using intermediate Thai agencies. Procedures are also more clearly communicated to jobseekers and vulnerabilities are reduced. This zero-fee recruitment approach means “It would be good if all the factories could practice intermediary agents can’t pass on informal fees zero fees policies so workers can go without being in that end up being paid by workers. More than debt and can support their family better. We do hope 42 workers have been compensated more than that buyers, suppliers, and recruitment agencies can 480,300 Thai Baht (£11,000 GBP) for recruitment work together to make this happen.” costs since January 2018. Managing Director Recruitment Agency, Myanmar 34 Assessing risk at our UK distribution centres “Ending modern slavery is a huge challenge, but Many of our products pass through our UK one we tackle with hope. We were pleased to find distribution centres on their journey to reach our Pentland Brands has hope too – we reviewed their customers. Sometimes during high season we modern slavery policies and approach at their take on extra people through agencies. Using a national distribution centre, and while we made temporary workforce can be linked to higher risks minor recommendations on how to improve their of modern slavery. procedures even further, overall we were impressed. We welcome their commitment to training employees In 2018, we partnered with a leading international and raising awareness of this issue and look slavery NGO, Hope for Justice, to review our forward to continuing to work with Pentland Brands, approach. Hope for Justice conducted an in-depth to ensure their operations and supply chains are review of our exposure to modern slavery risks at protected from modern slavery.” our distribution centre in the north-east of England. Susan Banister They confirmed that we have many important Head of Business Development policies and procedures in place, including paying Hope for Justice all workers living wages. They also identified some improvements that we’re implementing. This includes clearly referencing modern slavery in our recruitment policy and code of conduct and doing more to promote the confidential whistleblowing policy. 35 Training our people Partnering with others for industry-wide change Helping buyers spot Promoting freedom of We’re training hundreds of employees across our Partnering with local experts, NGOs, and other modern slavery association in Indonesia business to spot indicators of modern slavery, brands and buyers remains an important part of It’s not only trained specialists or We’ve been a signatory to the wherever they work, with more than 680 of our our approach in addressing the complex, and often auditors that can spot the signs Indonesia Freedom of Association people completing online training. hidden, issue of modern slavery. of modern slavery – it can be (FOA) Protocol since 2011. It Everyone in factory facing and warehouse roles Pentland Brands is a founding member of the ACT identified by anyone that visits aims to protect workers’ rights to receives face-to-face training and a toolkit to help Foundation, a partnership of brands and the global factories. form and join trade unions and them identify potential indicators of modern slavery union IndustriALL that is committed to improving In 2018, we partnered with the bargain collectively for better during factory visits or in our warehouses. In 2018, wages in the apparel and footwear industry. consultancy Carnstone, and other wages and working conditions. we trained 172 people in these roles. We’ve adopted ACT’s global purchasing practices ETI members, to pilot an app In 2018, we distributed the FOA We’ve also introduced training to help people commitments, which were launched in 2018 specially for buyers. Commercial Protocol’s survey, which we working in our UK distribution centres spot signs to create continuous wage growth and better teams regularly visit factories to helped to draft in 2017, to all of modern slavery, where the risks could be higher conditions for workers. We helped develop the discuss orders and production our suppliers. The survey tracks than in our UK office buildings. We trained 20 commitments as a member of the Foundation’s with suppliers. actions factories are taking to managers and supervisors at three distribution Purchasing Practices Working Group. We’ll The Everyone’s Business app support workers’ rights. The initial centres in 2018. implement the changes needed to fully meet them gives buyers modern slavery results highlighted challenges that by the end of 2023, the timeline agreed by all ACT guidance at their fingertips. They workers can face with identifying members. can check the top risks in the and joining unions. We also supported ACT’s work to establish country they’re visiting, flag any We’ll continue to partner with country-specific sourcing commitments in 2018 for issues they spot on the factory other countries that are the first to engage in negotiating floor and share insights with the brands to help factories a collective bargaining agreement at industry corporate responsibility team. implement the protocol. In 2018, level. We’ll use our buying power as a brand to five out of seven of our suppliers preferentially source from these countries. in Indonesia were signed up to the protocol. 36 Our Partnering for good communities Giving back to our In 2018, we completed our three-year partnerships Empowering girls in India to with the British Red Cross, United Purpose communities is part of overcome gender inequality and WWF. Together, we’re proud of what we’ve who we are as a business. achieved in the last three years (see feature). •  ,149 girls and young women participated in sessions to educate them 6 Pentland Brands gives Our employees helped us choose these charity about women’s rights and build confidence through sport at least 1% of net profit partners and we held a showcase at our London •  nnual kabaddi (a contact team sport) tournaments were held to raise A headquarters in April 2018 so they could learn after tax to charitable awareness more about what we’ve achieved together. causes every year through This year, we selected new charity partners, • W  omen mentors trained to become role models to the girls and provide product donations and with the aim of supporting causes that resonate support financial contributions. with who we are as a company and which have Improving access to clean water in Kenya an impact in the countries where we operate. We channel much of our support through We identified two key areas where we want to •  95,863 people now have access to safe, clean water close to their 1 global charity partnerships and many of make a difference: empowering disadvantaged homes our brands have their own community communities and inspiring people to get active. • 35 villages have been declared free of open defecation programmes that resonate with their Over 200 charities applied for funding for relevant • 1  5,320 schoolchildren now attend health clubs to learn about hygiene and customers and ethos. Our people also projects and we asked our employees to vote on sanitation support their local communities by those shortlisted to select our charity partners volunteering their time for the next three years. Based on this selection Protecting the endangered process, we are continuing our partnership with Javan rhino in Indonesia United Purpose and entering new partnerships with four other charities: The British Council, Emerging • 1  21 new camera traps Leaders, Panathlon and SportInspired. were placed to monitor the rhino population • Over 3,295 seedlings planted to enrich the rhinos’ habitat SDG #3 Good health & wellbeing • 6 local communities supported to create local village development plans SDG #5 Gender equality SDG #8 Decent work 37 SDG #10 Reduced inequalities SDG #12 Responsible consumption & production Our new charity partnerships Empowering disadvantaged communities people from all backgrounds get into creative We’re working with three charity partners careers. on projects to empower people – In 2018, we committed to donate £10,000 to the particularly women – in the markets we Sorrell Foundation’s Saturday Club Trust, an source from. Over the next three years, organisation that offers 12-16 year olds a free we aim to help 10,000 women in these opportunity to explore subjects they love. We’ve markets reach their potential. been running an annual creative masterclass with • T  he British Council: We’ll support the Saturday Club for the last eight years. the development of online learning Inspiring young people to be more active resources that enable more young We want to help more people get fit and stay people, especially women, in Thailand healthy. Over the next three years, we aim to to access the craft sector to support inspire 5,000 young people in the UK to be more economic empowerment through active through our charity partnerships. educational opportunities. •  anathlon: We’ll help Panathlon expand P •  nited Purpose: We’ll collaborate to U its swim programme for young people with use sport to teach employability skills disabilities to involve over 5,000 disabled to young people living in slums in swimmers and more than 1,000 young leaders Mumbai, India. over three years. • E  merging Leaders: We’ll support the •  portInspired: We’ll support sports festivals S delivery of leadership training that and outreach programmes in Blackburn, empowers factory workers to take London, Nottingham and Sunderland to help control of their future. tackle childhood obesity in disadvantaged We also give people opportunities to reach communities through fun and inclusive sports their potential by working at Pentland programmes for schools. (see page 16) and we work to help young 38 “The Saturday Club allows young people Working with others in the sporting goods industry across the nation to discover something We’re working with industry partners to promote they love and find out how they can do physical activity through our involvement in the more of it in further education and their World Federation of the Sporting Goods Industry future careers. The best thing about (WFSGI). We’re vice-chair of its Physical Activity the creative masterclasses we support Committee, which aims to bring companies is the energy, which comes from the together to tackle physical inactivity and obesity. pure passion of young people excited Pentland Group Chairman, Stephen Rubin, to express themselves, share ideas and is Honorary President of the WFSGI, and learn new skills. There are so many Pentland Brands Chair, Andy Rubin, is European different paths you can take as a young Vice President. We also sit on its Corporate person to achieve a career in design, and Responsibility, Aquatics, International Sports I love telling people more about what we Organisations, Legal and Trade committees. We do at Pentland Brands and how rewarding submitted a report on progress in our corporate our work is. I truly believe that spending responsibility activities to the WFSGI in September one day helping a young person discover 2018 and renewed our commitment to abide by its something they love can be enough to Code of Conduct. change their life.” Katie Greenyer Creative Talent and Network Director, Pentland Brands 39 Using our brands to make a positive difference in society Our brands are also helping more people get active through their own charity partnerships. Canterbury Endura Speedo Canterbury partners with England Rugby Endura has donated bib shorts, jerseys, hats and socks to Rouler pour le Speedo’s Swim Generation programme offers on the All Schools programme that aims Rwanda (Ride for Rwanda), an organisation that aims to support young training and support to improve water safety to get more kids playing rugby. In 2018, African cyclists in establishing a professional career. It also supports the worldwide.It reached over 60,000 people in six 65 schools enrolled in the programme Endura Lifecycle Trust, which maintains five kilometres of forest trails in countries in 2018 alone. This year, Speedo also and children participating in Canterbury’s Scotland and runs sessions that give local schoolchildren and people from sponsored endurance swimmer Lewis Pugh on his kit workshops had the chance to learn disadvantaged backgrounds the chance to experience mountain biking. challenge to swim 560km along the coast of the about the England rugby shirt and design English Channel. As the UN Patron of the Oceans, SeaVees a bespoke playing shirt for their school he aims to raise awareness of how we can SeaVees is committed to giving 1% of net sales to support environmental based on the school’s values. Canterbury preserve our oceans for future generations. causes, as part of the ‘1% For The Planet’ initiative. In 2018, these funds put the designs into production and the Berghaus went to environmental organisations working near its base in Santa Barbara, children unveiled their designs on the California, including: pitch at Twickenham before the England Berghaus supports charity partners that align with its outdoor ethos, including the Outward •  anta Barbara Channelkeeper, which aims to protect and restore the S vs Italy Six Nations game in March 2019. Bound Trust, John Muir Trust and European Santa Barbara channel and its watersheds. Outdoor Conservation Association. The brand •  hannel Islands Marine and Wildlife Institute, which focuses on marine C also has its own social club for employees that mammal rescue, rehabilitation, research and education to promote ocean raised money in 2018 to help Useful Vision, a and human health. charity which gives visually impaired children •  os Padres ForestWatch, which protects wildlife, wilderness and clean L the opportunity to go indoor rock climbing with water throughout the Los Padres National Forest. specialist instructors and exclusive access. SDG #3 Good health & wellbeing 40 Donating products to those in need We partner with In Kind Over 520 charities benefited in 2018 alone, including “We would struggle to do some community organisations focusing on youth care, of the physical activities without Direct to help channel our family welfare, disability and homelessness. For the things we get from In Kind donations of surplus stock example, Kickers shoes went to Club Doncaster, Direct. Our sessions are all to good causes. Since 2000, a foundation that aims to motivate people of all about being inclusive so it is hard ages and background to engage in physical activity, when someone turns up to do we’ve donated a total of training and education (see quote). sports and they’re wearing safety £2.8million in estimated We also donated products worth over £10,000 this boots because it is all they have. retail value of products. year to SportsTraider, a charity that gives young Instead of having to turn them people across the UK the opportunity to take part away, I can give them shoes from in sport. In December 2018, we ran a campaign at In Kind Direct and it means they our sites in London, Nottingham and Sunderland to can take part.” encourage employees to donate outgrown or surplus Health and Wellbeing Officer sports kit to SportsTraider’s KitAmnesty. In the US, Club Doncaster Foundation SeaVees donated around 1,500 pairs of shoes to people who lost their homes or were displaced as a result of wildfires in California in 2018. Surplus stock and worn returns from some of our footwear brands are given a new lease of life through the social enterprise Africa Shoes. In 2018, we used this service to extend the life of over 23,000 pairs of shoes and 13,000 single shoes. The shoes go to entrepreneurs in Africa who earn a living by recycling and selling them on to people who need them – at a fraction of the cost of new shoes SDG #12 Responsible consumption & production 41 Giving back in local communities Our people want to give When our people go the extra mile to raise money for charity, we offer matched funding to increase back to their communities their donations. We’ve expanded our offer to allow and we help them do that employees in the UK to apply for matched funding through volunteering days of up to £500 if they are fundraising for one of our charity partners, or up to £250 for a charity of their and matched giving to choice. top up their fundraising. In 2018, we donated over £4,000 in matched “A team from the Shenzhen office “We worked within some of our local funding to recognise the efforts of 17 Pentland went to clean up the green way along Auckland communities, assisting with Everyone has an opportunity to get Dameisha beach. There are lots the elderly in residential retirement employees. Fundraising challenges included involved through our annual Give Back of cigarette butts, food packaging homes. Activities included spending running, cycling, walking, skydiving, obstacle Days. Teams across the business choose bags, bottles and all kinds of plastic time with the residents by way of challenges, baking and growing moustaches. garbage scattered in the grass and conversation, games, walks and a local cause that matters to them and Through our new partnership with Lendwithcare, bushes. This is not only a serious other fun interactive activities, spend a day helping out. It’s good for visual pollution, it’s also causing distributing lunches and assisting communities and it’s great for building we are also giving employees globally the damage to the earth beyond our with landscaping in the grounds. teamwork skills too. opportunity to support entrepreneurs in emerging imagination. It was cold and windy at It was great to see Canterbury markets with microloans to help them start or the beach but we were very happy employees so engaged, whether In 2018, our Give Back Days around expand their business. We’ll be rolling this out in to do something together to support on the end of a spade or the end the world included clearing rubbish from 2019. environmental protection.” of a knitting needle. The residents beaches, parks and river banks, helping Frank Ning shared some incredible stories with out at animal refuges, collecting toys for Shenzhen, China the team!” a children’s charity and keeping elderly Andrea Hardy people company (see quotes) Canterbury, New Zealand 42 3.0 Corporate responsibility at JD Sports Fashion plc Ethical sourcing JD Sports Fashion plc (JD) JD will only work with Policies on ethical sourcing are reviewed on a regular basis. JD continually assesses factory is a separate publicly listed suppliers who comply ethical and quality management and works with company and reports on with its Code of Conduct suppliers to improve conditions in its factories. The its corporate responsibility and are committed to health and safety of workers is paramount in all areas of its business, direct or otherwise. approach and activities in working to its minimum In 2018, JD worked with a third party auditor to its own Annual Report. As standards, which are in widen the scope of its ethical audit to include majority shareholder, we line with the International modern slavery indicators. These welfare provide a summary here. Labour Organisation. assessments will be separate from the ethical audits and will focus on workers and their rights. The assessments will identify risks and noncompliances, implement practical actions and offer further support and engagement on improvement. The initial focus will be in China with a plan to extend the assessment to other countries over the next 12 months. The company continued efforts to establish transparency in the supply chain and completed mapping to its 4th tier private label manufacturing base in 2018. 86% of the factories used by the JD Group were audited by third party accredited audit companies. The remaining 14% didn’t require an audit. 44 People Ethical sourcing JD aims to attract, develop To empower employees to be the very best at what they do, JD has a learning and development and engage committed and structure that covers every part of the business. talented people so that Over 200 e-learning modules are available to they choose to grow with improve and refresh knowledge and skills, and over 7,000 hours of face-to-face training were the company throughout delivered in 2018 through JD’s Academies, their careers. It aims to leadership programmes, management courses, ensure that its teams feel junior management development sessions and bespoke workshops. JD has 70 apprentices listened to, involved and studying towards accredited qualifications and supported through regular aims to grow this number in 2019. communications and JD is committed to ensuring its people are treated activities such as open equally regardless of gender, marital status, sexual orientation, age, race, religion, ethnic or social door sessions, employee origin or disability. As at 2 February 2019, women forums, working parties and represented 48% of employees and 29% of senior internal social networks. management (compared with 48% and 24% the previous year). The company is fully committed to continuous health and safety improvement, and defines clear individual responsibilities and duties to maintain safe and healthy working conditions. It also provides health checks and support for employees to adopt healthier lifestyles 45 Environment JD has made a series of In 2018, JD introduced a formal environmental Through its retail stories, JD is tackling plastic management system (EMS) for its core UK waste by encouraging customers to re-use bags. step changes to improve operations that supports continuous improvement The JD fascia is known for its high quality, durable its management of in energy use, business travel, carbon emissions, drawstring duffle bags. The bags themselves environmental impacts water use, waste and recycling. A dedicated EMS are made from 33% recycled material and their team of operational employees and specialist re-use is visually evident from the high street to now and in the future. This consultants will assist with the development of the the high school. The Blacks and Millets fascias progress is reflected in system. have now ceased production of plastic customer the latest report from the The company’s carbon management programme bags and changed to an attractive paper design to encourage further re-use. Carbon Disclosure Project focuses on improving energy efficiency and purchasing renewable electricity wherever (CDP) in January 2019, possible. In 2018, 85% of its electricity came from which saw the company’s renewable sources globally, including 100% of score improve from a D to electricity used in Belgium, Denmark, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Sweden and the UK. Comparable a B, outperforming both the total emissions have remained relatively stable retail and regional sector in 2018 when measured against equivalent store average score of B-. volumes for the previous year. JD has also taken steps to improve recycling by expanding use of dry mixed recycling, increasing recycling of cardboard and identifying further opportunities to reduce the volume of waste sent to landfill from stores and distribution centres. 46 JD Foundation: Finish Line Youth Foundation: changing lives, saving lives 20 years of giving back The mission of the JD Foundation US-based retailer Finish Line became is to support charities working with part of JD Sports Fashion plc in 2018 disadvantaged young people in the UK. The Finish Line Youth Foundation strives to make a difference in the lives of disadvantaged youth and people with disabilities in the The JD Foundation has raised £2.5m to support charities since it communities where its employees and customers live, work and was established in 2015. In 2018, it supported 13 charities with play. a focus on physical health, mental health and homelessness, including: As a US national partner of the Special Olympics and Boys & Girls Clubs of America, the Foundation provides premium sneakers for • D  onating a percentage of the proceeds from the sale of carrier competition, career readiness programmes, and the dedication of bags in England, Wales and Scotland to Mountain Rescue employee volunteers nationwide. Since its inception in 1998, the England & Wales and Scottish Mountain Rescue. Foundation has donated more than US$21 million to these initiatives •  elping Depaul provide emergency accommodation for homeless H and other youth causes across the US. young people in crisis through its Nightstop service in the UK. •  onating to Cardiac Risk in the Young to hold screening days for D more than 1,000 14 to 35-year-olds to get health screening for undetected heart defects. 47 Pentland Brands Lakeside Squires Lane London N3 2QL To find out more about CR at Pentland Brands, please contact corporate.responsibility@pentland.com or visit our website © Pentland Group plc 2019. All rights reserved. Airborne Footwear Limited is the UK licensee for footwear under licence from Kickers International B.V. Pentland Chaussures Limited is the worldwide licensee for footwear under licence from Lacoste S.A. and its associated companies. BERGHAUS and are registered trade marks of Berghaus Limited. BOXFRESH and are registered trade marks of Boxfresh International Limited. CANTERBURY and are registered trade marks of Canterbury Limited. ELLESSE and are registered trade marks of Ellesse International S.p.A. ENDURA and are registered trade marks of Endura Limited. KANGAROOS and are registered trade marks of Asco Group Limited. Karen Millen is the licensee for footwear under licence from Karen Millen Fashions Limited. KICKERS is a registered trade mark of and used under licence from Kickers International B.V. LACOSTE and are registered trade marks and used under licence from Lacoste S.A. and its associated companies. MITRE and are registered trade marks of Mitre Sports International Limited. RED OR DEAD is a registered trade mark of Red or Dead Limited. SeaVees and is a registered trade mark of SeaVees, Inc. SPEEDO and are registered trade marks of Speedo Holdings B.V. PENTLAND is a registered trade mark of Pentland Industries Limited.
