infeurope United Nations Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 infeurope S.A. Period from May 2019 to May 2020 Statement of continued support infeurope reaffirms its support of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption, and of its commitment to the Global Compact's initiatives and principles. As a professional services company, we are not confronted with many of the issues covered by the Principles of the Global Compact, but we endeavour to observe those Principles wherever applicable and to make them part of our company culture and operations. Stefan Geier and Dr Arno J. Burr Managing Directors, infeurope S.A. infeurope Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals As a services company, our people and our policies are fundamental to our success, and we continually seek to ensure that we honour the fundamental rights of our employees, both as individuals and as employees. Implementation infeurope has an established code of conduct to which all employees must comply which addresses, among other principles, those of integrity and ethics. Moreover; the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg has traditionally adopted a legislative strategy which is strongly supportive of human rights and the rights of employees, and we conform fully and willingly to all applicable legislation. Measurement of outcomes By virtue of the small size of the company, the predominantly qualified and professional staff working at a senior level, and the nature of our business activity in which human rights issue are uncommon, we have not yet encountered any such issues. However, we envisage that all such incidents would be formally addressed and recorded. infeurope Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Our code of conduct addresses the respect for the privacy of the employee, and prohibits any form of discrimination and harassment. Equally, we of course conform to all applicable legislation, as noted earlier. Implementation A Staff Committee, elected regularly by the employees, exists to offer a platform for dialogue between management and employees. It is through this platform that any issues concerned with labour rights would be formally addressed. In addition, there are regular meetings between management and staff in which labour-related problems, if any, may be addressed. Measurement of outcomes Once again, the nature of our business activity and the predominantly senior and professional staff profile mean that labour rights issues are extremely rare. infeurope Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Reflecting the type of work that the company undertakes, ours is an office-based environment heavily dependent on IT services, and consequently we focus our attention with regard to environmental issues on optimising our use of IT and energy, and on making use of products which are recyclable or made from recyclable material. The environment is a domain in which we are able to make a concrete impact; therefore, since .we are also consumers of office products and supplies, we seek to ensure environmentally acceptable solutions in these areas. Implementation Our energy measurement project helped us to better understand our use of energy and how this might be improved, and it essentially confirmed that the measures that we had already implemented were more than adequate. We have a range of measures in place which help to improve energy usage and reduce the carbon footprint of our business activities, comprising our environmental management system. Nevertheless, we continue to implement further improvements where possible. For example, our new heating system consumes much less resources, and we aim to minimise our use of air-conditioning. infeurope Transport usage is minimised, where possible, by the use of teleconferencing and videoconferencing, and of virtual classrooms for training. We advise the use of public transport wherever possible. With regard to recycling, empty toner and ink cartridges as well as electronic waste are given to a licensed local disposal agent, and empty bottles are returned to the vendor and recycled. We are now also recycling PMC waste, using a national PMC collection initiative. We advise the use of organic products for the cleaning of our facilities We try to ensure that natural resources and raw materials are used in the most efficient manner, and we honour the principle of pollution prevention at our premises. We also ensure that all employees are familiar with this environmental policy, and that all staff are able to put forward suggestions. In addition, our employees are encouraged to follow sound environmental principles when working at client sites and, as applicable, to conform to the environmental policy of the client. Measurement of outcomes Our energy measurement project resulted in a detailed audit of energy usage, serving as a benchmark for monitoring future usage and the benefits gained from improvements. In addition, we plan to establish targets for transition to environmentally-friendly products. infeurope Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy and Goals The majority of our service activities are provided to the European public sector predominantly the EU institutions and agencies and to UN agencies, where anti-corruption policy is firmly established, so a commitment to honesty, fair practice and avoidance of conflicts of interests is fundamental to our business. Implementation Our standard employment contract forbids our personnel from accepting or offering any gift (monetary or otherwise), to or from our clients and suppliers and, along with the code of conduct, prohibits the divulgence or acquisition of confidential information of infeurope, its clients and its suppliers. Thus any such action construed as an enticement or a means to obtain an unfair commercial advantage would be considered as a breach of contract and would result in disciplinary action or, in the worst case, dismissal. Measurement of outcomes Although the anti-corruption measures described above are well established, corruption is not a significant issue for the company, given the nature of our business and our client base. Even so, should it arise, it would be treated as a contractual breach, as noted, and formal procedures conformant with Luxembourg law would be invoked and
