UNITED NATIONS | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS APRIL 2018 MARCH 2019 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE PKF Eastern Africa has a strong commitment to responsible business practices and recognize the importance of balancing the interests of all our key stakeholders our clients, our employees and the communities in which we work. We endeavour to adhere to the United Nations Global Compact Principles through the services we offer to our clients, and in our operations and interactions with the community around us. PKF Kenya is the signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, but all our offices in the region embrace and implement the ten principles. We are pleased to enclose our communication on progress reaffirming our continued support of the United Nations Global Compact principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. By delivering this communication on progress, we are reaffirming our continued adherence to the Global Compact and our voluntary commitment to implementing the Global Compact principles and its ten principles within the firm and to addressing them as a key issue in our dealings with partners and commissioning parties. We hereby give a detailed account of actions taken between April 2018 and March 2019 with regard to implementation of the United Nations Global Compact principles. Alpesh Vadher Chief Executive Officer PKF Eastern Africa Table of Contents About us .........................................................................................3 Introduction.......................................................................................4 1. Human rights.................................................................................5 2. Labour..........................................................................................14 3. Environment.................................................................................16 4. Anti-Corruption.............................................................................20 2 About us “PKF Eastern Africa is represented in Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania and Rwanda with over 750 staff and 35 directors and partners. Since 1964, we have served a wide client profile across diverse industries and sectors in Africa. As one of East Africa’s leading firms of accountants and business advisers, we specialise in advising the management of developing private and public businesses. We offer Audit and Assurance, Tax and Advisory services to a wide variety of public and private sector organisations.” We pride ourselves in being an equal opportunity, Our mission multicultural firm with the majority of our partners born • To support and guide clients to achieve success in and raised in East Africa. As a result, we have a unique their business by acting as their trusted business understanding of the local markets that enables us to advisers. offer holistic, innovative and relevant business • To provide quality, cost effective, personalized and solutions, taking into account the distinct market forces innovative business solutions to meet the changing and constraints that come into play within the region. needs of our clients. • To empower our manpower through continuous We are a member firm of PKF International, a global professional development to face the dynamic global network of legally independent firms bound together by challenges. a shared commitment to quality, integrity and the creation of clarity in a complex regulatory environment. Our services We provide a wide range of services to clients ranging With offices in 440 cities, PKF member firms operate in from large companies to SMEs in virtually all sectors of 150 countries across 5 continents and specialise in the economy. These include: providing high quality audit, accounting, tax, and business advisory services to international and • Audit, Assurance and Advisory domestic organizations. The network is a member of • IT Assurance and Data Analytics the Forum of Firms an organisation dedicated to • Tax Compliance and Tax Consulting consistent and high quality standards of financial • Corporate Finance reporting and auditing practices worldwide. • Management Consulting • Human Resource Management Consulting Our vision • Business Process Outsourcing To be a leading regional accounting and business • Corporate Recovery and Restructuring advisory firm with a recognised global presence, • IT Consulting providing quality and personalised service through • Public Sector Advisory relationships and empowered professional manpower. • Forensic Investigations • Risk Management Advisory • Company Secretarial 3 Introduction As a member of the United Nations Global Compact, we reaffirm our commitment to aligning our strategic plans and operations, internal and external to our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy. Our CSR Policy states “PKF Eastern Africa prides itself in having a deep heritage of operating at the highest level of integrity. We have a strong commitment to responsible business practices and recognise the importance of balancing the interests of all our key stakeholders employees, clients and the communities in which we work with. Our CSR Policy revolves around four pillars: PKF Foundation PKF Foundation was established to fund all CSR The workplace activities implemented by PKF in Eastern Africa and a This involves all activities which uphold the wellbeing of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) committee employees within the workplace by incorporating work having representatives from all offices that have: practices such as workforce diversity, work-life • Established a collective CSR commitment balance, health and safety, training etc. • Identiﬁed areas of focus that will create sustainable development impacts, foster improved communication The marketplace with stakeholders and ensure sustainability of the We implement our policy by engaging in fair, ethical and business as a whole. responsible business practices in the marketplace. Furthermore, as a member of the United Nations The environment Global Compact, PKF is committed to aligning its We advocate for good environmental practices and strategic plans and daily operations, internally and engaging in environmentally friendly practices at the externally, in line with the UN Global Compact’s firm, with clients, corporate partners and the general principles. public. Our submission The above pillars guide our approach to the Global This communication of progress (COP) highlights Compact Principles on Human Rights, Labour, practical actions the firm has taken to implement the Environment and Anti-Corruption. Global Compact principles in each of the four issue areas: Human Rights, Labour, Environment and The community Anti-Corruption between April 2018 and March 2019. We offer support for community initiatives and PKF here refers to PKF in Eastern Africa. institutions involved in community work and communal concerns by providing either or both financial and non-financial assistance. 4 Human rights “PKF Eastern Africa recognises that Human Rights are an integral part of corporate citizenship and we respect and support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.” The first two principles of the UN Global Compact, Implementation which are derived from the Universal Declaration of We have an established code of conduct and core of Human Rights, are: values which are consequently rooted in our culture of experience, confidence and delivery. Our culture is Principle 1: Businesses should support and about fostering the best values and attitudes for respect the protection of internationally proclaimed pursuing our business drivers. human rights; and These have been defined as: Principle 2: Business should make sure that they are • producing quality work, not complicit in human rights abuses. • meeting clients’ needs, • leading and enabling change to innovating, • achieving ﬁnancial results and • growing the business. 5 Our core values Teamwork Clarity At PKF we: At PKF we: • Are responsive • Are clear and concise • Share knowledge • Are open and transparent • Respect each other • Don’t use jargon • Share information and work collaboratively • Are straight to the point • Offer help to others • Communicate effectively • Celebrate success and share experiences • Ask questions to clarify understanding Integrity Quality At PKF we: At PKF we: • Maintain the highest standards • Take responsibility • Are consistent in service delivery • Do what we say • Consult when in doubt • Are honest • Hold ourselves accountable • Keep all information confidential • Understand and manage risk • Do not compromise our independence • Embrace technology • Are ethical • Are sceptical • Always strive for improvement • Keep abreast with change Passion At PKF we: • Never say “No” • Are enthusiastic • Are engaged • Are proactive • Exceed expectations Our core values with whom we interact. This means that in all our Our values guide our actions and beliefs and they are dealings we aim to exceed the regulatory standards by aligned to the human rights principles. which we are required to operate. We take great care to ensure that client confidentiality, our objectivity and our It is the personal responsibility of everyone in the firm to independence are hallmarks of everything we do. ensure that we put these behaviours into practice. We also have a responsibility to intervene where we see PKF in also seeks to support the principles of the others failing to uphold them. We provide several Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) through avenues to address any issue that contravenes the its business practices. The core requirements of the code of conduct as well as use of the confidential UDHR include freedom from torture, unjustified whistle-blowing procedure. imprisonment, unfair trial and other oppression, along with freedom of expression, religion and political or Our ethical policy other representation. Our ethical policy is at the core of our approach to our business. At PKF, we aim to ensure that we maintain the highest level of professional integrity with our clients, our staff, professional regulators and others 6 Therefore, PKF will not provide support or work with upholding the standards and development of the businesses or organisations which: profession, improving the lives of disadvantaged • fail to uphold basic human rights within their sphere of persons and community development; influence; • Encourage our staff, clients and associates to • are involved in the manufacture or transfer of individually and collectively adopt and implement an armaments to oppressive regimes; active and positive attitude towards Corporate Social • are involved in the manufacture of torture equipment Responsibility. or other equipment that is used in the violation of human rights. Our CSR activities are primarily led by the staff through office CSR Committees with all planned activities PKF also advocates and supports the Fundamental reviewed by the PKF trustees . PKF Foundation was International Labour Organisation Conventions. These set up to support the CSR activities of the firm. are the most widely-accepted standards for minimum labour rights and cover the use of under-age or forced Our presence in the community around us labour. At PKF, we have long recognised that local businesses and local communities are inextricably linked. The firm This policy is also published on our website and can plays an active role in contributing to society through be found at: both financial support and through enabling our people http://www.pkfea.com/index.php/our-ethical-policy to take part in activities organised by the firm as well as supporting them in their own initiatives. Our CSR policy PKF Eastern Africa prides itself in having a deep We encourage all of our people to take part in heritage of operating at the highest level of integrity. We charitable and voluntary activities as we recognise that have a strong commitment to responsible business this strengthens our bond with the communities in practices and recognize the importance of balancing which we work. PKF’s work in the community is the interests of all our key stakeholders our clients, supported by our CSR Policy. We strive to be a leader our employees, and the communities in which we in corporate social accountability. work. We: Our CSR activities revolve around the four pillars of our • Adopt business practices that are socially and CSR matrix: environmentally responsible with the aim of making a positive difference to the individuals and communities • workplace; around us; • marketplace; • Invest in the well-being of the community we live and • environment; work by initiating or supporting efforts in, • community. environmental management and protection; 7 Workplace activities “These focus on upholding the wellbeing of employees within the workplace, and the promotion of conducive culture. The activities carried out in 2018 include” managed to come up with strategies that will tackle the issues affecting the firm’s performance and the role of the firm in the community. The retreat was climaxed by appreciation of staff members who have dedicated their lives to the firm for 25 years and above and a farewell to George Athiambo who retired from the firm. Staff Christmas party 2018 As tradition dictates, Nairobi office staff were treated to a full day of fun, games, and dining on the 14 December 2018 to celebrate the Christmas holidays. Mombasa office staff welcomed the season at the Nyali PKF Nairobi medical camp 3 August 2018 Golf Club in Mombasa. PKF understands that the health of employees is vital for their own development and the firm’s successful growth. The firm therefore, organised a one-day medical camp for all members of staff in Nairobi office. Staff received training on healthy living habits, nutrition and weight management, and symptoms to watch out for heart problems from various renowned doctors and nutritionists. Staff also benefited from free general medical check-up for various conditions like, blood pressure, blood sugar levels and eye check-up. Managers’ retreat Above: ESR team appreciates ESR Partner George Athiambo, as he embarks on his retirement during the PKF Nairobi Office Christmas Party. Below: Mombasa & Malindi offices at the Nyali golf club celebrating Christmas Party ). At a relaxing and informal setting in Diani Reef Resort Mombasa, PKF managers and partners from all the Eastern Africa offices spent four days working on developing a new culture that will enable staff to participate more in the decision making processes. Managers were also able to bring out issues that affect employees well-being and productivity. The team 8 Marketplace activities This involves engaging in fair, ethical and responsible business practices in the marketplace by observing laws and statutory requirements, encouraging sustainable business practices, refraining from corruption amongst other professional practices. The firm’s main and core purpose is creating and This was a free seminar focused on enabling sustaining supportive relationships where objective and NGOs/NFPs endure in an environment of uncertainty timely advice enables our clients to thrive, develop and and reduced funding. The firm’s tax manager Ruth succeed by advising the management of developing Njoroge took the attendees through provisions that private and public businesses. govern taxation for NGOs/NFPs, wheres Satyajit Turumella, the PKF IT Assurance and Data Analytics We did this by: manager took the guests through Enterprise Risk Providing information to our clients and the general Management in an Emerging Technological public through seminars. Environment. National Budget Seminars Other marketplace activities The firm contributed to the improved efficiency and competitiveness of other companies and sectors by supporting initiatives that reward excellence in various sectors. PKF Kenya, as the judging process partners, oversee and audit the entire judging process including the selection of judges and verification of entry documents. PKF Kenya was the Judging Process Partner at the following 2018 Think Business and Energy Management awards. Budget seminar 2018 PKF hosted clients for seminars in Nairobi, Mombasa, East Africa Maritime Awards (EAMA) Nakuru and Kisumu on the ‘content and implications of EAMA aims to promote excellence in service delivery, the 2018/2019 budget’, that had been presented by appreciate exceptional contribution to the industry and the Ministry of Finance. The seminar endevors to the economy, encourage innovation and improve enable the attendees to anticipate the opportunities industry performance. The awards were held on 26 and threats that they might face following the changes October 2018. proposed by the cabinet secretary. The objective is to spur players in the industry into In our mandate as key stakeholders in the economy, meeting and surpassing set regulatory standards, the firm also held a pre-budget briefing where as a firm adopting best practice on respective service delivery we projected the firms’ expectations and suggestions and fostering competitiveness. to the Ministry of Finance for input into the national budget. Investment awards The Think Business investment awards was held on 7 Financial sustainability for NGOs December 2018. The objective of this awards was to celebrate the companies and individuals setting trend and breaking boundaries in the investments sector, and also provide the much needed information to the general public by documenting and publishing facts, analysis and commentary on the on goings of the capital and securities markets in Kenya. Financial sustainability for NGOs 9 Energy management awards The enrgy management awards was held on 13 April 2018. The awards, themed ‘setting the pace in resource efficiency towards competitive local manufacturing’, awarded over 20 companies that have achieved outstanding reductions in their energy consumption through implementation of energy efficient measures and technologies.In support of modern energy management principles in the sustainable production of goods and services, PKF participated in the 2018 KAM Energy Management awards as the judging process partner. The main aim of PKF presents award to some of the Think business investment winners this award was to recognise companies that have Insurance awards prioritized energy conservation at their corporate and Insurance awards 2018, held on the 13 July 2018 operational strategies. aimed at recognising mainly financial stability and growth of companies. The awards also celebrated Community activities companies that embrace innovation in product development and distribution, enhanced risk management practices, investment in the profession, adoption of good corporate governance practices, as well as engagement in sustainable social corporate projects. Banking awards This is implemented through support of community initiatives and supporting institutions involved in community and charity concerns. This support is both financial and non-financial. Some of the initiatives we engaged include: Tambukareli hospital donation PKF presents award to some of the insurance award winners The Banking Awards 2018, the 13th annual celebration of the banking sector achievements was held on Friday 11 May 2018. The objective was to encourage innovation, prudence and stability, in the banking sector by recognizing, awarding and celebrating exemplary performance in the sector. As the judging process partners, PKF was in charge of overseeing and audit the entire judging process including the selection of judges and verification of PKF Tanzania donated 5 toilets to Tambukareli hospital entry documents. in Temeke Dar es Salaam. The project was launched on 3 February 2019. 10 Mater heart run find the best home-grown solutions to Africa’s In support of the Mater Heart Run, PKF Foundation has sustainability issues. over the years sponsored the initiative by providing financial support and also participating in the run. The Judging is moderated by PKF which entails putting Mater Heart Run is held annually in a bid to raise funds together an expert jury panel to select the 15 best to enable disadvantaged children to get life-saving ideas. In 2018, the 15 finalist receive training on surgeries for congenital heart problems. The run was business and presentation skills before attending and held on 26 May 2018 in all major towns and PKF was presenting their ideas. The 15 ideas were subjected to represented by our Nairobi, Mombasa, Nakuru, Malindi public voting and the the best 7 ideas were selected to and Kisumu offices. proceed to the idea testing stage where only three best ideas were taken.The threes finalists are taken to South Standard Chartered Marathon Africa for further training. PKF played the role of judging PKF staff joined the community to support the seeing is process partner. believing Standard Charted marathon in 2018. The 2018 marathon aimed to raise funds for the needy in the community. ICPAK golf tournament The Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Kenya (ICPAK) is the statutory body of Accountants established under the Accountants’ Act of 1978 and mandated to develop and regulate the accountancy profession in Kenya. ICPAK undertakes the Accounting and Finance When MyLittleBigThing 2018 journey started Scholarship through which the Institute supports bright and disadvantaged students pursue university Kenya Ladies Golf Union education in Finance and Accounting courses. The institute targeted to sponsor 14 students in 2018 through fundraising activities and donations from corporates, individuals and friends of the Institute. Among ICPAK’s major fundraising activities are the Annual Charity golf tournaments where PKF was part of the sponsors. Oshwal golfing society The Oshwal Golfing Society (OGS) is a social golfing club for members of the Visa Oshwal Community, which has over 275 members. The society aims at Ladies golf in Kenya has registered an impressive providing a platform and supportive network for growth with more than 200 registered members. Golf upcoming young Oshwal golfers where they can was a male dominated sport but the Kenya Ladies Golf showcase their talent, a vision that PKF is passionate Union (KLGU) gave ladies a platform to change this about and was a proud sponsor of the 2018 golf notion. KLGU aims to develop and promote to the tournament which was held at Vetlab Golf Club. highest possible standards, the collective interests of ladies’ golf at all levels. PKF is very proud to be My little big thing associated with KLGU and the firm was proud to be the MyLittleBigThing Challenge was launched in 2017 by main sponsor for the 2018 KLGU tournament which MK-Africa in partnership with Cambridge University took place at the Limuru Golf Club. Sustainability Leadership Institute in South Africa. Inspired by Nobel laureate, the late Wangari Maathai’s Jim McFie Education Fund ‘Little Thing’ of planting trees. The competition aims at The Jim McFie Education Fund has for the last five encouraging the development of ideas that will help years financed accounting and business education for 11 qualifying beneficiaries and mentoring them to catalyse CFO roundtable wealth creation and inspire social transformation. PKF committed to make an annual contribution since August 2014 for five years. For the first five years, the firm is delighted to see the students progressing very well and in 2017 renewed their support by offering to maintain the annual contribution for additional five years. Safaricom Family Challenge PKF Kenya and ACCA Kenya have been working together to establish a confidential network of peers and multiple CFO or CEO level facilitators of CFOs in Kenya. The ever increasing role of modern CFOs and other finance professionals extends beyond the finance core of accounting, control and compliance. CFOs now play a big role in determining and driving the larger strategy for their companies. CFOs bear full responsibility for a company's success or failure but are unable to control most of what will determine this. Kamili Organisation is a mental health NGO, that is The CFO has more influence than most people in the currently running three mental health clinics in Nairobi, organisation, but is unable to wield it without certain 28 mental health clinics throughout Kenya, and consequences. It is with this in mind that PKF and currently training three new nurses. ACCA came together to establish a forum where members can have stimulating discussions around PKF was a proud sponsor of the 2018 challenge where some of the challenges they face. the organisation managed to raise KSh 3.9 million. Dubbed the CFOs Roundtable, the forum provides an exclusive, information strictly peer-to-peer platform. CFOs need to excel as financial leaders, in a confidential environment where CFOs can openly share experiences, insights and challenges and strategise to stay at the forefront of performance and innovation. The CFOs forum was inaugurated on 25 August 2015 and has held several free events since then. The 2018 forums were held on 7 June and 6 September. 12 Labour The Global Compact's labour principles are derived from the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work: Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of • Being strong at quality relationships, building them association and the effective recognition of the right to and developing them collective bargaining; • We get to know our people and our clients and Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and understand their needs compulsory labour; • We embrace diversity, maintaining a working environment Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and which is free from prejudice and harassment we do Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect not tolerate behaviour that contravenes these principles of employment and occupation. For our clients, other than providing excellent service, Implementation value for money and expert solutions, our people PKF Eastern Africa applies the labour principles at the uphold ethical and professional standards and ensure firm level through the code of conduct and our Human confidential information is protected, our fees are Resource Policies. These imply equal employment appropriate and in line with our terms of engagement. practices which promote a diverse workforce. Most importantly, we act with integrity, independence and objectivity, not allowing bias or undue influence to Our code of conduct affect our professional judgement. Our code of conduct is rooted in our culture. It guides how we relate with our employees and our clients. Our employment contract Each employee of PKF receives an employment For our employees, our code of conduct correlates with contract, upon joining the firm, which meets all the the labour principles in the following ways: requirements as set out by the Laws of respective countires. Additionally, all employees are provided with • Providing interesting and challenging work and an enabling and conducive environment in which they develop great experience can perform their duties as expected. The firm provides • Investing in employees to add onto their skills, for additional benefits to the employees such as medical their benefit, the firm’s and our clients 14 cover, pension and trainee contracts where PKF PKF Eastern Africa also advocates and supports the sponsors staff to attain one professional accounting Fundamental International Labour Organization qualification. Conventions. These are the most widely-accepted standards for minimum labour rights and cover the The employment contract between the firm and the use of under-age or forced labour. This is indicated in employees ensures that there is no forced labour, with our ethical policy available at: the employee provided with the opportunity to http://www.pkfea.com/index.php/our-ethical-policy terminate the contract. The three principles are: PKF does not employ minors and proof of age is a Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary requirement before employment. approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater Our code of conduct clearly sets out the firm’s intent to environmental responsibility, and; promote a diverse workforce. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. As part of these standards we work to value different views and opinions, to respect each employee’s personal needs, and promote a workplace free from harassment and discrimination by upholding the equal opportunity principle. 15 Kieni forest tree planting Environmental The UN Global Compact’s environment principles are derived from the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development. Our environmental policy Trees for life campaign We take seriously the impact of our business activities PKF has taken a step further in its efforts for on the environment. We believe care for the environmental conservation. We acknowledged the environment is an important part of the way in which need to actively participate in increasing the canopy we do business. It is our policy to ensure that both our cover to 15% by 2030. Our mission is to galvanise people and our suppliers operate in an environmentally nationwide tree planting by creating awareness and conscious manner. engaging every Kenyan in tree planting activities. Environmental awareness Currently, the forest cover in Kenya stands at 7%. A This involves display of our environmental policy on our gap of 3% and a further 5% need to be addressed in website and all our electronic communication. order to achieve a 10% and 15% coverage by 2022 and 2030 respectively. PKF has taken action to be at Compliance with the law the forefront to actively participate in increasing the All the buildings we have constructed to be our offices country’s forest cover to 10% by 2022 and 15% by are in full compliance with the environmental 2030. The firm therefore, has a long term objective to regulations. plant 1,000,000 trees annually in 10 years. For the project to be a success, the firm is looking into 16 Kieni forest tree planting partnering with several stakeholders who have a similar Energy management awards interest. These are PKF associates, clients, staff, The energy management award is an award for all suppliers and any other corporate with a similar view of energy consumers geared at encouraging a culture of environmental conservation. energy efficiency and conservation. It seeks to recognise enterprises that have made major and Environmental consultancy sustainable gains in energy efficiency through the We assist other companies to meet the regulatory application of modern energy management principles requirements by providing services that enable them to and practices, and in the process made significant comply with the environmental law. energy and cost reductions. PKF was the judging process partner Sponsoring environment conservancy initiatives Beach clean-up by the Tanzania office PKF Tanzania office participated at the 2018 World Clean Up Day held on the 15 September 2018. The clean-up took place along Sea view, Ocean road and Salenders Bridge in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. 17 Other Offices Community day The firm has set aside a day off its calendar each year to give back to the community. In 2018, through the PKF foundation, various PKF offices marked the 2018 CSR day by planting trees in different forests on 30 November. Nairobi office planted 7000 seedlings in Kieni Forest. Mombasa and Malindi office teams planted 2000 seedlings at Shimo La Tewa GK Prisons. Kisumu Office Team planted 1000 seedlings at Kakamega Forest and the Nakuru Office planted 1000 seedlings at Bahati forest. 18 19 Anti-Corruption The Global Compact Anti-Corruption principle is derived from the United Nations Convention against Corruption. Principle 10: Businesses should work against ethical and responsible business practices in the corruption in all its forms, including extortion and marketplace. We do this by refraining from corruption, bribery accuracy of client reporting, observing laws and statutory requirements and encouraging sustainable PKF prides itself in having a deep heritage of operating business practice. at the highest level of integrity. Our firm’s longstanding commitment to doing business with integrity means avoiding corruption in any form. We engage in fair, 20 Implementation something doesn't work, don't ship it. If a deal isn't We are able to implement this principle by applying our right, don't take it. If the numbers don't add up, find out Ethical policy. Our ethical policy is at the core of our why.” approach to our business. We aim at the highest level of professional integrity with our clients, our staff, Our code of conduct (Described on page 14 of this professional regulatory bodies and others with whom document) we interact with. Our services Our ethical policy As a leading professional services firm, we continue to This means that in all our dealings we aim to exceed proactively support the adoption of the International the regulatory standards by which we are required to Public Accounting Standards (IPSASs), to enhance operate. We take great care to ensure that client public accountability. confidentiality, our objectivity and our independence are hallmarks of everything we do. In our daily operations especially as auditors, we are obligated to maintain the highest levels of integrity. All PKF Eastern Africa eliminates corruption by engaging our relationships with our clients, suppliers and in fair, ethical and responsible business practices which employees are hinged on our philosophy, commitment includes refraining from corruption, observing laws and to promoting high standards of discipline, excellence statutory requirements and encouraging sustainable and ethics through adherence to the firm’s quality business practices. standards and value charter, the laws of the country and the profession. Our human resource policy describes corruption as a ‘breach of respectability’ which states: “corruption, that Membership to the local Global Compact is to say, soliciting for or accepting payment or other Network valuable consideration of services rendered within the We joined the Global Compact Network in Kenya in normal course or scope of official firm duties.” April 2012. We signed up to the Code of Ethics as we are keen to promote and enhance the ethics of Our core values business conduct in Kenya in line with the ten We expect that all employees will execute our core principles of the UN Global Compact. All our other values, particularly Integrity, “We execute with integrity, offices are also guided by these principles. holding ourselves to the highest standards of performance, accountability and personal conduct. If 21 KENYA Nairobi Mombasa Malindi Kisumu Kalamu House, Grevillea Grove 1st Floor, Pereira Building Malindi Complex Jubilee House, 3rd Floor Pramukh Swami Maharaj Road Lamu Road Angawa Avenue and P. O. Box 14077 00800 P. O. Box 90553 80100 P. O. Box 5572 80200 Oginga Odinga Street Junction Nairobi Mombasa Malindi P. O. Box 187 40100 (+254 20) 4270000 Tel: (+254 41) 2226422/3 Tel: (+254 42) 2120701 Kisumu Cell: (+254) 732 144000 (+254 41) 2315846/97 (+254 42) 2130862 Tel: (+254 57) 2505787 Cell: (+254) 724 563668 Cell: (+254) 722 209620 Cell: (+254) 726 793 355 (+254) 736 221 122 E-mail: pkfnbi@ke.pkfea.com E-mail: pkfmsa@ke.pkfea.com E-mail: pkfmld@ke.pkfea.com E-mail: pkfksm@ke.pkfea.com UGANDA TANZANIA RWANDA Nakuru Kampala Dar es Salaam Kigali 1st Floor, CK Patel Building Kalamu House 1st Floor, Tower B KG 5 Avenue 44, Kacyiru Kenyatta Avenue Plot 1B Girl Guides Building, Plot No. 1088 P. O. Box 341 P. O. Box 1236 20100 Kira Road Kibasila Street, Upanga Kigali Nakuru P. O. Box 24544 P. O. Box 7323 Tel: (+250) 255 104514 Kampala Dar es Salaam Cell: (+250) 788 454746 (+254 51) 2211906 Tel: (+256 312) 305800 Tel: (+255 22) 2152501/3/4 (+250) 788 386565 Cell: (+254) 796 015656 Cell: (+255) 784 520097 (+250) 738 386565 E-mail: pkfnku@ke.pkfea.com E-mail: pkfkam@ug.pkfea.com E-mail: info@tz.pkfea.com E-mail: pkfkgl@rw.pkfea.com PKF Kenya is a member firm of the PKF International Limited family of legally independent firms and does not accept any responsibility or liability for the actions or inactions of any individual member or correspondent firm or firms. www.pkfea.com 22
