sustainability report 2018-19 PARTNERS u FOR THE u e 01 Partners for the Future The future will only be bright if humanity can address 1 5 environmental concerns and alleviate socio-economic inequity. Mining has historically been a large contributor to the economic development of nations. Not only is it one of the ﬁrst industry to set foot in areas devoid of economic C O N T E N T S activity, it is also foundational to several industries including energy, construction, chemical, pharmaceutical, automotive, electronics, aerospace, ceramics, cosmetics, detergents, glass, metals, paints, paper, plastics, and fertiliser. 25 At Vedanta, we see ourselves as an engine of inclusive growth that operates at scale, and ushers in prosperity for a large section of the society. In FY 2019, we generated an economic value of US$ 15,033 million, of which only US$ 740 million was retained by the company. The remaining was distributed O F to our employees, investors, communities and governments, in the form of wages, dividends, interest payments, community investments and taxes. We invested over US$ 45 million in community support and CSR programmes. T A B L E Along with bridging the socio-economic gap, we at Vedanta, are constantly working on reducing our environmental 47 footprint by reducing the quantum of inputs required to produce a unit of metal/mineral. Towards this goal, we continue to maintain an unrelenting focus on reducing energy intensity, enhancing conversion efﬁciencies, and pushing the envelope on responsible management of tailings and emissions. For any mining company to be successful in the 21st century, a focus on the principles of sustainable development is essential. This shift in mining and operational practices will yield new opportunities in the emerging green economy, 63 while mitigation the industry's impact of the environment and society. At Vedanta, we are exited to be part of (and in some regions lead) this transition to a new way of doing business. We are conﬁdent that this will allow us to create a tomorrow that is better than today. OVERVIEW Vedanta at a Glance | Our Products | From the Chairman's Desk CEO's Message | Vedanta's Sustainability Context Roadmap & Progress | Sustainable Development Journey GOVERNANCE Sustainability Governance Structure at Vedanta | Management for the Long-term Our Sustainability Management Approach | Transparency Letter from the Sustainability Committee ENVIRONMENT Management Approach | Energy Management and Climate Change Waste & Tailings Management | Water Management Air Quality and Emissions Control | Biodiversity Management OUR PEOPLE Management Approach | Safety, Health and Well-being A B O U T T H I S Leadership Development, Talent Management and Employee Retention Diversity and Equal Opportunity R E P O R T Welcome to our 11th Sustainable Development Report, which has been CREATING VALUE prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) FOR SOCIETY Standards: Core option. It is mapped to the United Management Approach | Human Rights | Rights of Indigenous Peoples Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Local Hiring | Community Engagement and Development and aligns to Sustainable Broader Economic Beneﬁt to Host Country | Responsible Supply Chain Management Development Goals (SDGs). It reports our approach and disclosure towards triple bottom line principles people, planet and proﬁt over FY 2019. See ANNEXURES page 86 for more information about our reporting. 84 Awards & Accolades 86 About this Report 87 External Indices Visit our online Sustainable 88 Assurance Statement Development Report 2018-19 at 90 GRI Standards Index http://sd.vedantaresources.com/ SustainableDevelopment2018-19/ 01 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures OVERVIEW VEDANTA AT A GLANCE | Vedanta Resources Limited (Vedanta) is a diversiﬁed global natural resources company. The Group produces aluminium, copper, zinc, lead, silver, iron ore, oil & gas and commercial energy. Vedanta has operations in India, Zambia, Namibia, South Africa, Ireland and Australia. One of the largest producers of these natural resources globally, we are headquartered in London, United Kingdom. Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 02 US$ 6.2 US$ 14 3.1 88,979 #1 billion billion million engaged Hindustan Zinc contribution net revenue lives improved employees and ranked top of to national through contractors mining industry exchequers community by Dow Jones projects for environmental performance Drilling operations at Ravva, Cairn Oil & Gas 03 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures Our Core Purpose Our Core Values Our goal is to create long-term value for all Our core values help us achieve The values, which guide us at our stakeholders through research, discovery, our purpose. Our values bind us and Vedanta are: acquisition, sustainable development and build our culture. They are at the heart of utilisation of diversiﬁed natural resources. everything we do and achieve. At • Trust • Entrepreneurship For accomplishing that, we empower our people Vedanta, we understand the importance • Innovation • Excellence to drive excellence and innovation. We of working together in a team as we • Integrity • Care demonstrate world-class standards of governance, pursue growth and sustainable • Respect safety, sustainability and social responsibility. development. Our Value Chain Vedanta Resources supplies natural resources that help the world grow. We have a portfolio of top-notch, low-cost, scalable assets that consistently generate strong proﬁtability with robust cash ﬂows, contributing to industry-leading market shares across our core divisions. We have undertaken several Greenﬁeld and Brownﬁeld expansion projects throughout the world, successfully completed capital expansions involving complex technologies and large investments, in record time and at signiﬁcantly lower costs. Our value chain consists of: We invest selectively in exploration and appraisal to extend mine and reservoir life. We manage our long-life We develop world-class assets as effectively as assets, using the latest possible and return them to a natural state at the EXPLORE technology to optimise productivity. end of their useful life. E RES OP TO EL R WHAT WE DO EV D We operate across the mining value chain focusing on long term and low-cost assets in India and Africa We supply our commodities to customers We operate low-cost in a wide range of industry mines and oil ﬁelds, sector, from automotive to with a clear focus on construction, from energy safety and efﬁciency. to consumer goods. We focus on operational excellence and high asset utilisation to deliver top quartile cost performance and strong cash ﬂow. Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 04 Our Facilities Spread across geographies, our facilities are focussed on all-round operational excellence to achieve benchmark WORL D performance across our business by debottlenecking our assets, adopting technology and digitalisation, strengthening FACILI-CLASS people-practices, enhancing vendor and customer bases, optimising the spend base and improving realisations. FOR VA TIES PRODURIOUS CTS BALCO Jharsuguda Mangala Processing Terminal Zinc-Lead-Silver Oil & Gas Copper Steel • Debari smelter • Rajasthan block • Silvassa reﬁnery • Electrosteel Steels Ltd., • Chanderiya smelters • Ravva (PKGM-1) block • Tuticorin smelter Jharkhand • Rampura-Agucha mine • Cambay (CB/052) block • Mt Lyell mine, Australia** • Rajpura Dariba mine & smelters • South Africa block • Konkola Copper Mines, Aluminium and Sindesar Khurd mine Zambia • Lanjigarh alumina reﬁnery • KG-OSN-2009/3 block • Zawar mine • Jharsuguda smelters • PR-OSN-2004/1 block • Skorpion mine, Namibia Power & power plants • Gamsberg Zinc Mine, Iron Ore • MEL power plant • Korba smelters & South Arﬁca • Iron ore operations Goa power plants • SEL • Black Mountain mine, • Iron ore operations Karnataka • Talwandi Sabo South Africa • Iron ore projects Liberia power plant • Lisheen mine, Ireland* * Lisheen had safe, detailed and fully-costed closure after 17 years of operation in Nov'15 ** Under care and maintenance 05 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures OUR GROUP EXP STRUCTURE GEOGRANDING TRANS APHIES. F RMI ELEMOENTS NG 64 ted .9 % imi % 90 ls L Zin e cI te nd lsS ia te e ANTA LTD. (50.1% ( Ele VED ) ZL ) ct H ro s S HOLDING LTD. ( RCE VR HL S OU E ), U VEDA NTA 10 0 K( R %) VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC Note: Shareholding as on March 31, 2019 Listed entity Unlisted entity *50% of the share in the RJ Block is held by a subsidiary of Vedanta Ltd. Our Products Integral Components of Modern Life The next time you grab your cell phone, take a second to marvel at its incredible construction. While it may look like any other high-tech gadget, it is made up of an array of materials. The main constituents are a variety of metals, with the most common being aluminium alloys, lightweight materials commonly found in the phone case. Lithium cobalt oxide and carbon graphite are used to make the batteries. Elements like gold, copper and silver are used in the wiring of the phone. Aluminium Slab, Jharsuguda Finished copper rods Platinum and tungsten are used in the circuitry. WHETHER IT IS A MOBILE PHONE OR A CAR, YOU CANNOT IMAGINE A LIFE WITHOUT METALS. VEDANTA IS ONE OF THE LARGEST GLOBAL PRODUCERS OF BASE METALS AND AND OUR PRODUCTS ARE THE FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS OF MODERN SOCIETY. Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 06 L E T U S C O N S I D E R E A C H O F O U R P R O D U C T S I N D I V I D U A L LY. ZINC IRON ORE ALUMINIUM AND STEEL 79% 37% market share One of the market share in India largest in India iron ore miners Production in FY 2019: in India 2.3 Production in MTPA total 696 kt FY2019: capacity India Application Areas + 1.2 mn tonnes Transportation | Building & Construction Steel Electronic | Aerospace 148 kt 686 kt International locations Pig Iron POWER Application Areas Application Areas Automobile | Rubber | Construction Automobile | Locomotive | Shipping Building & Construction | Engineering One of the Shipbuilding | Pharmaceutical | Paint largest private sector LEAD OIL & GAS power generators in India Contributes over World's Leading largest 25% producers of India's annual of wind power integrated production in India zinc-lead producer Production in India's 9GWof power FY 2019: largest generation capacity private sector 198 kt crude oil producer Application Areas Energy (captive as well as commercial) Application Areas Production in Automobile | Glass | Aerospace Shipbuilding | Transportation | Paint FY2019: 189 COPPER kboepd SILVER 28% Application Areas Transportation | Energy | Chemical market share Production in in India FY 2019: Textile | Plastic | Fertiliser | Pesticide Paint | Dye 679 ton Amongst the most th 9 largest efficient silver producer custom copper in the world smelters globally Application Areas Application Areas Jewellery | Electrical | Solar Electric Power Transmission Telecommunication | Pharmaceutical Renewable Energy 07 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures FROM THE CHAIRMAN'S DESK As a global diversiﬁed metals and mining company, we produce the essential materials upon which our world is built and in doing so, our work drives human progress. TODAY, FROM SMARTPHONES MADE WITH ALUMINIUM TO COPPER PIPES THAT PROVIDE CLEAN WATER TO HOMES, AND FROM SKYSCRAPERS TO CARS, YOU CAN SEE VEDANTA AROUND YOU, EVERY DAY, EVERYWHERE. We are proud of the economic contribution we make across communities and generations. From rural communities in Odisha to mining towns in South Africa, with our partners, customers and suppliers, Vedanta provides jobs, investment and business opportunities that help each of these communities become stronger and more resilient. Sustainability is a key value-creation lever at Vedanta. Alongside robust ﬁnancials, and delivering repeated and meaningful returns for our shareholders, we also set ourselves exacting standards and benchmarks regarding our environment and social performance. I am proud of the progress that the company has made to improve internal systems to manage environmental and social performance, empower our employees especially women in the workplace, and give back to society. While I am enthused about the company's performance in FY 2019, I am pained by the loss of 14 of our workmen. Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 08 Vedanta remains committed to ensuring a Meanwhile, our outreach team comprising Vedanta has the potential to transform local 'zero harm' workplace, and the tragic loss of 110+ dedicated community development and national economies, but we must only do life only reinforces our resolve to continually professionals, who represent Vedanta in the so in a sustainable manner where our impact improve our systems and our management communities and become valued local on the environment is minimal and all sections practices. During the year, I have asked our points of contact, helped to deliver of society are positively engaged with our senior leadership team to commit to raising projects and operations. The mining industry HEALTH SERVICES TO the proﬁle of visible, felt leadership on the has come a long way in terms of technology shop-ﬂoor and ensure that our entire MORE THAN 1.6 MILLION and management practices to allow for us to workforce returns home safely to their PATIENTS; PROVIDED make this a reality. With our vision of Zero families for the duration of their service with SANITATION AND CLEAN, Harm, Zero Waste, Zero Discharge , we are our company. Just as I expect more from our fully invested to realize this goal. SAFE DRINKING WATER management to deliver safe performance, I also call upon all our long-term business TO OVER 350,000 The metals and mining industry has helped partners to take measurable actions to make PEOPLE; REACHED transform society given that the building our collective workplace safer for our NEARLY 40,000 WOMEN block of the modern economy ﬁnd their employees and contract workers. source in our mines, smelters, and reﬁneries. THROUGH DEDICATED As the world looks to solve the new SELF-HELP GROUPS; AND challenges of the 21st century climate GUIDED COUNTLESS change, eradicating poverty, gender equity MORE PEOPLE THROUGH this industry will continue to provide solutions Transforming Lives that help create a sustainable planet. YOUTH SKILLS Giving back to society has been central to our work. PROGRAMMES, SPORTS At Vedanta, we are look forward to leading COACHING AND the charge in the nations where we operate. I want to thank the 88,000+ people who SUSTAINABLE FARMING. make up the Vedanta family and who, during THIS YEAR, VEDANTA this year, have innovated, created new INVESTED OVER US$ 45 records, and scaled up our output with everMILLION IN COMMUNITY increasing efﬁciency. Vedanta sits at the PROGRAMMES, DIRECTLY heart of the world's fastest-growing TOUCHING THE LIVES OF Building economy, and the outlook for our products, 3.1 MILLION PEOPLE Prosperous Societies both domestically and globally, remains ACROSS 1,201 VILLAGES. In FY 2019, Vedanta contributed nearly US$ positive. In every aspect of our business, I 6.2 billion to the public exchequer of the six see a company inspired and focussed on the countries in which we operate. opportunities ahead of us. I am excited to The year witnessed the inauguration of our use our abundant human and natural 500th 'Nand Ghar' community resource resources to delivering on this promise. centres especially created for women and WE ALSO PROVIDED HIGH their children, providing everything from QUALITY EMPLOYMENT TO nutritious meals and healthcare to safe play areas and e-learning resources. We plan to 88,000+ PEOPLE DIRECTLY set up a network of 4,000+ Nand Ghars AND THROUGH OUR ANIL AGARWAL across India and have budgeted an CONTRACT PARTNERS. investment of US$ 115 million towards the Chairman program. 09 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures CEO'S MESSAGE Sustainability is engrained in every activity we do across our businesses; we work towards a better environmental outcome in the areas we operate, we invest in our host communities, we have successfully reduced our carbon intensity and aim to increase dependency on renewable energy sources. Most importantly, safety of our people remains at the forefront and at the heart of our sustainability strategy. We are a Company with a strong track record of achievements, coupled with an equally strong sense of selﬂessness. One where it is regarded as a duty and a privilege to give back more than what is taken, to work towards a bigger purpose and collectively share the fruits of our success. FY 2019 was a solid year operationally for Vedanta. While what we achieve is important, so is how we achieve it. In this context, I am deeply saddened by the tragic loss of 14 precious lives and the irreplaceable loss this has caused their families, friends and colleagues. One life lost is one too many. These unfortunate accidents are a stark reminder that we must do better to ensure our people return home safely at the end of each day, every day, every year in our journey of zero harm. Safety Our First Value During the year, our leaders conducted safety engagements across businesses with a record number of employees and contractors. We are determined to bring about a clear and measurable improvement in our safety record, and we are ramping up a range of actions to achieve this. These include strengthening compliance and accountability, instilling a strong culture of care, and ensuring transparent reporting of incidents, near-misses and high impact potential incidents. For FY 2019-20, we are enhancing the safety scorecard with three focus areas visible & felt leadership, supervision of safety critical tasks and better management of business partners. With these measures in place, we expect to see improved safety performance through FY 2019-20 and in the following years. Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 10 Our Commitment HZL has also converted the old jarosite pond at Debari smelter, the old tailings dam at Safe, Responsible and GLOBALLY, VEDANTA Dariba mine, and the waste dump at Rampura Agucha to double up as solar farms. CONTRIBUTED US$ 6.2 Sustainable Mining BILLION TO NATIONAL We produce elements that are essential to EXCHEQUERS, SPENT OVER human progress; as the world moves 38 MW OF SOLAR POWER US$ 45 MILLION ON CSR forward, demand for such resources HAS BEEN INSTALLED IN ACTIVITIES AND REMAINS increases and so does the demand for ecofriendly and green methods of mining. THESE LOCATIONS, SAVING A SIGNIFICANT DRIVER OF A LAND FOOTPRINT OF LOCAL AND NATIONAL We must mine more, but we must also mine better. Our 'Zero Harm, Zero NEARLY 190 ACRES. ECONOMIES. Discharge, Zero Waste' framework focusses the whole of Vedanta on reducing its environmental footprint and ensuring that Vedanta continues to review and enhance We are pleased to report that our operations we keep our workforce and the adjoining our existing tailings dam management across the business won numerous communities free from harm. I'm happy to practices. In the last 24 months, we have accolades. Some of these include share that in FY 2019, we made steady undertaken a detailed survey of each of these being awarded the ﬁrst place globally, progress in achieving many of our facilities, determined areas of improvement, by Dow Jones Sustainability Index on sustainability targets. and initiated steps to ensure that these environmental compliance (Hindustan structures continue to retain their integrity as We recorded a 14.5% reduction in our Zinc), British Safety Council’s Sword of we ramp up our production activities. We Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions Honour being conferred upon Cairn’s have also developed a tailings dam intensity, against our stated 2020 goal RGT operations, and Aon Hewitt’s Best management standard in accordance with of 16% reduction with regards to 2012 Employer Award for commitment to international guidelines, and we as the baseline. Our total water engagement given to our Jharsuguda independently review businesses' adherence. consumption dropped to 278 million m3 operations. The management and future expansion of all in FY 2019 as compared to 280 million m3 tailings impoundment facilities is being While, this report gives a detailed overview last year. During the reporting period, we overseen by independent qualiﬁed experts. of our sustainability performance in commissioned 22 MW of solar power FY 2019, Vedanta's commitment to safe, projects at Hindustan Zinc and we now At our Copper business in Tuticorin, where responsible and green mining started long generate 1,635 million units of green we operate one of the world's most ago. We are consistently working to deliver energy, which includes solar and hydro. environmentally compliant smelter, we are better results with greater levels of safety; an deeply saddened by the loss of 13 lives ever-gentler impact on our environment; and during the protests that took place some even greater inroads into delivering 6 km away, early last year. Our thoughts and healthcare, education, skills and quality of IN THE REPORTING YEAR, prayers go out to their loved ones. life in our communities. WE RECYCLED 92% OF There are many lessons to be learned from Together with our Chairman, the Board, our OUR HIGH-VOLUME AND the incidents at Tuticorin and we have taken colleagues and business partners, I thank all LOW-TOXICITY WASTE IN several steps to rebuild trust among the local our stakeholders for their continued support communities. From extensive stakeholder and look forward to delivering another year SUSTAINABLE dialogue to investing US$ 15 million on of sustainable growth. APPLICATIONS. community development projects, we continue to be a responsible corporate citizen. The plant closure has impacted the At Hindustan Zinc, we have been converting livelihoods of more than 24,000 people the jarosite by-product into non-hazardous directly or indirectly employed by/due to the waste. In FY2020 we are commissioning plant's activities. We continue to pursue legal 'Fumer' technology to prevent that waste avenues to seek permission to restart the being produced in the ﬁrst place. Also, plant and hope for an equitable resolution as instead of storing tailings in land-hungry soon as possible. Sterlite met 33% of India's SRINIVASAN surface pits, we have found a way to turn demand for copper and the closure has VENKATAKRISHNAN them into paste and use them for backﬁlling resulted in a shortfall that can only be met by of underground voids. increasing imports. Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 11 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures Vedanta's Sustainability Context Sustainability topics continue to take centre-stage in the metals & mining industry. Companies need to periodically reassess their business model and ensure they address those issues that pose a risk to business or where new opportunities may emerge. Vedanta's risk committee evaluates key business risks and aids the leadership team in deliberating on mitigative actions. In addition, every three years, we conduct an exhaustive materiality assessment to understand stakeholder expectations from the Company. Our last assessment was conducted in FY 2015-16 with a follow-up assessment conducted a year later. The materiality assessment process is in line with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards. The materiality matrix is reviewed and ratiﬁed by both the Executive Committee (ExCO) and the Sustainability Committee. As of this writing, we are in the process of revising our materiality matrix. Materiality Matrix Critical importance High importance Average importance Low importance Policies and actions to restrict Leadership development and Public policy and advocacy unethical business practices talent management Disclosure on slavery and Rights of indigenous peoples Diversity and equal human trafﬁcking UK's and human rights opportunity Modern Slavery Act Employee health, safety and Transparency in reporting on Broader economic beneﬁt well-being revenue and production ﬁgures to host country Community engagement and Labour rights and development initiatives industrial relations Ethics and integrity Local hiring and content compliance to Community health and safety Code of Conduct Energy management and climate change Responsible Supply Chain Management Environmental management (water management, waste Mine and site closure plans management, air emissions and quality control, biodiversity management, environmental incidents Employee retention management) Tax transparency and reporting During the year, we continued our efforts to improve our systems and their performance in all the key issues identiﬁed in the materiality matrix using the principles laid out in the Vedanta Sustainability Framework. Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 12 EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL DEVELOPMENTS HAVE DRAWN MANAGEMENT ATTENTION ON THE FOLLOWING TOPICS: The disaster at Valeand the partial collapse of a tailings dam wall at our operations in ENVIRONMENTAL FY 2017-18 has led to the development of a & TAILINGS DAM strong tailings dam MANAGEMENT management standard in alignment with ICMM recommendations and overseen by independant, global experts. Read more: Environment Tailings dam, Gamsberg [Page 25] Fatalities in our workplace SAFETY increased for the second year in a row and OF OUR this has led to an WORKFORCE introspection of our management practices and a determination to live up to our vision of 'Zero Harm'. Read more: Our People Electrical Safety, Lanjigarh [Page 47] As our business becomes more complex we need Right Management in Place. Additionally, the Company remains PEOPLE & committed to ensuring DIVERSITY that we increase the MANAGEMENT gender diversity across the workforce at all management levels. Signiﬁcant work has been undertaken to achieve this goal. Team diversity, Hindustan Zinc Read more: Our People [Page 55] Closure of our Sterlite Copper plant and a persistent negative perception among our stakeholders about our RETAINING OUR business practices has SOCIAL LICENSE resulted in the Company TO OPERATE embarking on a journey to signiﬁcantly improve our social performance and regain stakeholder trust. Read more: Creating Value for Society Copper plant, Tuticorin [Page 65] 13 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures Roadmap & Progress Our sustainability roadmap sets out our targets and performance during the year on the key material issues. OBJECTIVES AND TARGETS FY 2019 STATUS PERFORMANCE TARGET FY 2020 THE SAFETY OF OUR WORKFORCE Zero fatal accidents and an LTIFR of 0.30 14 fatalities; 0.47 LTIFR Zero fatal accidents and an LTIFR of 0.30 Achieve a score >75% in six safety Average score achieved was 61% Achieve score >75% in ten safety performance standards performance standards ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Achieve 2 million GJ in energy savings 1.6 million GJ saved Achieve energy savings of 1.95 million GJ 3 3 Achieve water saving of 4 million m 3 million m saved Achieve water savings of 3.5 million m3 Achieve ﬂy ash utilisation of 75% 110%* reutilised Achieve ﬂy-ash utilisation of 80% Continue our reduction in GHG intensity 14.5% reduction Reduce our GHG emissions intensity by 16% and formalise our target from a 2012 baseline by 2020 Develop our capability and strengthen Audits completed; Third-party review of tailings/ash dyke tailings management practices across recommendations under management system and development of sitethe Group consideration speciﬁc improvement plan (India operations) RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE Complete the baseline and social impact Completed Ensure alignment of all BU plans with issues assessments in all businesses identiﬁed during baseline surveys 250 Nand Ghars to be constructed in 358 Nand Ghars constructed. 1,200 Nand Ghars to be constructed FY 2019, and planning for additional 1,000 Planning for additional 1,287 in FY 2020. to be completed completed Develop a standard policy on employee Under progress • Roll-out of employee engagement platform engagement for the Group across the Group • A standard on-line community grievance record/redressal software (NIVARAN) across the Group PEOPLE AND DIVERSITY Continue to focus on Code of Conduct 100% of new employees trained; Continue to focus on Code of Conduct training for all professional employees, existing employees are given training for all professional employees including new hires online training annually including new hires Achieve 33% female representation at Work in progress 12.5% of the • Achieve 33% female representation at Vedanta Board-level by 2020 Vedanta Board is female Vedanta Board-level by 2020 • Diversity 5% improvement in our campus female hiring programme Focus on anchoring and engagement of Initiative is directly anchored by high-potential employees through our the business leadership team ﬂagship programme V-Connect through their respective HR teams. It is ensured that our professional population is anchored by senior leaders across the BUs. Focus on Right Management in Place in There are 41 SBUs in place, each is Ensuring Right ExCo & succession for each each SBU led by SBU president. SBU business management-in-place is regularly reviewed by Group Chairman and Group ExCo. Achieved in Progress Partially Achieved Not Achieved Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 14 Sustainable Development Journey Ensuring long-term growth for all stakeholders has been the cornerstone of our sustainability journey. We have embraced sustainability as a comprehensive, integrated business practice that involves collaboration, innovation, and a course of action. On the sustainability roadmap, we keep achieving our goals and formulating new ones, while continuously progressing towards lasting growth. FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 Businesses started embedding Vedanta Rolling out of Vedanta Sustainability Environment & social review of VSAP Sustainable Development Framework Framework continues introduction of continued external review training and implementation of safety performance standards, formal safety policies and standards risk assessment, industrial hygiene baseline VSAP into its fourth year of assessment and safety leadership coaching implementation revised as per the External Review Concluded material priorities with more emphasis and (URS Scott Wilson) all recommendations VSAP into its third year of implementation focus on safety by inclusion of safety successfully closed revised as per the material priorities, performance standards, supported by supported by external auditors external auditors Sustainability linked with remuneration Sustainable development KPIs linked to Environment & social review of VSAP Advancing safety by developing safety executive remuneration started external review performance standards and incorporating executive remuneration Vedanta Sustainability Assurance Revisiting our Community Need Programme (VSAP) into its second year Assessment Studies aligning all Social Impact Assessment Studies HZL & of implementation supported by external community projects with updated studies Cairn India aligning all community projects auditors with updated studies FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 VSAP into its ﬁfth year of implementation Strong focus on safety Strategy to increase leadership engagement on workplace safety VSAP material priorities identiﬁed for Alignment across businesses on a FY 2016-17 occupational health and collective carbon strategy Work begun on upgrading tailings dam safety, resource use and management, facilities and management practices stakeholder engagement, and supplier and Launching a systematic, Group-wide contract management programme to monitor and maintain tailings Work begun to improve social license to dams in line with global best practices operate perception surveys, materiality Social Impact Assessment Studies assessment, social performance review, FPIC completed for nearly all our businesses. The Consolidating efforts to drive effective requirements review major social impact assessment studies were implementation of the provisions of the done at Cairn Oil and Gas business Modern Slavery Act across our businesses Advancing accountability employee health, Re-evaluating our social performance safety and well-being identiﬁed as a material standards in order to enhance our Social issue, was a key priority for the Company License to Operate 15 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures GOVERNANCE Good corporate governance essential for protecting shareholder value as well as delivering sustainable growth underpins the delivery of our strategic objectives. Our governance philosophy emanates from our values of Trust, Entrepreneurship, Innovation, Excellence, Integrity, Respect and Care. Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 16 * VSF 590 ETHICS 25,000+ is integral man-days of AND hours of training to the core sustainability business assurance audits (VSAP)* INTEGRITY are material issues on Code of Conduct Leadership walkthrough, Gamsberg * VSF Vedanta Sustainability Framework | VSAP Vedanta Sustainability Assurance Program 17 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures Sustainability Governance Structure at Vedanta Our values TRUST ENTREPRENEURSHIP INNOVATION EXCELLENCE INTEGRITY RESPECT CARE Composition of the board Our Board complies with the UK listing requirement according to which, at least half of the Board, The Board provides strategic perspective and excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent Non-executive Directors. As of March 31, fulﬁls its mandate to deliver sustainable growth 2019, our Board consists of the Executive Chairman, the Deputy Executive Chairman, the CEO with the help of: and ﬁve independent Non-Executive Directors. The average tenure of our Board is 7.2 years Board committees Strong policy frameworks, which includes AGE GROUP the Code of Business Conduct & Ethics and Less than 30 years 0 Between 30-50 years 1 Above 50 years 7 the Vedanta Sustainability Framework Competent management teams GENDER Male 7 Female 1 Monitoring protocols (including VSAP) B O A R D O F D I R E C T O R S Mr. Anil Agarwal Mr. Navin Agarwal Mr. Srinivasan Venkatakrishnan Mr. Geoffrey Green Executive Chairman Deputy Executive Chairman Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Independent Appointed in May 2003 Appointed in Nov 2004 Appointed in Aug 2018 Non-Executive Director Appointed in Aug 2012 Mr. Deepak Parekh Ms. Katya Zotova Mr. Ravi Rajagopal Mr. Edward Story Independent Independent Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed in Jun 2013 Appointed in Aug 2014 Appointed in Jul 2016 Appointed in Jun 2017 Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 18 BY OVERSEEING THE CONDUCT OF BUSINESS WITH STRICT ADHERENCE TO ETHICS AND RESPONSIBILITY, THE STRUCTURE ENHANCES THE PROSPERITY AND LONG-TERM VIABILITY OF THE COMPANY. V E D A N T A B O A R D SUSTAINABILITY REMUNERATION AUDIT NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Chaired by Independent Chaired by Independent Chaired by Independent Chaired by Chairman non-executive Director, non-executive Director, non-executive Director, Mr. Anil Agarwal Ms. Katya Zotova Mr. Geoffrey Green Mr. Ravi Rajagopal The Committee oversees The Committee reviews and The Committee oversees The Committee reviews the the Group's management recommends to the Board the Group's ﬁnancial size, structure and of sustainability matters the executive remuneration reporting, the efﬁcacy of composition of the Board including HSE performance, policy and determines the the internal control and risk and its Committees to engagement with host remuneration packages of management framework ensure the appropriate communities, human rights each of the Executive and scrutinises the work of balance of skills, experience, and other related matters Directors. the internal and external diversity and independence auditors. are present; and leads the Board appointment process. The Committee meets monthly and is responsible for implementing strategic plans EXECUTIVE Chaired by CEO, formulated by the Board, allocating resources in line with delegated authorities COMMITTEE Mr. Srinivasan Venkatakrishnan and monitoring the operational and ﬁnancial performance of the Group. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT TEAM COMMUNITY RELATIONS & ENVIRONMENT SAFETY OCCUPATIONAL REPORTING & SOCIAL HEALTH COMMUNICATION PERFORMANCE Review of Sustainable Development Team and Segment Business Committee (Monthly Operational Reviews / Business Management Group Meetings) 19 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures Management for the Long-term Sustainability is a long-term paradigm. Our Code of Business Conduct & Ethics, Vedanta Sustainability Framework, VSAP, management systems, organisational structures, processes, policies and people form part of our internal control systems, which govern how we conduct business and manage associated opportunities and risks, in the present and in future. Executive compensation structures are critical in incentivising the management teams to manage for the long-term. The Long Term incentive for our CEO is aligned to the Relative-Total Shareholder Return (R-TSR) of Vedanta Limited, (The major operating arm of Vedanta Resources). This metric not only ensures that the shareholders return is one of the prime agenda items in the CEOs priority list, but also compares the return to a set of Global and Indian comparators so that we strive to be in the Top quartile positioning amongst those comparators. In addition to R-TSR, the other performance measure for the Long Term Incentive plan for the CEO is Sustained EBITDA of the company over the three ﬁnancial years’ spanning in the vesting period. This allows our management to place the long-term agenda on the table and ensure that sustainability principles are part of the decision-making criteria. Risk Governance Framework Vedanta has a robust governance framework to manage risk, helping us balance the risk-reward equation expected by stakeholders. Board of Directors Audit Committee EXCO GRMC Business Unit Management Teams R I S K G O V E R N A N C E F R A M E W O R K The Board regularly reviews the internal control system to ensure that it remains effective. The Board's review includes the Audit Committee's report on the risk matrix, signiﬁcant risks and actions put in place to mitigate these risks. Any weaknesses identiﬁed by the review are addressed by enhanced procedures to strengthen the relevant controls and these are in turn reviewed at regular intervals. The Audit Committee is in turn supported by the Group-level Risk Management Committee (GRMC), which assists them in evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of the risk mitigation programme and the control systems. The Group has a consistently applied methodology for identifying risks at the individual business level for existing operations and for ongoing projects. The Group's Board-level Sustainability Committee is tasked with setting the organisation's sustainability agenda. It evaluates emerging sustainability risks and after careful evaluation, informs the Group-level Risk Management Committee if there are risks that pose organisational risks. Key sustainability risks that are part of the corporate risk register include: Health | Safety | Environment | Climate Change Managing relationship with stakeholders | Tailings dam stability. Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 20 Our Sustainability Management Approach Our goal is to create long-term value for all our stakeholders. To deliver on this promise, we have developed the Vedanta Sustainability Framework that enables our business units adopt sustainable business principles into their systems and procedures. Vedanta Sustainability Framework (VSF) The Vedanta Sustainability Biodiversity, Energy & Carbon, Framework was developed HIV-AIDS, HSE, Human Rights, 8 Policies Social, Supplier & Contractor to bring in-house, global Sustainability Management, Water sustainability management best-practices laid out in standards and • Covering all of the guidelines aligned to IFC, 58 policy subject areas Standards ICMM, GRI, and other • In line with ICMM, VEDANTA & Guidance relevant institutions. Notes IFC Performance SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK Standards, GRI It includes policies and standards that deﬁne our approach, to avoid and minimize potential environmental • Annual audit (VSAP) conducted and social impacts, and to engage with impacted and interested Robust at all Vedanta locations to check stakeholders over the lifetime of our Monitoring compliance with VSF operations starting from, exploration • Monitored by Group ExCo through to site closure. All of our businesses are expected to adopt these policies and standards so that their business practices are in alignment with Vedanta’s sustainable development philosophy. Vedanta Sustainability Assurance Programme (VSAP) VSAP is our sustainability assurance tool, which we use to assess the compliance of all our businesses with the Vedanta Sustainability Framework. The assurance model has different modules, which cover elements related to environment, health, safety, community and human rights. The assurance system works on the premise of tracking corrective and preventive action by each of our businesses and commissioning periodic formal audits by external experts. VSAP HAS BEEN INSTRUMENTAL IN HELPING US EMBED SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INTO EVERY ACTIVITY ACROSS ALL OUR BUSINESS UNITS. 21 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures Conducted by an independent, third-party auditor, VSAP is an annual process with clear tracking of results by the Sustainability Committee and the Executive Committee, which in turn report to the Board. As per the identiﬁed gaps, respective businesses make management plans and undertake corrective gap-ﬁlling actions, which are periodically reviewed, evaluated and documented. The successes and failures are identiﬁed and highlighted, and cross learning opportunities are created. Nearly 100% of our asset locations are covered in this activity. Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Ethics and integrity are material issues for both, our management team and stakeholders. We are committed to a zero-tolerance approach towards fraud, bribery and corruption. Our code complies with the law of the land and goes beyond compliance to raise the bar and set the THE CBCE COMPLIES expected standards of behaviour. It is applicable across the organisational hierarchy, irrespective WITH THE UK BRIBERY of the location of operation. ACT 2010 AND IS Our reporting requirements in the UK cover various governance aspects such as: ALIGNED WITH THE UK MODERN SLAVERY • Human rights • Insider training • Political contributions ACT 2015. • Conﬂicts of interests • Conﬁdentiality • Fraud, bribery and corruption Implementation of CBCE The implementation of CBCE is supported by the following additional policies and guidance notes: Open Complaints on April 1 2018 st 11 Number of whistle-blower cases • The Insider Trading Prohibition Policy • The Whistle-blower Policy opened in FY 2019 67 • Anti-trust Guidance Notes • The Supplier Code of Conduct Number of whistle-blower cases upheld and found correct in FY 2019 20 All these policies, notes and codes are publicly available on our website and are incorporated into Number of whistle-blower cases contracts, where relevant, in order to ensure transparent and easy access to our policies in the public closed in FY 2019 73 domain. Vedanta's Whistle-blower Policy currently communicates our commitment to a 'policy Open Complaints on March against retaliation', and commitment to maintaining conﬁdentiality, in case of a company employee. 31st 2019 5 Business Units Employees Supply Chain All business units are periodically reviewed Employees are expected to report even Our Suppliers' Code of Conduct for risks related to corruption and bribery. minute violations, which are then addressed communicates our requirement for our The Audit Committee, comprising four Nonand resolved promptly after an impartial suppliers to operate in compliance with all Executive Directors, assists the Board in internal or external investigation. Mandatory relevant legislation, align to our policies while maintaining and monitoring the integrity of training is provided for new recruits and executing work for, or on behalf of Vedanta or the Group's ﬁnancial statements, assessing refresher workshops on anti-corruption on our sites, and adopt ethical good practices. the effectiveness of the Group's risk policies & procedures are conducted for Vedanta also encourages suppliers to adopt management system and internal controls, relevant employees to ensure that all principles and practices comparable to our and the independence and objectivity of the employees are well-versed with our Code. own, including the supplier code of conduct, external auditor. supplier and contractor management policies and supplier screening checklist. AS PART OF OUR COMMITMENT TO CONTINUAL IMPROVEMENT, AND GOING BEYOND LEGAL COMPLIANCE, WE ARE CURRENTLY WORKING ON ROLLING OUT AN E-LEARNING MODULE FOR THE CBCE ACROSS THE GROUP AND ISSUANCE OF POST-TRAINING E-CERTIFICATES. THIS YEAR, WE PROVIDED MORE THAN 25,000 HOURS OF TRAINING ON CODE OF CONDUCT, WHICH INCLUDED HUMAN RIGHTS-RELATED ASPECTS. Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 22 Transparency Transparency leads to trust and trust in turn leads to a better relationship with all our stakeholders. At Vedanta, trust is one of the core values. We actively foster a culture of transparency in our interactions and encourage an open dialogue, which ensures mutual trust and respect. Transparency is also a key element in reporting. It helps the investors, shareholders and other stakeholders take informed decisions about our operations and other details. We bring out our annual reports and annual sustainability reports, consistently issue press releases, investor presentations and interviews, and publish articles on a regular basis to inform and assist all our stakeholders. GRI Based Sustainability Report IIRC Based Annual Report Tax Transparency Report CDP Climate Disclosures OUR DISCLOSURES SEBI National Voluntary Guidelines UN Global Compact Based Business Responsibility Report Communication of Progress OUR REPORTING IS TRANSPARENT, CREDIBLE AND RIGOROUS. IT COVERS THE FULL SCOPE OF OUR OPERATIONS, COMPLIES WITH ALL FINANCIAL AND REPORTING REGULATIONS IN UK. ALL OUR REPORTS ARE EXTERNALLY VERIFIED. 23 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures Letter from the Sustainability Committee We continue focusing our safety and sustainability efforts on direct leadership involvement and capability building in the areas that require improved safety performance and proactive risk management. Given our strong reliance on business partners, over the next ﬁscal year, we will put special emphasis on the ways we engage with our contractors and manage their safety standards and performance. Katya Zotova Chairperson, Sustainability Committee Dear Stakeholder, Our focus remains on our philosophy of zero harm, zero waste and zero discharge and we continued to make progress on these during the year. However, we are grieved to report 14 fatalities that occurred across our businesses in the last ﬁnancial year. Each loss of life is a tragedy, not just for the families of the deceased but also for the company. Their occurrence led to much soul-searching by our senior leadership, by the Sustainability Committee and by the Board. Our Executive Committee has taken the role of monitoring implementation of key issues directly addressing safety leadership, implementation of standards and risk management. Active monitoring of safety has become the norm at our monthly ExCo and quarterly Sustainability Committee meetings. We have undertaken signiﬁcant stakeholder engagement programs at the Tuticorin smelter to regain the trust of the local community. Our initial assessment is that we have made some positive headway, but we are cognizant that much work remains until we fully regain our social license to operate. The case for the plant reopening remains in courts and we are hopeful of a favourable decision in Fy2020. During the year we completed a review of how the principles of FPIC can be applied in our future business expansion activities and have also undertaken perception In addition to the newly introduced management of business partners (or surveys to understand the gaps that we safety standards last year, we have contractors) who are over-represented on need to bridge in order to effectively also raised the expectation from our safety statistics. engage with our local stakeholders. our management team requiring visible and felt leadership on the shop-ﬂoor to ensure that unsafe acts are rooted out before causing negative impacts. We will continue to increase our efforts this year with a particular emphasis on leadership's role and capability in Lisheen managing safety in work teams and ability to identify and correct the We made signiﬁcant progress on tailings safety hazards present in each task. We have continued to improve in aspects dam management and have improved A strong part of this focus will be related to social performance and this has management systems across all our on the engagement and been seen positively in several areas. operations. The Group ExCo and the Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 24 Board have been kept informed of the key risks that remain and the actions being taken to mitigate their impact. We continue to Sustainability Committee work with a third-party expert to ensure that our management activities during the year practices and future expansion plans adhere to global best practices. The Committee regularly reviewed and will continue to review Sustainability Framework progress on signiﬁcant sustainability issues for the group. • Review of the Sustainability Committee performance and Terms or Reference. • Review and approve annual HSE & sustainability targets • Periodical review of HSE programs and performance. • Review VSAP score and VSF implementation for the group • Review sustainability issues signiﬁcant to group and stakeholders. Health & Safety • Review the Group safety incidents and performance. • Oversee the implementation of corrective actions for fatal incidents • Review progress on implementation of the Safety Performance standards I thank Mr. Kuldeep Kaura for his valuable contribution to the Committee and am happy to invite Mr Srinivasan Venkatkrishnan to be part of the committee. Environment Membership and • Review outcomes of the third-party tailing dam assessments, corrective actions and implementation plans. Attendance • Review the Group resource conservation targets and achievements The Sustainability Committee comprises ﬁve Directors and it met on 4 occasions during the year. • Review progress on KCM's environmental projects. # Katya Zotova 4/4 100% Ravi Rajagopal# 4/4 100% *# Sunil Duggal 3/3 100% Community Relations and *# Stakeholder Engagement Srinivasan Venkatkrishnan 2/2 100% *# Deshnee Naidoo 3/3 100% • Review our stakeholder engagement strategy. Kuldeep Kaura* 2/2 100% • Commissioned independent review of gaps between Kishore Kumar* 1/1 100% FPIC and related government regulation in India *Member for only part of the year. The number represents the #current attendance record for the Sustainability Committee meetings members conducted during their tenure on the Board Committee. 25 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures ENVIRONMENT As one of the primary activities to source raw ores the building blocks of modern society mining is an essential activity to sustain life as it exists today. But the operations are not easy, and generally come with environmental costs. At Vedanta, we aim to transition to sustainable mining practices that avoids or mitigates these environmental impacts. We are focussed on embracing disruptive, transformative practices and investing in technologies to optimise water consumption, reduce emissions, enhance energy productivity, safeguard biodiversity, maintain air quality and recycle waste. Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 26 Achieved Recycled 14.5% reduction in 1,635 22MW 92% million units solar power of the Independent audit of Vedanta's Tailings GHG intensity of green projects high-volume Management against the target energy commissioned low-effect wastes Facilities by of 16% by 2020 generated such as ﬂy ash, industry experts (baseline year: 2012) slag and jarosite Golder Associates Ravva Terminal, Cairn Oil & Gas 27 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures Management Approach We are committed to reduce the environmental footprint through a systematic and process-oriented approach. This includes addressing legacy issues at sites that have previously had a negative impact on the environment, retroﬁtting older assets with new technology and ensuring new operations are as efﬁcient as possible by design. Our Vedanta Sustainability Framework comprises comprehensive policies, standards and guidance notes to rigorously manage environmental impacts. For the environmental priorities arising from the materiality process, we have developed speciﬁc objectives and targets, and review performance against these issues on a periodic basis. ALL OUR OPERATIONAL SITES ARE ISO 14001 CERTIFIED. THE ISO 14001 ACCREDITATION HELPS US TO REGULARLY REVIEW THE ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM, WITH PROGRAMMES IN PLACE TO MITIGATE THE IDENTIFIED ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF OUR PROCESSES. THE MATERIAL ISSUES THAT MARK OUR ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ARE: ENERGY MANAGEMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE WASTE & TAILINGS WATER MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT Red mud pond, Lanjigarh Water Storage Tank, TSPL AIR QUALITY AND BIODIVERSITY EMISSIONS CONTROL Sindesar Khurd Mine, MANAGEMENT Hindustan Zinc Man-made water hole, Barmer Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 28 Energy Management and Climate Change Managing our Climate Change Impacts As a large consumer of fossil-fuel based power, Vedanta recognises the climate-related risks associated with our business activities. We understand the implications of our energy consumption, both in terms of its cost to the climate as well as cost to the operations and are committed to meet our energy demands, while limiting our carbon emissions. We remain fully supportive of the outcomes of the Paris Agreement and have taken on carbon reduction targets in alignment with the Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC) of the Government of India. Chanderiya Smelting Complex, Hindustan Zinc Governance Structure We are also in agreement with the writing, we do not anticipate any regulatory recommendations made by the Task Force risks in India since the withdrawal of the Our Energy and Carbon Management Policy on Climate-related Financial Disclosures clean energy cess in 2017. and Performance Standard commit our (TCFD). We are currently examining the best operations to adopt and maintain global best We also anticipate physical risks related to way forward on reﬁning our carbon practices in carbon and energy management, extreme weather events and changes in the management and disclosure practices to be and minimise greenhouse gas (GHG) availability of water due to climate change. in alignment with the framework. emissions. The 'Carbon Forum' led by the We have conducted a water risk assessment Chief Operating Ofﬁcers of our businesses, to evaluate the risks at 25 of our locations. has been tasked with developing and Climate-related Risks In terms of climate-related business overseeing the implementation of Vedanta's opportunities, the company expects to and Opportunities carbon mitigation approach. beneﬁt from an increase in demand for Included in the forum's work are discussions Vedanta's global presence exposes the copper, zinc and silver, as the global related to approving Vedanta's carbon company to regulatory changes aimed at renewable energy and electric vehicle management strategy, long-term greenhouse limiting or reducing GHG emissions. These industry expands. gas (GHG) emissions intensity reduction changes could potentially impact the Vedanta has not yet undertaken climate targets, alignment with investor requirements, company's operations with increased costs scenario planning and stress-testing of the emerging regulatory risks and carbon pricing. for fossil fuels, levies for emissions in excess company's projects based on internal carbon The carbon forum also informs the Group of certain permitted levels, and increased prices. There is an intention to introduce ExCo, Risk Management Committee and the administrative costs for monitoring and internal carbon prices in the near future. Board Sustainability Committee on ways to reporting. Further, increasing regulation of Given the challenges related to Vedanta's manage our carbon footprint. Executive greenhouse gas emissions, including the diverse business operations, which have compensation is linked to VSAP performance, progressive introduction of carbon emissions different emission intensities, the company is which means management of our carbon trading mechanisms and tighter emission in the process of reviewing whether to apply footprint is also indirectly included in the reduction targets, is likely to raise costs and carbon price at a group or operations level. compensation structure. reduce demand growth. However, as of this 29 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures Targets & Strategies Vedanta's businesses range from mining operations (surface and underground), smelting and reﬁning units, hydrocarbon exploration and drilling, product manufacturing, and power generation. A signiﬁcant portion of our operations are in regions where fossil-fuel based power forms the baseload of the energy grid. Additionally, due to the large and consistent requirement for power, many of our captive power plants use coalbased thermal technologies. Given the nature and location of our businesses, switching to large-scale renewable energies has not been possible due to the current ﬁnancial and technical limitations of the technologies. As a result, much of our GHG emissions reduction programmes remain focussed on improving the energy efﬁciency of our operations. THE COMPANY HAS ALIGNED ITSELF WITH THE NATIONALLY DETERMINED CONTRIBUTIONS (NDC) OF THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA AND HAS COMMITTED TO REDUCE ITS OUR GHG INTENSITY BY 16% BY 2020 FROM A 2012 BASELINE. AS OF 31ST MARCH 2019, WE HAVE REDUCED OUR GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY BY 14.5%. Given the diverse nature of our businesses, we are also deliberating if Science Based Targets (SBT) should be adopted for the entire group, or if each of our businesses should commit to their own SBTs. Our Zinc India business has already committed to SBTs and plans to reduce its scope 1 and scope 2 emissions by 14% by 2026 from a 2016 baseline. It has also committed to reduce its scope 3 emissions by 20% by 2026 from a 2016 baseline. GHG Emissions Performance GHG EMISSIONS in million tCO2e Scope 1 (direct) Scope 2 (indirect) Total FY 2019 55.12 3.51 58.63 FY 2018 51.1 1.2 52.3 FY 2017 51.8 1.4 53.2 We calculate and report Greenhouse Gas (GHG) inventory i.e. Scope 1 (process emissions and other direct emissions) and Scope 2 (purchased electricity) as deﬁned under the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and World Resource Institute (WRI) GHG Protocol. We have seen a steady increase in our GHG emissions as we have ramped up our business. With the Gamsberg operations coming online, we saw a 12.3% increase in energy consumption. Cooling towers, TSPL Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 30 CASE STUDY CAIRN'S ONGOING JOURNEY TOWARDS ZERO FLARING CHALLENGE Diesel generators have been the traditional way to power remote satellite oil & gas wells. Given the marginal quantity of hydrocarbons produced, remoteness of the sites, and the relatively short lifespan of the these wells, it has been ﬁnancially unfeasible to set-up a permanent power infrastructure at these locations. As a result, the associated gas that is present alongside the primary hydrocarbon and is a by-product of the extraction process, is burnt-off in gas ﬂares. Flaring of gas contributes to climate change and impacts the environment through emissions of CO2, black carbon and other pollutants. It also wastes a valuable energy resource that could be captured for power generation. ACTION The 'Zero Routine Flaring by 2030' initiative by World Bank, has called the fuel. However, electric power is advantageously generated, and upon oil & gas companies to eliminate ﬂaring from their operations. In with respect to the reference case in which the gas is ﬂared, the line with the global best practices towards elimination of GHG amount of avoided CO2 emissions can be evaluated as the virtual emissions, Cairn Oil and Gas has adopted various GHG eliminating quantity that would be emitted for the generation of the same amount technologies like Zero Technical Flaring during milling operation and of electricity by means of the traditional power conversion technology. Gas-based Engine Generators (GEGs) in remote satellite ﬁelds, to GEGs have been installed in Cairn's Satellite ﬁelds, that will help meet the captive power requirement, which results in the reduction of reduce nearly 4,900 tCO2e/year. Proposals for installing additional ﬂaring volume vis-a-vis the utilisation of hydrocarbons. GEGs are being considered, which can potentially reduce GHG The associated gas is eventually burnt, with the ultimate effect of emissions by ~6,000 tCO2e/year. producing CO2 emissions by the oxidation of the carbon content of OUTCOME Generation of electricity Use of by-product of the crude oil Independent, High proﬁtability with combined with the production process instead of on-site power overall efﬁciency of simultaneous disposal diesel fuel, along with elimination of supply for up to 90%, in the case of a wasteful gas fuel transportation over long distances remote sites of combined heat or coal-based electricity sourcing and power Minimizing ﬂaring at Cairn’s Rajasthan Operations 31 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures Energy Consumption Vedanta meets nearly 90% of its energy requirement from its captive power plants (CPP). Coal and natural gas are the dominant 3% Others fuels for our CPPs and the company makes Renewable signiﬁcant effort to ensure that we optimise 1% Energy our energy efﬁciency. In FY 2019, we were able to conserve 1.6 million GJ of energy, FUEL TYPE 4% Natural against a target of 2 million GJ. Coal 81% BREAKUP Gas % The savings result from multiple types Grid 11% Electricity of projects, which include: Ÿ Switch to efﬁcient motor technologies Ÿ Installation of LED light ﬁxtures Ÿ Better load-balancing of pump operations 1% Copper Zambia Ÿ Improvements in boiler efﬁciencies 0.14% Copper India/Australia Ÿ Increased frequency of maintenance activities 24% Power 54% Ÿ Modiﬁcations of the cathode in our Aluminium ENERGY CONSUMPTION, 0.16% Iron Ore smelter potline BY BUSINESS Ÿ Improving potline efﬁciencies % 4% Oil & Gas Nearly 90% of our efﬁciency gains have come 8% Zinc India from process efﬁciency improvements (including improvements in potline 9% Zinc International efﬁciencies) and better load balancing. Melting and casting plant, Chanderia Lead Zinc Smelter, Hindustan Zinc ENERGY CONSUMPTION in million GJ Direct Indirect Total FY 2018-19 485 68 553 FY 2017-18 425 21 446 FY 2016-17 413 15 428 We have seen a steady increase in our energy consumption as we have ramped up our business. With the Gamsberg operations coming online, we saw a 24% increase in energy consumption. Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 32 CASE STUDY ALTERING THE PROCESS FOR HIGHER EFFICIENCY CHALLENGE The smelting process required to produce aluminium from alumina is done in a pot, which is a continuous process that cannot be stopped and started at will. In smelter 1 at our Jharsuguda plant, there are 600 pots in the pot room, which draw DC power from the rectiﬁer for the electrolysis process. The challenge was to improve the efﬁciency of the rectiﬁer to reduce energy consumption. ACTION An analysis revealed that maintenance activities can improve the efﬁciency of the rectiﬁer. Using the six-sigma methodology, root causes for the inefﬁciencies were identiﬁed in the existing process. These included heat exchanger cleaning of rectiﬁer units, demineralised (DM) water ﬂow circulation optimisation, and cooler slot optimisation among others. An example of the steps taken is presented in the action plan review matrix below: Action Before After Cleaning the Temperature of demineralised water Temperature of demineralised water heat exchanger was 42 degrees reduced to 39 degrees Transformer valve operation No uniﬁcation code Identiﬁed standard uniﬁcation slots OUTCOME The operational and process improvements in the form of scheduled calibrations, changing nuts and bolts during overhaul, dismantling electrolysis plates, eliminating idling of motors and pumps, and other interventions led to the following savings: 6.9 million units/annum 4,800 metric ton ~7,040 tCO2e Energy Saving Coal Consumption Reduction Carbon Dioxide Reduction Aluminium pot line at Jharsuguda 33 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures Green Energy We are diversifying our energy portfolio to include renewable energy, which will help us reduce our carbon footprint. In FY 2019, we generated 1,635 million units of green power, which includes energy generated by solar and hydro projects. 97% of our renewable energy is sourced from hydro power. Increasing the renewable energy base at Dariba, Hindustan Zinc Solar Wind Hindustan Zinc commissioned a As part of our commercial renewable energy installations, the Company has 22 MW solar power project this year, installed 274 MW of wind farms in ﬁve states across India. These projects are taking the total to 38 MW for its registered under the CDM programme by United Nations Framework Convention captive use. on Climate Change (UNFCCC) as well as the Veriﬁed Carbon Standard programme by VERRA, and the Gold Standard, which is the most rigorous certiﬁcation All the solar power projects have been standard globally for carbon offset projects. All the energy generated is sold to the respective installed on waste land/dump yard at Dariba state DISCOMs and does not form a part of Vedanta's energy mix. mine, Debari Zinc smelter and Agucha mine, reducing our land use. The green power generated from our solar installations have reduced our carbon footprint by nearly 66,000 Waste Heat Recovery tCO2e per annum. Vedanta is planning to 34.4 MW of power capacity is generated through waste heat recovery from further enhance its solar energy footprint in roasters and steam turbo generators out of which 9.4 MW Waste Heat Recovery Boiler project is the coming year. registered under the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM). PROJECTS IN PIPELINE 30MW 1 MW 3 MW Additional solar power project at Dariba ﬂoating solar power project at Gosunda captive dam near Chanderiya for utilisation of rooftop solar power project (0.75 MW already commissioned) 50 MW wind power available water surfaces plant Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 34 Waste & Tailings Management Responsible management of waste is the cornerstone of any sustainable operation. The safe and responsible management of hazardous, nonhazardous, and high-volume low-toxicity wastes is a key concern for our businesses. At Vedanta, the hazardous wastes include used/spent oil, waste The Resource Use and Waste Management Technical Standard, and refractories, spent pot lining and residual sludge from smelters, while supporting guidance notes are part of the Vedanta Sustainability the non-hazardous (high-volume, low-toxicity) wastes we generate Framework. We follow the principle of ﬁrst reducing the waste, include ﬂy ash (from captive and merchant power plants), red mud quantitatively as well as qualitatively (reducing the toxicity), and then (aluminium reﬁnery waste), jaroﬁx (from zinc smelting), slag, lime grit performing the recovery and recycle (either ourselves or sold to (process residues from smelters and aluminium reﬁneries) and authorised recyclers). The last priority is disposal in landﬁll or by phosphogypsum (phosphoric acid plant). incineration, using authorised, licenced and secured landﬁlls. Jarosite capping, Hindustan Zinc IN FY 2019, WE RECYCLED 92% OF THE HIGH-VOLUME LOW-TOXICITY WASTES SUCH AS FLY ASH, SLAG AND JAROSITE. This year, we worked extensively on tailings dam management. When and made safe before it can be discharged into local drainage minerals and metals are extracted from the mined ore, the remaining systems. We worked with independent industry experts Golder substance, which consists of powdered rocks and water, is considered Associates to audit our tailings management system and advice us as tailings waste. If this waste is not treated and managed efﬁciently, it the safe design, construction and operation of all our tailings facilities. can have a signiﬁcant negative impact on the environment and health At Hindustan Zinc, instead of disposing of tailings in land-hungry of the neighbouring community. surface pits, we have found a way to turn them into paste and use We apply stringent steps to comply with all local environmental them for backﬁlling of empty underground voids. standards, ensuring that the water contained in this waste is treated WASTE PERFORMANCE DASHBOARD | Waste Generation & Recycle Snapshot High-Volume Low-Toxicity Waste Recycling in million MT Fly Ash Slag Jarosite Red Mud Generated 11.25 0.63 0.52 1.76 Recycled 12.39 0.49 0.06 0.08 35 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures CASE STUDY TURNING WASTE INTO SUBSTITUTE RAW MATERIALS HZL, RAJASTHAN CHALLENGE Jarosite and Jaroﬁx waste are generated from hydro-metallurgical process at the Dariba, Debari and Chanderiya Lead Zinc Smelters. High generation of these waste occupies a large land parcel, which leads to environmental concerns. ACTION Based on studies conducted by various government organisations, Jarosite and Jaroﬁx have been determined to be commercially viable for usage in cement industry and road construction. In FY 2019, over 13,000 MT of Jarosite was used in the cement industry while over 70,000 MT of Jarosite and Jaroﬁx were used in road construction projects. Similarly, we have partnered with reputable R&D organisations and corporates to use slag in cement and highway construction. This has received approvals by Bureau of Indian Standards and the Indian Road Congress. OUTCOME 13,000MT 70,000MT 300,000MT Jarosite was used in the Jarosite and Jaroﬁx were used in Slag was used in Cement Manufacturing Cement Industry Road Construction Projects and Road Construction Using jarosite as road construction material, Hindustan Zinc IN FY 2019, OVER 300,000 MT OF SLAG WAS USED IN CEMENT MANUFACTURING AND ROAD CONSTRUCTION. THIS FREED UP SEVERAL HECTARES OF LAND FOR ALTERNATIVE USES, REPLACED VIRGIN RED OCHRE AND LIMESTONE AND REDUCED CO2 EMISSIONS. Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 36 Tailings Dam Management Tailings dams and ash ponds are integral to Vedanta's mining operations. However, they can cause signiﬁcant damage to the environment and to the neighbouring communities if they are breached. Effective management of tailings dams is part of our sustainability commitment ZERO HARM, ZERO WASTE & ZERO DISCHARGE Tailings dam facility, Hindustan Zinc Vedanta oversees 17 active and one closed tailings management Starting with an independent assessment of the dam structures, last facilities (TMFs). Our principle concern is to ensure the safety of the year we brought on-board, global experts Golder Associates, to review people who live downstream from our dams. To improve the the integrity of our dam structures and the associated management management of our tailings dams and ash ponds, we have taken some practices. The task has been completed at all our dam locations and the signiﬁcant measures over the last 18 months. recommendations have been analysed for implementation. IN ADDITION, THE COMPANY ALSO INTRODUCED TAILINGS DAM MANAGEMENT STANDARDS TO ENSURE THAT ALL OUR GROUP COMPANIES FOLLOW CONSISTENT, INTERNATIONAL BEST PRACTICES. LEARNINGS FROM THE REVIEW WERE ALSO SUPPLEMENTED BY MEASURES TAKEN TO PREPARE THE DAMS FOR THE MONSOON SEASON, WHICH COULD SEE OVERFLOW CONDITIONS ARISE IN CASE OF HEAVY RAINFALL. Critical aspects of Vedanta's TMF Standards Key initiatives that were taken to improve oversight of our dam facilities include: Ÿ Site selection must be based on a comprehensive environmental and social impact assessment, economics, and public health and safety Ÿ Daily/weekly checks (as required) risk over the life cycle of the tailing facility as per Good International Industry Practice Ÿ Revision of the risk matrix Ÿ Dam break analysis must be conducted based on the advice of the Ÿ Introduction of surveillance systems designer/consultant to quantify the TMF-related risks if the TMF is Ÿ Conducting liquefaction analysis located upstream or close to communities or sensitive environmental areas Ÿ Improved training for all key personnel and detailed documentation Ÿ Design must be based on best available technology, to minimise the Ÿ Quarterly review of dam-state by senior management environmental, social, and economic risks, at an optimal total cost of ownership over the life cycle of the operation. Ÿ Emphasis on safe closure planning for all tailing/dyke facilities 37 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures We follow a structured approach for the management of our tailings dam facilities, which will minimise the risk of a future dam breach. While we have done good amount of work, we will continue to work for the safety of the people and the planet. In FY 2019, Golder undertook a comprehensive review of Vedanta's TMFs, and noted numerous instances of good practice at various locations. Some of the key ﬁndings of Golder Associates include: RAMPURA AGUCHA RAJPURA DARIBA COMPLEX TALWANDI SABO POWER LTD. Ÿ Instrumentation (piezometers and Ÿ Excellent freeboard and water Ÿ Good monitoring documentation, embankment settlement management construction of adequate freeboard and with the monuments) installed external return water pond inter-pond divider berm, a good plan for ash management and Ÿ Completed addition of more Ÿ Overall good construction quality, utilisation. discharge locations (now seven and and upgrading of tailings slurry will add two more) transport and discharge lines, plus Ÿ Good ash utilisation plan and starting to install piezometers (and practice one inclinometer) with automated data collection and web-based Ÿ Installation of embankment monitoring piezometers and settlement monuments LANJIGARH JHARSUGUDA BALCO KORBA Ÿ Remedial embankment buttressing Ÿ Excellent documentation, quality Ÿ Improvement over November 2017 continuing remedial construction, and overall site visit remedial design plans ash management. Lagoon 3, with under construction and the Ÿ Adequate freeboard in the West multiple deposition points from embankments are being Red Mud Pond (water storage perimeter slurry line dewatered successfully pond that decants to the Process Water Lake) Ÿ Successful rehabilitation and raising of Pond 1 are testimony to the Jharsuguda Ash Team's efforts in stabilising Lagoon 1 and developing capacity for future ash storage TMF MANAGEMENT HAS BEEN IMPROVED SIGNIFICANTLY, SPECIFICALLY WITH A FOCUS ON EMBANKMENT STABILITY. TMF COMMITTEES HAVE PROVEN TO BE A KEY SUCCESS FACTOR IN THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE VEDANTA TMF STANDARD. Golder Associates January 2019 Tailings dam facility at Rampura Agucha Mine, Hindustan Zinc Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 38 CASE STUDY MAKING OF A WORLD-CLASS TAILINGS MANAGEMENT FACILITY GAMSBERG CHALLENGE The Gambsberg facility has been developed in the ecologically sensitive Succulent Karoo Biome, a designated biodiversity 'hotspot' and one of 36 'biodiversity hotspots' in the world. This adds to our responsibility to be more careful in managing the tailings. ACTION Given the sensitive environment in which Gamsberg operates, various The TMF is fully lined with a 1.5 mm HDPE liner to prevent any polluted potential impacts of the TMF were given serious consideration. water from reaching natural sources; and a continuous impermeable Especially important was protecting the groundwater. Gamsberg's has rock armour was constructed on the outside slope of the TMF to the largest high-density polyethylene (HDPE)-lined TMF in South prevent clean rainwater run-off being contaminated with tailings. This Africa with a capacity of 3.55 MT of tailings a year. also helps in minimising the wind dispersion of the tailings. In line with our overall digitisation drive at Gamsberg, several measures were implemented for monitoring the TMF: Ÿ temperature probes underneath the liner to measure if the tailings become heat-generative; and Ÿ wireless vibrating wire piezometers, delivering real-time water level data. Trigger levels were built in to give warning if the phreatic surface (the level below which the ground is completely saturated with water) rises above limits. Several best practices relating to design overview, location selection, geo-membrane selection, geotechnical/hydrogeology investigations, deposition method: cyclone vs spigot, stormwater management, environmental management, stability analysis, digitalisation, closure planning and documentation were implemented right at the design stage of this project. Tailings dam, Gamsberg OUTCOME THIS HAS HELPED ENSURE THAT THE TMF IS STATE-OF-ART AND BUILT KEEPING IN MIND SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION CONSIDERATIONS. 39 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures Water Management Water is a shared resource. While access to a steady water supply is critical for mining and smelting operations, it is an equally critical requirement for our host communities and the natural ecosystem and biodiversity of the area. The shared nature of this resource calls for all stakeholders to use it responsibly and Vedanta has taken several measures to reduce our consumption of water. Our Group water policy administered through our water management standard is in place and our approach is to keep it as a core factor while making decisions, either for a new project or an existing one. Water-screening assessment to identify sensitive water resources, aquatic habitats and any known or suspected water resource constraints in proximity to each operation, is a must and has been conducted by all our businesses. It ensures that our operations have built-in measures to evade, curtail, or where required, compensate its effect on water in their respective regions. CII NATIONAL AWARD FOR EXCELLENCE IN WATER MANAGEMENT UNDER THE 'WATER MANAGEMENT WITHIN THE FENCE' CATEGORY AWARDED TO CAPTIVE POWER PLANT ZAWAR & DARIBA SMELTING COMPLEX. Lead plant at Dariba, Hindustan Zinc Water Risk Assessment Last year, we had undertaken a water risk assessment exercise at 25 of Findings from the study made us understand that some of our our most signiﬁcant business locations. This determined water risk operations in the high water-stress regions of India (Rajasthan, Punjab, based on water-stress information available in global and public Tamil Nadu) had a greater risk of shortages over a period than our databases, and in site-speciﬁc measurements. The approach businesses in other locations. This is because of the competitive evaluated physical, social/regulatory, economic and business risks pressures for water usage in those regions. Each of our businesses has related to water. In addition to understanding the water risk at each of begun to put in place appropriate mitigation measures to counter these locations, our goal was to standardise our water risk assessment these risks. approach for Group companies. Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 40 For instance, Ÿ Hindustan Zinc has entered into a Public-Private Partnership to install and treat 20,000 m3/day of municipal wastewater from the Ÿ Sindesar Khurd Mines (SKM) has undertaken pond deepening in city of Udaipur. The water will be used for operations at Rajpura surrounding villages of Rajpura Dariba Complex (RDC), which will Dariba Complex and will replace a signiﬁcant portion of the unit's help increase the rainwater recharge for use in agriculture, drinking freshwater. and other purposes Ÿ TSPL has taken several initiatives to ﬁx water leaks, saving nearly 0.3 Ÿ Rampura Agucha Mines in Rajasthan and Nchanga mines in Zambia million cubic meters of water during the course of the year. have initiated a project to recycle and reuse water from the tailings dam in their milling operations. This has resulted in a Ÿ The thermal power plant at Jharsuguda has augmented the capacity reduction of freshwater use by nearly a million cubic meters at of its ETP, resulting in an additional 0.4 million cubic meters of water each location. becoming available for use within the plant. COLLECTIVELY, WE HAVE SAVED OR PRESERVED OVER 3 MILLION m3 OF WATER IN 3 THE FISCAL YEAR, AGAINST OUR TARGET OF CONSERVING 4 MILLION m . To further support the better management of water, we have released a guidance note on water management allowing a uniform implementation of the performance standards. WATER PERFORMANCE DASHBOARD 3 3 Total Water Consumption (million m ) Water Recycled/Reused (million m ) Water Recycled (%) 280.01 74.40 67.58 26.60% 66.81 278.67 24.25% 24% 277.60 FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 RO plant, Sterlite Copper 41 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures Reusing Process Water for Cooling Hindustan Zinc, Rajasthan 3 We reduced the usage of 674 m freshwater annually by reusing the 3 process water (2 m per day) from the Triple Distilled Water Unit (TDWU), which used to get drained earlier. TDWU is installed at the Central R&D Laboratory (CRDL) to provide distilled water for the analytical laboratory. The process water used for cooling in TDWU resulted in drained outlet water, which is now being collected, and then pumped to an overhead water storage tank from where it is supplied to washing areas. Thus, freshwater used for washing in the analytical laboratory has been reduced. RO plant at Chanderia, Hindustan Zinc The road to improved water management | KCM The Konkola mines of KCM have a 70-year legacy of discharging high-TDS water into the local river. The practice, which existed before KCM became part of the Vedanta group has been a sore point with local communities and has been a cause for environmental concern. In 2017, KCM implemented a water management program to permanently bring the operations to zero water and zero tailings discharge. This program is supported by specialist consultants and has regulatory approval from the Zambia Environmental Management Agency (ZEMA). The program is being implemented under the guidance of local communities. Clean water discharge at Konkola Copper Mine The program to address environmental concerns and bring KCM to a zero-discharge site includes: Ÿ A Tailings Dam Water Recycling Project to recycle water back to Ÿ Following remediation, a review and Environmental Impact the plant Assessment of off-site areas to consider further remediation options Ÿ De-silting works at the Pollution Control Dam (PCD) Ÿ Installation of solar powered community water boreholes including a water reticulation piping network for local Ÿ De-silting works of other streams communities to ensure a continuous supply of drinking water Ÿ Installation of a catchment pond immediately downstream of the Tailings Leach Plant As of FY 2019, progress has been made on several of these subprojects and we are conﬁdent that we will have a zero-discharge Ÿ Installation of online monitoring equipment for discharge control plant in the near future. Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 42 Air Quality and Emissions Control Clean air is essential for the health and well-being of everyone on the environment. We are committed to using processes and technology planet. At Vedanta, we are committed to manage and minimize that minimises any particulate release. emissions to air from the point, fugitive and mobile sources, as well as As part of our ambient air quality monitoring process, we monitor from process activities associated with combustion and materials Suspended Particulate Matter (SPM), SOx and NOx. We also keep in storage. check lead emissions in our zinc operations, ﬂuoride emissions in our We closely monitor the extent of any impact that our operations have copper and aluminium operations, and Polycyclic Aromatic on air quality and the effects and implications that this may have on Hydrocarbons (PAHs) in our aluminium operations as per our employees, the communities local to our operations, and the broader Environmental Management Standard. ZINC INDIA HAS MADE A TRANSITION FROM OPEN CAST TO FULLY UNDERGROUND MINE REDUCING THE AIR EMISSIONS. Ventilated underground mining shafts help maintain air quality. Sindesar Khurd Mine, Hindustan Zinc STACK EMISSIONS DASHBOARD in MT PPEs help protect our contract workforce from localized particulate matter, HZL Particulate Matter 10,106 8,837 11,056 SOx 243,474 191,751 178,324 NOx 67,413 56,853 44,935 FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 43 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures Biodiversity Management Biodiversity loss is an environmental risk because it is important to the security of common resources such as water, soil, and air quality. Critical human systems such as food supply and human health are impacted if societies suffer irreversible, large-scale biodiversity loss. As a result, it is a signiﬁcant threat to long-term economic sustainability. At Vedanta, biodiversity management has been made integral in all our projects across all three stages the design phase, the operational phase and the post-closure phase. We strive to prevent any adverse impacts on biodiversity as a result of our operations. We manage and use land across the project life cycle in a way that ensures biodiversity conservation needs are integrated with the needs of the business. It advises how disruption is to be avoided, minimised and compensated for, from WE HAVE A DEDICATED 'BIODIVERSITY POLICY AND project scoping to site closure and beyond. MANAGEMENT STANDARD' IN LINE WITH Our businesses seek consultation from domain experts in identifying biodiversityINTERNATIONAL STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES OF related business risk and its management. INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORPORATION (IFC). This is an integral part of our commitment to sustainable development. Chanderia Lead Zinc Smelter, Hindustan Zinc We also follow the International Council on Mining and Metals mitigation hierarchy an internationally recognised approach designed to help limit, as far as possible, the impacts of development projects on biodiversity and ecosystem services. Vedanta conducts environmental and social impact assessments for new projects or major expansions to understand the presence of critical biodiversity attributes before starting work. Sites that may have a signiﬁcant impact on the biodiversity of an area must develop biodiversity management plans (BMPs) to mitigate that impact. AS OF FY 2019, 100% OF OUR SITES HAVE RE-EVALUATED THEIR BMPS AND ARE IN THE PROCESS OF DEVELOPING PLANS TO MITIGATE THEIR IMPACTS. We strive to attain a minimum of No Net Loss (NNL) of biodiversity and Net Positive Gain (NPG) of biodiversity at all our operations. Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 44 CASE STUDY OPERATING IN A UNIQUELY FRAGILE BIOME V E D A N TA Z I N C I N T E R N AT I O N A L , G A M S B E R G CHALLENGE The Succulent Karoo Biome, where Vedanta Zinc International's (VZI) Gamsberg operations are located, is unique, even for a country such as South Africa, which is renowned for its ﬂoral diversity. Among the 36 global biodiversity hotspots, the biome is home to at least 6,000 species of plants that have evolved over millennia to survive the desert's aridity, many of them rare and, until our environmentalists began their documentation of the biodiversity of the region, some of which had been previously unrecorded. ACTION A central objective during the construction of the Gamsberg VZI's environmental specialists worked closely with a wide range of operations was to ensure that we do not damage the fragile site and experts, including those from the International Union for Conservation build in a manner that allows for the area to be restored completely of Nature (IUCN) to design and implement a process to ensure the when mining ends. site's necessary protection, preservation and ultimate restoration. The Succulent Karoo Biome, Gamsberg We followed the mitigation hierarchy to: Ÿ Avoid – Found alternate locations for the waste pits, processing facilities, and access roads Ÿ Minimize – Fenced and demarcated sensitive areas, used HDPE lining in the tailings storage facility, and made provision to segregate waste rocks according to their leachability characteristics Ÿ Remedy – Translocated ~77,000 plants to be used in the concurrent rehabilitation of the area Ÿ Offset – Identiﬁed ~40,000 hectares of land with similar topographical features to be used as an offset area to realize the No Net Loss objective of the project; this will be monitored by IUCN OUTCOME SOME 80,000 PLANTS AND 360,000 SEEDS WERE COLLECTED AND MOVED TO THE SPECIALISED FACILITIES OF THE KAROO DESERT NATIONAL BOTANICAL GARDEN. The objective was that, once the mining ends and the area's surface is restored, these seeds can be replanted with the endemic species that were removed from the site, saved and protected. Areas that are particularly sensitive have been fenced off, while operations have been designed to limit and minimise any direct effects on the entire region. 15,000 hectares of land secured to undertake offset exercise. Preserve, protect, restore and rehabilitate are the pillars, which should guide the environmental planning of any mining project none more so than in the environmentally sensitive and fragile Northern Cape. 45 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures CASE STUDY GREENING THE DESERT AND SEQUESTERING CARBON CAIRN OIL & GAS CHALLENGE Cairn's RJ-ON-90/1 block situated in the Thar Desert is characterised among other things by extremes of temperature, low rainfall and sparse, drought-resistant vegetation. The challenge was to develop and maintain a green belt in the desert region. ACTION To combat the vagaries of the desert climate, Cairn's greenbelt programme built its foundation on endemic farming knowledge and used the opportunity to develop the programme as a means of alternative livelihood generation activity for the local community. This approach resulted in the nurturing and regular maintenance of the saplings, ensuring a high survival rate. Our efforts have Developed plantation Cairn has also taken resulted in more than having carbon initiative for sand dune 200,000 sequestration potential of stabilisation in and around its facility with trees being planted over 210 hectares ~23,156 ton of CO2 the help of planting local plant species. Greenbelt and sand-dune stabilization at MPT, Cairn Oil & Gas In the reporting period, we undertook a third-party assessment of the carbon stock of the plantations in the Rajasthan block. The assessment was conducted through extensive ﬁeld surveys and spatial analysis in accordance with IPCC's Good Practice Guidance (GPG) for Land Use, Land-Use Change and Forestry (LULUCF). These guidelines are also adopted by the Forest Survey of India. OUTCOME In the assessment, the living portion of forest biomass carbon i.e. Above Ground Biomass (AGB) & Below Ground Biomass (BGB) and Soil organic matter has been included for Carbon stock assessment. THE STUDY CONFIRMS THE CARBON SEQUESTRATION POTENTIAL OF CAIRN DEVELOPED PLANTATION IS ~23,156 TON OF CO2, WHICH IS CALCULATED BASED ON THE TOTAL CARBON STOCK STORED. Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 46 U P D AT E O N S T E R L I T E C O P P E R Sterlite Copper, Tuticorin It was with great sorrow that we witnessed the tragic incidents around the protest at Tuticorin on 22 May 2018, in which 13 people were killed by police during a demonstration. Protests were launched in early 2018 This has taken a number of forms, including Ÿ The plant has implemented zero around the expansion of the plant, increased stakeholder engagement as well liquid discharge since inception; all which would almost double capacity, as training on issues such as human rights, efﬂuents are treated and recycled and had been underway since security, emergency preparedness and back into operations December 2017. All required crowd control. permissions had been received. Ÿ When operational, nearly 100% of We are currently awaiting the outcomes from SO2 was utilized to manufacture The company had received legal processes that are underway through sulphuric acid. grievances from the local community the State Courts to re-open this plant. around road and water issues. These Comprehensive CSR and stakeholder Ÿ Sterlite's air emissions were were in the process of being outreach programmes continue. addressed. The protestors made monitored 24 hours a day through allegations concerning the a CARE air monitoring station environmental practices of the Key Facts about Sterlite Copper: existing plant, which the company Ÿ The cancer incidence rate at believes to be unfounded. The Ÿ Over $74.5 million have been spent on Tuticorin is much lower than the Supreme Court outcomes of the legal measures that mitigate our state average; no scientiﬁc process conﬁrm this. environmental impact evidence to back the allegations of health impacts from the plant Since the tragic events of May 2018 Ÿ Pollution reduction & monitoring the company has intensiﬁed its efforts technologies include: Flue-gas Ÿ Vedanta has continued to retain to engage with all stakeholders. The desulphurisation units with bag ﬁlters, our full-time employees; more company has been working with the RO plants, Evaporators, Tail gas than 70% of the workforce is local relevant authorities to ensure the scrubbers, 3+2 stage converters, and belongs to the state of safety of our employees, facilities and piezometric borewells, fence-line Tamil Nadu the surrounding communities. monitoring FAQs: https://www.sterlitecopper.com/know-the-truth/ 47 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures OUR PEOPLE The credit for Vedanta becoming one of the largest, diversiﬁed metals and mining companies in the world rests on the shoulders of our employees and business partners. As a Company, we have always prided ourselves on the way our employees take on tough challenges, and deliver. We have always displayed a result-oriented bent towards any task undertaken and have endeavoured to continuously expand the capacity of our workforce to align with business strategy. Safe, productive, and dynamic that is how we would like to see our 88,000+ diverse workforce who are spread across multiple countries. Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 48 1.53 million manhours 23% of the new <6% attrition rate of HSE training employees given to employees are women 10% turnover rate Championing gender diversity, BALCO 49 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures Management Approach Our key approach is to develop a uniﬁed culture that exempliﬁes our core values and nurtures safety, health and well-being, excellence, creativity and diversity. Our workforce propels our progress and it is our responsibility to keep them motivated. We achieve that by providing career growth and leadership opportunities across all levels, with an emphasis on promoting gender diversity across roles. WE CONSTANTLY EVOLVE AT ALL PHASES OF THE TALENT MANAGEMENT CYCLE, FROM RECRUITMENT TO DEVELOPMENT, AND ENGAGEMENT TO RETENTION. THROUGH DIGITISATION AND USER-FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGY, WE CONTINUOUSLY UPGRADE AND INTRODUCE BEST-IN-CLASS PEOPLE PRACTICES. THE MATERIAL ISSUES THAT MARK OUR PEOPLE PERFORMANCE ARE: SAFETY, HEALTH AND WELL-BEING BALCO PEOPLE AND DIVERSITY MANAGEMENT Jharsuguda LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT, TALENT MANAGEMENT DIVERSITY AND AND EMPLOYEE RETENTION EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Hindustan Zinc Hindustan Zinc Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 50 Safety, Health and Well-Being Building a Culture of Care Safety Performance FY 2019 was a difﬁcult year for the Group. We lost 14 colleagues in work-related accidents and we send our condolences to their families. This is the second year in a row when we have seen a rising trend in fatal accidents in the workplace. Nearly 70% of the fatalities occurred in risk areas covered by our safety standards. This is a matter of signiﬁcant concern for us, and the management has redoubled efforts that we had instituted in the previous year. While we have taken steps to further strengthen our monitoring of all critical risk areas, we recognise that additional efforts are required if we are to meet our commitment of 'zero harm'. Details on those efforts can be found below in the section 'Building a Culture of Care'. Cairn Oil & Gas LTIFR (Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate) FY 2018-19 0.47* FY 2017-18 0.34 FY 2016-17 0.39 FY 2015-16 0.46 FY 2014-15 0.46 FY 2013-14 0.54 *Out of 110 LTIs, 82 impacted our contract workers FATALITIES FY 2018-19 14 # FY 2017-18 9 FY 2016-17 7 FY 2015-16 12 FY 2014-15 8 FY 2013-14 19 #Out of 14 fatalities, 12 impacted our contract workers 51 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures CAIRN OIL & GAS WAS BESTOWED WITH THE BRITISH SAFETY COUNCIL'S 5-STAR RATING. Safety training program for contract workers, Hindustan Zinc Policies and Standards A workplace that protects workers from harm and promotes worker health and well-being will enhance employee satisfaction, raise productivity, and ensure we attract and retain the best talent. With a comprehensive Group-level HSE policy, we seek to embed health and safety as a value across our operations. This policy is supported by several management and technical standards that guide our workforce into implementing safe operations. The Vedanta Sustainability Framework (VSF) puts signiﬁcant emphasis on Safety & Occupational Health, and every member of the workforce is educated and encouraged to embrace safety wholeheartedly. The following standards support our HSE policy: Machinery guarding, Lock-out-tagout, Electrical isolation, Conﬁned space entry, Work-at-height, Fleet management, Molten metals handling, Ground control, Cranes & scaffolding, and Pit, stockpile and waste dump stability. OUR SAFETY STANDARDS PORTFOLIO HAS GRADUALLY EXPANDED TO INCORPORATE ADDITIONAL CRITICAL RISKS IDENTIFIED AS A RESULT OF OUR INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS. TODAY, OUR BUSINESSES ADHERE TO TEN SAFETY STANDARDS DESIGNED TO PREVENT FATALITIES IN THE WORKPLACE. Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 52 Training and Awareness Building Over the last 24 months, we have made considerable efforts to ensure that our entire workforce has the correct training, so that their actions result in a safe workplace. The training includes programmes to help employees make better risk decisions, understand our safety standards, and share learnings and best practices across the organisation. Safety & Occupational Health is a mandatory module in our induction and refresher training programme. Contractor safety training, Gamsberg OVER THE LAST YEAR, WE HAVE IMPARTED OVER 1.46 MILLION HOURS OF SAFETY TRAINING TO OUR EMPLOYEES, CONTRACT WORKERS AND BUSINESS PARTNERS. 95% OF THE HOURS WERE DEDICATED TO TRAINING OUR CONTRACT WORKERS AND BUSINESS PARTNERS. Monitoring, Evaluation and Leadership Accountability Over the last ﬁve years, we have developed a robust methodology to monitor our efforts to improve safety performance. Our monitoring framework is well-established and encompasses checks across all levels of organisational hierarchy from the shop-ﬂoor to the boardroom. Job risk assessments, permit-to-work checks, toolbox talks, and weekly status checks are conducted at the asset and Business Unit level to ensure that safe work practices and learnings from previous incidents are being applied consistently. At the Group level, an extensive review of safety performance forms the opening discussion of the monthly Group ExCo review session. The Group Risk Committee meeting has also identiﬁed HSE as a key risk area for the organisation and mitigative actions are evaluated by the Committee. The ﬁnal review of our safety management systems takes place at the quarterly Board and Sustainability Committee meetings. Additionally, each asset undergoes an extensive audit conducted by an independent third party under the Vedanta Sustainability Assurance Program. OUR BOARD LEVEL SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE, CHAIRED BY AN INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE, DIRECTOR OF THE BOARD, AND OUR EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE, CHAIRED BY OUR CEO, REGULARLY REVIEW OUR SAFETY PERFORMANCE AND SHARE RECOMMENDATIONS. BUSINESS CEOS AND HSE HEADS ARE ANSWERABLE FOR THEIR UNITS' SAFETY PERFORMANCE AT ALL GROUP-LEVEL BOARD AND EXCO MEETINGS. Leadership tours, Gamsberg 53 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures Building a Culture of Care We believe that safe workplaces are as much about having the right standards and engineering controls in place, as they are about ensuring that inattentive and uncontrolled high-risk personal behaviours are eliminated. Historically, much of our efforts have focussed on ensuring that we get the engineering and managerial controls in place. To help bridge the gap between management controls and personal behaviour, Vedanta has decided to adopt a culture of care, where each person on the shop-ﬂoor takes personal responsibility for the safe behaviours of their peers and their own actions. In this 'Culture of Care', the primary intent of every leader on every job is to keep people safe from harm. Our leadership team has put their roles and responsibilities under a microscope and identiﬁed three key KPIs for safety as a competency metric that we will be focussing on, to enhance our safety performance. Each KPI will carry signiﬁcant weight as part of our annual performance assessment. 1 Visible and Felt Leadership 2Manage Safety Critical Tasks 3 Business Partners Leaders and support personnel to spend Safety Critical Tasks are identiﬁed wherein Long-term business partners are treated as quality time in the ﬁeld performing safety a fatality has or could reasonably occur, and employees for a safety point-of-view, interactions and workplace hazard reviews. the critical controls and competencies are including competency assessment for Safety Each Strategic Business Unit (SBU) will set documented in SOPs and implemented Critical Tasks. Short-term and project business requirements using the guideline: SBU leaders every time partner safety is managed through the through to front line leaders 25%, and safety selection and deployment of suitable personnel 80% supervisors In addition, we have appointed 'zone-wise' managers who are accountable for the overall safety of their areas. We have mandated that the managers should be chosen from inside the business; people who staff the shop-ﬂoor on a daily basis. WE ARE COMMITTED TO STEM AND REVERSE THIS TREND, THROUGH VISIBLE FELT LEADERSHIP; VALIDATING THE EFFECTIVENESS OF CRITICAL RISK CONTROLS; AND BETTER ENGAGEMENT AND MANAGEMENT OF OUR BUSINESS PARTNERS. Project Chetna Raising Safety Consciousness to Raise Safety Standards The only way to improve the future is to learn from the past. With this in mind, we studied and analysed past incidents where we had witnessed lapses in safety. Our analysis revealed that these incidents could have been avoided if workers had been more aware about their surroundings and practiced safe behaviours. BALCO launched 'Project Chetna' (Project Awareness) to coach, assist, and train the workforce in recognising warning signals, remaining focussed on the task, and applying known and safe 'last step' behaviours that can help prevent accidents. The initiative has made it easier for the THE PROGRAMME HAS TRAINED OVER workforce to understand safe actions and behaviours. 1,600 1,100 EMPLOYEES CONTRACT WORKERS Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 54 CASE STUDY DAILY 'VISUAL MANAGEMENT' MAKING ISSUES VISIBLE At the Lanjigarh reﬁnery, the team has adopted a concept from the automotive industry.They now have a visual management system, with the idea of making key business processes visible. This approach helps management teams to identify any bottlenecks that need to be resolved and eliminated in order to run a successful and safe reﬁnery. A key part of this approach is to resolve problems and barriers in a structured manner. Lanjigarh alumina reﬁnery All sections in the plant area are assigned boards that detail Safety Focus areas Places where High-risk tasks for the day measures for safety housekeeping and their corresponding required interactions inspections will occur control measures The boards also cover all the actions being undertaken during the day, The approach underlines the overall philosophy of the Group when it with a speciﬁc focus of identifying any unplanned activities and/or risks comes to running safe operations. While our safety performance in the operational area that may impact the reﬁnery. They also ﬂag any standards outline the expectations and help set out guidelines to maintenance activities that may need to be performed over the next 24 prepare standard operating procedures, it is practices such as these hours. that are helping businesses implement safe working conditions. The ﬁnal assessment involves identifying risks that the section may Additional practices such as Visible Felt Leadership, improving the generate due to its activities at the 'one-week-out' stage, enabling management of safety critical tasks, and increasing awareness, training, advance planning to mitigate those risks. and accountability of our business partners will help the Group to deliver on its commitment of 'zero harm'. This approach has allowed the plant managers to systematically identify and address risks to the plant and eliminate safety hazards. 55 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures Industrial Hygiene Programme | Jharsuguda At Vedanta Jharsuguda, we initiated a hazard identiﬁcation and health risk assessment process. Jharsuguda As part of the continual improvement of work areas, we completed our baseline exposure survey in 2017. The programme covered all occupational health hazards such as air borne contaminants, noise, vibration, heat stress and ergonomics. It made us aware of the degree of control we had over the hazards, and whether the maximum exposures were under the established Occupational Exposure Limits (OELs). After the baseline study, the entire site was divided into three zones. Red Zone where exposure is above OEL, Yellow Zone where exposure is more than 50% of OEL, and Green Zone where exposure is below OEL. During FY 2019, we focussed on the Red Zone areas and targeted 10% reduction of exposure by implementing engineering control measures, process changes and automation. In addition to this, we also reduced the duration of exposure to decrease the level of impact. Leadership Development, Talent Management and Employee Retention In its third decade of operations, Vedanta continues to have aggressive growth and expansion plans. Over the last four years alone, we have averaged an annual spend of nearly USD 1 billion a year on capital expansion projects. These spends exclude the amount of money invested in plant upgradation and other efﬁciency activities. While monetary inﬂows drive these growth activities, it is the investment in our human capital that has seen us realise year-on-year growth of our operations. People are at the heart of everything we do. We create an enabling environment to support them in pursuing their goals. We have incorporated several programmes that nurture internal talent and bring into our fold, global experts, who can drive this expansion in a safe and productive manner. Employees at TSPL Hiring & Retaining the Right People Mining great talent is key to the mining industry. Innovation, technology and ever-evolving mining landscape are having its an impact on the kind of people required. At Vedanta, we are abreast of the changes and focus on hiring employees for the future. Some of our recruitment practices include: Right Management Vedanta Leadership Development in Place (RMIP) Programme (VLDP) To re-emphasise the Group's philosophy of empowering the SBUs, we VLDP is our ﬂagship programme, which aims to build organisational have reviewed our existing Business and SBU structures, and followed a capability through developing talent from premier management and rigorous assessment process to ensure that we have the right talent in the technology institutes. It is a tailored programme, which focusses on right positions. The RMIP process also ensures that we have ﬁlled all the nurturing these bright young minds to act as catalysts to steer our critical roles within our structures and any gaps in the management team business to the next level of growth by implementing transformational are supported by strategic plans to ﬁll vacancies. new age ideas. Our approach to recruitment is focussed on hiring diverse, high-quality The programme includes induction sessions, cross-functional projects in talent. We operate our businesses with global best practices and are signiﬁcant roles, job rotation, development opportunities, and the right benchmarked to global standards. Therefore, where needed, we also hire mentoring to ensure these individuals get an in-depth knowledge of our expats and specialists with global experience to manage such operations. operations and recognise their areas of interest for a suitable role. In FY2019, 55 VLDPs were on-boarded across our organisation. Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 56 CASE STUDY PROMOTING 'LEADERS FROM WITHIN' CHAIRMAN'S INTERNAL GROWTH WORKSHOPS We have always aimed to be an organisation headed by 'Leaders from Within'. Recognising internal talent and promoting them to leadership roles has been a driving factor in our rapid growth. Aligned with this philosophy, the Group conducts 'Chairman's Internal Growth Workshops' to identify potential candidates across the Group. These workshops have resulted in the identiﬁcation of 600+ cross-functional high potential new leaders in the Group's businesses to date, who have taken up signiﬁcantly enhanced roles and responsibilities. The objectives of Chairman's Internal Growth Workshops 1 23 are three-pronged Identifying young leaders for enhanced and elevated roles through a structured process Evaluating corrective actions, and providing growth & recognition wherever required Developing highly competent leaders and motivating them to perform exceptionally well Our Internal Growth Workshops have also enabled us to reduce our lateral hiring signiﬁcantly for critical roles across the Group in past two years. THROUGH THIS INITIATIVE WE HAVE CONDUCTED 120+ WORKSHOPS ACROSS KEY VERTICALS, SECTORS AND FUNCTIONS AND MET WITH 2,500+HIGH QUALITY PROFESSIONALS. THE SELECTED LEADERS HAVE BEEN IN KEY INITIATIVES / COUNCILS / EXCOS / HIGH IMPACT PROJECTS, ACROSS THE GROUP. Diversity being one of our key focus areas, we have 25% women executives in this bench strength of new leaders, which is amongst the industry best. This is a young pool with average age of below 35 years and attrition less than 1%, who are driving strategic initiatives across the Group. We recently conducted a study in liaison with an External Consulting Partner and it was found that more than 85% of these leaders are satisﬁed with the higher responsibility, exposure, support and motivation they are being provided, post taking up their new and elevated roles. 57 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures CASE STUDY STICKING TOGETHER THROUGH TOUGH TIMES The last 12-18 months have seen two of our units at Iron Ore Business, Goa and Sterlite Copper, Tuticorin encounter a period of uncertainty because of extended closure of their operations. While we are actively working to restart these units, we realise the toll such closures can take on our workforce and their families. Our employees are the most valuable assets of our company and we have taken several steps to ensure that they are productively occupied. At Sterlite Copper, we have used the closure as an opportunity for our full-time employees to have meaningful engagements with the local stakeholders. More than 500 employees have become a part of 10 stakeholder engagement teams whose task is to open channels of communication with stakeholder groups, understand their concerns, and access how the company's practices can be improved to better address their concerns. Employees at Sterlite Copper (before plant closure) THESE TEAMS, ON BEHALF OF THE A team of employees has also been engaged in planning activities under multiple projects related to operational of the unit (including for COMPANY, ARE WORKING TO STRENGTHEN health, safety and environment). These activities have allowed several of TRUST AMONG OUR STAKEHOLDERS WITH our junior employees to be a part of discussions and projects that they may not have the opportunity to participate in during the usual course A COMMITMENT TO DEVELOP SOCIAL of operations. INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS IN THE At our Iron Ore Business in Goa, many employees have been NEIGHBORING COMMUNITY SUCH AS redeployed to other parts of the business at Iron Ore Karnataka and the BUILDING A SMART SCHOOL, LAUNCHING Value-Added-Business. Several employees continue to be engaged in plant upkeep and maintenance activities especially to ensure that the YOUTH DEVELOPMENT SCHEMES, conditions do not deteriorate and become unsafe either for people, the BUILDING A WORLD-CLASS HOSPITAL, environment or adjoining communities. BUILDING A DESALINATION PLANT TO In addition to the steps taken to keep our employees engaged, ADDRESS WATER-SHORTAGE IN THE timely, relevant and periodic communication with all our employees has resulted in our people retaining their trust with the REGION AND TO PROVIDE CLEAN organisation. We are hopeful to a restart of operations at both DRINKING WATER TO THE COMMUNITIES locations and look forward to a fully-productive workforce LIVING AROUND OUR PLANT. achieving their true potential. Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 58 Workforce Snapshot Workforce at Lanjigarh Full-time Employees Contract Employees Retainers Business Location TOTAL Male Female Male Female Male Female Aluminium India 6,002 785 17,569 588 60 3 25,007 Copper Australia 18 1 4 1 0 0 24 India 903 126 1,029 20 5 1 2,084 Zambia 5,476 664 5,272 692 58 65 12,227 Iron Ore & India 4,608 167 8,079 85 13 2 12,954 Steel Oil & Gas India 1,280 269 11,222 76 278 14 13,139 Power India 72 17 1,345 37 2 0 1,473 Zinc, India 3,798 373 13,351 116 25 3 17,666 Lead & Namibia 504 79 149 895 4 5 1,636 Silver South Africa 760 151 1,151 126 36 18 2,242 Others* India 74 81 326 21 11 1 514 UK 3 3 0 0 2 5 13 TOTAL 23,498 2,716 59,348 2,806 494 117 88,979 * Includes the port business and corporate ofﬁce locations Employee Training Developing leaders from within has multiple advantages. For the employees, it ensures growth with stability. For the organisation, it facilitates a talent pipeline with the same imbibed culture. At Vedanta, we nurture and groom talent through a gamut of development programmes that include training, job rotations, additional projects and responsibilities, and mentoring programmes. man-hours Male Female Full-time Employees (FTE) 338,537 47,573 Average Training Hours for FTEs 14.41 17.52 Contract Employees 551,667 (male + female) Average Training Hours for Contract Employees 8.87 (male + female) 59 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures Communication & Feedback People love to work for organisations that value their contributions, listen to their viewpoints and engage them meaningfully. At Vedanta, we endeavour to create an inclusive culture that rewards good performance, creates interactive platforms and generates good vibes. The various internal channels of communication, including Chairman's workshops, town hall meetings, daily leadership update forums, HSE Leadership and Sustainability Steering Committee meetings, site-level risk sub-committees, employee engagement surveys, and the various engagement forums at site both formal and informal, allow us to engage with and provide feedback to our employees consistently. 360o Feedback At Vedanta, we promote growth and nurturing of our internal talent pool by encouraging internal ATTRITION RATE dialogue between senior leaders and their young mentees and peers. For this reason, we have o launched 360 feedback with our ExCo leaders in collaboration with an external partner. We FY 2019 believe that this will help to fast-track the assessment and development of leaders and we aim to extend this to cover all our professionals in due course. In FY2019, 100% of our leadership team were covered as part of this programme. 5.86% Employees at Hindustan Zinc V-Perform: One Performance System for One Vedanta Our focus is to constantly improve the level of automation in all our operations. V-Perform is a panWE FOSTER A Vedanta initiative to standardise the Performance Management System (PMS) and related processes CULTURE OF SAFETY across all Vedanta Group companies by leveraging technology. This enables functions, teams and individuals to track performance on a regular basis, evaluate efﬁciency through advanced analytics AND SUSTAINABILITY and implement proactive decisions towards achieving Vedanta's objectives. TO ACHIEVE OUR To enhance our safety performance in the workplace and strengthen our existing Safety ULTIMATE VISION OF Management System, a safety competency assessment process was completed mid-year by all employees. 'ZERO HARM, ZERO WASTE & ZERO Employee Stock Option Scheme (ESOS) DISCHARGE'. Employee stock options are a signiﬁcant component of our long-term incentives. They enable our employees to share in the success of the Company, encouraging high-growth performance and reinforcing employee pride with a focus on ownership. The scheme was launched after obtaining statutory approvals, including shareholders' approval in 2016. In 2018, 35% of the workforce participated in this scheme with a focus on our young and senior leaders, employees driving strategic projects and high-impact task force members. This scheme is applicable only for employees of Vedanta Limited. Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 60 A Holistic Approach to Better Contract Worker Management | Lanjigarh A unique aspect of being the only operator in remote locations is that it gives the company an opportunity to undertake several nitiatives that improve the lives of our workforce. The Lanjigarh team has taken the lead in building-out these programmes, which are starting to yield results for the organisation. These include: Ÿ A regular accommodation check of our contract workforce to Ÿ Rights-based induction training for contract workers, which ensure that their living conditions meet our stringent highlights the importance of our safety protocols, familiarises requirements. This quarterly exercise is jointly conducted by the them with Vedanta's values, policies and compliance regime. HR, HSE and Commercial team, and is an important component of Most importantly, it introduces the workers to their labour our contractor management programme. rights and the grievance mechanisms in place to resolve their complaints and issues. Ÿ Behavioural training of unskilled workers; helping them understand the intricacies of team-work, work-ethics, and Ÿ A new programme Prevention of Sexual Harassment training for timeliness among other soft-skills. This activity-based learning contract female and male workers; conducted by the legal programme has resulted in a decline in work stoppages and is department in the local language will help them seek recourse in conducted in collaboration with the contractor company. It case of instances of sexual harassment. supplements the existing induction programme. Diversity and Equal Opportunity We believe that equality is about ensuring everybody, irrespective of gender, nationality or any other background, has an equal opportunity and is not treated differently or discriminated against because of these characteristics. Diversity is about taking account of these differences between people and groups of people, and placing a positive value on those differences. DCSControl Room, Lanjigarh DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY ENCOURAGE DIFFERENT IDEAS, INSPIRE CREATIVITY AND DRIVE INNOVATION. ADDED WITH CULTURAL SENSITIVITY, INSIGHT AND LOCAL KNOWLEDGE, THEY MAKE A BUSINESS MORE COMPETITIVE AND PROFITABLE. 61 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures Women in Workforce There is a direct correlation between greater gender diversity and higher productivity. We understand the importance of women in our workforce and have put in place several policies and procedures to increase female representation at work. Improving gender diversity in the oil & gas industry 23% 10.36% 12.5% OF NEW EMPLOYEES WOMEN IN OUR WOMEN IN ARE WOMEN TOTAL WORKFORCE OUR BOARD WE HAVE SET OURSELVES A TARGET TO REACH OVER 33% WOMEN AT SENIOR LEVELS BY 2020 AND AIM TO ACHIEVE 20% DIVERSITY AMONGST OUR EMPLOYEES. Some of our women-oriented initiatives include: Tarang Progressive Policies This programme aims to improve the gender Our parental leave policy includes 26 weeks of maternity leave, 12 weeks of adoption leave and 1 diversity in leadership roles through a week of paternity leave. For returning mothers, we also provide the option to move into another structured intervention in our Iron Ore job proﬁle or continue with the same role, to manage both professional and personal priorities. Business for women professionals across This liberal and ﬂexible approach has enhanced productivity and retention, especially among our functions including Geology, Civil, Mining, women employees. These policies increase their motivation and engagement, which then Maintenance, Finance and others. spreads across the workforce. The individual development plans for the participants have been charted out based on Male Female psychometric assessment and career development plans, and further focus would Number of employees who have taken 646 164 be on building competencies in ﬁnancial parental leave in FY2018 acumen, strategic thinking and leadership. Number of employees who were in 486 131 continuous service for the next 12 months after returning from parental leave Retention* % 75.23% 79.87% *Retention % is calculated based on the number of employees who returned and were in continuous service for the next 12 months / number of people who went on parental leave. Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 62 Women Across the Board Mining is traditionally a male-dominated change. Among our two principal listed subsidiaries in India, Vedanta Limited has two female sector, but Vedanta is among a few global directors representing 25% of the Board, and Hindustan Zinc Limited has three female directors natural resources companies that enjoy a representing 43% of the Board. healthy gender diversity ratio across all levels. At the senior management level, we have 6.4% women on the Group Executive Committee. We With varied perspectives, women are have 14% female representation in aggregate on the executive committees of our businesses and providing a different set of solutions for the 16.6% female representation on the subsidiary business unit executive committees. challenges we face, making us more responsive to future risks and opportunities. We have placed internal recruitment targets to ensure equal gender representation. We continually focus on improving gender diversity across the group, across grades and Currently, we have one woman on our Board, management levels. which is something we are actively seeking to OVER 650 INDIVIDUALS WERE IDENTIFIED 29 AT VEDANTA AS HIGH POTENTIAL, OF OUR TOP LEADERSHIP POSITIONS ARE BEING HELD BY WOMEN PROFESSIONALS 25% OF WHOM ARE WOMEN More women are part of the operational workforce, BALCO EVERY WOMAN IN THE WORKFORCE HAS CONTRIBUTED TO THE GROWTH OF OUR COMPANY AND WE ARE PROUD TO HAVE ARGUABLY, THE HIGHEST NUMBER OF WOMEN IN SENIOR MANAGEMENT BENCHMARKED AGAINST PEERS. Anil Agarwal | Chairman, Vedanta Resources 63 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures CREATING VALUE FOR SOCIETY Retaining the trust of our host communities is central to our ability to do business. In many instances, we are the primary economic driver where we operate. This places us in a unique position to signiﬁcantly impact the lives of local communities, whether as employers and business partners or through our community development interventions. We take this responsibly seriously and endeavor to fulﬁl our role in a manner that upholds the dignity of all our stakeholders and allows us to live up to our values. Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 64 US$ 6.2 US$ 45 3.10 1,201 billion million spent million lives villages contributed on social improved outreach to the investments through exchequer and CSR community activities projects Women’s Self Help Group support by Hindustan Zinc’s CSR program 65 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures Management Approach We transcend beyond mere compliance, and seed real change by delving into developmental interventions. By creating long term value for host communities and countries, we are able to build trust while earning our social license to operate. With a ﬁnger on the pulse of our communities, through our stakeholder engagement processes, that include baseline studies and needs assessments, we identify areas that would beneﬁt from our interventions. We often work in tandem with community organisations and local government bodies to help develop strategies and carry out programmes. We call this our 4Ps Model (Public-Private-People-Partnership), and it has helped us develop ambitious, long-term initiatives such as the Nandghar programme. To ensure the true success and longevity of a programme, we develop clear mandates for each initiative, so that it can eventually be handed over to the communities to manage on their own. This way they will be self-sufﬁcient even after the closure of our business operations. CAIRN OIL AND GAS WON THE CII-ITC SUSTAINABILITY AWARD AS COMMENDATION FOR SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENT OF CSR ACTIVITIES. Cairn’s Mangala Processing Terminal We also rely on the Vedanta Sustainability Framework and its associated standards and policies. In areas with indigenous populations, we are committed to following the principles of Free, Prior, Informed Consent (FPIC). With its genesis in the UN Declarations of Rights of Indigenous Peoples, it has been adopted as a best practice by the IFC and ICMM. Our CSR Council, led by a senior business leader, and including CSR Heads and CSR Executives from all business units, meets every month and reviews the performance, spends and outcome of CSR programmes across units. Governed by our inhouse CSR Policy and Sustainability Framework, the Council is responsible for governance, synergy and cross-learning across the Group CSR efforts. The Board CSR Committee comprised of senior Independent Directors, apart from providing strategic direction for CSR activities, also approves its plans and budgets, and reviews progress of the initiatives. Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 66 THE MATERIAL ISSUES THAT MARKS OUR VALUE TO SOCIETY PERFORMANCE ARE: RIGHTS OF HUMAN INDIGENOUS RIGHTS PEOPLES Jharsuguda Lanjigarh COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT LOCAL HIRING INITIATIVES TSPL Hindustan Zinc BROADER RESPONSIBLE ECONOMIC BENEFIT SUPPLY CHAIN TO HOST COUNTRY MANAGEMENT KCM BALCO Human Rights With most of our operations in developing nations, human rights are in the 'critical importance' of our materiality matrix. An integral part of Vedanta's core value of Respect, it is a crucial parameter in making key business decisions and acts as a guideline on issues pertaining to labour rights and industrial relations. Our human rights policy is aligned to the 'United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights' and includes strict prohibition on the use of child or forced labour either directly or through contract vendors. 100% OF OUR NEW HIRES RECEIVED CODE OF CONDUCT AND HUMAN RIGHTS TRAINING WE ADHERE TO ALL HUMAN RIGHTS REGULATIONS, IN LETTER AND SPIRIT, ENSURING THE PROTECTION OF FUNDAMENTAL RIGHTS OF ALL DIRECT AND INDIRECT EMPLOYEES AS WELL AS THOSE WHO ARE IN OUR 93% OF OUR SECURITY PERSONNEL CIRCLE OF INFLUENCE. UNDERWENT HUMAN RIGHTS TRAINING 67 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures Local Communities The nature of our industry necessitates our presence in remote corners and diverse geographies. While operating in multiple locations and multicultural communities, we always respect the local people and their culture. Women’s Self Help Group, Lanjigarh We have developed standards in alignment with international practices including ICMM guidelines and IFC standards to conserve and nurture the native heritage. We strictly abide by these well-articulated and communicated standards namely Cultural and Heritage Standard, Land & Resettlement Management Standard, Indigenous People and Vulnerable Tribal Groups Standard. IN FY 2019, WE RECEIVED 240 FORMAL GRIEVANCES FROM LOCAL COMMUNITIES, OUT OF WHICH WE HAD RESOLVED/ CLOSED 223 GRIEVANCES AS OF 31ST MARCH 2019. Direct and Indirect Workforce At Vedanta, there is no differentiation in terms of respect, either for a direct or indirect employee. They all are a part of one, big Vedanta family and human rights of each of them are respected. Comprehensive systems, which include employee grievance processes, collective bargaining and contract labour management cells are in place at all our locations to protect their interests and partner in their progress. Hindustan Zinc Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 68 Collective Bargaining Supplier Diligence The right to freedom of association is As leaders in the natural resource industry, we uphold the principles of human rights in our circle endorsed at all our operations. The collective of inﬂuence. Our Suppliers Code of Conduct is implemented as part of the terms and conditions bargaining agreements are formed, based on of supplier contracts across the Group and all new suppliers are required to sign, endorse and transparent and fair discussions between the practice this Code. management and union representatives. We also have in place a Supplier & Contractor Sustainability Management Policy to implement Remuneration, allowances, working human rights practices across the supply chain. Both the Code and the Policy clearly conditions, incentives and bonuses, communicate our expectations from our suppliers: to operate in compliance with all relevant manpower productivity, health and safety, are legislation and follow our policies while executing work for or on our behalf. part of the arrangement. On average, 43% of our full-time The Supplier and Contractor Technical Standard further includes a Supplier Screening employees at BALCO, HZL, KCM, Iron Checklist to evaluate contractor compliance relating to key issues, e.g. legal Ore Business, and Zinc International compliance, HSE management, labour management, human rights and child labour. are covered by collective bargaining We continue to enhance adherence by conducting inductions, screenings, inspections and agreements. audits. Any concerns raised by interested parties on any of our key suppliers is promptly addressed by undertaking an independent assessment. Contract workforce at Hindustan Zinc Ensuring Right Age for The Right Job The presence of child and forced / compulsory labour is a non-negotiable offence at Vedanta be it direct or through a contractor. We strictly enforce this policy at all our operations. Further, we carry out periodic inspections of our remote mine locations and require proof of age for all contract workers. At some locations, we also use a fool-proof radiological age identiﬁcation process to assess child labour violations. 69 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures Rights of Indigenous Peoples Earning the license to operate in local communities entails respecting their norms, culture and heritage. Illustrating our commitment to serve our host communities in a responsible manner, our Cultural Heritage, Land & Resettlement Management, and Indigenous People & Vulnerable Tribal Groups Standards, have been developed in alignment with international good practices, including ICMM and IFC standards, and are implemented across our businesses. Women Empowerment Activities, Lanjigarh Indigenous Peoples and Land Vulnerable Tribal Groups Acquisition and (IPs/ VTGs) Resettlement At Vedanta, we are very aware and conscious of the fact that we operate in remote regions, As part of our Risk Screening processes, we often inhabited by IPs and VTGs. Keeping this in mind, we have always made it a priority to cover a wide range of sustainability issues respect and protect their rights. that include land acquisition, resettlement, indigenous people (vulnerable groups), Using the Vedanta Sustainability Framework, the Group's standards and guidance note on the among other concerns. subject was rolled out to support the implementation of our related technical standard. The standard was developed to enable the engagement between our project teams and these This has led us to develop Vedanta's Cultural vulnerable groups, in a manner that avoids negative impacts and risks for all stakeholders, Heritage Land Acquisition and Resettlement especially the indigenous peoples and vulnerable tribes. Standards that includes a Guidance Note for all our operations to better understand the We have made special provisions for minorities and marginalised groups. implementation process. We undertook no To safeguard their rights and engage in a meaningful dialogue with them, resettlement activities in FY 2019. we follow the principle of Good Faith Negotiation (GFN), Informed Consultation and Participation (ICP) and/or Free, Prior, Informed Consent (FPIC). The standards call upon the company to: IN THE HISTORY OF OUR • Ensure full respect for the dignity, human rights, aspirations, cultures, and natural-resource based livelihoods of the IPs. OPERATIONS, WE HAVE • Avoid adverse impacts of the project on the IPs and when avoidance is NEVER ENFORCED unfeasible to minimize those impacts ANY INVOLUNTARY • Establish and maintain an on-going relationship with the affected IPs RESETTLEMENT ON ANY • Foster good faith negotiations and informed participation of IPs when projects are located on traditional lands LOCAL COMMUNITY. • Respect and preserve the culture, knowledge, and practices of IPs Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 70 Local Hiring Our comprehensive engagement strategy with the communities includes creating opportunities for employment and local hiring, including senior management positions, and using the services of local vendors, while implementing focussed CSR and community development activities. Collectively, these actions allow us to create a positive social impact leading to economic progress of the region. Gainful employment in our business (directly or indirectly) is a key expectation from the populations of our host communities. We recruit employees from the local population, especially in operations that are in remote areas. Also, a signiﬁcant percentage of our employees are recruited from the country in Cairn Oil & Gas which our operations are located, creating jobs and boosting the local economy. In FY 2019, most of the individuals hired at our operations were local to the business. These individuals bring in socio-cultural sensibilities in their management approach that helps the business thrive. Further, it also creates a direct economic and skills-based impact in the communities where we operate, which is crucial to our social license to operate. Local new hires, across regions: 7 INDIA SOUTH AFRICA 97 % 87.5 % NAMIBIA ZAMBIA 92 % 88.7% AUSTRALIA Skorpian Zinc NO NEW HIRES IN FY 2019 71 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures Community Engagement and Development Initiatives As a diversiﬁed natural resources company, transforming elements is our core business but just as important is the impact our business can have in transforming lives. BEYOND THE BUSINESS OF While business goals are linked to higher economic growth, we believe it should never be at the cost of our host communities and the EXTRACTION, WE ARE ALSO ENGAGED environment. Since our operations take us to some of the most IN THE TRULY IMPORTANT remote regions of the world, we are in the unique position to engage SUSTAINABILITY WORK ACROSS THE with local communities at the grassroots level. BOARD, THAT IS DESIGNED TO IMPROVE In alignment with the company's larger goal of creating long-term value for all stakeholders including our communities, we are able to IN A TANGIBLE WAY THE LIVES OF THE develop comprehensive engagement and development strategies PEOPLE, PARTICULARLY WOMEN AND that highlight opportunities that can best beneﬁt all involved. These CHILDREN IN THE COMMUNITIES THAT strategies include HOST OUR OPERATIONS. Srinivasan Venkatakrishnan CEO, Vedanta Resources LISTENING TO THE HIRING USING NEARBY NEIGHBOURHOOD LOCALLY VENDORS AND COMMUNITY THEIR SERVICES IMPLEMENTING FOCUSSED CSR AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES All these actions enable us to create a positive social impact wherever we operate. In FY 2019, Vedanta spent US$ 45 million on social investments and CSR activities. This is 15% more than the previous year's US$ 39 million. This money is spent across 1,201 villages, beneﬁtting nearly All our community development programs are governed by the Vedanta CSR Policy, and Corporate Technical Standards that are part of the Vedanta Sustainability Framework. Further, in order to beneﬁt 3.1 from diverse perspectives, and in keeping with a culture of collective million leadership, Vedanta has formed a CSR Council. The council is led by a people. senior business leader comprises of CSR Heads & CSR executives from the different Business Units. The council is responsible for governance, synergy and cross-learning across the Group CSR efforts. It meets every month and reviews the performance, spends and outcome of CSR programmes for all Business Units. The council is instrumental in implementing improvement projects to create a seamless enabling Agricultural development eco-system for Business Units to carry out best-in-class community project, BALCO development programmes. Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 72 Signature Programmes NANDGHAR Nandghar in Barmer District, Rajasthan Our ﬂagship Nandghar programme, which has seen phenomenal growth and success since its This has directly impacted over inception, is a child and maternal health initiative designed to support the Indian Government's 17,000 children beneﬁtting from Child Development Services (ICDS). the preschool programme, while over 11,000 of them enjoy At Nandghar, the traditional Anganwadi or rural childcare centre is reimagined as a state-ofnutritious meals daily. Powering on, the-art, mother and child community hub, that not only provides crucial aid in the early stages we intend to open as many as of child's growth, but also provides women with a platform to learn new skills. Our ambitious venture equips the Nandghars with rooftop solar panels for 24x7 electricity supply, water puriﬁers and clean lavatories, while addressing the nutritional and education 4,000 Nandghars needs of young children. With their hands free during the Nandghar hours, the mothers are throughout the country which, given the opportunity to get trained in special skills that could aid in their economic upliftment. alongside our Khushi initiative, will impact millions of children and women. TH IN FY 2019, WE OPERATIONALIZED OUR 500 NANDGHAR. WE FAR SURPASSED OUR GOAL OF CONSTRUCTING 250 NANDGHARS IN FY2019 – BUILDING 358 AND TAKING THE TOTAL TO 502 OPERATIONAL CENTRES ACROSS THE STATES OF RAJASTHAN, UTTAR PRADESH, AND MADHYA PRADESH. Women skills training at Nand Ghar 73 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures HEALTHCARE THROUGH HOSPITALS BALCO Medical Center There is a great disparity in the quality and coverage of medical treatment in India. The BALCO established the Vedanta Medical Research Foundation (VMRF), majority of rural population lack basic a completely voluntary, non-proﬁt organisation invested in preventing, primary healthcare and given that most of controlling and eradicating cancer and related illnesses. The state-of-the-art, our operations are also in rural areas, tertiary care oncology facility in Naya Raipur, is VMRF's ﬁrst ﬂagship initiative enabling rural communities access to and has some of the ﬁnest doctors, nurses, technicians and support staff. affordable and quality healthcare is important for us. Armed to perform highly complex and precise surgeries, the BALCO Medical Center is ﬁtted with world class equipment including PET CT, SPECT CT, CT Scanners, MRI, a complete nuclear medical department and more, as well as operation theatres, ICU facilities, blood bank, pharmacy, kitchen and cafeteria. The hospital has also been designed keeping in mind the comfort and special needs of oncology patients, with private wards and bright & cheery facilities for children. THE SUPER-SPECIALTY HOSPITAL HAS SO FAR SERVED OVER 4,000 PATIENTS, WITH MORE THAN 230 RADIATION THERAPIES, 250 SURGERIES AND OVER 1,000 CHEMOTHERAPIES PERFORMED. WE ESTIMATE THAT OVER THE NEXT TEN YEARS THE HOSPITAL WILL TREAT MORE THAN 500,000 PATIENTS. Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 74 FOOTBALL Hindustan Zinc Football Academy At Vedanta, we believe sports is a great catalyst for building character while also beneﬁtting one's health. In special cases, sports can also become a lucrative source of income. With that in mind, we actively promote and associate ourselves with spotting and training talented individuals in sports, especially football. HZL'S FOOTBALL ACADEMY TRAINS NEARLY 2,000 CHILDREN IN THE 64 WORLD-CLASS, ZINC FOOTBALL SCHOOLS THEY HAVE ESTABLISHED, WHILE SESA FOOTBALL ACADEMY, GOA HAS 4 CENTRES THAT TRAIN 500 CHILDREN ON A WEEKLY BASIS. Not only do these centres promote football, helping it reach the masses and build a culture for the sport, but they have also identiﬁed several skilled, young footballers helping them reach excellence through the state-of-the-art infrastructure. Standing testament to this are the seven footballers from SFA making it to the Indian National Team, while eight play in the elite, Indian Super League. Adding another feather to our cap is the second edition of the 'Vedanta Women's Football League', which saw the participation of 160 female footballers, providing them with a platform to showcase their immense talents. 75 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures OUR COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVES PRIMARILY FALL UNDER THE FOLLOWING FOCUS AREAS: CHILDREN'S WELL-BEING AND EDUCATION KEY FEATURES More than 50 initiatives across our group companies Nearly 135,000 children beneﬁt from these programs Types of interventions • Anganwadis and child-care centres • Public school infrastructure support (including sanitation) • Scholarships • Teacher training • Digital classrooms & Computer aided learning centers • Libraries • Vedanta-run Schools • Exam preparation counselling Aanganwadi Support, BALCO • Career counselling • Science Fairs Healthcare camp, Lanjigarh HEALTHCARE KEY FEATURES More than 35 initiatives across our group companies Nearly 1.6 million people beneﬁt from these programs Types of interventions • Support to Primary Health Centres • HIV/AIDS awareness programs • Health camps • Mobile Health Vans • Specialist doctor support • Nutrition programs • Vedanta-run hospitals • Health awareness drives Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 76 DRINKING WATER & SANITATION KEY FEATURES More than 25 initiatives across our group companies Nearly 350,000 people beneﬁt from these programs Types of interventions • Provision of drinking water • Construction of toilets • RO plant setup • Digging of borewells • Handpump repair/installation • Sanitation drives Project Unnati, Cairn Oil & Gas 77 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures WOMEN'S EMPOWERMENT KEY FEATURES More than 10 initiatives across our group companies More than 35,000 women beneﬁt from these programs More than 2,400 SHGs micro120+ enterprises Types of interventions • Self Help Groups • Women's co-operatives Self Help Group, Sterlite Copper • Micro-enterprises COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE KEY FEATURES More than 25 initiatives across our group companies More than 200,000 persons and 3,000+ families beneﬁt from these programs Types of interventions • Tube-wells/Open-wells/Borewells • Check-dams • Roads • Parks • Public education infrastructure • Community centres • Health centres • Village walls & gates • Renovation of sports complexes • Temples • Irrigation channels • Drains • Bus stands • Street lights Irrigation channel project, TSPL • Ponds • Public CCTV installations Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 78 Vocational Training Program, Sterlite Copper SKILLING YOUTH KEY FEATURES More than 12 initiatives across our group companies More than 4,000 youth trained Types of interventions • Sewing centres • Vocational training centres • Technical & computer literacy programs • Traditional crafts and painting training Farming & Animal husbandary, BALCO AGRICULTURE & ANIMAL HUSBANDRY KEY FEATURES More than 30 initiatives across our group companies More than 30,000 farmers beneﬁtted Types of interventions • Climate change adaptation • Wadi-based agriculture • Water-shed rejuvenation • Agriculture-based natural resource management • Dairy & Livestock development • Farmer training • Self Help Groups • Co-operatives • Veterinary care • Irrigation channel maintenance 79 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures SPORTS & CULTURE KEY FEATURES More than 20 initiatives across our group companies More than 65,000 sports-persons and culture enthusiasts beneﬁtted Types of interventions • Rural sports • Sponsorship for: para-athletes • Marathons • Sports tournaments • Music festivals • Football and archery training academies Sesa Football Academy, Iron Ore Business ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION & RESTORATION KEY FEATURES More than 100,000 saplings planted and under maintenance Types of interventions • Sapling plantation & greenbelt management • Water conservation structures • Pond desilting Restored mine pit Sanquelim Mines, Iron Ore Business Goa Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 80 CASE STUDY CLEAN DRINKING WATER FOR COMMUNITIES KCM CHALLENGE ACTION Water quality has been a lingering KCM has implemented a project aimed at bringing clean water to more than 8,000 inhabitants in ﬁve issue in the Chingola region. Most of peri-urban areas of Chingola to support national efforts of maintaining high health standards in the people in rural parts of Chingola communities. The water facilities comprise of boreholes, puriﬁcation plants and 21 water get their drinking water from distribution points aimed at alleviating problems of water in the areas and improving sanitation unprotected wells, which no longer and hygiene. The water from the facilities meets World Health Organisation (WHO) standards carry potable water. This causes health and has been certiﬁed ﬁt for drinking by the Zambia Bureau of Standards (ZABS). The project issues like diarrhoea especially among is modelled on shared use of water facilities and the company has partnered with the government the children. in this for promoting community development. Solar powered borehole installed at Chingola, KCM OUTCOME Positive impacts that result from the availability of clean drinking water are immediately evident in the local healthcare facilities. The nurse in charge of Kalilo Health Centre says that there is a inundation of people seeking health services, especially pregnant women. In her words, WOMEN WERE NOT COMING TO GIVE BIRTH HERE BECAUSE OF THE REQUIREMENT TO BRING WITH THEM CLEAN WATER. BUT SUDDENLY WE HAVE SEEN NUMBERS INCREASE FROM SEVEN WOMEN TO AN AVERAGE OF 27 IN A MONTH. ALL THIS IS ATTRIBUTED TO THE AVAILABILITY OF THE CLEAN WATER PROVIDED BY KCM. THE WATER BOREHOLE HAS HAD AN OVERWHELMINGLY POSITIVE IMPACT ON OUR OPERATIONS AT THE CLINIC. The water facility has also been extended to a local school in Shimulala area. This has helped the students to access water within the school premises and has improved pupil retention especially girl students. Not only has the project been of tremendous beneﬁt to the communities, but it has also helped build trust between the company and the local community, signiﬁcantly improving our social license to operate. 81 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures Keeping Traditions Alive | Lanjigarh Lanjigarh, Odisha is home to the tribal art forms of Saura carry forward their community's artistic legacy, giving them dignity that and Dhokra. they could have lost for a job as a migrant. Bolstered by the success of our endeavours, we have also established a Tribal Painting Training Academy, equipped with AS PART OF OUR MANY INITIATIVES TO tools and facilities to train young girls from the community to harness their skills and earn a livelihood through their talent. ENGAGE WITH OUR HOST As part of the mainstreaming process, the initiative also seeks to COMMUNITIES AND HELP CONTRIBUTE support the girls by giving them the right exposure to various marketing platforms that reach national and international customers. TO THE BETTERMENT OF THEIR LIVES, OUR TEAM FOCUSSED ON NURTURING THE TALENTS OF TRIBAL ARTISANS WITH THE AIM TO MAINSTREAM THEIR BY REVIVING THESE TRADITIONAL AND ARTWORK IN TODAY'S WORLD. SOON TO BE LOST ART FORMS, WE HAVE ENABLED MANY LOCAL ARTISANS AND BUDDING FEMALE ARTISTS TO Thus, the Aajeevika Initiative by Vedanta was born. As a part of the process we were able to organise exhibitions, while also arranging EXPLORE THEIR INHERENT SKILLS AND credentials for the artisans to be able to exhibit their work at various CHANNELISE THEM TO DEVELOP A other exhibitions, folk art fairs and marketplaces. SOURCE OF SUSTENANCE. This has gradually helped them gain conﬁdence and believe that earning a livelihood, or aajeevika, through their art is possible. Rakesh Mohan COO, Vedanta Limited, Lanjigarh A direct, positive consequence of this is evident in the number of families that had migrated in search of employment, have returned to Broader Economic Benefit to Host Country Our operations are primarily located in the developing economies of India and Africa, and we strongly believe that we have an important role to play in developing our host communities and countries, enabling them to partake in the value we create. With a business model of growth, constant value creation, and improved operations, our vision is focussed towards building the wealth of our shareholders in a sustainable manner while minimising the effect of our operations on the environment and maximising the beneﬁts for the local communities. WE HAVE TRIFURCATED OUR APPROACH TO VALUE CREATION: ADD VALUE TO THE ENHANCE VALUE TO OUR SEED VALUE ACROSS THE WORKFORCE COUNTRIES' EXCHEQUER BY ASSETS BY INNOVATIVE AND THE COMMUNITY THROUGH UNLOCKING THEIR NATURAL AND ADVANCED EXTENSIVE TRAINING, AND LONGRESOURCES AND PAYING PROCESSES THAT HELP US TERM PROJECTS AND PROGRAMMES TAXES & ROYALTIES FOR BE MORE PRODUCTIVE THAT ACCELERATE DEVELOPMENT OUR OPERATIONS AND COMPETITIVE AND ENSURE EQUITABLE GROWTH THE COMMODITIES THAT WE PRODUCE AND THE ENERGY THAT WE GENERATE CONSTITUTE THE BUILDING BLOCKS OF THE MODERN WORLD. HOWEVER, THE VALUE WE CREATE IS NOT LIMITED TO THESE OUTPUTS BUT EXTENDS ACROSS SOCIETY IN A MEANINGFUL AND EFFECTIVE MANNER. Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 82 Economic Value Generated and Distributed We are committed to giving back to the stakeholders who play a vital role in powering our growth. Reducing the social and economic divide by adding value to the economy, distributing wealth, creating direct and indirect employment, contributing to the exchequer, investing in employees and empowering the local community through our community development initiatives are all key elements of our sustainability framework. Further, our operations also help to provide the products these communities need to further their development, for example, through infrastructure and housing. US$ million 11,123 OperatingCosts 14,295 ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED 577 Employee& Beneﬁts Wages 1,391 Payments to Providers of Capital 740 Payments to ECONOMIC VALUE RETAINED 1,159 Government 45 Community Investments 15,033 ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED Other Indicators of Economic Performance Business-wise breakup of exchequer contribution (US$ millions) Aluminium & Power 869 Copper India 267 Copper International 150 Iron Ore 116 TOTAL CONTRIBUTION Oil & Gas 2,448 6,249 Zinc India 1,861 Zinc International 24 Dividend & others 441 83 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures Responsible Supply Chain Management Supply chains are critical links that connect an organisation's inputs to its outputs. At Vedanta, we have an established Supplier Code of Conduct, Supplier and Contractor Management Policies and Supplier Screening Checklists that encourage business partners and suppliers to adopt principles and practices comparable to our own. A signiﬁcant portion of our newly enrolled suppliers are evaluated for social criteria before they are on-boarded. These criteria include and evaluation of their: employment, labour, occupational health and safety, training and education, diversity and equal opportunity, nondiscrimination, freedom of association, prevention of child, forced and slave labour, security, and other human rights practices. The nature of our industry stipulates our presence in remote areas, where we support local suppliers to boost local economy and mitigate carbon footprint. We engage with them to help them understand their role and responsibility towards the environment, safety, and human rights. We also support them to match up to international standards on all key aspects. UK's Modern Slavery Act 2015 (MSA) One of our 'high importance' material issues is our 'Disclosure on Slavery and Human Trafﬁcking'. We work in accordance with the UK's Modern Slavery Act 2015 and have updated our Supplier Code of Conduct & Contract Conditions, and our Code of Business Conduct & Ethics to ensure the prevention of modern slavery and human trafﬁcking in our operations and supply chain. WE HAVE ALSO INTRODUCED THE MSA FRAMEWORK AT ALL OUR BUSINESS UNITS. UNDER THIS FRAMEWORK, WE HAVE A SYSTEM IN PLACE FOR TRAINING OF VENDORS/SUPPLIERS, DUE-DILIGENCE AND SELF-DECLARATION. WE PERIODICALLY UNDERTAKE INTERNAL AS WELL AS EXTERNAL AUDITS, TO ENSURE RIGOROUS ADHERENCE TO THE FRAMEWORK BY ALL BUSINESS UNITS. Iron Ore Business (before mine closure) Implementation of the compliance framework for MSA rests with the commercial teams at each BU. They have been given the responsibility to ensure that all our vendors meet the stringent requirements of the Act. Our businesses continued to cascade adherence to the act across the supply chain. Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 84 Awards and Accolades Our group companies received more than 100 awards in the sustainability, HSE, CSR and HR categories. We present a few select awards below: Sustainability Development & CSR Won 'Corporate Excellence Outstanding Accomplishment', Bharat Aluminium Company Ltd. Corporate Social Responsibility 'Commendation for Signiﬁcant Achievement' award from CII Won ET 2 good 4 good awarded by ET and KPMG Dariba Smelting Complex won Excellence Award Environment Won Leaders Award Mega Large Business, Metals sector at the Frost Management from CII & Sullivan and TERI Sustainability 4.0 Awards Awarded Index Constituent of Emerging Index 2018 by FTSE Recognised as the Best Organisation working for empowering Cairn Oil & Gas persons with disabilities by Government of Rajasthan, Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment Won Skoch Bronze Award Order of Merit Inducted into Hall of Fame by ET Now for various community Won CII-ITC Sustainability Award as commendation for signiﬁcant development initiatives and best practices achievement of CSR activities Won Signiﬁcant Achievement Award in CSR awarded by CII Won FICCI CSR Award for WASH Awarded Skoch Order of Merit for Khushi Anganwadi programme Hindustan Zinc Limited Vedanta Aluminium Ltd. Jharsuguda th st Ranked 5 globally in Metals & Mining category and 1 globally th Won Gold Award in Metal and Mining category at the 6 Annual in Environmental Dimensions for Metals & Mining industry by Greentech Award for outstanding CSR achievements Dow Jones Sustainability Index Won Sustainable Business of the Year Award & Sustainability Disclosure Leadership Award, awarded by World Sustainability Congress 85 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures Environment Health & Safety Cairn Oil & Gas Bharat Aluminium Company Ltd. Won Most Innovative Project Climate Change & Mitigation; Natural Won CII Chhattisgarh SHE Awards for excellence in Safety, Health Gas Recovery Zero ﬂaring during frac well milling operation awarded & Environment by CII (Greenco Summit) Won CII Environmental Best Practices Award for zero technical ﬂaring during milling operation Cairn Oil & Gas Won Skoch Award Order of Merit for zero ﬂaring during milling operation Rajasthan Gas Operations received Sword of Honour from British Safety Council Hindustan Zinc Limited MBA and RJ Gas received British Safety Council ﬁve-star certiﬁcation Chanderiya Smelting Complex won Gold Award, awarded by SEEM Received 5S Certiﬁcation for RGT from Quality Circle Forum of India National Energy Management Awards Won Platinum Award at 7th FICCI Safety Systems Excellence Award Won Innovative Environmental Project awarded by CII (Greenco Summit) under Mining sector, large scale category Dariba Smelting Complex won CII-ITC Excellence Award Won 1st prize in First Aid and Fireﬁghting competition at 32nd Mines Environment Management Safety Week awarded by DGMS Rampura Agucha received Project Development Innovation Received CII SR four-star rating for HSE excellence of the Year for 22 MW Agucha solar project at the 9th annual edition of Re-Assets India conference Received 5S Workplace Management Award for Viramgam and Radhanpur Terminal by QCI Vedanta Aluminium Ltd. Jharsuguda Hindustan Zinc Limited Received SEEM National Energy Management award and recognised for energy efﬁciency by SEEM India; CPP 1215 MW received Silver in Chanderiya Lead and Zinc Smelter won safety excellence award at Industries and Facilities category Frost & Sullivan TERI Sustainability 4.0 Awards Won Energy Efﬁcient Unit award by CII Won India Green Manufacturing Challenge award in Silver category, awarded by International Research Institute for Manufacturing Vedanta Aluminium Ltd. Jharsuguda Won award for Longest Accident Free Period from Hon'ble Minister of Labour, ESI and Energy, Government of Odisha Human Resources Bagged 37 gold awards and 100 silver awards at the 26th Chapter Convention of Quality Concepts, Rourkela Vedanta Aluminium Ltd. Jharsuguda Two teams from CPP 1215 MW awarded gold in LQC and Kaizen rd category at the 43 International Convention on Quality Control Won Best Employer Award for Commitment to Engagement at AON Circles, Singapore Best Employers Indian 2018 Learning Conference and Award ceremony Won 12 awards in Par Excellence and 14 awards in Excellence Won the CII award in Employee Relations and Employee Engagement, nd categories at the 32 National Convention on Quality Concepts Management of Change and Excellence (1st runner-up), and Performance Management, Training and Development (2nd runner-up) Received International JUSE Certiﬁcation in 5S from Union of Japanese scientists and engineers at the 32nd NCQC Won the National Best Employer Brands 2018 for path-breaking HR practices and exemplary use of marketing communication at the at the th 13 Employer Branding Awards Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 86 About this Report This is our 11th Sustainable Development Report and along with our Annual Report provides an overview of our approach and our achievements in FY 2019, outlining our actions over the past year to achieve our mission to be a world-class diversiﬁed natural resource company. Reporting Scope and Boundary Covering the ﬁnancial year 2019, the report is structured around the material issues identiﬁed in the materiality matrix and divided under Governance, Environment, Our People and Creating Value for Society. All group subsidiary companies have been reported in full as though they were 100% wholly owned as we recognise the level of control and sphere of inﬂuence the Group has over these operations. The aspect boundaries and content of this Sustainable Development Report have been deﬁned using reporting principles prescribed in the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) of the Global Reporting Initiative. We followed the approach described in GRI implementation manual for designing the report content. The material aspects that have been covered in the report are clearly brought out in the materiality matrix. In the report, the DMA (Disclosure on Management Approach) describes the Company's approach to the subjects relevant to it and the indicators provide details on performance on the speciﬁc subjects. We have restated the following numbers: • 201-1 (FY2017 numbers): Economic Value Generated, Economic Value Distributed (Operating Costs, Employee Wages and Beneﬁts, Payments to providers of Capital, Payments to Government), Economic Value Retained • 302-1 (FY2018 numbers): Zinc India, Total Energy • 303-1 (FY2018 numbers): Deducting Port Business numbers from Iron Ore Business and reporting it separately, • 306-2 (FY2018 numbers): Non-Hazardous Waste (Generated) Zinc India, Non-Hazardous Waste (Generated) Total, Non-Hazardous Waste (Recycled) Total • OG5 (FY2018, FY2017 numbers): Produced water reinjected No signiﬁcant changes in terms of acquisition and physical boundaries from the previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries. The report is also mapped to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs). It reports our approach and disclosure towards triple bottom line principles people, planet and proﬁt over the ﬁnancial year 2019. GRI Standards Content and Disclosure Document The GRI Standards detailed content index and Vedanta GRI Standards Disclosure Document FY 2019 includes additional indicators including the Mining and Metal and Oil and Gas supplements. Assurance and Disclosure Assurance of this report was carried out by KPMG under 'limited assurance' services in accordance with the ISAE 3000. There is an internal approval system in the Company for appointment of external assurance provider for the sustainability report. 87 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures External Indices United Nations Global Compact We continue to uphold the ten principles of the UNGC. Our Sustainable Development report communicates our progress in implementing the ten principles, and below we have mapped the principles against our various sustainability aspects and speciﬁc report sections. Aspect UNGC Principle Report Reference Page No. Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Human Rights 65,66 internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Human Rights 65-69 Labour Rights Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Human Rights 68 recognition of the right to collective bargaining Child and Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Human Rights 68 Forced Labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Human Rights 68 Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Employees 99 Environment Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Environment 90 Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental sustainability Environment 25-45 Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Environment 30,32,33,35,38 AntiPrinciple 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including Governance 21 Corruption extortion and bribery United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) In September 2015, the UN member states agreed on a set of 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), to end poverty, ﬁght inequality and injustice, and tackle climate change by 2030. Given below is our SDG priority list which states our endeavours that align with the said goals. SDGs Corresponding Sections Page No. SDG1 Poverty Community Engagement and Development 77,78 SDG2 Hunger Community Engagement and Development 72,78 SDG3 Good Health and Well-being Safety, Health and Well-being 55 Community Engagement and Development 73,75 SDG4 Quality Education Community Engagement and Development 72,75,78 SDG5 Gender Equality Employee, Community SDG6 Clean Water and Sanitation Community Engagement and Development 76 SDG7 Affordable and Clean Energy Green Energy 33 SDG8 Decent Work and Economic Growth Our People 47-62 SDG9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure Executive Statements 7-10 SDG10 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Employees 60-62 SDG12 Responsible Consumption and Production Environment 25-46 SDG13 Climate Action Environment 28-36 SDG15 Life on Land Biodiversity Management 43-45 SDG16 Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions Governance 21, 18 Our People 60 SDG17 Partnership for the Goals Limited role for corporate entities (Annual Report Fy2019) Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 88 Assurance Statement KPMG (Registered) Tel.: +91 124 307 9000 Building No. 10, 4th Floor, Tower-C Fax: +91 124 336 9001 DLF Cyber City, Phase-II, Gurugram 122 002 (India) www.kpmg.com/in INDEPENDENT LIMITED ASSURANCE STATEMENT TO VEDANTA RESOURCES LIMITED ON THEIR CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR FY 2018-19 To the management of Vedanta Resources Limited KPMG in India (KPMG) was engaged by Vedanta Resources Limited ('the Company' or 'Vedanta') to provide an independent assurance on its Sustainability Report for FY 2018-19 ('the Report'). The Report is prepared by the Company based on Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards 'in-accordance – core' option for sustainability reporting. The development of Report, its content, identiﬁcation of key material topics and related impacts, engaging with stakeholders is the sole responsibility of the management of the Company. KPMG's responsibility is to provide limited assurance on the Report content as described in the scope of assurance. REPORTING CRITERIA Vedanta applies its sustainability performance reporting criteria based on Sustainability Reporting Standards of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI Standards) including the Mining and Metals and Oil & Gas Sector Disclosures, National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and Economic Responsibilities of Business (NVG) framed by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA), Government of India, United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles, International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) and Sustainable Development Goal frameworks for the Company as detailed in the 'Scope, Boundary and Limitations'. ASSURANCE STANDARDS USED We conducted limited assurance in accordance with the requirements of International Federation of Accountants' (IFAC) International Standard on Assurance Engagement (ISAE) 3000 (Revised), Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. Under this standard, we have reviewed the information presented in the report against the characteristics of relevance, completeness, reliability, neutrality and understandability. SCOPE, BOUNDARY AND LIMITATIONS OF ASSURANCE The Assurance has been provided for selected sustainability performance disclosures presented by Vedanta in its Report. The reporting boundary included data and information for the period 01 April 2018 to 31 March 2019 for India and Global operations, based on Global Reporting Initiative's (GRI) Standards in accordance Core option. Our Scope of assurance included veriﬁcation of the sample data and information on selected material topics reported at the following units/locations and Corporate ofﬁces in Gurgaon and Udaipur: • Vedanta Limited (Jharsuguda Smelter & Power Plants, Odisha) • BALCO (Korba Smelter & Power Plants, Chhattisgarh) • Vedanta Limited (Sterlite Copper Ltd., Silvassa) • Vedanta Limited (Vedanta Aluminium, Lanjigarh, Odisha) • Vedanta Limited (Sesa Goa Iron Ore, Amona, Goa) • TSPL (Talwandi Sabo Power Plant, Mansa, Punjab) • Konkola Copper Mines plc,(Konkola + Nchanga) Zambia • Vedanta Zinc International (Black Mountain Mining, South Africa) • Vedanta Limited (Cairn Oil & Gas Mangala Bhagyam, Aishwariya Field, Rajasthan) • Vedanta Limited (Cairn Oil & Gas Suvali, Gujarat) • Hindustan Zinc Limited (Chanderiya Lead and Zinc Smelters, Rajasthan) • Hindustan Zinc Limited (Dariba Smelting Complex, Rajasthan) • Hindustan Zinc Limited (Debari Zinc Smelter, Rajasthan) • Hindustan Zinc Limited (Kayad Mines, Rajasthan) • Hindustan Zinc Limited (Pantnagar Metal Plant, Uttarakhand) • Hindustan Zinc Limited (Rajpura Dariba Mines, Rajasthan) • Hindustan Zinc Limited (Rampura Agucha Mines, Rajasthan) • Hindustan Zinc Limited (Sindesar Khurd Mines, Rajasthan) • Hindustan Zinc Limited (Zawar Mines and Power Plant, Rajasthan) • Hindustan Zinc Limited (Corporate Ofﬁce, Udaipur, Rajasthan) • Vedanta Limited (Corporate Ofﬁce, Gurgaon, Haryana) The assurance scope excludes: • Data and information outside the deﬁned reporting period and boundary; • The Company's ﬁnancial performance; • The Company's compliance to legal obligations/disclosures; • The Company's statements that describe expression of opinion, belief, aspiration, expectation, aim or future intention and assertions related to Intellectual Property Rights; and • Aspects of the report other than those mentioned below The Universal and Topic Speciﬁc Standard Disclosures subject to assurance were as follows: Universal Standard Disclosures General Disclosures • Organizational Proﬁle (102-7 to 102-11) • Strategy (102-14) • Ethics and Integrity (102-16) • Governance (102-18) • Stakeholder Engagement (102-40 to 102-44) • Reporting Practice (102-45 to 102-56) 1 Management Approach • Disclosure on Management Approach (103-1) 1 Disclosures on Management Approach were veriﬁed for select topic speciﬁc disclosures as per the given table 89 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures Topic Speciﬁc Standard Disclosures Environment • Energy (302-1, 302-3, 302-4, OG3) • Water (303-1, 303-3) • Biodiversity (304-1) • Emissions (305-1, 305-2, 305-4, 305-7) • Efﬂuents and Waste (306-1, 306-2, OG5, OG7, Mm3) Social • Employment (401-1, 401-2, 401-3) • Occupational Health and Safety (403-2) • Training and Education (404-1, 404-2, 404-3) • Diversity and Equal Opportunity (405-1) • Non Discrimination (406-1) • Local Communities (413-1) METHODOLOGY ADOPTED FOR ASSURANCE Our assurance processes involve performing procedures to obtain evidence about the reliability of speciﬁed performance information. The nature, timing and extent of procedures selected depend on our judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the selected sustainability disclosures whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, we have considered internal controls relevant to the preparation of the Report in order to design assurance procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances. We have obtained sample evidence, information and explanations that were considered necessary in relation to the assurance scope and have arrived at conclusions mentioned below. Our work included a range of evidence-gathering procedures which included: • Assessing that the report is prepared in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI Standards in accordance Core option). • Reviewing the Report to ensure that there is no misrepresentation of disclosures as per scope of assurance and our ﬁndings. • Reviewing the materiality and stakeholder engagement framework deployed at Vedanta. • Understanding the appropriateness of various assumptions used for estimation of data by Vedanta. • Assessing the systems used for data collection and reporting of the Universal Disclosures and Topic Speciﬁc Disclosures of material topics as listed in the assurance scope above. • Verifying systems and procedures used for quantiﬁcation, collation and analysis of sustainability performance disclosures included in the Report. • Holding discussion with senior executives at the plant locations and at the corporate ofﬁce to understand the risks and opportunities from a sustainability perspective including the strategy that Vedanta has adopted to address the same. • Assessing data reliability and accuracy. • Verifying select key performance data through site visits to operational locations and corporate ofﬁce for: Testing reliability and accuracy of data on a sample basis. Assessing stakeholder engagement process through interactions with relevant internal stakeholders and review of related documentation. Limited review of the materiality assessment process. Reviewing the processes deployed for collection, compilation and reporting of sustainability performance disclosures at corporate and plant level. Appropriate documentary evidence was obtained on a sample basis to support our conclusions on the information and data veriﬁed. Where such documentary evidence could not be collected due to sensitive nature of the information, our team veriﬁed the same at Vedanta's premises. CONCLUSIONS We have reviewed the Sustainability Report of Vedanta. Based on our limited review and procedures performed in line with scope, boundary and limitations of assurance, nothing has come to our attention that causes us not to believe that the sustainability data and information presented in the Report is fairly represented in line with the identiﬁed material topics and is in accordance with the sustainability reporting standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI Standards). We have provided our observations and areas for improvement to the company in a separate management letter. These, do not, however, affect our conclusions regarding the Report. INDEPENDENCE The assurance was conducted by a multidisciplinary team including professionals with suitable skills and experience in verifying environmental, social and economic information in line with the requirements of ISAE 3000 (Revised) standard. Our work was performed in compliance with the requirements of the IFAC Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, which requires, among other requirements, that the members of the assurance team (practitioners) be independent of the assurance client, in relation to the scope of this assurance engagement, including not being involved in writing the Report. The Code also includes detailed requirements for practitioners regarding integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, conﬁdentiality and professional behavior. KPMG has systems and processes in place to monitor compliance with the Code and to prevent conﬂicts regarding independence. The ﬁrm applies ISQC 1 and the practitioner complies with the applicable independence and other ethical requirements of the IESBA code. RESPONSIBILITIES Vedanta is responsible for developing the Report contents. The Company is also responsible for identiﬁcation of material sustainability topics, establishing and maintaining appropriate performance management and internal control systems and derivation of performance data reported. This statement is made solely to the Management of Vedanta in accordance with the terms of our engagement and as per scope of assurance. Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to Vedanta those matters for which we have been engaged to state in this statement and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than Vedanta for our work, for this Report, or for the conclusions expressed in this independent assurance statement. The assurance engagement is based on the assumption that the data and information provided to us is complete and true. We expressly disclaim any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or entity would make based on this assurance statement. By reading this assurance statement, stakeholders acknowledge and agree to the limitations and disclaimers mentioned above. Santhosh Jayaram Partner KPMG 1st August, 2019 Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 90 GRI Standards Index GRI Standard Disclosure Response GRI 101: Founda on 2016 [GRI 101 does not include any disclosures] General Disclosures Organisa onal Proﬁle GRI 102General 102-1: Name of the Organisa on Vedanta Resources Limited Disclosures 2016 102-2: Ac vi es, brands, products, and Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Pages 01-06 (Overview) services 102-3: Loca on of headquarters Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Back Cover 102-4: Loca on of opera ons Australia, India (Andhra Pradesh, Chha sgarh, Goa, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Odisha, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu), Namibia, South Africa, Zambia 102-5: Ownership and legal form Vedanta Resources Limited Annual Report 2018-19: Page 248 (39. List of subsidiaries), Page 253 (40. Ul mate Controlling Party) 102-6: Markets served Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 01-06 (Overview) 102-7: Scale of the organisa on Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 01 (Overview), Page 06 (Our Products), Page 58 (Workforce Snapshot), Page 82 (Economic Value Generated and Distributed), Page 82 (Other Indicators of Economic Performance) 102-8: Informa on on employees and Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 58 (Workforce Snapshot) other workers 102-9: Supply chain Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 03 Vedanta's supply chain spans all ﬁve areas of the metals & mining business explora on, asset development, extrac on, processing, and value addi on. Given the nature of our business, our supply chain consists of vendors who provide us with the workforce who help us operate our extrac ve and processing businesses as well as operators who supply us with high-end technologies that help us conduct our opera ons in the most eﬃcient, responsible, and cost eﬀec ve manner possible. We are also commi ed to ensuring that we encourage local vendors become part of our supply chain so that the presence of our businesses beneﬁts the local economies and communi es. 102-10: Signiﬁcant changes to the Vedanta Limited acquired a 90% stake in Electrosteel Steels Limited in June 2018. organisa on and its supply chain In August 2018, Vedanta Limited was awarded 41 hydrocarbon blocks out of 55 blocks auc oned under the open acreage licensing policy (OALP) by Government of India (GOI). The blocks awarded to Vedanta Limited comprise of 33 onshore and 8 oﬀshore blocks. 102-11: Precau onary principle or Vedanta seeks to ensure that all of our opera ons follow a stringent applica on of environmental and approach social principles. All of our businesses undergo an Environmental and Social Impact Assessment before beginning opera ons. Any ﬁndings from the ESIA are considered and a mi ga on plan developed. We have also commi ed to ensuring that we receive the Free, Prior, Informed Consent of all communi es from where we source our ores. 10212: External ini a ves Vedanta aligns itself with the following external charters & principles: UN Global Compact, UN Sustainable Development Goals, ICMM, IOGP, IFC Performance Standards, GHG Greenhouse Gas Protocol. 10213: Memberships of associa ons Vedanta is a member of various industry associa ons in the countries where it operates (Eg: Confedera on of India Industry) Strategy GRI 102General 102-14: Statement from senior decisionVedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 07 (From the Chairman's Desk), Page 09 (CEO's Message) Disclosures 2016 maker Ethics & Integrity GRI 102General 102-16: Values, principles, standards, Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 03 (Our Core Values) Disclosures 2016 and norms of behaviour Governance GRI 102General 102-18: Governance Structure Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 17-18 (Sustainability Governance Structure at Vedanta) Disclosures 2016 Stakeholder Engagement GRI 102General 102-40: List of stakeholder groups Vedanta Resources Limited Annual Report 2018-19: Page 47 (Stakeholder Engagement) Disclosures 2016 102-41: Collec ve bargaining Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 68 (Collec ve Bargaining) agreements 102-42: Iden fying and selec ng Vedanta Resources Limited Annual Report 2018-19: Page 47 (Stakeholder Engagement) stakeholders 102-43: Approach to stakeholder Vedanta Resources Limited Annual Report 2018-19: Page 47 (Stakeholder Engagement) engagement 102-44: Key topics & concerns raised Vedanta Resources Limited Annual Report 2018-19: Page 48-49 (Stakeholder Engagement) Repor ng Prac ce GRI 102General 102-45: En es included in the Vedanta Resources Limited Annual Report 2018-19: Page 195 (Note 4: Segment Informa on) Disclosures 2016 consolidated ﬁnancial statements 102-46: Deﬁning report content and Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 86 (About this report) topic boundaries 102-47: List of material topics Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 11-12 (Materiality) 102-48: Restatements of informa on Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 86 (About this report) 102-49: Changes in repor ng Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 86 (About this report) 91 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures GRI Standard Disclosure Response 102-50: Repor ng period The repor ng period for this report is FY 2018-19 102-51: Date of most recent report Vedanta’s previous sustainability report was released in October 2018 102-52: Repor ng cycle Annual 102-53: Contact point for ques ons Ques ons can be directed to: sustainability@vedanta.co.in regarding the report 102-54: Claims of repor ng in Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Table of Contents, Page 86 (About this report) accordance with the GRI Standards 102-55: GRI Content Index Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 90 (GRI Standards Index) 102-56: External Assurance Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 88 (Assurance Statement) Specific Standard Disclosures Category: Economic GRI Standard Disclosure Response ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE GRI 103: Management Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Pages 81 Approach 2016 201-1: Direct economic value generated Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 82 (Economic Value Generated and Distributed) and distributed Economic Value Generated and Distributed FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 (in US$ million) Economic value generated 15,033.02 15,092.14 15,027.00 Economic value distributed 14,294.76 14,566.30 14,548.00 a) Opera ng Costs 11,122.76 11,309.80 11,489.00 b) Employee wages and beneﬁts 577.00 630.70 540.00 c) Payment to providers of capital 1391.00 1,582.60 1,476.00 d) Payment to government 1,159 1,004.45 1,004.00 e) Community investments (including dona on) 45.00 38.75 17.63 GRI 201: Economic Economic value retained (Calculated as Economic value Performance 2016 generated less economic value distributed) 738.26 525.84 479.44 Coverage of the organisa on's deﬁned beneﬁt plan FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 obliga ons (US$ million) 201-3: Deﬁned beneﬁt plan obliga ons Deﬁned contribu on pension scheme costs 17.00 16.40 22.00 and other re rement plans Deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme costs 27.00 37.10 21.00 Share based payment charge 21.00 23.00 16.00 Total 65.00 76.50 59.00 201-4: Financial assistance received FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 from government Financial assistance received from government 116.00 157.50 204.80 (US$ million) MARKET PRESENCE GRI 103: Management Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 3-6 Approach 2016 GRI 202: Market 202-1: Ra os of standard entry level At all our signiﬁcant loca ons, we ensure that the ra os of entry level wages meets or exceeds the Presence 2016 wage by gender compared to local legal requirements and complies with all applicable laws. With regards to gender, the ra o is 1:1 and minimum wage we don’t discriminate in any way in terms of standard entry level wages. 202-2: Propor on of senior management Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 70 (Local Hiring) hired from local community INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS GRI 103: Management Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 71 (Community Engagement & Development) Approach 2016 GRI 203: Indirect 203-1: Infrastructure investments and Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 72 (Nandghar), Page 73 (Healthcare through hospitals), Economic Impacts services supported Page 76 (Drinking Water & Sanita on), Page 77 (Community Infrastructure) 2016 ANTI-CORRUPTION GRI 103: Management Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 21 (Code of Business Conduct and Ethics) Approach 2016 Vedanta Resources Limited Annual Report 2018-19: Page 140 GRI 205: An 205-1: Opera ons assessed for risks 100% of our opera ons are assessed for risks related to corrup on. The assessments are conducted by Corrup on 2016 related to corrup on the Management Assurance Services (MAS) team. More details can be found at: Vedanta Resources Limited Annual Report 2018-19: Pages 137, 139 205-2: Communica on and training Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 21 (Code of business conduct and ethics) about an -corrup on policies and procedures Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 92 GRI Standard Disclosure Response st 205-3: Conﬁrmed incidents of corrup on Open Complaints on April 1 2018 11 and ac on taken Number of whistle-blower cases opened in 2019 67 Number of whistle-blower cases upheld and found correct in 2019 20 Number of whistle-blower cases closed in 2019 73 st Open Complaints on March 31 2019 5 ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR GRI 103: Management From of Code of Business Conduct and Ethics: Approach 2016 Vedanta is commi ed to free and open compe on in the marketplace. Employees should avoid ac ons that would be contrary to laws governing compe ve prac ces in the marketplace, including federal and state an -trust laws. Such ac ons include misappropria on and/or misuse of a compe tor's conﬁden al informa on or making false statements about the compe tor's business and business prac ces. The Group and its employees shall under no circumstances engage in any an -compe ve prac ces such as illegal ﬁxing of prices, sharing of markets or other ac ons which prevent, restrict or distort compe on in viola on of applicable an -trust laws. GRI 206: An 206-1: Legal ac ons for an -compe ve Compe ve Behaviour behaviour, ant i-trust, and monopoly No legal ac on. 2016 prac ces MATERIAL ASPECT: OIL RESERVES OG1 Volume and type of es mated proved reserves Proved & Probable Reserves Proved & Probable Reserves (developed) and produc on Oil (mmstb) Gas (bscf) Oil (mmstb) Gas (bscf) Reserves as of 1st April 2017 112 48 100 15 Addi ons/revision during the year 28 12 13 21 Produc on during the year (42) (8) (42) (8) Reserves as of 31st March 98 52 71 28 2018 Addi ons/revision during 259 224 149 113 the year Produc on during the year (42) (12) (42) (12) Reserves as of 31st March 315 264 178 129 2019 Category: Environment GRI Standard Disclosure Response ENERGY GRI 103: Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19:: Page 27 (Management Approach) Management Approach 2016 GRI 302: Energy 302-1: Energy Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 31 (Energy Consump on) 2016 consump on within the organisa on Unit wise breakup of total energy consump on (GJ) within organisa on is as below: Business Total Energy (GJ) FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 Aluminium 311,669,948+ 161,939,598 177,781,326 Copper Australia 87,985 92,959 76,263 Copper India 715,028# 4,107,254 4,074,534 Copper Zambia 7,113,943 7,498,295 6,972,026 Iron Ore Business 891,674# 1,445,642 1,774,212 Oil and Gas Business 23,692,722 19,358,552 19,624,038 Port Business 42,132 42,343 26,952 Power Business 110,565,128 198,418,692 170,302,121 Zinc India 47,091,020 47,657,692 44,356,047 Zinc Interna onal 51,918,842* 3,060,086 3,016,401 Total 553,788,422 443,621,113 428,003,920 + Increase due to ramp up in produc on in our Aluminium India Business # Decrease due to the shut-down of our opera ons in Tu corin and mines in Goa * Increase in total energy consump on is due to the addi on and ramp-up of opera ons in Gamsberg 302-3: Energy Intensity Speciﬁc Energy Consump on (GJ/Unit of Produc on Output) Business Sector Company Name FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 BALCO 52.45 52.90 57.04 Aluminium Lanjigarh 7.5 8.15 7.87 Jharsuguda 52.46 54.18 53.9 Copper Australia CMT Sterlite Copper# 8.33 8.35 Copper India Sterlite IPP# 11.57 12.11 Copper Zambia KCM 40.18 36.06 28.71 93 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures GRI Standard Disclosure Response Business Sector Company Name FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 Iron Ore Business SSL Iron PID 1.00 0.88 0.84 Oil and Gas Cairn India 2.19 1.87 2.13 Port Business VGCB 0.01 0.01 0.01 MALCO* Power Business TSPL 7.34 9.38 8.71 Jhasuguda IPP 8.14 10.36 7.05 BALCO IPP 10.22 Lisheen* 0.39 * Malco, Lisheen are not opera onal Zinc Interna onal BMM 0.43 0.35 17.62 # Sterlite Copper's Gamsberg 79 27.97 smelter and power HZL Mines 0.26 0.29 plant in Tu corin was Zinc India HZL Smelter 16.86 17.05 0.41 closed for the en re Skorpion 34.23 29.31 repor ng period 302-4: Reduc on of Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 31 (Energy Consump on) energy consump on OG2: Total amount Nil invested in Renewable Energy OG3: Total amount of During FY2019, total renewable energy generated at Cairn Oil & Gas was 702,047 KWH (2,527 GJ) renewable energy generated by source WATER GRI 103: Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 39 (Water Management) Management Approach 2016 GRI 303: Water 303-1: Water During the repor ng period, we withdrew over 353 million cubic meters of water. The water was sourced from: 51.3% 2016 withdrawal by source ground water, 46.2% surface water, 1.8% wastewater from another organisa on, 0.7% water from tankers and 0.0017% rain-water harves ng. The total water withdrawal has increased in comparison to FY2018-19, when we withdrew 342 million cubic meters of water. FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 Ground Water Surface Water Ground Water Surface Water Ground Water Surface Water Business (m3) (m3) (m3) (m3) (m3) (m3) Aluminium 59,940 51,359,992 59,195 28,097,056 59,200 50,719,645 Copper India 12,250 107,345 14,756 1,313,793 15,484 3,807,720 Copper Australia 4,073,032 2,499,008 4,015,868 3,425,614 3,352,162 3,139,927 Copper Zambia 160,440,472 36,607,651 158,468,504 38,083,904 153,548,896 40,246,679 Iron Ore Business 253,539 3,395,598 259,120 3,136,324 341,946 2,638,065 Oil and Gas Business 10,612,957 11,563,732 12,537,279 Power Business 46,498,898 41,563,995 631,457 38,644,650 Port Business 2,557 2,935 Zinc India 2,876,756 19,664,380 3,681,071 20,382,341 3,289,487 16,684,509 Zinc Interna onal 2,717,883 2,817,135 2,002,257 5,027,207 1,364,266 4,339,589 Total 181,046,829 162,952,564 180,064,503 141,036,104 175,140,177 160,220,784 303-2: Water sources In about three loca ons, our water withdrawals are greater than or equal to 5% of the water body's annual average signiﬁcantly aﬀected by volume. However, none of these withdrawals can be considered sensi ve as it does not threaten the biodiversity of withdrawal of water the area. At all of our loca ons, we carefully monitor our water withdrawals and usage and where feasible, make eﬀorts to recharge the water sources. 303-3: Water recycled Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 40 (Water Management) and reused Vedanta has historically reported water recycling rates based on our total water consump on volumes. This amounts to 24.25% of water recycled. However, as per GRI requirements, the recycle rate of water is to be taken on water withdrawal volumes. The corresponding recycle rate becomes 19.16% in FY2019 (FY2018: 22.3%). BIODIVERSITY GRI 103: Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 43 (Biodiversity Management) Management Approach 2016 GRI 304: 304-1: Opera onal sites The following sites are located adjacent to areas of high biodiversity value or protected areas: Biodiversity 2016 owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent Business Unit Site Loca on Area of Biodiversity Value to, protected areas and Aluminium Vedanta Lanjigarh Lanjigarh, India Niyamgiri, Khambesi & nine other reserve forest areas areas of high Zinc Interna onal Skorpan Zinc Rosh Pinah, Namibia Sperrgebiet Na onal Park biodiversity value Black Mountain Mines Gamsberg, South Africa Succulent Karoo Biodiversity Hotspot outside protected areas 304-3: Habitats Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 43-45 (Biodiversity Management) protected or restored Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 94 GRI Standard Disclosure Response 304-4: IUCN Red List IUCN Classiﬁca on Africa Asia Australia species and na onal Cri cally Endangered 0 3 0 conserva on list species Endangered 5 21 8 with habitats in areas Vulnerable 8 31 7 aﬀected by opera ons Near Threatened 4 16 0 Least Concern 184 251 NA MM2: The number and Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 43 (Biodiversity Management) percentage of total sites iden ﬁed as requiring biodiversity management plans according to stated criteria, and the number (percentage) of those sites with plans in place OG4: Number and All sites in our Oil & Gas business percentage of signiﬁcant opera ng sites in which biodiversity risk has been assessed and monitored EMISSIONS GRI 103: Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Pages 28, 42 (Energy Management and Climate Change, Management Air quality and Emissions Control) Approach 2016 GRI 305: 305-1: Direct (Scope 1) Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 29 (GHG Emissions Performance) Emissions 2016 GHG emissions Our business-wise Scope I emissions are: Scope I Emission (tCO2e) Business FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 Aluminium 33,166,782 33,167,409 24,808,807 Copper India & Australia 30,571 624,738 148,078 Copper Zambia 155,840 150,306 153,127 Iron Ore Business 1,951,258 1,837,129 1,982,484 Oil & Gas Business 1,658,183 1,550,610 1,465,348 Port Business 376 0 0 Power Business 13,342,185 8,894,216 18,996,251 Zinc India 4,668,533 4,830,185 4,288,645 Zinc Interna onal 146,548 87,919 54,168 Total 55,120,276 51,142,511 51,896,908 305-2: Energy indirect Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 29 (GHG Emissions Performance) (Scope 2) GHG emissions Our business-wise Scope II emissions are: Scope II Emission (tCO2e) Business FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 Aluminium 2,655,128 237,024 52,542 Copper India 48,600 87,591 515,274 & Australia Copper Zambia 4,683 4,780 4,613 Iron Ore Business 265 18,428 18,986 Oil & Gas Business 118,000 84,980 70,827 Port Business 6,248 11,641 4,922 Power Business 777 8,901 6,736 Zinc India 168,248 154,564 114,211 Zinc Interna onal 508,921 594,167 644,554 Total 3,510,870 1,202,076 1,432,665 Our Australia and Zambia opera on purchased electricity from hydro emission with low GHG emission factor. 95 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures GRI Standard Disclosure Response 305-4: GHG emissions intensity FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 Scope 1 + Scope 1 + Scope 1 + Scope 2 Scope 2 Scope 2 GHG Revenue GHG GHG Revenue GHG GHG Revenue GHG Emissions (US$ mn) Intensity Emissions (US$ mn) Intensity Emissions (US$ mn) Intensity Business (tCO2e) (tCO2e) (tCO2e) Aluminium 35,821,911 4,183 8,564 33,404,433 3,588 9,310 24,861,348 2,040 12,187 Copper India 75,171 1,537 52 712,329 3,833 186 663,353 3,134 212 & Australia Copper Zambia 160,523 1,085 148 155,086 1,283 121 157,740 874 180 Iron Ore Business 1,951,523 416 4,619 1,855,557 487 3,810 2,001,470 615 3,252 Oil & Gas Business 1,776,183 1,892 939 1,635,590 1,480 1,105 1,536,175 1,223 1,256 Port Business 6,624 37 179 11,641 (92) (127) 4,922 (59) (83) Power Business 13,342,962 934 14,286 8,903,117 877 10,152 19,002,987 836 22,734 Zinc India 4,836,781 2,955 1,637 4,984,749 3,369 1,480 4,402,856 2,525 1,744 Zinc Interna onal 655,469 392 1,672 682,086 535 1,275 698,722 332 2,102 Total 58,631,147* 13,431 4,365 52,344,587 15,360 3,480 53,329,573 11,520 4,629 *This number does not include GHG emissions from Electrosteel Steels Limited. 305-5: Reduc on of Not Reported GHG emissions 305-7: NOX, SOX, and Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 42 (Air Quality and Emissions Control) other signiﬁcant air FY 2018-19 (in MT) FY 2017-18 (in MT) FY 2016-17 (in MT) emissions PM SOx NOx PM SOx NOx PM SOx NOx Business Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Aluminium 2,850 56,031 17,547 2,733 35,144 12,406 2,344 40,104 10,273 Copper India 19 6 2 7 773 7 902 & Australia Copper Zambia 1,235 1,238 135 417 2,018 104 1,760 3,984 125 Iron Ore Business 426 112 88 255 20 20 957 242 206 Oil & Gas Business Port Business Power Business 4,421 155,782 41,000 4,387 131,579 37,526 5,101 113,838 28,003 Zinc India 1,155 30,235 8,641 1,039 22,112 6,798 887 19,255 6,328 Zinc Interna onal 70 105 Total 10,106 243,474 67,413 8,837 191,751 56,854 11,056 178,324 44,935 EFFLUENTS AND WASTE GRI 103: Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 34 (Waste & Tailings Management) Management Approach 2016 GRI 306: 306-1: Water discharge Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Eﬄuents and by quality and Waste 2016 des na on Our opera ng philosophy is of 'zero discharge', where the generated waste water is treated and completely recycled back into process areas such as slag granula on, lime prepara on and gas cleaning plants. In addi on to these ini a ves, eﬄuent and sewage treatment plants are installed at many loca ons for reusing water at primary loca ons. Waste water discharge complies with applicable regulatory limits and, at all sites waste water is treated in eﬄuent treatment plants. Metals are precipitated by addi on of lime and ﬂocculants with the use of sediment ponds. Waste Water Discharged: Business FY 2018-19 (m3) FY 2017-18 (m3) FY 2016-17 (m3) Aluminium 117,142 310,497 414,826 Copper India 4,073,032 4,208,027 3,379,344 & Australia Copper Zambia 146,285,159 147,094,781 148,568,472 Iron Ore Business 168,054 180,939 113,556 Oil & Gas Business 1,925,225 1,009,356 750,258 Port Business 25 7 Power Business 94,700 Zinc India Zinc Interna onal 67,227 72,551 894 Total 152,635,864 152,876,157 153,322,050 Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 96 GRI Standard Disclosure Response 306-2: Waste by type Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 34 (Waste and Tailings Management) and disposal method FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 Business Hazardous Non-Hazardous Hazardous Non-Hazardous Hazardous Non-Hazardous Waste (MT) Waste (MT) Waste (MT) Waste (MT) Waste (MT) Waste (MT) Generated Recycled Generated Recycled Generated Recycled Generated Recycled Generated Recycled Generated Recycled Aluminium 288,847 177,397 7,315,093 5,987,418 241,366 157,413 7,724,472 5,362,730 176,635 146,704 7,973,313 3,223,538 Copper India 73 66 25 153,802 83,938 39,053 1,788,903 1,857,134 71,732 25,899 1,771,050 1,791,993 & Australia Copper Zambia 4,011 3,391 268,050 11 297,656 503,880 1,662 386 231,009 Iron Ore Business 31 268,048 336,770 1 240,721 282,313 2,913 247,066 221,307 Oil & Gas Business 15,133 11,207 5,164 5,916 1,747 90 Power Business 117 66 5,379,208 6,218,588 36 3 5,531,056 5,260,133 90 67 5,525,581 2,832,176 Zinc India 74,016 38,248 932,390 404,968 71,712 42,022 1,085,397 413,669 63,318 24,911 820,028 87,502 Zinc Interna onal 150 66 705 91 359 9 Total 382,378 230,441 14,162,814 13,101,546 402,933 244,498 16,668,205 13,679,859 318,456 198,066 16,568,047 8,156,516 MM3: Total amounts of Unit FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 overburden, rock, tailings, and sludge’s Overburden MT 42,253,662 112,770,226 103,115,851 and their associated Tailings MT 30,691,989 29,490,392 27,979,345 risks Waste Rocks MT 27,730,316 29,626,329 15,566,958 The decrease in the Overburden is due to a decrease in ac vi es at our Black Mountain and Skorpian Zinc loca ons. OG5: Volume and Unit FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 disposal of forma on or produced water Total Produced Water KL 36,721,753 32,230,591 30,236,351 Produced Water Re-injected KL 34,933,829 28,544,747* 25,790, 010* * Restatement: For FY2017-18 & FY2018-19 the volume of produced water re-injected has changed from 37,807,548 and 35,139,091 respec vely. The change is due to double-accoun ng of reinjec on volume associated with the Bhagyam & Aishwariya ﬁelds. OG6: Volume of ﬂared Unit FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 and vented hydrocarbon Volume of Flared Hydrocarbon SCM 95,346,945 70,786,868 78.6 million Volume of Vented Hydrocarbon SCM 783,948 922,253 1.06 million OG7: Amount of drilling Total amount of drill mud generated is 9,405 MT this includes WBM & SOBM. The ﬁgure represented waste (drill mud and quan ty of drilling waste generated. cu ngs) and strategies Category Unit Disposal Method FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 for treatment and disposal Water Based Mud Drill Cu ngs MT Used as subgrade material 8,483 1,998 for construc on Synthe c Oil Based Mud MT Secure Landﬁll 11,207 0 Drilling Waste PRODUCT AND SERVICES G4 – OG8: Benzene, Not applicable lead and sulphur content in fuels SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT GRI 103: At each of our businesses, the vendor on-boarding process requires vendor disclosure of their HSE & Sustainability systems. In Management addi on, project speciﬁc requirement may require addi onal screening of vendors for the environmental management systems. Approach 2016 GRI 308: 308-1: New suppliers All new suppliers undergo Sustainability screening checklist and scoring system before ge ng registered with us. Supplier that were screened using Environmental environmental criteria Assessment 2016 97 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures Category Social GRI Standard Disclosure Response EMPLOYMENT GRI 103: Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 71 Management Approach 2016 GRI-401: 401-1: New employee Electrosteel Employment hires and employee Corporate Cairn Iron Ore Fujairah VL Jhar MALCO Stelite VL Lanj 2016 turnover BALCO Vizag R CMT KCM VZI HZL TSPL Copper Ports Oil & Gas Gold e Gender g Age Total SA Gamsberg i South Africa o n Australia Namibia India Zambia BMM Fujairah Below 20 6 6 Yrs 2030 36 10 2 33 168 103 427 284 5 37 68 93 1,266 Yrs L 31o 45 32 9 1 34 8 33 16 23 4 2 46 22 230 c Yrs a l 46Male 58 1 6 1 5 1 14 Yrs Above 58 4 2 6 Yrs Below 20 Yrs N 20o 30 6 6 n Yrs 31L 45 10 3 3 16 o Yrs c 46a 58 2 1 2 1 1 2 9 l Yrs Above 58 3 2 5 Yrs Below 20 1 1 2 Yrs 2030 29 12 3 13 50 45 82 75 5 21 4 15 52 406 Yrs L o 31c 45 8 4 2 14 1 1 7 37 a Yrs l 4658 4 1 5 Yrs Above 58 Female Yrs Below 20 Yrs N 20o 30 1 4 5 n Yrs 31L 45 1 3 1 2 2 4 1 14 o Yrs c 46a 58 1 1 l Yrs Above 58 Yrs Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 98 GRI Standard Disclosure Response % of Total full me employees FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 Employee turnover including 10.16% 8.74% 8.40% re rements and including VRS Total A ri on (Refers to 5.86% 5.33% 5.34% Employee ini ated Separa on) Employee Turnover & A ri on by Region (FY 2018-19) Australia Zambia Namibia South Africa India Employee turnover including Number 3 386 58 82 2,116 re rements and including VRS Rate 16% 6% 10% 9% 11% Total A ri on Male 17% 3% 5% 3% 5% (Refers to Employee ini ated Separa on) Female 0% 3% 13% 5% 11% 401-2: Beneﬁts provided We provide an array of beneﬁts to our employees that are not provided to temporary or part me employees. The beneﬁts to fullme employees include: life-insurance scheme, health-insurance scheme, disability coverage, parental leave, re rement beneﬁts and that are not provided to management grades are covered under stock op ons scheme of Vedanta. temporary or partme employees 401-3: Parental leave Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 61 (Progressive Policies) LABOUR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 402: Labour/ 402-1: Minimum no ce Mechanism to bring awareness to all employees on any signiﬁcant opera onal change like restructuring, mergers, acquisi ons, Management periods regarding expansions etc. is in place. No ce period(s) regarding signiﬁcant opera onal changes is indicated in collec ve bargaining Changes 2016 opera onal changes agreements and cer ﬁed standing order of respec ve en es. For example in India it is minimum 21 days, Zambia Minimum No ce Period is One Year; Namibia Three Months and South Africa One Month. G4-MM4: Number of All incidents pertaining to social aspects are categorized negligible (category 1), minor (category 2), moderate (category 3), strikes and lock-outs serious (category 4) and disastrous (category 5) and captured on a monthly basis. exceeding one week's dura on, by country OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 103: Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 50 (Safety, Health and Well-being) Management Approach 2016 GRI 403: 403-1: Workers 100% of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety commi ee. Occupa onal representa on in formal Health & Safety joint managementAll units are having safety commi ee, having representa on from the management and unionized workers, which covers en re worker health and workforce working at site. The total workforce vary signiﬁcantly based on the opera ons and are generally speciﬁed in safety commi ees collec ve contractual agreements. The commi ee meets on regular basis to advice on occupa onal health and safety improvement. In case of opera ons without a worker union, the principle contractor along with sub-contractors is invited to the monthly mee ngs to discuss speciﬁc HSE issues. 403-2: Type of injury Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 50 (Safety Performance) and rates of injury, All deﬁni ons as per ICMM guidelines occupa onal diseases, FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 lost days, and Employees Total Injuries 61 53 absenteeism, and total Injury Rates (Total Recordable Injury FR) 1.14 1.01 number of work related Lost Day Rate 20.61 14.68 fatali es Work-Related Fatali es 2 2 Contract Total Injuries 224 191 Workers + Injury Rates (Total Recordable Injury FR) 1.26 1.23 Third Party Lost Day Rate 16.55 14.92 Work-Related Fatali es 12 7 403-3: Health and safety Health and safety topics are covered in the formal agreements with trade union. It is clearly stated in the agreement that the topics covered in formal workmen / Recognized Union / Federa on will support in all the measures / ini a ves to be taken by the Company for agreements with trade improving produc on / produc vity, work culture, quality & safety. unions Beside this, cer ﬁed Standing Orders of units also cover these topics. 99 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures GRI Standard Disclosure Response TRAINING AND EDUCATION GRI 103: Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 58 (Employee Training) Management Approach 2016 GRI 404: Training 404-1: Average hours of Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 58 (Employee Training) and Educa on training per year per 2016 employee 404-2: Programs for In line with our philosophy, con nuous learning & capability building is impera ve for an organisa on to grow. To cater to this upgrading employee need, our business en es provide training on technical skill building. We also conduct structured programs to assist employees skills and transi on for smooth transi oning from work to re rement. Some of the programs are on Computer Literacy, wealth management, assistance programs tradesman skill building programs, cer ﬁcates and diploma courses, re rement workshops & employee assistance programs. 404-3: Percentage of 100% of our employees receive regular performance reviews. employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY GRI 103: Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 61 (Diversity and Inclusion) Management Approach 2016 GRI 405: 405-1: Diversity of Diversity and governance bodies and Composi on of Governance Bodies Equal employees. List diﬀerent type of Age group Gender Opportunity Board 2016 Between Less than Above 50 30-50 Male Female 30 years Years years Board of Directors 0% 12.5% 87.5% 87.5% 12.5% Employees 89.64% 10.36% 405-2: Ra o of basic We are an equal opportunity employer. Across Vedanta Group we recruit both men & women on equal salary ra o. Our salary and remunera on remunera on is linked to performance of the individual, business en ty and overall group. of women to men. NON-DISCRIMINATION GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 406: Non406-1: Incidents of Vedanta is an equal opportunity employer and does not discriminate based on race, religion, caste, gender, age, disability, discrimina on discrimina on and HIV/AIDS status, and any other characteris c. correc ve ac ons taken We see sexual harassment at the workplace as one form of discriminatory behaviour. We have formal procedures for media ng cases of sexual harassment brought to a commi ee. The commi ee includes external members on the panel to ensure independence and provide balance. Sexual Harassment cases FY 2018-19 Number of sexual harassment cases opened 15 Number of sexual harassment cases upheld and found correct 11 Number of sexual harassment cases closed 15 FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING GRI 103: Vedanta’s Human Rights Policy recognises the right to associate freely and to collec ve bargaining. Management Approach 2016 GRI 407: 407-1: Opera ons and Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 68 (Collec ve Bargaining) Freedom of suppliers in which the We have collec ve bargaining agreements with our workmen at HZL, BALCO, KCM, Sesa and Zinc Interna onal Opera ons. Associa on and right to exercise The agreements are nego ated and agreed by both management and union representa ves. The agreements include clauses Collec ve freedom of associa on rela ng to remunera on, allowances, working condi ons, incen ves and bonuses, health and safety, manpower produc vity. Bargaining 2016 and collec ve bargaining may be All the signiﬁcant policy and opera onal changes aﬀec ng the unionized employees are in mated to them through union violated or at signiﬁcant representa ves. Our units at BALCO, HZL, SESA GOA, KCM & Zinc Interna onal have recognized unions while other loca ons risk have adequate systems and processes for employee development, appraisal, remunera on and grievance redressal. Similarly our signiﬁcant suppliers are generally the big & well reputed industry organiza ons like Coal India, SAIL and L&T with whom we engage directly for the bulk of material for further processing or as raw material. All these organiza ons have the collec ve bargaining and other labor union mechanisms. CHILD LABOUR GRI 103: Vedanta's Human Rights Policy states that the company has zero tolerance for child labour directly or through contracted Management labour. Approach 2016 GRI 408: Child 408-1: Opera ons and Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 68 (Ensuring right age for the right job) Labour 2016 suppliers at signiﬁcant risk for incidents of child labour Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 100 GRI Standard Disclosure Response FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOUR GRI 103: Vedanta’s Human Rights Policy states that the company has zero tolerance for forced or compulsory labour – Management directly or through contracted labour. Approach 2016 GRI 409: Forced 409-1: Opera ons and Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 68 (Supplier Diligence) or Compulsory suppliers at signiﬁcant Labour 2016 risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour SECURITY PRACTICES GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 410: Security 410-1: Security Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 66 (Human Rights) Prac ces 2016 personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS PEOPLES GRI 103: Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 69 (Rights of Indigenous Peoples) Management Approach 2016 GRI 411: Rights 411-1: Incidents of There were no viola ons involving the rights of indigenous peoples during the repor ng year. of Indigenous viola ons involving Peoples rights of indigenous peoples G4-MM5: Total number None of our opera ng mines are opera ng in or adjacent to indigenous people territory. of opera ons taking place in or adjacent to Indigenous Peoples’ territories, and number and percentage of opera ons or sites where there are formal agreements with Indigenous Peoples’ communi es. G4-OG9: Opera ons None of our opera ng mines for the oil & gas business are opera ng in or adjacent to indigenous people territory. where indigenous communi es are present or aﬀected by ac vi es and where speciﬁc engagement strategies are in place. G4-MM6: Number and No signiﬁcant disputes rela ng to land use, customary rights of local communi es and indigenous peoples was brought to our descrip on of signiﬁcant no ce during the repor ng year. disputes rela ng to land use, customary rights of local communi es and Indigenous Peoples. GRI 411: Rights G4-MM7: The extent to No signiﬁcant disputes rela ng to land use, customary rights of local communi es and indigenous peoples was brought to our of Indigenous which grievance no ce during the repor ng year. Peoples mechanisms were used to resolve disputes rela ng to land use, customary rights of local communi es and Indigenous Peoples, and the outcomes. G4-OG10: Number and None descrip on of signiﬁcant disputes with local communi es and indigenous peoples. HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT GRI 103: Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 66 (Human Rights) Management Vedanta’s Human Rights policy is the guiding document for our human rights prac ces. Approach 2016 GRI 412: Human 412-1: Opera ons that Each year, all of our opera onal sites undergo the Vedanta Sustainability Assurance Program (VSAP) audit. This audit is Rights have been subject to conducted by an external 3rd party overseen by our Management Assurance Services (MAS) team. As part of the audit, sites Assessment 2016 human rights reviews or are evaluated on their human rights management related to supplier and vendor management. impact assessments. 412-2: Employee Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 66 (Human Rights) training on human rights policies or procedures 101 Overview | Governance | Environment | Our People | Creating Value for Society | Annexures GRI Standard Disclosure Response GRI 412: Human 412-3: Signiﬁcant Through our Human Rights policy which has been implemented across all Group businesses Vedanta is commi ed to Rights investment agreements ensuring that the processes that it has in place, and con nues to develop, follow the UN Guiding Principles. Assessment 2016 and contracts that include By conduc ng ESIAs in compliance with applicable legal requirements and Vedanta Sustainability Framework, human rights human rights clauses or considera ons are taken into account for all new projects, including the obliga on to undertake a human rights screening that underwent human process in all merger and acquisi on ac vi es. rights screening LOCAL COMMUNITIES GRI 103: Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 71 (Community Engagement and Development) Management Approach 2016 GRI 413: Local 413-1: Opera ons with Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Pages 71-81 Communi es local community 2016 engagement, impact All of our opera ons have on-going local community engagements. These engagements are driving by a structured stakeholder assessments, and engagement plan for all of the mapped stakeholders. development programs In this ﬁscal year, we completed the process of conduc ng a needs and impact assessment for all of our CSR projects. Prior to star ng opera ons, all of our sites conduct an Environmental Impact Assessment and Social Impact Assessment. These assessments are updated in case the sites undergo signiﬁcant expansion programs. Public disclosure is a mandated part of the EIAs and SIAs. SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT GRI 103: Vedanta's Supplier Code of Conduct (SCOC) serves at the guiding document for all our interac ons with suppliers and vendors. Management It is mandatory for all our suppliers to abide by the Code. The SCOC covers aspects related to: Labour & human rights, Health, Approach 2016 Safety, Environment & Sustainability, Ethics & business integrity, Intellectual property, and Prohibi on on insider trading. GRI 414: Supplier 414-1: New suppliers Vedanta Sustainability Report 2018-19: Page 83 (Responsible Supply Chain Management) Social that were screened Assessment using social criteria. PUBLIC POLICY GRI 103: Vedanta’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is the guiding document on our interac ons with the government and poli cal Management par es. Approach 2016 GRI 415: Public 415-1: Poli cal It is the Board's policy that neither Vedanta nor any of its subsidiary companies outside India may, under any circumstances, Policy 2016 Contribu ons make dona ons or contribu ons to poli cal organisa ons. Subsidiaries in India may make poli cal dona ons or contribu ons as this is customary in India and permi ed under local legisla on. In excep onal circumstances, if poli cal dona ons or contribu ons are deemed necessary in the United Kingdom and European Union for legi mate business reasons, they will not be made without the approval of the Board and shareholders at a general mee ng. Any poli cal dona ons made in India will be disclosed in the Company's Annual Report and Accounts. The Company's subsidiary, Vedanta Limited purchased electoral bonds valued at US$ 10million during the ﬁnancial year ended 31 March 2019 (2018: Nil). ARTISANAL AND SMALL-SCALE MINING G4 – MM8 Number (and percentage) of company opera ng sites where ar sanal and small-scale mining (ASM) takes place on, or adjacent to, We do not track this informa on. the site; the associated risks and the ac ons taken to manage and mi gate these risks. G4 – MM9 Sites where rese lements took place, the number of Nil households rese led in each, and how their livelihoods were aﬀected in the process. MATERIAL ASPECT: CLOSURE PLANNING G4 – MM10 Number and percentage of opera ons with the As a part of statutory clearance all our mines opera ons have a closure plan. closure plans. G4 – OG11 Numbers of sites that No site has been decommissioned or are in the process of decommissioning in the oil & gas business. have been decommissioned and sites those are in the process of being decommissioned. PROCESS SAFETY G4 – OG13 Number of process There were total 7 incident of Tier 1 (3) and Tier 2 (4) process safety events reported in ﬁnancial year safety events, by business ac vity. Process Safety Tier FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 Tier 1 0 1 3 Tier 2 3 2 4 Total 3 3 7 Vedanta Resources Limited SDR 2018/19 102 WE VALUE YOUR FEEDBACK Email: sustainability@vedanta.co.in sd.vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2018-19/feedback NOTES Vedanta Resources Limited 5th Floor, 16 Berkeley Street, London W1J 8DZ, Tel.: +44 (0)20 7499 5900 | Fax: +44 (0)20 7491 8440 | vedantaresources.com GET IN TOUCH MORE ONLINE View our online Annual Report We value your feedback and View our online SD Report http://www.vedantaresources.com/ welcome comments on this report sd.vedantaresources.com/ investor-relations/results-andor any aspect of our approach to SustainableDevelopment2018-19/ reports/annual-interimcognito sustainability reporting. reports.aspx sustainability@vedanta.co.in
