COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2018 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 3 UN GLOBAL COMPACT CLEANING OF THE PUDDEFJORDEN, NORWAY A major part of the seabed outside Bergen, Norway, was heavily polluted by heavy metals and organic environmental toxins. Quicksilver from dentist clinics, waste from shipyards and old industry, house paint with PCB – all of these elements and many more filled the seabed and made the fjord one of the most polluted port areas in Norway. With a new and immaculate sea bed the Puddefjorden is the first of three fjords to be cleaned. The Puddefjorden was officially declared clean 17 September 2018. COWI was lead consultant on the entire project. 04 COMMITMENT FROM OUR CEO 14 LABOUR RIGHTS 06 SUSTAINABILITY AND CSR IN COWI 16 ENVIRONMENT 08 COWI’S BUSINESS MODEL AND CSR RISK ASSESSMENT 18 GREEN ACCOUNTS 11 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 22 ANTI-CORRUPTION 12 HUMAN RIGHTS 24 ABOUT GLOBAL COMPACT PUBLISHED BY EDITORIAL INPUT ENDED COWI Holding A/S February 2019. Parallelvej 2 2800 Kongens Lyngby Denmark Tel 56 40 00 00 Fax 56 40 99 99 www.cowi.dk www.cowi.com www.cowiholding.com COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 5 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMITMENT FROM OUR CEO In COWI, sustainability is part of our vision There is no doubt that sustainable growth and incorporated in our business model. In is the only way to deal with the challenges a world where urbanisation and increasing facing the global community these years. populations are a fact and climate change is a Many countries are beginning to translate reality, societies and customers need solutions sustainability into new legislation and voluntary that are effective and sustainable, and which standards, and we welcome this development. enable quality of life for the entire community. It is necessary for the future of our children COWI supplies sustainable solutions as we and grandchildren, and it provides COWI have done for more than 89 years. Every day, with interesting and meaningful business we strive to deliver high quality, smart and opportunities now and in the future. sustainable solutions that meet the needs of societies and customers around the world. 2019 will be the year where COWI takes a decisive step towards introducing the SDGs Our vision is to create coherence in into our own business model. There are five to tomorrow’s sustainable societies; and we are which our services can contribute particularly: committed to doing so with long-term societal, 6, 7, 9, 11 and 13, but SDG 11 ‘Sustainable environmental and people interests in mind. cities and communities’ expresses our vision and integrates and encompasses, in many Today, climate change, urbanisation and their ways, almost all our services. many associated effects are daily frontpage news, and thus ever higher on the agenda of Thus, in our day-to-day business, shortglobal leaders and businesses. The coverage term and long-term, we remain fully and by the media and expectations voiced by continuously committed to the United Nations ordinary people at the COP 24 Katowice Global Compact. This Communication on 2018 conference in December 2018 were Progress report is produced with reference sharp and persistant, and increasingly in our to the ten principles of the Sustainability interaction with customers and societies, Reporting Guidelines. we meet clear recognition of the need to work actively with the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals on a daily base. Lars-Peter Søbye, Chief Executive Officer COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 7 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Further challenges are climate change, environmental, social and community outenvironmental degradation and the increascomes for all projects carried out by COWI. ing production of waste. These threats AT THE END OF need to be overcome by, for example, lowTo formalise our focus, we have developed energy buildings, security measures against a number of policies and guidelines on 2018, COWI HAD NYE, DENMARK adverse weather, and effective waste sustainability and CSR, which set out the POLICIES COVERING master plans. One COWI project deals with The new town of Nye, Denmark, housing up to 15,000 assisting the city of Ulaanbataar, Mongolia, overall framework for how we work on a daily basis. These policies and guidelines THE FOLLOWING people, is a greenfield project. An innovative rain water in dealing with its solid waste problems by are described in this report and underpin AREAS: solution will ensure a major saving of up to 40% in the use of improving the service quality and effectivethe strong correlation that exists between groundwater. The new rainwater system collects rain water ness of waste collection and transportation our values and our business practices. ›› Sustainable development from roofs, roads and parking areas in a water management in the ger areas. ›› Transparency and anti-corruption system which provides high recreational value to the town This report serves as the required annual ›› Sustainable supply chain in the form of open channels, ditches, ponds and rain COWI’s specialist competencies and Communication of Progress for the United ›› COWI Whistle-blower hotline water lakes. From a rain water lake, the water is cleaned our engagement in societies’ challenges Nations Global Compact (UNGC). As such, ›› Business integrity and distributed to the households for toilets and washing together with the commitment of our cusits content is structured around the ten ›› Diversity and inclusion machines. The new rain water system will reduce the use of tomers represent and sustain the creativity UNGC principles and describes our activities ›› Health and safety (HSE) groundwater by 30 million litres annually. COWI developed and innovation needed to meet these global regarding the environment, human rights, the concept and design of this comprehensive solution. challenges. This is the core of our services anti-corruption and social responsibility. All policies are available at: and our business model, and this is where www.cowi.com/sustainability we have the greatest opportunity to proIn addition, this report serves to meet the www.cowi.com/policies mote sustainability. CSR requirements of Danish legislation. Thus, it presents our business model with POLICIES AND GUIDELINES the issues related to CSR. It explains how SUSTAINABILITY As an integrated part of our project and qualwe handle the issues, and how we follow ity management system we apply a health up on our CSR key performance indicators. and safety screening, as well as security, AND CSR IN COWI OUR APPROACH Our chief potential for living CSR and for rewith clear and high ethical standards. Both Through our services, COWI contributes to ducing environmental impacts lies in our serare critical to our efforts to attract talented sustainable development. vice delivery and in the solutions, we develop candidates and retain outstanding people. with and for our customers. This is where we ANHOLT COAST, DENMARK Our vision is to create coherence in tomordirect our efforts, because projects providing SOLUTIONS MEET After the November storm in 2011, the islanders row’s sustainable societies, and it frames sustainable solutions are our business. GLOBAL CHALLENGES on the small island of Anholt in the Kattegat Sea our approach to corporate social responsiCOWI supplies solutions, knowledge and woke up to a main road that had been washed bility (CSR) and sustainability. Our constant Naturally, we also focus on the sustainable ideas for development of the modern away. The road had been exposed to years of wind ambition is to create value for our customoperation of our own facilities. world and the challenges it faces – among and wave erosion, and more sand was removed ers, key stakeholders, COWI and society. these, achieving sustainable growth. by erosion than brought in by waves and currents. This we do by enabling our customers to Our commitment to sustainability and COWI was involved in remedying this situation in meet their sustainability goals and thus corporate social responsibility is an One set of challenges is related to the early 2013 and came up with a concept that aims at make the societies in which we operate extension of our fundamental values and growing world population and to the coastal protection with fewer, but larger structures. more sustainable and more liveable. mission. This commitment is furthermore increasingly high urbanisation rates across The solution also improves bathing safety and reflected in our endorsement of the UN the globe with ensuing pressure on recreational values, and the coast can be used for We have a three-pronged approach where Global Compact as well as our support infrastructure, built environment, water and swimming, snorkelling, fishing, windsurfing and kite we integrate CSR and sustainability into: to the Code of Ethics of the International energy. These four sectors frame COWI’s surfing. The new structures proved their worth in the ›› Business conduct: The way we carry out Federation of Consulting Engineers (FIDIC). key services which are instrumental in January 2019 winter storms when they were able to our own activities. providing future and sustainable solutions withstand the heavy seas rolling in from the North. ›› Employee behaviour: The way we behave It is essential to COWI and to the realisation that can meet the challenges. COWI’s at the workplace and our obligation to act. of our strategy that we are among the engagement in metro, light rail and ›› Business deliverables: The way we ensure most attractive employers for professionals BRT (Bus Rapid Transport) solutions that the solutions we design for customers looking for a career within the consulting in Denmark and Norway exemplify take environmental and society impacts engineering industry. To this end, we our commitment to working for more into consideration. promote diversity and cultivate a culture sustainable mobility and liveability in cities. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 9 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COWI’S BUSINESS 2018 is the first year that we report on our that in some cases we do not have figures business model and discuss the CSR risks from 2017, or we do not have figures for involved. Therefore, we consider 2018 to be 2018. However, our ambition is to make MODEL AND CSR a baseline year for reporting on the business sure that we have all necessary data for the model in the 2018 COP report. This implies 2019 report. RISK ASSESSMENT SOCIETY While knowledge of mission and vision scored 75 in 2017, knowledge of values scored 73. GLOBAL/NATIONAL ECONOMIES and the POLITICAL ENVIRONMENT constitute COWI’s target score for 2020 is 77, and we ENGAGEMENT will therefore work on ensuring knowledge the framework conditions for all aspects of of our mission, vision and values, especially SURVEY COWI’s market presence. The CSR risks presented by the framework are MITIGATED through our onboarding programmes. We SCORING SOCIETY by living COWI’s mission and vision and will include the questions regarding mission, vision and values in our annual engagement In our annual engagement survey practising COWI’s five values: Integrity, survey as of 2019, instead of only including we benchmark ourselves against respect, independence, professional capacity them every other year. similar companies. Scores in and freedom. In addition, navigation in a the engagement survey are constantly changing political environment ›› Global/national ›› Flexibility in the organisation is measured by as follows: 0-60 low; 60-75 demands a flexible and digitalised economies organisation which can adapt quickly to new the number of projects involving employees medium and 75-100 high. from more than one business line. ›› Political trends project conditions. 14% of COWI’s 2018 projects involved HOW WE FOLLOW UP employees from more than one business line. ›› Management’s and employees’ knowledge It is our ambition to increase that proportion CT and our target for 2020 is 20%. TS of mission, vision and values is scored in RKE ›› Sustainable COWI’s annual engagement survey IMPA development MA ›› Geographies ›› COWI’s footprint ›› Customers MARKETS HOW WE FOLLOW UP 64% completion is a result of a combination ›› COWI’s Executive Board applies the of a net increase in the number of employees As a global player in diverse Transparency International Corruption in COWI as well as timing of the rolling threeGEOGRAPHIES and with diverse Perception Index (CPI) to decision-making year training renewal deadline. Our target for CUSTOMERS, COWI’s employees face on geographic presence. 2019 is to increase completion rates from a number of CSR risks ranging from their Countries with a CPI below 40 require the the current 64% to 75%. personal security to the business environintervention of the Executive Board. ›› Customer ›› Employees and ment of customers and the customers’ requirements competences CSR approach. These risks are MITIGATED ›› Training courses in anti-corruption are by the Executive Board’s approval of project ›› Responsible project ›› Partners and their geographical presence and COWI’s safety mandatory for all COWI staff. management supply chain organisation. COWI is a signatory of the All COWI employees undergo business L integrity training every third year. In 2018 the VA UE UN Global Compact and thus the business degree of completion was 64% as opposed ES environment, including corruption, is a key CR IC focal point vis-à-vis customers. to 66% in 2017. The decrease from 66% to EA V TIO S ER N COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 11 UN GLOBAL COMPACT SERVICES ›› The type and severity of incidents reported SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS in the whistle-blower system are assessed To supply our customers with state-of-the art sustainable solutions we need to be able by the Executive Board and reported to the KEY CONTENTS Board of Directors to recruit and retain highly COMPETENT In 2018, there were 9 whistle-blower OF THE COWI EMPLOYEES and attract strong and responsible PARTNERS. We MITIGATE incidents as opposed to 8 in 2017. Please ACADEMY the risk of losing such employees through find more information concerning COWI’s COURSES ARE: whistle-blower system on page 22. leadership and by creating a great place to COWI’s services within sustainable societies. In recent work. We MITIGATE the risk of attracting Leadership; Project ›› All training activities in COWI Academy Infrastructure, Energy, Water & years, especially our Scandinavian inappropriate partners through our screening are monitored with regard to content and management; Business the Environment and Building business lines have started to MEASURING process and by making sure that our code of Development; Onboarding (incl. conduct is upheld. participants vision, values, obligation to act); contribute to several of the UN’s build a thought leadership position CONTRIBUTIONS 17 Sustainable Development within sustainable growth of cities. In 2018, 2742 unique participants took part Policy and Safety; Compliance Goals (SDGs). We find that our We have held several seminars TO THE SDGS HOW WE FOLLOW UP in COWI’s training activities via the COWI Training; Communication consultancy services particularly and events with customers and ›› Every year we carry out an engagement Academy while 1849 took part in 2017. Training; Financial Management In 2018, the COWI Foundation allocated means to the contribute to reaching the following other stakeholders where we survey to measure the overall engagement The increase is to some extent explained development of a tool for making the UN Sustainable five SDGs: have discussed challenges facing of our employees by the roll-out of the EU’s General Data Development Goals measurable. The tool will be devel›› No 6 Clean Water and Sanitation societies and possible solutions. It The overall engagement score of our employProtection Regulation and a number of interoped by staff from COWI and the Technical University of ›› No 7 Affordable and Clean is therefore natural that SDG 11 will ees has increased by one, i.e. from 75 in 2017 nal courses dealing with new work methods. Denmark. The aim is to make a screening tool which is Energy take priority in our work with the to 76 in 2018. Our target for 2020 is 77 (please However, the main increase is due to a range simple, operational and science-based and which can ›› No 9 Industry Innovation and SDGs and in our communication. see box about engagement score on page 9). of new courses. measure the performance of projects, products or systems Infrastructure in relation to the SDGs. It is to be used in strategic SDG ›› No 11 Sustainable Cities and We are committed to working with work by decision makers in public authorities and private Communities the SDGs so that we create value companies. The tool will focus on SDGs where Denmark ›› No 13 Climate Action for customers, society and our faces the largest challenges and opportunities to contribbusiness. In 2019, we will start to ute with solutions. It will make use of quantitative and life SDG no 11, Sustainable Cities categorise all projects according cycle-oriented measurement methods by incorporating and Communities, encompasses to which SDGs they contribute to VALUE CREATION expect. Responsible project management ›› Quality management is ensured through well-established methods and developing new ones. entails that quality management is inteISO certification, recertification and regular much of where we have our the most. In this way we gain a COWI’s success in the market depends expertise and it corresponds very knowledge base which will enable grated in every phase of project execution audits The project has a two-year life span which started at on meeting CUSTOMER REQUIREMENTS much to our vision which is to us to plan our contribution to the and therefore a strong mitigating factor. Most of COWI is certified according to ISO the beginning of 2019. and supplying RESPONSIBLE PROJECT create coherence in tomorrow’s SDGs in the best possible way. 9001 and ISO 14001. In 2019 the outMANAGEMENT. The risk of not living up HOW WE FOLLOW UP standing countries will receive certification. to customer requirements nor being able ›› Customer satisfaction is followed closely Recertification audits are carried out every to incorporate sustainable quality solutions through the Net Promoter Score third year and follow-up audits are carried through diligent management is MITIGATED 2018 was the first year that COWI applied out in the two years in between. by ensuring that COWI has a vibrant and NPS or Net Promoter Score to the entire strong professional environment which can business. The score was 32 per cent which provide the high-quality, innovative and is not where we want it to be. Our target for sustainable solutions COWI’s customers 2020 is 38 per cent. IMPACT Since then we have striven to MITIGATE our 2019 will be the first year where we impact on society by reducing our footprint assign new projects to the SDGs. There is COWI’s core business is to deliver projects and contributing to the SDGs through therefore no data for this KPI. based on the requirements of customers actively working with and implementing the and society at large. Each project has an COP policies. ›› We measure COWI’s environmental impact and can contribute to achievement impact of the SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT HOW WE FOLLOW UP Please find a detailed presentation of GOALS if designed and realised in an ›› COWI projects will be classified according COWI’s environmental impact on pages innovative way. As a business, COWI also to their relevance and contribution to 18-21. makes a FOOTPRINT in these societies. In achieving the SDGs 2006, COWI signed the Global Compact. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 13 UN GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS POLICIES AND PRINCIPLES RELATING TO HUMAN RIGHTS ›› Respect is one of COWI’s five values ›› COWI Whistle-blower ›› FIDIC Code of Ethics adopted by COWI 01 02 PRINCIPLE: PRINCIPLE: ›› Policy on health and safety Businesses should make sure ›› Policy on sustainable development Businesses should support and respect the protection that they are not complicit in All policies are available at of internationally proclaimed human rights abuses. www.cowi.com/sustainability and human rights. www.cowi.com/policies WORKING WITH HUMAN RIGHTS contributing negatively to human rights in According to COWI’s 2020 strategy and our LOWER THAMES CROSSING – HSSW The support of human rights is rooted in our external activities, including the work we approach for procurement, our goal is to PRINCIPLE RELATING Lower Thames Crossing is a new road under the River Thames estuary COWI’s culture and reflected in one of do for customers, our procurement pracensure that all COWI suppliers are certified. TO HUMAN RIGHTS East of London linking London’s North and South East. COWI is COWI’s five guiding values ‘respect’. The tices and our partners. Internally, our focus Employee conditions and compliance with hucontributing to preliminary design on the 20km road and 2.5km bored respect value states: is on the right to a safe workplace with our HEALTH AND SAFETY AT WORK man rights are important to COWI. To ensure tunnel. Randi Christensen is lean leader. “On this project Health, Safety, health and safety policy as the overall guide. The special focus on the psychosocial that we detect any human rights violations on Security and Wellbeing (HSSW) are integrated into our project management working environment in 2017 paid off in projects in which we are involved, we operate “We respect those DEALING WITH HUMAN 2018 and was translated from a leader according to two procedures: system. For instance, all our meetings start with a ‘Safety and Reflection moment’ where we reflect on issues or experiences relevant for the team. we work with, nature RIGHTS ON PROJECTS focus area to concrete activities locally. ›› Health and safety supervision: In COWI we The aim is to create awareness about safety a natural part of our every day. To ensure that we do not have any adverse Awareness about the need for a healthy seek to increase our influence on project and society. We impacts on human rights through projects psychosocial environment became far sites by offering supervision of safety and We also have regular campaigns focusing on specific issues like stress, health or mental health. One campaign led me to change my commute, so respect each other in in which we are involved, we operate according to three procedures: Due more widespread with many departments holding local development seminars about health conditions. This allows us to ensure that internationally accepted standards are that I now walk to work from the station instead of taking the tube. I also decision-making and diligence, Supervision and Obligation to act, psychosocial factors and how to prevent enforced on a project. work actively to promote safety in design decisions.” ›› Obligation to act: Employees at COWI have implementation. We described on the following page. work-related stress. the so-called obligation to act, meaning that respect friendship All new employees are introduced Due to legal restrictions, we have no everyone is obliged to act if they see human to these three procedures as part of specific data on the occurrence of rights violated on a project. across the organisation, COWI’s onboarding programme, and the absences due to work-related stress. The two procedures are included in our POLICY ON HEALTH AND SAFETY independent of the procedures are included in our training, However, we are aware of the fact that project management training and COWI’s onboarding programme. COWI strives for a healthy and safe work environment, both in our own operations and in our project-related activities. amongst other in COWI’s award winning with a highly committed work force in a hierarchy.” project management academy. knowledge-based company, stress-related To meet our objectives, we will: illness may represent a substantial risk. To ›› comply with relevant health and safety legislation and standards Through our policy on sustainable KEY ACTIVITIES AND OUTCOMES mitigate this risk and in line with our core In 2018, COWI’s Executive Board decided to extend development, we integrate human rights ›› ensure that a safe working environment is never compromised for Since 2012, COWI has had a sustainable values we have designed and implemented the Health & Safety project initiated in 2016 covering economic or productivity reasons in our business. In the policy, we commit procurement system, which is now used in a robust programme to prevent stress or COWI operations in Denmark to include the entire ›› ensure that project managers instruct their teams on specific projectourselves to taking social aspects into Denmark, Sweden and Norway. Through bring people back to their jobs in cases of COWI organisation. The aim is to achieve occuparelated health and safety risks and necessary preventive measures. This account when carrying out projects, and to the system, we assess suppliers on human debilitating temporary stress. tional Health & Safety certification according to ISO includes the use of personal protective equipment enhancing our employees’ attention to and and labour rights, ethical standards, social 45001:2018 for COWI as such. The ISO 45001:2018 ›› provide employees with an opportunity to influence their own working knowledge of social conditions. and environmental policies, health and The risk of physical work injuries is very low project started in Denmark in 2018. COWI in Sweden environment in a dialogue with management safety, diversity and anti-corruption. We in COWI’s operations. In 2018, we are for and the UK are already certified according to OHSAS ›› inform our customers and business partners if we find violations of health This policy is integrated in our risk assessstore all information concerning every the first time reporting on the global figures 18 001 (Occupation Health and Safety Assessment and safety standards, labour rights, human rights or unnecessary or illegal ment and training systems. We continue supplier in our system, which means that for injuries with absence from work which Series), but the OHSAS certification will be replaced by environmental degradation on projects in which we are involved to raise awareness among our employees the entire organisation has access to all was 24. Although our aim is zero injuries, we the new ISO standard which will apply to all of COWI. about the importance of COWI not relevant supplier information. estimate that the figure is low. The time plan for actual roll-out is yet to be decided. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 15 UN GLOBAL COMPACT EMPLOYEES IN THE COWI GROUP LABOUR RIGHTS 2017–2018 2017 2018 Employees 6,599 6,770 Average age, years 42 42,5 Women 30% 30% Men 70% 70% Women in management 24% 24% 03 05 PRINCIPLE: PRINCIPLE: Businesses should uphold the KEY ACTIVITIES AND OUTCOMES Businesses should uphold the During 2018, we continued our activities to ensure freedom of association and elimination of all forms of forced that COWI employees have state-of-the-art effective recognition of the right and compulsory labour. skills and competencies, ensuring not only their to collective bargaining. performance on COWI projects, but also their marketability outside COWI. 04 06 PRINCIPLE: PRINCIPLE: Businesses should uphold Businesses should uphold the We enhance skills and competencies through COWI’s in-house academy which offers a broad the effective abolition of child elimination of discrimination range of training programmes and courses on labour. in respect of employment and a wide number of subjects. Business ethics are occupation. taught and debated as part of the training at the project management academy, ensuring awareness POLICIES, PRINCIPLES AND TOOLS as well as knowledge of our whistle-blower system. RELATING TO LABOUR RIGHTS LABOUR RIGHTS ON PROJECTS rights standards practised. The obligation WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT PARTNERING FOR TRAINING ›› Respect is one of COWI’s five values The approximately 6,800 people working for to act described in the human rights section Our aim is to increase the number of OF DEAF PEOPLE IN INDIA ›› COWI Whistle-blower COWI have working conditions in line with also applies here. women in management, which is a key Indian law requires a mandatory spend of two per ›› Policy on sustainable development international labour rights. issue in COWI’s diversity action plan cent of net profits on CSR initiatives. To meet this ›› Policy on diversity and inclusion The COWI Whistle-blower system is for 2020. Therefore, gender diversity obligation, COWI India partners with the Noida ›› Policy on health and safety We support and practise diversity and available for reporting observations or is a focal point in leadership training Deaf Society (NDS), a non-profit organisation ›› FIDIC Code of Ethics, adopted by COWI equal opportunities. Our employees are suspicion of discrimination. and talent programmes. We are not bringing education and training to hearing impaired free to organise themselves and bargain progressing in this field as we would like in India. For deaf people in India, access to both All policies are available at collectively as they wish, and they are all DIVERSITY IS MORE to, and we will therefore continue to focus education and work is quite limited. Through www.cowi.com/ sustainability and www.cowi.com/policies paid a fair wage. COWI dissociates itself THAN A RIGHT on generating a strong pipeline of female COWI India, we are able to contribute with relevant from all kinds of child labour. COWI is an international company with successors via our annual people review. education and employment opportunities. projects all over the world. We view diversity The main challenge for COWI in terms of as a competitive advantage, because a The share of women in management NOIDA DEAF SOCIETY SCHOOL labour rights is that potential violations of breadth in employees gives us new and was in 2017 24 per cent, and remains in Our contribution underpins the NDS School, these often take place outside our sphere of interesting views and different aspects 2018 also at 24 per cent compared to 30 and supports directly the operational costs of POLICY: DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION and perspectives to our business and educating 120 youths as well as facilitating their COWI views diversity as a competitive advantage that helps us achieve influence. They frequently concern migrant per cent of all employees being women. organisation. Today we are 78 different access to the labour market. the best results for our customers. labour in the construction industry. We It is our ambition that the proportion attempt to meet this challenge by working nationalities at all career levels. of women in management reflects the To meet our objectives, we: local legislation, wherever we according to the following guidelines. number of women in the business as COWI’s relationship with NDS began in 2013, ›› aim to have a diverse workforce work in the world. It is our point of view that everyone should such. Our target for 2020 is 25 per cent. when five students from NDS were given special that mirrors the diversity of our ›› continuously improve equal When COWI has the management have equal opportunities regardless of photogrammetry training; the same training business and markets. opportunities in our employment responsibility of the construction phase of gender, age, race, religion, nationality, ethnic As we were unable to meet our target was conducted again in 2015. Three of these ›› give equal opportunities to and recruitment practices. a project, we are able to influence labour and social origin, disability, political and of having at least two of COWI’s six students are still employed by COWI India in the everyone, regardless of gender, ›› work towards creating a culture rights conditions at the construction site, sexual orientation. board members women by 2018, we mapping unit. age, race, religion, nationality, of tolerance and appreciation of and act, if they are not aligned with national renewed our goal for 2020. In 2018, ethnic and social origin, disability, difference. and international ratified legislation. If we In 2018, we continued our talent we had one female board member, The agreement between COWI India and NDS has political and sexual orientation. are not in charge of the supervision of the management process to identify and build and we will continue to work on finding been extended for another three years to 2020. ›› ensure that our employment and project, we do not necessarily have access talent as well as improve focus on diversity. candidates of both genders who meet The aim is to educate more than 200 youths, and recruitment practices adhere to to the construction site, and are therefore We continue to be engaged in relevant our requirements. we will continue to offer jobs when suitable job unaware of the human rights and/or labour mentoring programmes with universities. opportunities arise. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 17 UN GLOBAL COMPACT ENVIRONMENT RWANDA BRIDGES TO PROSPERITY The Sebeya river near the Kigarama-Musabike community in Rwanda is impassable 45 days of the year. This means that pupils cannot attend school, tea plantation workers cannot get to work safely and residents are isolated from 07 09 PRINCIPLE: PRINCIPLE: the nearest health centre and market. In 2018, COWI and WilkinsonEyre Architects backed the construction of the Businesses should support Businesses should encourage 46-meter Kazabe Suspension Bridge by supporting the vola precautionary approach to the development and diffusion untary participation of five colleagues from both companies. environmental challenges. of environmentally-friendly These 10 young volunteers built the actual bridge with help technologies. from the local communities. The new bridge provides safe, year-round access to the health centre and market, and it is 08 PRINCIPLE: already transforming lives in the community. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Environmental protection is the area where to climate change mitigation measures, UNCOVERING THE COST The study looks at each policy, its CRIDF’s seeks to work with governments, COWI has the greatest potential to make a solid waste, water supply and hands-on OF NON-COMPLIANCE contribution to the environmental targets, businesses and other organisations in the difference and not only promote sustainable solutions for saving species when carrying COWI is at present carrying out a study the implementation gap and finally the Southern African Region on the scope and POLICIES, solutions to our customers, but also enable out building or infrastructure projects. for the EU about the effectiveness of EU implementation gap cost by assessing the design of key transboundary water projects. them to choose sustainable solutions. In all our solutions we strive to include environmental law. The effectiveness impact on human health and the environment Best practice is used to ensure that they PRINCIPLES environmental aspects and to upgrade depends on the degree of its implementafrom not having achieved the environmental are both pro-poor, and fundable/bankable AND TOOLS We seek to reduce our own impacts and develop our skills in this entire area target. The study will be completed in 2019. investment opportunities. through carbon-conscious policies and to be able to propose new and more tion at member state, regional and local RELATED TO levels. Complaints about non-compliance initiatives on the efficiency needs of our environmentally-friendly solutions to our and a high number of infringement cases CRIDF CRIDF’s focus is on sharing technical ENVIRONMENTAL customers and our organisation. The customers. Below is a selection of such indicate that implementation is not at the Fresh water resources are under enormous expertise with local engineers on water PROTECTION data to document our progress has this projects from 2018. level it should be. A previous study also pressure in Sub-Saharan Africa due to infrastructure projects, i.e. capacity building. year been extended to cover all COWI carried out by COWI for the EU in 2011 population growth and climate change. The The skills that the engineers learn include ›› Respect is one of COWI’s activities and not only our activities based CLIMATE KIC NORDIC showed that implementation gaps are costly UK Aid-funded Climate Resilient Infrastructure holistic design approaches, climate-resilient five values in Denmark, as we have done up until now. In 2018, Climate KIC and the COWI to society both with regard to the health of Development Facility (CRIDF) is mobilising techniques, as well as approaches that ›› Policy on sustainable The activities are described as part of the foundation supported the development citizens andwith regard to the environment, major investments in the water sector across benefit marginalised groups. These skills development green accounts on the following pages. of six Natural Capital Accounting (NCA) more specifically the condition of water, the 12 countries in the Southern African are then transferred to many other projects ›› Policy on diversity and pilot projects. Natural Capital Accounting landscapes, flora and fauna. Development Community (SADC). These and engineers across the region to ensure inclusion It is part of our ambition to promote the is a fairly broad concept encompassing investments are made in sustainable water that the future of infrastructure planning and ›› Policy on health and safety voluntary participation of employees in Environmental Profit & Loss (EP&L). In The mapping of the 2018 implementation management, building resilience to the operation is secure, when CRIDF ends. ›› FIDIC Code of Ethics, adopted environmental initiatives as well as locally Environmental Profit & Loss terms ‘profit’ gap cost estimate is based on the following impacts of climate change and preventing by COWI run campaigns and events to increase alludes to any company activities which policy areas: air and noise, nature and biodiwater-related conflicts across borders. In 2018, a rehabilitated water supply scheme awareness of sustainability and resourcebenefit the environment while ‘loss’ alludes versity, water and marine, waste, chemicals, in the Newala District in Tanzania was among All policies are available at conscious behaviour. to any activities which detract from the industrial emissions and major accident The programme is demand-driven and the projects added to CRIDF’s result list. The www.cowi.com/sustainability environment. Such an approach enables hazards, and horizontal instruments. These focuses on water services, water resource scheme ensures sustainable water supply and www.cowi.com/policies KEY ACTIVITIES an enterprise to prioritise its actions and seven policy areas differ in the way the varimanagement and water for livelihoods, to for approx. 380,000 people. COWI’s role is AND OUTCOMES to take a holistic view to its financial ous EU Directives and Regulations intervene foster the sustainable development of the together with WYG to provide technical assisCOWI’s focus is on all environmental issues and environmental results. The six NCA to improve the environment, including how region’s water resources and addressing the tance for the entire CRIDF programme across ranging from analyses of environmental projects were made with major companies specific they are with regard to the environwater, food and energy nexus. The aim is to the SADC countries. legislation and areas for improvement such as Arla, Danfoss and Velux. mental targets they aim to achieve. crease sustainable small-scale infrastructure across the 12 countries. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 19 UN GLOBAL COMPACT SOLAR CELLS, SWEDEN The Municipality of Gothenburg, with its approximately 2000 buildings, aims to cover 50% of its electricity consumption through the own production of energy from solar power by 2030. As a first step in this project, the municipality has set aside SEK 60 million for the instalment of solar cells and ancillary equipment for 2018–2021. COWI is assisting the municipality with the technical aspects of the project and coordinating plant instalment with a view to achieving sustainable and cost-efficient plants. The work includes all construction aspects ranging from building legislation, project specifications, project management to follow-up. The basic principle is that all new buildings get part of their electricity consumption covered by solar cells on their roofs or facades. Please note that we do not have GREEN ACCOUNTS all data for all countries. TRANSPORTATION Emissions from road and rail transport (private cars, supervision cars, company cars and train) amount to 1,730 tonnes Until 2018, the green accounts reported In the preceding COP reports, the CO2 eq., which is 13 per cent of COWI’s in this Communication on Progress repreDenmark based activities also reported total emissions. This corresponds to 11 sented solely COWI’s activities in Denmark. on waste management, water and million kilometres driven, equalling 1,800 However, in 2018, a decision was made to paper consumption, as well as delivery km per full time employee in 2018. expand data collection to include as many of letters and parcels. However, these COWI offices as possible with more than proved only to account for a few perThe fuel for supervision cars is divided 30 employees. 2018 is therefore the first centage points of the CO2 emissions, into five categories and presented below year that data on energy consumption as and we have therefore decided to as COWI is able to influence the choice well as air and road transportation have discontinue reporting on them. of fuel. been collected from many of the offices. We expect data collection next year to The CO2 emissions shown are in CO2 Air travel, as always, accounts for a include even more offices and employees, equivalents, thus covering all greenlarge part of our climate impact: 62 per CLIMATE EFFECT FROM FLYING 2017 as well as be more detailed reaching a house gases. cent in 2018 or 8,360 tonnes CO2 eq. higher degree of accuracy. This stems from 46.5 million kilometres TOTAL CO2 EMISSIONS flown, which equals 7,600 km per full TABLE 1 shows the share of employees Total emissions amount to 13,400 time employee in 2018. The impact per and number of offices covered by tons CO2 eq., which equals an full time employee in 2018 is 1.4 tonnes the data collected. emission of 2.2 tonnes CO2 eq. per CO2. NO OF full time employee. The emissions DATA ON EMPLOYEES The largest emissions origin from Denmark, OFFICES vary from country to country both due Overall there was a slight decrease in to energy sources and differences in followed by Sweden, Norway and India. emissions from air travel per employee. Energy 84 % 28 consumption. The following graph We collected air travel data from some Transportation 89 % 29 shows the CO2 per full time employee of our key operating countries in 2017, by road Transportation in different countries and from where and are therefore able to compare 2017 95 % 70 by air the CO2 emissions origin. results with 2018. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 21 UN GLOBAL COMPACT from local mixes of energy sources. food and/or they promote vegetarian/ The local mixes can be a mix of e.g. more sustainable food (putting it first, BUSINESS LINE SWEDEN held an biomass or natural gas. In cases where making posters about it or the like) or event on the future of Gothenburg CLIMATE NEUTRAL BUILDINGS, LIDL a CO2 factor for the local mixes was focus on decreasing food waste, e.g. with the theme “The impact of climate Europe’s largest retailer, Lidl, is driving the development not published or the source unknown, by serving food on smaller plates) change on urban development”. The of sustainable retail parks in Sweden. Today, with the a conservative estimate was applied ›› 10 offices have bicycles available for event achieved the environmental dienvironmental certification BREEAM Outstanding, Lidl has (natural gas). Where the electricity near-by meetings ploma issued by the highly recognised some of the greenest shops in the world. Lidl’s new shop source is unknown, the national mix ›› 1 office promotes tax exemption on Swedish Environmental Base standard, on the island of Gotland is taking the next step and piloting was applied. public transport (to/from work) an association which unites different new certification called AdvancingNetZeroCO2. To be ›› 13 offices have automatic lighting, and types of environmental certification. able to meet the high requirements of this certification Lidl OTHER SUSTAINABILITY ›› 3 offices work with reducing single-use has engaged COWI’s help. The Building Sector as such INITIATIVES items. accounts for more than 20% of global emissions of carbon Apart from consumption of energy © Linus Pettersson dioxide, and the aim of AdvancingNetZeroCO2 certification and transportation, COWI’s business ACTIONS PLANNED BY A lines as well as individual offices have SELECTION OF COWI OFFICES BUSINESS LINE NORWAY is certiis to avoid any emissions whatsoever of carbon dioxide implemented sustainability initiatives FOR 2019: fied according to the Norwegian Eco during the life-time of a building. This is achieved through around the globe. Initiatives range ›› Purchase of additional company Lighthouse certification (similar to EMAS the use of environmentally-friendly building materials, from organic meals in the canteen bicycles at the Gothenburg office, ISO14001). This certification involves reduction of energy use during construction and the to automatic lighting and cycling to Sweden environmentally-friendly procurement, promotion of energy efficiency. meetings near-by. Some of the initiatives ›› Improved energy efficiency at the office registration of energy consumption as are described in the boxes on next page. in Malmö, Sweden well as road and air travel. The require›› Low energy lighting for Stenungsund ments also involve environmental manLOCAL SUSTAINABILITY office, Sweden agement which has to be demonstrated ACTIONS IN COWI OFFICES: ›› Norwegian headquarters in Oslo will in projects carried out for customers, ›› 10 offices have environmental improve improve plastic sorting. and COWI in Norway is working towards ENERGY initiatives in their canteens – they offer achieving this. Emissions from energy consumption (heate.g. organic, local and/or vegetarian ing, cooling and electricity) amount to 3,350 tonnes CO2 eq., which is 25 per cent of our total CO2 emissions. The emissions come from a consumption of 13,700 MWh energy, which results in 129 kWh per square meter of office space. Heating/cooling has SINGAPORE, DTSS not been regulated according to mean heat Singapore is building a Deep Tunnel Sewerage temperatures in the individual countries, and System (DTSS) to meet its long-term needs for the results can therefore fluctuate from year used water collection, treatment, reclamation and to year depending on the weather. disposal. The aim is to increase the water-recycling rate from 40% to 55% of total water demand in the Energy consumption from heating and long term. DTSS will free up 193 hectares of land cooling is around 45 per cent, while the by phasing out pumping stations and old water remaining 55 per cent is from electricity reclamation plants on the land-scarce island. The (some though also used for heating/ scheme uses deep tunnel sewers to convey used cooling). CO2 emissions from heating and water by gravity to water reclamation plants, where cooling account for about 60 per cent and it is purified into ultra-clean, high-grade reclaimed electricity for about 40 per cent which is water, or discharged to the sea through outfalls. due to lower CO2 emissions from electricity The first phase of DTSS saw the construction of in some countries. a 48km-long deep sewer tunnel in the east and north of Singapore. Phase 2 stretches 30km across COWI has no influence on the CO2 factor the western part of Singapore. COWI is together for national electricity mixes. On the other with CPG Corporation responsible for the design hand, we are able to influence consumption of the 7.9km-long section of sewer tunnel, with a and sometimes also able to choose 6m internal diameter, as well as shafts, hydraulic energy supplier or the energy source. The structures and other facilities associated with share of energy origin is shown to the the sewage conveyance system. Construction is right for heating/cooling and electricity, scheduled to be completed by mid-2023. respectively. District heating, solely used in the Scandinavian countries, stems primarily COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 23 UN GLOBAL COMPACT ANTI-CORRUPTION URBAN DEVELOPMENT, NORWAY Since the 1920s, the area known as the ‘silo quay’ on Odderøy has been a key part of the port of Kristiansand. The quay was vital to the transatlantic traffic, when the Norwegian America Line ships carried grain to the States and the South America Line boats took salted cod to South America. Today the area is known by a different name – Kanalbyen – and it is 10 earmarked for homes and business premises in a large-scale PRINCIPLE: urban development project. The former port activities caused Businesses should support some parts of the site to be polluted. COWI is preparing an and respect the protection analysis of the contamination of soil and drawing up action of internationally proclaimed plans for soil and sediments over an area of approx. 32,000 m². In addition, plans are being provided for treating sediments human rights. in the sea and polluted soil on land. Alternative uses for the materials in the area are a major part of the project. AGAINST ALL FORMS In COWI, we believe that the adoption exceptionally a project is carried out in one of POLICY AND TOOL: POLICIES, OF CORRUPTION of good governance, transparency and those places. In 2018, 102 countries were on We strongly believe and every day we accountability into day-to-day business is the list, an increase from 96 in 2017. GUIDELINE: COWI ›› make the Whistle-blower publicly PRINCIPLES prove that it is possible to achieve success the best prevention against corruption. WHISTLE-BLOWER available via www.COWI.com. AND TOOLS WHISTLE-BLOWER USE without accepting or engaging in any form of corruption. We have a business integrity COWI’s Whistle-blower system enables COWI’s whistle-blower system is functioning as COWI wishes to maintain a high standard of business ethics and encourages ›› continuously train our employees to maintain our culture of integrity RELATING TO policy to support this belief, which states: employees and external stakeholders it should, because it is used. Nine cases were anyone to talk to their line manager about and honesty and inform them of the ANTI-CORRUPTION to report anonymously any violations reported into our whistle-blower hotline in 2018 concerns regarding business ethics. If Whistle-blower system. of our principles on business integrity as opposed to eight cases in 2017. These ›› Integrity is one of COWI’s five values “We will not in and sustainable development. It is were all reported to the Board of Directors, they feel uncomfortable doing so, they can use the COWI Whistle-blower system. ›› Business integrity policy our services important that our employees have a joint investigated at corporate level or passed on to POLICY: BUSINESS INTEGRITY ›› Corporate Practice in Business understanding of our business integrity local management for follow-up. To meet our objectives, we will: COWI wishes to maintain its impartiality Integrity or in any other policy and are familiar with the COWI ›› ensure that any concerns raised through and independence, and contribute ›› COWI Whistle-blower activity, directly or Whistle-blower system, which can help the business and prevent future offences and the Whistle-blower are investigated, and globally to a fair conduct of business, ›› FIDIC Code of Ethics, adopted by COWI appropriate action taken. avoiding extraneous influence on indirectly, accept unethical behaviour. WHISTLE-BLOWER ›› allow everyone, including employees, selection, execution or compensation All policies are available at bribery, extortion, KEY ACTIVITIES AND OUTCOMES 9 former employees, sub-contractors, agency staff and business partners, to procedures. We will not in our services or in any other activities, directly or indirectly, www.cowi.com/ sustainability fraud, collusion or In 2018, COWI’s business integrity compli8 use the Whistle-blower. accept bribery, extortion, fraud, collusion www.cowi.com/policies ance project continued to develop third ›› allow whistle-blower notifications within: or any other undue business activity. any other undue party due diligence practice of all customers 6 ›› violation of law, regulations and business activity.” and collaboration partners, and COWI’s global business integrity training programme internal policies To meet our objectives, we will: 4 ›› misbehaviour with regard to ac›› continuously train our employees in the successfully continued in 2018 with mandacounting and auditing area of business integrity. 3 Each entity in the COWI Group is tory e-learning for all employees in COWI. ›› fraud, theft and conflicts of interest ›› continuously develop and maintain required to implement business integrity ›› improper giving or receiving of gifts proper tools to help and guide our management. This should be done in As part of our risk management system, ›› discrimination and harassment employees. accordance with the FIDIC Code of Ethics, COWI reviews twice a year an internal list of ›› violation of environmental protec2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 COWI’s business integrity policies and countries that our business lines define as tion, health and safety legislation guidelines, and with the laws applicable high-risk areas in terms of concerns related ›› unfair bidding procedures and The slightly upward trend is due to improved in the company’s home country and the to personal security or business climate. communication about the system. scientific misconduct countries of operation. We apply enhanced risk management, if COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 25 UN GLOBAL COMPACT ABOUT GLOBAL COMPACT Global Compact is an initiative launched in The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global January 1999 by former UN Secretary-General Compact derive from: the Universal Declaration Kofi Annan. of Human Rights, the International Labour Organisation’s Declaration on Fundamental It is a call to businesses worldwide to help Principles and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration build social and environmental frameworks on Environment and Development, and the that ensure open and free markets and help United Nations Convention Against Corruption. people everywhere secure a chance to share the benefits of the new global economy. COWI signed the Global Compact in 2006. The Global Compact encompasses ten principles spanning everything from international declarations on human rights and labour rights to environmental and corruption issues. CLOSING OF LANDFILL SITE AT GRØNNMO, NORWAY From 1969 to 2007, some 5 million tonnes of waste were dumped at Grønmo landfill site over an area of 600 hectares. The site was closed in 2007. Now the area is earmarked for outdoor areas, planting, sports activities and recreation. Closing down the Grønmo landfill site included new surface water systems and the establishment of drainage ditches and dams to give the area a ‘blue and green’ structure. Key actions included reducing the amount of polluted water and upgrading the extraction of landfill gas to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the site. All polluted water is collected and treated in a local plant before released into the municipal system. COWI has assisted throughout the entire process. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 27 UN GLOBAL COMPACT ABOUT COWI COWI is a leading consulting group that With our almost 90 years of experience in creates value for customers, people and the business, we have created landmarks in society through our unique 360° approach. many of the countries in which we operate. We supply services to customers within We are a leader within our fields of work, infrastructure, buildings, energy and the because our more than 6,700 employees are environment and water. We aim to create leaders within theirs. innovative and sustainable solutions for our customers through world-class Together with our customers, we create cocompetences and close relationships. herence in tomorrow’s sustainable societies. Our stronghold is Scandinavia, but with COWI consists as of 1 January 2019 of offices all over the world, we combine five business lines, three that are countryglobal presence with local knowledge which based: Denmark, Norway and Sweden, one enables us to take on projects wherever our international business line Bridges, Tunnels customers are. At any given moment, we are and Marine Structures and one archtectural involved in more than 12,000 projects. business line Arkitema Architects. SOLAR CELLS ON COWI’S HEADQUARTERS The building on the photo shows the covered walkway between two of the main buildings at COWI’s headquarters in Lyngby, Denmark. The roof of the walkway has vegetation as insulation. On 1 April 2019, 764 solar panels covering an area of ​​1275 m² © Lisa Dam Trapp will be installed on the roof of the headquarters. Once the solar panel system is in operation, it will contribute with 170,000 kWh corresponding to a reduction of 100,900 kg CO2 per year. The panels will cover about 7 per cent of the COWI headquarters’ power consumption. MARTHA’S VINEYARD, US ADDRESS Parallelvej 2 The Vineyard off the coast of Massachusetts will be the first 2800 Kongens Lyngby large-scale offshore wind energy project in the US. The project Denmark will generate 2 gigawatt clean, renewable, cost-competitive PHONE +45 56 40 00 00 energy for over 400,000 homes and businesses, while reducing EMAIL cowi@cowi.com carbon emissions by over 1.6 million tonnes per year. The site WWW cowi.com is located 23 km from the nearest shore and covers an area of about 650 km². Vineyard Wind has leased a 160,000-acre area south of Martha’s Vineyard. The offshore wind project will consist of wind turbines, spaced at least eight-tenths of a mile apart each capable of generating over 8 MW of power. Power from the wind turbines is collected by an offshore substation. COWI is the owners’ engineering consultant.
