SUSTAINABILITY 2019 REVIEW 2–7 A WORD FROM OUR MANAGING 9–19 OUR STAKEHOLDERS DIRECTOR AND GROUP CEO KEY SUSTAINABILITY WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO ISSUES 21–43 45–71 PEOPLE ENVIRONMENT 73–79 81–89 ETHICS AND GOVERNANCE SOCIETY ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX A WORD FROM OUR MANAGING DIRECTOR AND GROUP CEO Pact is a leading provider of specialty packaging solutions, servicing both consumer and industrial sectors. We specialise in the manufacture and supply of rigid plastic and metal packaging, materials handling and pooling solutions, contract manufacturing services, recycling and sustainability services. Our approach to sustainability is holistic and focuses on: • delivering financial growth to our shareholders and value to our customers; • looking after the health and safety of our people and having a diverse and inclusive workforce; and • being environmentally sustainable and enhancing the liveability of the communities in which we operate. While this Review is a snapshot of our performance in FY19, our commitment to sustainability began long ago. Over the last two decades we have been working hard to minimise packaging waste and we remain determined to become the number one partner in sustainable choices in our industry. In addition, we have strengthened our approach to workplace safety, diversity and the development of our people and we will continue to make progress towards reaching our long-term targets in these areas. We believe investing in sustainability and the future of 2 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W packaging isn't just responsible, it's essential for long-term competitiveness and business growth. Now more than ever, our customers need us to deliver cutting edge solutions that will support their own sustainability credentials. In FY19 we made significant progress towards achieving our 2025 End of Waste Promise, a pledge centred on leading the industry toward a circular economy. 2–7 Our 2025 End of Waste targets are: 1. Reduce — eliminate all non-recyclable packaging that we produce 2. Reuse — have solutions to reduce, reuse and recycle all single-use secondary packaging in supermarkets 3. Recycle — offer 30% recycled content across all of our packaging portfolio Our Sustainability Services Division is now very well established, and we have grown to be the largest recycler of post-industrial resin in the southern hemisphere. This year we have worked together with State Government bodies to expand our capacity to recycle WE BELIEVE post-consumer waste by an additional 22,700 tonnes per annum. We have also decreased consumption of hard to recycle expanded INVESTING IN polystyrene (EPS) packaging by 30% (715 metric tonnes) by transitioning one of our major customers into recycled polyethylene SUSTAINABILITY terephthalate (rPET) meat trays and have increased our consumption of recycled resin by 2,712 tonnes. AND THE FUTURE In our End of Waste White Paper, released in November 2018, we acknowledged that consumers are aware of the problems caused by packaging waste but expect industry to provide more sustainable OF PACKAGING options. Australian consumers are demanding change and quite simply our waste management systems are no longer fit for ISN'T JUST purpose. Our overarching recommendations included: RESPONSIBLE, • A whole-of-industry approach to drive integration, investment and innovation. • Setting brave and ambitious targets. IT'S ESSENTIAL • Creating large sinks for consumption of recycled raw material. • Simplifying the management of household waste for consumers. FOR LONG-TERM In short, we believe that to create real change, the industry must come together to lead the charge towards the End of Waste and we COMPETITIVENESS will continue to work hard to bring about real changes. Our progress in strengthening our sustainability performance and AND BUSINESS driving change in the industry would simply not be possible without our people. We encourage them to contribute their different and GROWTH. unique views, and in-line with this we focus on strategic recruitment that will enhance our workplace diversity. This is a significant driver 3 / A WOR D FROM OUR M A N AG ING DIR EC TOR A ND GROUP CEO of our innovation culture here at Pact and I would like to thank all our people for their ongoing dedication. We accept our role as a responsible employer and remain committed to supporting the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and advancing its principles through our actions. I’d also like to thank our customers, communities and business partners for their continued support and the part they play in creating a safer and more sustainable future. Sanjay Dayal Managing Director and Group CEO WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO At Pact Group our vision is to enrich lives everyday through The Group’s strategy to maximise sustainable packaging and manufacturing solutions. shareholder value Pact is a leading provider of specialty packaging solutions, servicing A key element of the Group’s strategy is to maximise long-term both consumer and industrial sectors. Pact specialises in the shareholder value. The Group seeks to deliver long-term value manufacture and supply of rigid plastic and metal packaging, through focus on three core areas: materials handling and pooling solutions, contract manufacturing Organic Growth — by protecting our core and growing organically services, recycling and sustainability services. over the longer term. Headquartered in Melbourne, Australia, Pact has an extensive Efficiency — by embedding a culture of operational excellence and manufacturing and supply network across Australia and targeting the lowest cost of production. New Zealand, and a growing presence in Asia. Pact caters to a diverse range of industries including the food, dairy, beverage, M&A — growth through disciplined M&A in existing sectors and agricultural, chemical and industrial sectors. We deliver products close adjacencies. and services to a broad range of trusted global and regional brands. A detailed business strategy review has commenced under the We are leaders in innovation. In FY19 we were again named one leadership of the Group’s new Managing Director and Group CEO. of Australasia’s Most Innovative Companies. We are the only The review will clarify what is critical to Pact’s continued success and manufacturing company to achieve this prestigious recognition for will enable the Group to maximise long-term shareholder value. seven consecutive years. Of the seven years Pact has featured on the AFR BOSS Most Innovative Companies list, five of our winning nominations have been for innovative sustainability initiatives that increase the circularity of plastic material. This approach to innovation, together with our unique technology platforms has cemented our position as a leader in the industry, known for our ability to consistently deliver leading packaging, contract manufacturing, supply chain and sustainability solutions to our customers. OF THE SEVEN YEARS PACT HAS FEATURED ON THE AFR BOSS MOST INNOVATIVE COMPANIES LIST, FIVE OF OUR WINNING NOMINATIONS 4 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W HAVE BEEN FOR INNOVATIVE SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES THAT INCREASE THE CIRCULARITY OF PLASTIC MATERIAL. GROWING OUR GROWING OUR POST-CONSUMER WASTE ASSET POOLING RECYCLING CAPABILITY PORTFOLIO Pact has a well-established Sustainability Services Pooling is the provision of returnable assets for shared Division that has been recycling post-industrial resin use by customers throughout the supply chain. Pooling since the Company’s inception and has grown to be the fresh produce crates eliminates the need to use single-life largest recycler of post-industrial resin in the southern packaging such as corrugate boxes. By using our pooled hemisphere. Recycling post-consumer waste is more assets and sustainability solutions, our customers’ supply challenging due to the level of contamination in the waste chains become more efficient in terms of cost and use stream and level of processing required to be able to of natural resources. In FY19 Pact secured the contract create recycled food grade resin. to operate pooling, washing and storage facilities for fresh produce supply for ALDI. This complements the In FY19 Pact secured five government grants for Woolworths contract Pact secured in FY17. investment in infrastructure that will expand our capacity to recycle post-consumer waste by an additional 22,700 In FY19, Pact also expanded its pooling offering via the tonnes per annum. acquisition of TIC Retail Accessories — a provider of innovative and sustainable closed-loop plastic garment 5 / W HO W E A R E A ND W H AT W E D O hanger and accessories reuse services. This strategic acquisition expands the Group’s closed-loop asset pooling capability, adds scale to our portfolio and further enhances our Asian platform. It is also strongly aligned with the Group’s commitment to provide sustainable packaging and supply chain solutions to our customers. PACT AT A GLANCE Listed on the ASX We employ ~6000 Who work across 17 December employees, casuals >110 Operating Sites 2013 and contractors in 15 countries* 4 CONSECUTIVE Pact’s environmental, social and governance Pleasingly, our lost time injury 7 CONSECUTIVE YEARS Recognised as one of Australasia’s Most (ESG) reporting frequency rate Innovative Companies YEARS has received the (LTIFR) decreased ‘Leading’ rating by the Australian Council 4.7 to 4.7 in FY19 of Superannuation Investors >8,000 customers >9,000 products >11 billion units variants sold per annum OUR PRODUCT PORTFOLIO 6 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W PACKAGING AND MATERIALS CONTRACT SUSTAINABILITY HANDLING MANUFACTURING AND POOLING SERVICES * Australia, Bangladesh, China, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Korea, Nepal, New Zealand, Philippines, Sri Lanka, Singapore, Thailand, UK, United States OUR VISION IS TO ENRICH LIVES EVERYDAY THROUGH SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING AND MANUFACTURING SOLUTIONS. 7 / W HO W E A R E A ND W H AT W E D O 8 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W 9–19 OUR STAKEHOLDERS At Pact we recognise the importance of open and honest dialogue with our stakeholders as a way of driving continuous improvement of our sustainability performance. We are pleased to see our stakeholders become more and more invested in the key issues relating to sustainability. In line with this we actively interact with a wide range of stakeholder groups, including employees; shareholders; customers; consumers; suppliers; government bodies; and the broader communities in which we operate. 9 / OUR S TA K E HOLDE R S OUR STAKEHOLDERS The value we create for our stakeholders is directly linked to our approach to sustainability and as such we continue to actively seek input from key stakeholder groups. Our methods of communicating to, and with our stakeholders are diverse, as outlined below. STAKEHOLDER Directly affected CUSTOMERS We service customers in the food, dairy, beverage, chemical, pharmaceutical, retail, agricultural, industrial and other sectors. How we engage • Customer-led audits and assessments • Regular customer business review meetings • Newsletters, websites and other communications • Customer presentations • Conferences and trade shows • Social media channels CONSUMERS The end-users of our products. How we engage • Websites and external communication channels such as social media • Focus groups and consumer immersions EMPLOYEES AND CONTRACTORS 10 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W Approximately 6,000 employees, casuals and contractors spread across 15 countries across Australia, New Zealand and Asia. How we engage • Employee Engagement Survey • Workplace noticeboards and Toolbox Talks • Regular performance appraisals • Site and corporate inductions • Company intranet and websites • Organisational social networking through Yammer STAKEHOLDER Directly affected SHAREHOLDERS Comprises of institutional investors, individuals and retail shareholders. How we engage • Websites, press releases and ASX releases • Face-to-face meetings • Annual Report • Annual General Meeting (AGM) • Sustainability Review • Investor presentations and webcasts • Mailed communication • Social media channels SUPPLIERS AND BUSINESS PARTNERS We engage with a wide range of suppliers and business partners across the world. How we engage • Supplier assessments • Newsletters and other written communications • Regular review meetings • Contract documents STAKEHOLDER Actively interested GOVERNMENT AND REGULATORS As required, we engage with Local, State and Federal Governments, primarily regarding regulatory compliance. How we engage • Face-to-face meetings • Reports, licensing and Performance Statements COMMUNITY GROUPS Non-profit groups, program partners and communities local to our site operations. Broadly, the focus is on our operational impacts, employment opportunities, donations and sponsorship opportunities. How we engage • Community engagement/support plans • Community Giving Program • Face-to-face community meetings • Local media THIRD PARTY EMPLOYEE ORGANISATIONS We respect freedom of association and work collaboratively with employees and their representatives. How we engage • Enterprise bargaining negotiation processes 11 / OUR S TA K E HOLDE R S • Face-to-face meetings • Employee representation matters • Resolution of employee grievances and concerns DETERMINING OUR MATERIAL ISSUES The material issues addressed in this Review are in-line with the priorities identified for Pact Group and its stakeholders, in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 requirements. They directly inform our Sustainability Strategy, outlined below. By identifying and taking action in response to material sustainability issues, we can create value for our stakeholders and the wider community. Our key materiality issues are listed on pages 14 and 15. Materiality analysis We regularly consult our internal and external stakeholders to fully understand the issues that are important to them and our business. In determining our material issues, we consider several key factors starting with our Vision and Values and the areas of interest identified by stakeholders and the global community. In addition, we consider the influence on upstream (eg. supply chain) and downstream (eg. customers) entities. The issues we consider to be most material to our business have been prioritised through a weighting process and form the structure of this review. OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY 12 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W People Environment Society Ethics & Providing an honest, Reducing our Investing in Governance safe and respectful environmental programs that Conducting our workplace with impact positively impact business responsibly highly motivated the societies in and with integrity and engaged talent which we work AT PACT WE UNDERSTAND THAT OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS HAVE AN IMPACT ON MANY PEOPLE, INCLUDING OUR EMPLOYEES, CUSTOMERS, SHAREHOLDERS, SUPPLIERS AND THE BROADER COMMUNITIES IN WHICH WE OPERATE. 13 / OUR S TA K E HOLDE R S KEY SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES Our material issues have been categorised into the following sections, which form the structure for this Review. United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals Our activities, informed by our material issues, are aligned with the United Nations’ (UNs’) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We continue to monitor external trends and priorities and address these where appropriate. By mapping our activities against the SDGs we ensure our work is complementing these globally strategic priorities. PEOPLE HEALTH TALENT EQUALITY AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT AND DIVERSITY • Employee health, safety and • Employee engagement • Diversity and inclusion KEY ISSUES wellbeing • Talent management • Fair and equitable labour relations • Employee reward and recognition • Velocity EHS implementation • Online learning opportunities • Board approved gender diversity KEY INITIATIVES FOR FY19 • Updates to Policy and Procedures • Performance appraisals targets • New injury and claims management completed for all salaried • Workplace Gender Equality provider in Australia employees Agency (WGEA) Compliance • Site reviews against AS4024: Safety • Applause — reward and • Pact Women’s Network of Machinery recognition program • Flexible work practices • Implementation of Group WHSE • Employee surveys System in new acquisitions 14 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W UN SDGS ETHICS AND ENVIRONMENT SOCIETY GOVERNANCE ENERGY AND WASTE PRODUCT COMMUNITY GOVERNANCE EMISSIONS STEWARDSHIP • Greenhouse • Materials usage • Sustainable • Investing in • Ethical conduct KEY ISSUES gas emissions • Waste to landfill packaging design community • Taxation • Recycling and initiatives and transparency reconditioning activities • Corporate of products • Human rights governance • Supply chain • Risk management • Regulatory • Ongoing waste • Establishment • Community Giving • Group Code KEY INITIATIVES FOR FY19 compliance reduction of 2025 End of Program of Conduct reporting projects across Waste Promise and • Continued and Policies including sites launch of White signatory status • Tax Transparency National • Product design Paper of United Nations’ Report Greenhouse and projects • Australian Global Compact published Energy Reporting Packaging Covenant (UNGC) • Risk Register (NGER), and Action Plan • Member to local and program National Pollutant • Product life cycle chapter of UNGC Inventory (NPI) assessments • Site-based ethical in Australia • Innovation model audits and • Customer and assessments industry collection • Responsible and recycling procurement programs 15 / K E Y S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y I S S UE S UN SDGS 2 0 2 5 PROMISE In FY18, we established our 2025 End of Waste Promise to become the number one partner of sustainable choices for our customers. OUR 2025 TARGETS REDUCE REUSE RECYCLE Eliminate all non recyclable Have solutions to reduce, Offer 30% recycled content packaging that we produce reuse and recycle all single use across our packaging secondary packaging portfolio in supermarkets 16 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W FY19 KEY ACHIEVEMENTS REDUCE REUSE RECYCLE • Decreased consumption of • Grew the use of Returnable • Increased our consumption of Expanded Polystyrene (EPS) Produce Crates (RPC’s) in recycled resin by 2,712 tonnes by 30% (715 metric tonnes) one of Australia’s major • Secured Government grants supermarket’s supply chain • Successfully transitioned for new infrastructure that by 4%, and in the process 100% of New Zealand's will expand our existing reduced single-use corrugate largest supermarket’s EPS recycling capacity by an secondary packaging by 927 trays to rPET, effectively additional 22,700 tonnes per tonnes. diverting 107 million singleannum (refer to pages 64, 65) use EPS trays per annum • Launching in February 2020 • Launched numerous new from landfill (refer to page 57) Pact’s Pooling division is products containing recycled introducing a fourth size • Transitioned one operating content including: RPC into two of Australia’s site in New Zealand from EPS Glow Labs (refer to page 61) major supermarkets that to rPET Earthwise (refer to page 62) will increase the use of RPC’s Wheelie bin (refer to page 67) by a further 3% per annum through supporting produce types such as tomatoes, mushrooms, avocadoes, asparagus that are currently in single-use corrugate box. • Won a contract to provide a major US retailer for the supply of garment hanger reuse services in FY20 17 / K E Y S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y I S S UE S CASE STUDY END OF WASTE: A WHITE PAPER In FY19 Pact set new, ambitious goals to drive change and lead the industry beyond the War on Waste to the End of Waste – a circular economy that will reuse, recycle and reduce landfill, without losing value. Pact’s End of Waste White Paper, released in November 2018, examines the economic cost imposts of change as well as the cost of inertia. It articulates the current opportunities facing the industry and proposes solutions to end household waste. Pact’s End of Waste White Paper proposes: • A whole-of-industry approach to drive integration, investment and innovation • Setting brave and ambitious targets • Creating large sinks for consumption of recycled raw material • Simplifying the management of household waste for consumers Pact’s End of Waste White Paper is available: https://pactgroup.com.au/wpcontent/uploads/2018/11/Pact-End-of-Waste_A-White-Paper.pdf 18 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W NOW, MORE THAN EVER, INDUSTRY NEEDS INNOVATION IN SUSTAINABILITY, AND WHILE SUCH INNOVATION CAN INCREASE COST TO THE SUPPLY CHAIN, A UNIFIED APPROACH CAN PROVIDE SCALE TO REDUCE COSTS AND UNCOVER NEW OPPORTUNITIES, SO CONSUMERS ARE NOT FORCED TO CHOOSE BETWEEN VALUE AND SUSTAINABILITY. Raphael Geminder Non-Executive Chairman 19 / K E Y S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y I S S UE S 2 0 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W 21–43 PEOPLE The success of our business is directly linked to the accomplishments of our people. We have a culture of high performance and we attribute this to the fact that our employees feel inspired and empowered within the organisation. Our culture is centred on diversity and inclusion and this brings some clear benefits, especially in relation to our ability to attract, engage and retain talented people. 2 1 / PEOPLE EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY AT PACT, WE UNDERSTAND THAT A WORK ENVIRONMENT CAN ONLY BE DESCRIBED AS FULLY INCLUSIVE IF IT ENABLES EMPLOYEES TO REALISE THEIR FULL POTENTIAL, REGARDLESS OF THEIR AGE, GENDER, ETHNICITY, SEXUAL ORIENTATION, OR ANY OTHER FACTOR. Workforce breakdown In FY19, we directly employed approximately 5,300 people. Women made up 43% of our total workforce, with 33% in Australia and New Zealand, and 56% in Asia. More than 98% of our people were employed on a permanent basis. 2 2 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W IN FY19 WOMEN COMPRISE 43% OF PACT’S WORKFORCE; UP FROM 34% IN FY18. Female Male Total AUS & NZ 914 2024 2938 Full-time 36 12 48 Part-time 104 67 171 Casual 1054 2103 3157 Total AUS & NZ Asia 1,247 972 2,219 Total Asia TOTAL 2,310 3,075 5,376 ~1,000 Contractors 2 3 / PEOPLE Diversity and inclusion We continue to actively source and encourage females to apply for positions at Pact. To support this, we have directed external Having a culture of diversity and inclusion brings considerable recruiters to source female applicants for all monthly staff vacancies. benefits to our organisation and helps us to achieve our objectives, by enhancing our reputation so that we can attract, engage and Our annual salary review includes gender detail to enable the retain talented people. identification of any gender pay equity imbalance, with a view to minimising any such imbalance as part of the final approval process Pact’s Diversity Policy outlines our zero-tolerance stance on with the CEO. discrimination and details our commitment to providing working arrangements that cater to the needs of all our employees. Other initiatives include: • Celebration of International Women’s Day via hosting tables at Gender diversity targets events in both Melbourne and Sydney in March 2019. Increasing female representation in our workplace is our priority in • Silver corporate membership to National Women in Operations respect to diversity, with a strong focus on management level roles. (NAWO) and participation at industry events continues to raise the profile of Pact. The following measurable gender diversity objectives were set by the Board for FY19 to achieve this: The Group continues to lodge its annual public report with the Australian Workplace Gender Equality Agency (WGEA). WGEA has 1. Each monthly recruitment assignment requires at least one confirmed we have achieved compliance status for 2019. female candidate to be recommended for interview and/or job ready process. FY20 gender diversity objectives 2. Ensure the annual salary review outcomes for female monthly For FY20, the Board have updated the gender diversity objective to be: staff are not less than the same percentage increase in remuneration as males across the Group. 1. Each monthly recruitment assignment requires at least one female candidate to be recommended for interview and/or job 3. Include specific questions in the next Group Employee Engagement ready process. Survey to quantify gender as an issue in the workplace across the Group. 2. The remuneration process at Pact Group is required to deliver gender pay equity across same and similar roles We have made significant progress towards reaching our objectives and have made several key appointments of professional females 3. Include specific questions in the next Group Employee Engagement into operational and managerial leadership positions during FY19. Survey to quantify gender as an issue in the workplace across the Group. 2 4 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W Parental leave Hours of parental leave taken across the Group Flexible work arrangements are available as needed for those employees returning from parental leave. During FY19 more than 59,000 hours of parental leave was taken across the business. All permanent employees, both male and female, are entitled to FY17 take parental leave once they have completed one year of service with Pact. 19,143 Return to work and retention rates of employees who took parental +125% leave, by gender is outlined in the table below: FY18 Female Male Total 43,060 Total employees on 69 31 100 parental leave FY19 Returned from parental leave 62 31 93 +38% FY19 Hours of parental 57,957 1503.4 59,460.4 59,460 leave taken IN FY19 38% MORE PARENTAL LEAVE HOURS WERE TAKEN ACROSS THE GROUP COMPARED TO FY18. 2 5 / PEOPLE DIVERSITY COMPOSITION ACROSS OUR BUSINESS Board CEO and EGMs Managers / Supervisors 2 4 2 11 79 308 6 13 387 Professionals, Sales and Admin Operations 350 371 1,870 2,385 Female Male Under 30 862 721 4,255 30-50 2,942 Over 50 1,572 2 6 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W Total 5,376 CASE STUDY MORE POWERFUL TOGETHER To celebrate this year’s Australian International Women’s Day (IWD) theme, More Powerful Together, Pact invited women from across the business to attend the annual UN Women National Committee Australia breakfast in Sydney and the Business Chicks lunch in Melbourne. The attendees heard from inspiring keynote speakers and had the opportunity to discuss the important role we — as women, men, non-binary and gender diverse people — all play in creating meaningful future change. International Women’s Day is a global day celebrating the economic, political and social achievements of women and Pact Group is committed to providing opportunities for its employees to unite, network and mobilise for change. 2 7 / PEOPLE ENSURING FAIR AND EQUITABLE LABOUR RELATIONS Employee rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining is something Pact has always respected, and we believe it’s key to our people feeling genuinely empowered. Our employee arrangements vary, reflecting the diversity of our working arrangements and workforce. Labour relations are central to our sense of social responsibility. More than 90% of our operations employees in Australia, 66% in New Zealand and 3% in Asia are covered by Enterprise Agreements. All of our contractual agreements meet the statutory requirements in relation to termination and redundancy processes. In many cases, we exceed the regulatory standards. MORE THAN 85% OF OUR FRONTLINE OPERATIONS EMPLOYEES IN AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND ARE COVERED BY 2 8 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W ENTERPRISE AGREEMENTS. TALENT MANAGEMENT WE OFFER LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT OPPORTUNITIES THAT MOTIVATE OUR PEOPLE TO REACH THEIR FULL POTENTIAL. A key part of ensuring our ongoing success here at Pact is our focus on actively building the skills of our employees to ensure they have the right knowledge and strategic capabilities to drive results. Our customised learning and development frameworks are regularly updated in response to our business needs and centre on capability drivers for the current and future state of the business. Performance appraisals All monthly salaried staff, including Executive and Senior Managers, participate in bi-annual performance appraisals that rate the achievement of goals against our plan from one to five. The appraisal process is performed online via our Employee Central platform. Completion rates are monitored by the Human Resources department, and reported to the Functional and Divisional Executives, Managing Director and Group CEO and the Board. Objectives are framed within the six Strategic Pillars established by the Pact Executive Leaders and are designed to ensure alignment of activity to the strategic goals of the organisation. The Strategic Pillars are: • People • Risk • Operational Excellence • Customer • Strategic Mergers & Acquisitions (M&A) • Financial 2 9 / PEOPLE OFFICE-BASED EMPLOYEES HAVE ACCESS TO MORE THAN 50 ONLINE TRAINING COURSES. Succession planning Employee development A 9-Box Performance & Potential matrix has been developed and Training and skills development implemented for Executive and Senior Management positions. In supporting our employees to deliver the best work they possibly All Executives have reviewed the 9-Box for their division or function. can, whilst realising their full potential, we deliver a variety of This process enables succession planning for key roles, as well as training and development options. identification of high potential performers in the Group. Employees working onsite are offered development courses and Succession plans are in place for key and critical roles. skills training specific to their role. At the Group level, Pact utilises an online learning management system, ELMO Learning Management, Surveys to facilitate the rollout of more than 50 different training programs. These programs focus on a wide variety of areas, from compliance We believe open, honest, and respectful dialogue with our programs to personal development programs. employees is essential to creating a high-performance culture. Employees are invited to participate in several surveys which aim to The corporate compliance programs address our obligations to identify and understand potential issues and challenges throughout create a legal and ethical workplace. Courses are mandatory for the life of their employment. specific employees and include Company Induction (including our Code of Conduct); discrimination, bullying and harassment; An Onboarding Survey is provided to new salaried staff at the end of consumer and competition training; information management; and their third month of employment and aims to gather information on cyber security. the onboarding and induction experience to help identify potential issues with these processes. Pact’s personal development courses are available for learner self-selection and include skills-based courses and development. An Exit Survey is provided to salaried staff who are ending their employment with Pact. This survey aims to gather information Other workplace delivered training includes job specific skills; task about why the employee is leaving the Group and to identify any instructions and processes; work health, safety and environment; potential issues of concern which may need to be rectified. operational efficiency; and quality systems training. Our Employee Engagement Survey allows employees to have their say on everything from the quality of their workplace culture; their ability to collaborate with colleagues; the company’s leadership quality; and broader business issues. This feedback helps to inform the programs and initiatives administered across the Group, and ultimately improve our workplace. An Engagement Survey was not conducted in FY19. The next survey is planned for FY20. Survey Lifecycle 3 0 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W ONBOARDING ENGAGEMENT EXIT SURVEY SURVEY SURVEY CASE STUDY ALTO HAMILTON APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM Pact’s Alto site in Hamilton, New Zealand, has been committed to employing, training and developing young people for several years. We are proud that in FY19 there were four apprentices employed at the site. Alto is hopeful that the current cohort will add to the many apprentices across the years who have successfully completed their trade certificates with Alto. With their trade qualifications these employees have been promoted to roles such as die setters, fitters, electricians and team leaders. Key activities focused on youth development include: • employment and training of apprentices, and • membership to and participation in the Waikato Engineering Careers Association (WECA). One of the site’s current plastics engineering apprentices, Isaac Haycock, was featured in the hardcopy and online FutureForce magazine in June 2019. This magazine is distributed to secondary school students around the region and aims to provide readers with career inspiration and information. By highlighting success stories from local jobseekers and employers, along with the Company’s own apprenticeship program, Alto hopes to demonstrate that the manufacturing and engineering fields are viable career options for youth and others. Pact is proud that Isaac is the fourth Alto Hamilton apprentice that has been featured by the magazine. CASE STUDY VISCOUNT PLASTICS NZ — RUNNERS UP — Competenz ‛TRAINING COMPANY OF THE YEAR’ In May 2019, Viscount Plastics NZ was recognised as Runners Up in the Training Company of the Year category at the Competenz Awards. These awards, sponsored by Plastics New Zealand, recognise companies that promote and foster a training culture within their organisation. Throughout FY19, Viscount offered a range of formal training opportunities to employees, including certificates in the manufacturing (plastics) and plastics processing technology (injection moulding), as well as the apprenticeship in mechanical engineering (maintenance). These programs aim to build the employees’ technical competence, with the view to improve quality and productivity. Overall this culture of training and development has assisted Viscount to improve business performance; maintain good overall equipment effectiveness and Workplace Health, Safety & Environment performance; boost the morale of the employees, and improve employee retention. The training also helps Viscount maintain an engaged talent pool to meet the changing internal and external demands. 3 2 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W Currently Viscount employs two apprentices and is committed to the ongoing training and development of its employees and apprentices. THE PROGRAM FOSTERS ENGAGEMENT AND A HIGH-PERFORMANCE CULTURE THROUGHOUT THE ORGANISATION WHERE OUR PEOPLE FEEL EMPOWERED TO SUCCEED. Employee recognition Applause 2018 by numbers Applause reward and recognition program The 2018 Applause program celebrated its seventh and most successful year to date. Pact’s award-winning reward and recognition program, Applause, places innovation in the hands of all employees. Innovative Ideas The program fosters engagement and a high-performance culture throughout the organisation where our people feel empowered to succeed. 364 ideas in total 139 unique nominators from 63 different Applause Central, the program’s online platform, creates a sites transparent central repository for ideas and provides an interactive platform where all employees can vote for and Winning Ideas co-create a colleague’s idea. The platform also delivers real-time communication updates across the business. 170 award winners 28 gold winners 132 silver winners Categories for reward align with Pact’s corporate values: across three rounds • We walk in our customers' shoes to serve them better of judging • We are committed to sustainability and providing an honest and respectful environment 10 special recognition 63 people “Thanked” a 7 platinum ideas • We are passionate about driving results awards teammate for a job well done! • We pursue opportunities for transformational change • We act with speed and purpose Social interactions The overall winner for 2018 was Kate Everitt from Pact’s Inpact Innovation Team. Kate’s winning idea will create a range of aerosols and other inhalant formats filled with nutraceutical actives that will 3,387 social interactions 2,713 votes quickly and efficiently improve and enrich the air in which we live. across the entire business As the winner, Kate received a cash prize on the night to the value of $7,500, with an additional $7,500 to be awarded when the idea is 335 339 3 3 / PEOPLE commercialised. comments shares Recognition of long service The contribution our employees make to the ongoing operation of Pact is significant and worthy of recognition. Long service certificates are presented to employees who have attained 10, 15, 20, 25 30 and 35+ years of continuous meritorious service. The manager of an employee due to reach a key milestone is notified by email a month in advance of the date with a reminder to plan a suitable celebration to mark the milestone. A certificate is signed by Pact's Executive Leaders and on the day of the milestone, managers are prompted to post a photo of the employee receiving the certificate to Pact’s social media platform, Yammer. In FY19, Malo from the VIP Steel team at Avondale in Auckland, NZ, retired after an incredible 42 years and eight months of service at the VIP Steel site. His Bernardo Osbual from knowledge and friendly Alto Bankstown achieved manner will be missed an impressive milestone of by all, and we all wish 30 years with Pact Group him a long and relaxing during FY19. retirement. 3 4 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W Maree Campbell was celebrated by the Viscount Mt Wellington, Alto Mulgrave celebrated service awards with a morning tea. NZ, site for her 40 years of service. Well done Maree and a big Congratulations to Heather 30 years, Sarita 35 years and thank you for all your hard work and dedication. 480 months, Milan 10 years. 2080 weeks outstanding! ONGOING FOCUS ON IMPROVING Keeping our people safe and healthy SAFETY At Pact, our safety culture means we believe any sort of injury is unacceptable and preventable. The health and safety of our people shapes everything we do and will always be our top priority. CULTURE Our leadership team strongly supports our goal of Zero Harm and both Executive and Senior Managers are focused on actively empowering our people to maintain safety in the workplace. AND We are driven by our three-year safety strategy, Towards Zero Harm — Incident Free Workplace 2020, which was established in FY17. It has underpinned our activities in FY19 and is a key part of our overarching goal of Zero Harm to people and the planet. PROCESS Our safety performance Pact’s safety performance is measured by a range of lead and lag indicators which are reported internally monthly. We report externally in this Review and along with our financial results at the full and half year. PACT’S TOWARDS Key lead performance indicators include: 1. Safety observations completed for the month ZERO HARM SAFETY 2. Workplace inspections completed for the month 3. Hazards identified and resolved for the month CULTURE CENTRES Key lag performance indicators include: • Critical risk (high consequence) activities ON OUR ABILITY TO • Labour cost impacts • Total Recordable Injury close-out rate LEAD AND RETHINK The key injury frequency rates are Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) and Total Reportable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR). PROCESSES, ADOPTING PRACTICES THAT AIM TO ACHIEVE ZERO WORK-RELATED INJURIES. 3 5 / PEOPLE Our safety statistics cover all incidents and reports that occur at our The TRIFR represents the number of lost time injuries, medically workplaces related to permanent, casual and contracted employees treated and restricted work injuries recorded for every one million and workers. This includes all acquisitions (regardless of time since hours worked over a rolling 12 month period. Pact’s TRIFR for FY19 the acquisition) and joint ventures (excluding Spraypac Products is 17.7. NZ Ltd). Through inclusion of restricted work injuries in our TRIFR during We do not exclude specific employment types (such as contractors) FY19, defined as any injury which leads to more than 80% of a and do not break the data down into gender, region or employee worker’s daily tasks or hours being impacted, we have gained a type. This is to ensure that the reporting is focused on total deeper understanding of the types of injuries which may lead to exposure at our workplaces. lost time injuries in the future (for example where a worker requires surgery in the future). All restricted work injuries are managed in The LTIFR represents the number of lost time injuries recorded for the same way as a LTI or Medical Treatment Injury (MTI) and require every one million hours worked over a rolling 12 month period. a full investigation and reporting. The number is determined by the total number of workplace injuries that resulted in lost time during the reporting period, There were no fatalities recorded for FY19. irrespective of when the injury occurred. All lost time, medical treated, serious and restricted work incidents The below graph indicates the LTIFR performance over the past are investigated utilising the iCAM process. Every other reported three years. We are pleased to see an improvement in performance incident (near miss, hazard or incident) is investigated via a short across the Group in FY19 for the second consecutive year. form iCAM and risk assessment. These processes ensure the root We continue our relentless focus to achieve our aspiration cause/s are correctly identified and provides actionable tasks to of Incident Free Workplace 2020. prevent recurrence. In FY19 we continued our training program on iCAM across the Group to ensure employees are completing investigations consistently. Group Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate: Every Pact workplace is required to report all incidents via our FY17 5.8 management system, VelocityEHS. This system enables real-time FY18 5.5 reporting and escalation of WHSE incidents and hazards. Further FY19 4.7 information on VelocityEHS is available on page 40. To ensure transparency and enable sharing of alerts across the Group, the WHSE performance scorecard is published on our intranet, site noticeboards, and via the VelocityEHS homepage monthly. Further information about our environmental performance is available on pages 46–48. 3 6 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W CASE STUDY DON’T LET A WORKPLACE ACCIDENT TAKE YOU OUT OF YOUR FAMILY PICTURE During FY19, several Pact sites participated in a safety awareness campaign that aimed to highlight to employees that the main reason to work in a safe manner was the people that they loved the most; their families. Employees were encouraged to bring in a photograph of their family and place it in custom Towards Zero Harm decals on their locker as a constant reminder to consider the impact that workplace incidents have on their family if they were seriously injured. Due to the success of this safety awareness campaign at the participating sites, it will be rolled out to all Pact sites in FY20. 3 7 / PEOPLE Workplace Health, Safety and Environment (WHSE) System Our Group wide WHSE System defines the minimum standards for all our workplaces and to manage critical risk in the most effective manner. The System incorporates a framework, manual, policies, procedures and forms, which we continually seek to improve. Our new VelocityEHS system has enabled mobile access to the system documents, to enable workers to access guidance wherever and whenever they require via their mobile devices. In FY19 we updated several policies and procedures to reflect changes to legislation and regulations, including introduction of a new Chain of Responsibility Policy in Australia. Procedures and training on this new Policy are planned for FY20 for sites across the Group in Australia. Following the audit program completed in FY18, gap audits and follow-up visits at critical sites have been completed across the Group. A particular focus for the gap audits has been across our sites in Asia. The full site audit program, where sites are reviewed against the requirements of the WHSE System will be repeated in FY20. Results of all audits and inspections are communicated to sites and management and are available on our monthly performance Scorecard and on the Velocity system. Focus on machinery safety continues to be a key priority. A review of Australian Standard 4024: Safety of Machinery has been conducted at several sites in Australia and New Zealand by an external expert to support in identifying hazards and managing critical risk items. Training on Risk Assessment and this Standard (in particular, design of controls, interlocks and guarding) has also been delivered. Following the appointment of a new injury and claims management provider in Australia in FY19, a series of webinars have been rolled out to sites to train them on how to use the system. It is planned for the same processes to be rolled out to all sites in New Zealand in FY20. The consolidation of these processes with one central provider has simplified both the injury and claims management processes. The online portal is simple to use and provides more insightful data and reporting capability to enable us to better manage claims, with an overall aim of getting workers back to work 3 8 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W sooner and reducing claims costs. Our Group WHSE team continues to be responsible for setting the standard, providing expert advice, and developing and implementing Group-wide initiatives. The sites continue to be supported by dedicated WHSE resources, whilst being focused purely on safety and environmental management. External experts are utilised where required to complement our internal expertise, and where required to ensure our safety aspiration remains achievable. CASE STUDY WHSE IMPLEMENTATION IN ACQUISITIONS IN ASIA Following the acquisitions of the Asian packaging operations (excluding Japan) of Closure Systems International (CSI), the Guangzhou China facility of Graham Packaging Company (GPC) and TIC Retail Accessories in 2018, the Group’s geographical presence in Asia increased considerably. To ensure the same standards of safety and environmental practice are being applied at these newly acquired sites, the Group Risk Team worked with local site contacts to introduce and implement the Group WHSE System. DURING FY19, 11 SITES ACROSS SIX COUNTRIES WERE VISITED BY A REPRESENTATIVE OF THE GROUP RISK TEAM, WHICH REPRESENTS MOST OPERATIONS ACROSS ASIA. THIS INCLUDED BOTH NEWLY ACQUIRED SITES AND EXISTING PACT SITES IN INDONESIA AND PHILIPPINES. THE COUNTRIES VISITED WERE BANGLADESH, CHINA, INDONESIA, PHILIPPINES, SOUTH KOREA AND THAILAND. The purpose of the site visits was multi-faceted: to reinforce the importance of the Group’s safety aspiration; to build working relationships between Group and local management; to provide dedicated and face-to-face support for the implementation of the Group WHSE System; and to gain a deeper understanding of local and site specific challenges and risks. During the visits a detailed site and process inspection was conducted to develop a site specific WHSE Gap Analysis. This document will be used as the basis for prioritising actions to implement the WHSE system procedures and documentation, and any identified compliance, legal or high-risk requirements. Training was also provided on the VelocityEHS system to ensure foremost that all sites in the Group are reporting hazards and injuries in an accurate and consistent manner. These sites are now utilising the suite of VelocityEHS modules along with the existing Pact sites and will join the FY20 WHSE audit program. 3 9 / PEOPLE CASE STUDY NEW WHSE MANAGEMENT SOFTWARE SYSTEM Throughout FY19, a new work health, safety and environmental management software system, VelocityEHS, was successfully implemented across the Group. This project was delivered following significant capital, time and effort, and benefits have already been appreciated. Several modules, including Incident Management, Action Management, Audits and Inspections, Compliance Management, Risk Management, Meeting Management, Training Management, Metrics and Reporting were implemented. This comprehensive suite of modules has linked together key WHSE processes and documentation retention requirements. Velocity has enabled greater control, accuracy, transparency and accountability of processes, workflows and tasks. By automating these we have successfully removed duplication and inefficiencies in administrative processes, providing a holistic system for all WHSE system documentation requirements, task management and reporting. With mobile capability for smartphones, integration to our existing worker databases, and translation packs, the WHSE system processes and forms are now available to all workers regardless of the time of day, location of work or language spoken. 4 0 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W CASE STUDY SITE BASED SKIN CHECKS AND FLU SHOTS The health and well-being of the Viscount Carrum Since the skin check program began four years ago, a Downs team is a top priority for the site, and in FY19 large number of pre-cancer lesions have been detected they once again offered free skin checks and flu shots and removed, with a number of employees saying they to all employees. had no idea they were at risk prior to the check. Twenty-seven people took advantage of the free skin In April this year, free flu shots were also check, with local doctors also passing on information administered to 41 office and production employees. on sun safe practices and what changes to look for with freckles and moles over time. Workplace health and wellbeing The physical, mental and nutritional health of our employees is central to our organisation. It is for this reason we take a proactive approach to promoting the importance of a healthy body, mind and lifestyle. Our health and wellbeing activities are predominately led by sites, to ensure they are delivering relevant outcomes for specific groups of employees. In FY20 we will be rolling out a Group-wide mental health program for all employees. Employee Assistance Program (EAP) Our Employee Assistance Program (EAP) is available for employees and their families in Australia and New Zealand. This service offers access to confidential and independent counselling to provide emotional, mental and general psychological support. It is intended to enhance the wellbeing of our people when they need it and to provide support which may not otherwise be available or accessible. IN FY20 WE WILL BE ROLLING OUT A GROUP-WIDE MENTAL HEALTH PROGRAM FOR ALL EMPLOYEES. 41 / PEOPLE CASE STUDY CLOSURE SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL (CSI) NEPAL ENJOY A FAMILY DAY OUT! Pact’s CSI site in Nepal opened its doors to some of its littlest visitors ever … kids! For the first time in June 2018, the site held a family day where employees were encouraged to bring their children to work to learn more about the workplace where their father or mother work. Various activities were organised for the day including a drawing competition, a talent show, balloon games, and tours. The children received prizes for their performances, and it was a great family day out! 4 2 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W 4 3 / PEOPLE 4 4 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W 45–71 ENVIRONMENT Pact is dedicated to recycling and assisting our customers to meet their sustainability targets and as such we have developed and manufactured a variety of sustainable packaging solutions. Our focus is on ensuring all products, services and activities minimise harm to the environment and meet the requirements of our stakeholders without compromising the needs of future generations. 4 5 / E N V IRONME N T ENERGY AND EMISSIONS PACT IS There are several energy sources utilised during our manufacturing COMMITTED TO REDUCING AND processes, including electricity, natural gas, LPG, diesel and butane. All our sites work to reduce the volume of energy consumed and ELIMINATING site-based efficiency programs are rolled out on an as identified basis. WASTE FROM OUR In Australia we report our Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions and energy use through the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (NGER) Scheme. This report is externally reviewed and assured to OPERATIONS. ensure accuracy and completeness of data. In FY19 Pact Group consumed 1,976,630 GJ of energy and emitted 319,729 tCO2e GHG emissions. The breakdown of this result is as follows: • Scope 1: 20,623 tCO2e • Scope 2: 299,105 tCO2e Energy and emission breakdown Australia & New Zealand Australia New Zealand (Total) Asia & Other Total energy consumed (GJ) 1,334,255 311,976 1,646,231 330,399 Total GHG emissions (tCO2e) 252,931 9,821 262,752 56,977 Breakdown: Scope 1 (tCO2e) 17,398 2,571 19,969 654 Scope 2 (tCO2e) 235,533 7,250 242,783 56,322 * Greenhouse gas emissions were reported in accordance with the World Resources Institute (WRI) Greenhouse Gas Protocol. ** Australian emission and energy content factors were derived from the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (NGER) (Measurement) Determination 2008 as amended. *** New Zealand emission and energy content factors were derived 4 6 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W from Measuring Emissions: A Guide for Organisations. 2019 Detailed Guide. Wellington: Ministry for the Environment. ****Asia emission factors derived from the Department for Environment Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) 2019. CASE STUDY CSI INDIA CELEBRATE WORLD ENVIRONMENT DAY To celebrate World Environment Day, Pact’s CSI site in India hosted a tree planting day for employees and their families. More than 35 people were on hand to help plant saplings across the site. Employees and their families were then invited to participate in an art exhibition to further create awareness and encourage action to protect our environment. The artworks are displayed on noticeboards throughout the site. 47 / E N V IRONME N T Materials and waste WE ARE Materials Pact manufactures and packages a diverse range of products on COMMITTED behalf of our customers and environmental sustainability is a key consideration for us. TO INCREASE Where possible and when a customer is supportive, we work to reduce the volume of raw materials utilised. For plastics-based products, resin is the primary raw material. For steel products, steel coil and tin plate are the primary raw materials. In FY19 we consumed approximately 200,000 tonnes of these materials. THE VOLUME OF Recycled resin is used in place of virgin resin, where customer requirements can be met, and product specifications allow the RECYCLED RESIN, IN PLACE OF usage. Of all resin consumed in FY19, 8.6% was recycled resin. Waste Pact is committed to reducing and eliminating waste from our operations, and this has been a primary focus of the business. VIRGIN RESIN, AND TO REDUCE All our sites work to reduce overall waste generated by our operating processes. Every site has recycling systems in place and THE OVERALL we work with our recycling suppliers to recycle as much waste as possible, rather than sending to landfill. MATERIALS Materials we most commonly recycle include paper, cardboard, steel, plastic, used oil and steel drums and intermediate bulk containers (IBCs). Our Sustainability Services Division collects and recycles high density polyethylene (HDPE) and polypropylene (PP) plastics from CONSUMED, IN LINE WITH OUR our sites in Australia and New Zealand. Further information about the products which Pact recycle for us and on behalf of others is 2025 END OF available on pages 68. All hazardous waste is collected via licenced hazardous waste WASTE PROMISE. contractors and processed according to local legislation. We recycled approximately 50% of all waste generated across the Group in FY19. 4 8 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP PACT IS ACTIVELY INVOLVED IN THE CONCEPTION, DESIGN AND MANUFACTURE OF PACKAGING FOR A WIDE VARIETY OF PRODUCTS USED BY CONSUMERS. We fully understand that packaging has a life after its contents have been consumed and that where possible, it’s vital it can be repurposed, reconditioned, or recycled. Pact is a signatory to the Australian Packaging Covenant (APC), and the APC is tasked with bringing government, industry and community groups together to fund projects that assess packaging sustainability issues. Pact has an Action Plan in place outlining intended activities for 2019–2021 and an Annual Report with the APC is completed for the reporting period. Sustainable packaging innovation We provide a range of sustainability, recycling and environmental services to help our customers reduce the environmental impact of their product packaging and related processes. This means that we are not just designing packaging to suit the product, we are focused on end-of-life management, in-line with existing recycling systems, collection programs and kerbside recycling. We are focused on utilising appropriate materials to eliminate harmful substances wherever possible. Additionally, we clearly label our products with advice on appropriate end-of-life disposal, to reduce waste. 4 9 / E N V IRONME N T CASE STUDY PACT WINS BOTH SUSTAINABLE DESIGN AND BEVERAGE CATEGORIES IN AUSTRALASIA’S PEAK PACKAGING AWARDS At Australasia’s premier Packaging Innovation and Design Awards (PIDA), Pact won the Sustainable Packaging Design and Beverage categories. Pact also received a silver award in the Health, Beauty and Wellness category. New Zealand’s Lewis Road Dairy’s post-consumer sourced 100% recycled plastic polyethylene terephthalate (rPET) milk bottle range won both the Sustainable Packaging Design and Beverage Awards. An Australasian first in its category, Lewis Road’s rPET bottle range equates to approximately 340 tonnes of plastic that has been reused and diverted from landfill and contributes to forging a circular economy by including more recycled content into packaging. Pact Group also won a silver award in the Health, Beauty and Wellness category for Essano’s post-consumer sourced 100% recycled plastic polyethylene terephthalate (rPET) shampoo and conditioner bottle range. Moving from virgin HDPE to rPET equates to saving approximately 56 tonnes of plastic that has been reused and diverted 5 0 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W from landfill. The Australasian Packaging Innovation and Design Awards (PIDA) recognise companies and individuals making a significant difference in their field across Australia and New Zealand. The PIDAs, which are coordinated by the Australian Institute of Packaging (AIP) and Packaging New Zealand, are the exclusive feeder program for the prestigious WorldStar Packaging Awards. WINNING THE 2019 SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING DESIGN CATEGORY CEMENTS THE ASPIRATIONAL TARGETS WE DEVELOPED AS PART OF OUR 2025 END OF WASTE PROMISE — TO LEAD THE INDUSTRY TOWARD A CIRCULAR ECONOMY AND BE THE NUMBER ONE PARTNER OF SUSTAINABLE CHOICES FOR OUR CUSTOMERS. Sanjay Dayal Managing Director and Group CEO, Pact Group 51 / E N V IRONME N T Packaging assessments Pact’s global design network considers the entire life cycle impact of a package including the choice of raw materials, energy, 170+ transportation configurations through to end-of-life. We use Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) and the Packaging Impact Quick Evaluation Tool (PIQET) to perform rapid comparative environmental impact assessment of alternative designs at all INTERNAL stages of the design process. APCO’s Packaging Recycling Label Program As part of Pact’s commitment to APCO, Pact has joined its Packaging Recycling Label Program. The nationwide program will: ASSESSMENTS • provide a way for brand owners or packaging designers and manufacturers to assess whether an item of packaging could be classified as 'recyclable' in Australia and New Zealand through kerbside collection; • deliver a clear, well understood on-pack label that will help 40+ consumers understand how to recycle products effectively; • assist brand owners to design packaging that is recyclable at endof-life; and CUSTOMER • increase recycling and recovery rates and contribute to cleaner recycling streams. ASSESSMENTS 5 2 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W CASE STUDY PACT-OWNED PRODUCTS PREPare FOR THE AFTERLIFE Consumer confusion about how to recycle different types of packaging is a significant challenge across Australia and New Zealand. To help combat this issue, Pact has joined APCO’s Packaging Recycling Label Program to assess its own range of products which are manufactured and sold by our Pascoe's Brand. There are two elements to the Program — the Packaging Recyclability Evaluation Portal (PREP) and the Australasian Recycling Label (ARL). Each product is assessed using the PREP tool, which provides an assessment of the packaging’s recyclability through Australian and New Zealand kerbside collection. Based on the outcome of the PREP assessment, a corresponding ARL can be applied on-pack to give clear and consistent information outlining the correct disposal method. In FY19, Pact assessed more than 170 products from its Pascoe’s range. Following the assessments, all labels will be updated to incorporate the ARL, and where packaging did not meet recyclability, consideration will 5 3 / E N V IRONME N T be given to transition to a recyclable pack. CASE STUDY PACT JOINS NEW ACTION Collective Action Group members include: Raphael Geminder, Chairman, GROUP TO Pact Group Holdings Jeff Maguire, Group Head of CDS Implementation and Packaging DRIVE 2025 Sustainability, Coca-Cola Amatil Margaret Stuart, Head of Corporate and External Relations, Nestlé Oceania PACKAGING Richard Macchiesi, General Manager, Insights and Innovation, Visy Fiona Baxter, Group Manager Responsible Sourcing, Coles TARGETS Lok-Man Shu, Regional Environment Manager, David Jones and Country Road Group Louise Vickery, Assistant Secretary, Australian Government Department of Environment and Energy Pact Group is part of a Collective Action Group that includes leading industry and government representatives tasked with developing a Kylie Hughes, Director Waste Policy and roadmap to drive the 2025 National Packaging Targets. Legislation, Department of Environment and Science QLD The Hon Trevor Evans MP, Assistant Minister for Waste Reduction and Environmental Management officially opened the first meeting of the Terence Jeyretnam, Partner, Climate Collective Action Group (CAG) in Melbourne on 25 June 2019. Change & Sustainability, EY The CAG team comprises 12 leading representatives from across the Paul Klymenko, CEO, Planet Ark supply chain and government, charged with overseeing the progress of Peter Shmigel, CEO, Australian Council Australia’s 2025 National Packaging Targets. of Recycling The 2025 targets were launched by government and industry in 2018, Justin Frank, Director, Marketing, providing a clear mandate to deliver a new sustainable pathway for Communications and Key Accounts, packaging in Australia. The CAG’s role is to work with Australian Packaging SUEZ Australia & New Zealand Covenant Organisation (APCO) to oversee the development of a systemic 5 4 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W model for how Australia can deliver the 2025 targets. Anne Astin, Independent Director, APCO, Chair of CAG Over the next 12 months, APCO will be delivering an extensive program of projects to drive the delivery of the 2025 National Packaging Targets. Brooke Donnelly, CEO, APCO and CAG These will be facilitated by a team of APCO Working Groups, comprising Secretariat nearly 100 participants from industry and government across Australia Helen Lewis, Professor, Institute for which will in turn provide analysis and resources to the overarching CAG. Sustainable Futures and CAG Secretariat THE FORMATION OF THE CAG IS AN EXCITING MILESTONE IN OUR WORK TOWARDS DELIVERING THE TARGETS AND IT’S FANTASTIC TO BRING TOGETHER SUCH A PRESTIGIOUS GROUP OF LEADERS FOR THE TASK. Brooke Donnelly CEO of APCO 5 5 / E N V IRONME N T Reduce At Pact, sustainable packaging design is a fundamental IN FY19 PACT DIVERTED consideration when redesigning our existing portfolio and for all new product development. 107 MILLION We strive to design products and packaging with improved or enhanced technical performance, delivering the lowest SINGLE-USE possible environmental impacts and helping consumers make environmentally friendlier choices. EPS TRAYS FROM LANDFILL. 5 6 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W CASE STUDY ELIMINATING NON-RECYCLABLE PACKAGING WE PRODUCE Alto has successfully transitioned 100% of New Zealand’s largest supermarket, Foodstuffs’ EPS trays to rPET trays made from 30% Post Consumer Reyclate (PCR). By the end of 2020, Foodstuff’s trays will be comprised of 50% PCR rPET. As EPS is not accepted via kerbside schemes, the transition that commenced in FY16 and concluded in FY19, equates to diverting 107 million single-use EPS trays per annum from landfill. The use of rPET in Foodstuff’s trays repurposes more than 450 tonnes of pre-used plastic per annum. 57 / E N V IRONME N T Lightweighting Lightweighting, sometimes referred to as thin walling or down gauging, is the process by which existing packaging is adjusted and/ or redesigned to reduce its overall weight without compromising its structural integrity and quality. At Pact, we continue to invest in raw material, tooling, and technological innovation to produce even lighter packs that offer the same or improved technical performance whilst simultaneously reducing our environmental impact. CASE STUDY A SMALL CAP THAT PUTS THE ENVIRONMENT FIRST In FY19, Pact secured exclusive license to launch the Snap Clic Pelican Closure to the Australasian market. 5 8 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W The revolutionary ‘eco-responsible’ flip top cap in a new type of closure that stays attached to the bottle after opening. This unique design delivers huge environmental benefits by using less resin in the manufacturing process and decreasing the opportunity for discarded tamper bands to end up as litter in the natural environment. The Snap Clic Pelican cap meets the requirements of the European Commission’s new legal action for reducing marine litter and was awarded the Award Europe PactTheFuture 2018 in the Social Benefit Category. CASE STUDY GREEN IS GOOD… AND SMELLS EVEN BETTER! Pact is proud to produce many of the Aldi Green Action and Verde products. In developing these products, synthetically derived surfactants were replaced with plant-based ingredients and sustainably sourced palm derived materials were used as per Aldi’s Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) compliance policy. Many of the products have a low sodium content, no added phosphorus, and contain essential oils for perfuming instead of synthetic fragrances. These products help consumers make environmentally friendlier choices and adopt better practices around the home by containing readily biodegradable ingredients and being safe for grey water and septic systems. CASE STUDY SUSTAINABLE PALM In December 2018, Pact Group became certified chain, have all committed to produce, source and/or through Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). use sustainable palm oil certified by the RSPO. The RSPO has more than 4,000 members worldwide To support this important initiative, Pact’s goal is to 59 / E N V IRONME N T who represent all links along the palm oil supply chain. assist all our contract manufacturing customers in Members, depending on their roles within the supply converting to a sustainable palm oil source. Reuse Incorporating recycled content into plastic packaging is one of the THE USE OF rPET best tools at our industry’s disposal to forge a circular economy. Pact continues to work on the development of packaging that EQUATES TO incorporates recycled material, diverting used plastic from the waste stream and landfill. APPROXIMATELY 111 TONNES OF PLASTIC THAT HAS BEEN REUSED AND DIVERTED FROM LANDFILL. 6 0 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W CASE STUDY GLOW LABS PERSONAL CARE BOTTLES MADE FROM 100% rPET In FY19, Pact manufactured three new personal care bottles made from 100% recycled resin for Earthwise’s Glow Lab brand. The bottles are approximately 25% lighter than the previous PET bottles which means we are using less material per bottle. Based on Glow Lab’s current volumes, this equates to approximately 111 tonnes of plastic that has been reused and diverted from landfill. The launch of Glow Lab’s 100% rPET personal care bottles follows parent company Earthwise’s move to incorporate 75% post-consumer recycled content into its laundry liquid bottles last year. Earthwise has pledged to support the New Zealand Plastic Packaging Declaration, making a commitment that 100% of its packaging is recyclable, reusable or compostable by 2025 or earlier. 61 / E N V IRONME N T CASE STUDY PACT MANUFACTURE LAUNDRY LIQUID BOTTLE FROM rHDPE FOR EARTHWISE In FY19, Pact commenced manufacturing Earthwise’s one litre laundry liquid bottles made from 75% recycled high-density polyethylene (rHDPE) sourced from post-consumer milk, juice and water bottles. Joining other New Zealand based businesses, Earthwise has pledged to support the New Zealand Plastic Packaging Declaration, making a commitment that 100% of its packaging is recyclable, reusable or compostable by 2025 or earlier. Earthwise is also one of 10 leading businesses backing a diagnostic study of New Zealand’s entire plastic packaging system. The study is being completed by the Sustainable Business Network’s Circular Economy Accelerator (CEA), and has widespread support from across the packaging sector including Pact, as it will help identify what is needed for a circular economy approach to plastic. 6 2 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W Recycle WE STARTED Pact Group is the largest recycler of post-industrial plastic packaging in Australasia and last year processed more than 30,000 tonnes of plastic waste. From this, more than 28,000 tonnes was converted WITH OUR 1L into recycled resin pellets or products made from recycled material. The recycled resin replaces virgin resin in the manufacturing process LAUNDRY LIQUID within Pact and other plastic manufacturers throughout Australasia. At Pact, we make sure that what we manufacture is suitable for BOTTLES AND existing recycling systems, collection programs and kerbside recycling. In doing this we select the most appropriate materials and focus on eliminating harmful substances. We also label our products WILL INCLUDE with clear end-of-life disposal information. 75% RECYCLED CONTENT INTO ALL BOTTLES ACROSS OUR HOUSEHOLD CLEANING RANGE BY 2020. Jamie Peters Owner and director of Earthwise 6 3 / E N V IRONME N T CASE STUDY GRANTS FOR PLANTS In FY19, Pact received five significant co-funding grants to expand our recycling and processing capabilities of post-consumer packaging waste. Victoria — Project 1: Near infrared polymer/colour sorting line Pact Group’s Sustainability Division (Astron) has received funding from Sustainability Victoria (SV) to expand its Cheltenham operation to include the reprocessing of post-consumer packaging collected through kerbside and sourced from Materials Recovery Facilities (MRFs). The funding will contribute towards the acquisition and installation of a near infrared polymer/ colour sorting line enabling the site to process approximately 2,000 tonnes per annum of postconsumer high-density polyethylene (HDPE) such as milk and juice bottles and polypropylene (PP) such as ice-cream containers, yoghurt pots and paint pails. Victoria Project 2 — Baled low-value mixed plastics reprocessing Astron has also received further funding from Sustainability Victoria (SV) to expand its operation 6 4 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W to enable it to efficiently sort, clean and reprocess baled low-value post-consumer mixed plastics sourced from local Material Recovery Facilities, (MRFs). Areas of the existing plant will be upgraded including: water treatment; shredding; wet granulating; mechanical drying and de-dusting/de-labelling — after which the material can be processed into recycled resin for sale internally and externally for use in manufacturing various plastic products. The estimated additional annual volume Astron will be able to process is 2,500 tonnes per annum. Queensland — Soft-film plastic recycling Astron has received funding from the Queensland Government to expand its operations in Wacol, with new infrastructure to recycle post-industrial LDPE soft-film such as pallet, shrink and stretch wrap and post-consumer LDPE soft-film such as films and plastic bags. When completed, the site will have the capacity to process an additional 7,000 tonnes per annum into a wide range of usable product such as slip-sheets, underground cable covers and industrial rigid packaging. New South Wales — Near infrared polymer/colour sorting line Astron has received funding from the New South Wales Environmental Protection Authority (EPA) to expand its Ingleburn operation to include the reprocessing of post-consumer packaging collected through kerbside and sourced from Materials Recovery Facilities (MRFs). The funding will contribute towards the acquisition and installation of a near infrared optical colour and polymer sorting line enabling the site to process an additional 1,200 tonnes per annum of post-consumer high-density polyethylene (HDPE) such as milk and juice bottles and polypropylene (PP) such as ice-cream containers, yoghurt pots and paint pails. New Zealand Pact Group received New Zealand Government funding to transition to 100% locally-sourced recycled rPET in its food packaging range. Funding secured from the Waste Minimisation Fund (WMF) will contribute to Pact’s investment in state-of-the-art infrastructure that will thoroughly decontaminate the rPET flakes into rPET sheet that can be used in the production of 100% recycled, food-contact approved packaging including meat trays, bakery trays, deli containers, food containers and produce containers. When full capacity is reached, the site will have the ability to process between 8,900 to 12,250 tonnes of rPET every year. GOVERNMENT SUPPORT WILL ENABLE PACT TO EXPAND IT'S EXISTING RECYCLING CAPACITY BY AN ADDITIONAL 22,700 TONNES PER ANNUM 6 5 / E N V IRONME N T CASE STUDY PACT GROUP HOST AUSTRALIAN PACKAGING COVENANT ORGANISATION (APCO) TOWARD 2025 INDUSTRY EVENT AND AUSTRALASIAN RECYCLING LABEL LAUNCH In September 2018, Pact Group hosted the Australian Packaging Covenant Organisation (APCO) Toward 2025 Industry Event and Australasian Recycling Label Launch. Pact Group welcomed the 2025 National Packaging Targets announced by Australia’s Minister for the Environment, Melissa Price, which build on commitments made by state and territory environment ministers to set a path for Australia’s recyclable waste. The 2025 National Packaging Waste Targets are: 1. 100% of all Australia’s packaging will be reusable, recyclable or compostable 2. 70% of Australia’s plastic packaging will be recycled or composted 3. 30% average recycled content will be included across all packaging 4. Problematic and unnecessary single-use plastic packaging will be phased out through design, innovation or introduction of alternatives Minister Price congratulated APCO, Pact Group and the initial working group of key business leaders including Coca-Cola Amatil, Goodman Fielder, Nestlé, Woolworths, Simplot and Unilever in tackling Australia’s waste challenges and supporting these ambitious targets. 6 6 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W CASE STUDY SULO COMMITTED TO CLOSED-LOOP PLASTIC RECYCLING OF BINS More than 200,000 and growing: that’s the number of old wheelie bins that have been collected for recycling as part of Pact’s 2019 mobile garbage bin (MGB) replacement program with Northern Beaches Council. The old wheelie bins are collected by SULO and sent to Pact’s Sustainability Division, Astron, where they are washed, chipped, melted down and re-pelletised for use in the manufacture of new bins. SULO aims to collect 330,000 old wheelie bins from the Council area by the end of the program and will replace these with new bins made from the collected and recycled content. 1.5 MILLION KGS OF PLASTIC WILL BE RECYCLED AS PART OF THIS BIN REPLACEMENT PROGRAM. 6 7 / E N V IRONME N T Reconditioning Customer and industry waste collection and hard recycling services Intermediate Bulk Containers (IBCs) Supporting our new IBC manufacturing capabilities, and Pact also drumMUSTER offers reconditioning and laundry services to help extend the life Every year, the Group collects more than 650,000 plastic drums span of IBCs without compromising their quality. In FY19, Pact (approximately 650 tonnes of material) as a participant in the collected more than 175,000 used IBCs for reconditioning. national drumMUSTER recycling program. drumMUSTER is an Australian product stewardship program that is supported by Our national collection and buying services provide our customers chemical manufacturers and industry stakeholders to collect and a truly cost-effective and complementary alternative to new recycle eligible containers. Prior to the program, these containers packaging. were typically sent to landfill or burned/buried on farms. Since its Drums inception in 1998, drumMUSTER has recycled more than 21 million containers. Pact also provides compliant collection, reconditioning and drum disposal services for both steel and plastic drums. Reconditioning These hard to recycle products are either impractical or too provides a cost-effective and complementary alternative to new expensive to collect via traditional networks. By diverting this waste packaging. from landfill and reprocessing it, Pact minimises the loss of valuable resources. In the past 12 months, Pact has collected more than 1 million used drums for reconditioning with 80% of these reconditioned into good-as-new drums for reuse and the remaining 20% sent to steel recyclers. 6 8 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W CASE STUDY PARTNERING WITH ALDI TO BUILD A SUSTAINABLE PARTNERSHIP In FY19, Pact Group was invited to attend and exhibit at ALDI’s Building Sustainable Partnership Forum. At the event, ALDI Australia announced its sustainability commitments in front of more than 100 of its business partners. As a speaker and panellist at the event, Raphael Geminder, Chairman of Pact Group, one of ALDI’s long-standing business partners said: “Pact Group started its sustainability journey almost two decades ago, and it’s now part of the Group's DNA. But even though we have been doing this for a long time — we are in unchartered waters. It’s not business as usual, geopolitical and consumer shifts in sustainability have created an urgency towards action, to transform our system and move to a circular economy, creating the need to invest in scalable end-of-life solutions that will consume Australia’s recyclable resources.” “Australia is an innovative advanced first world economy and to effect this shift, we will need to embrace closed-loop industry solutions, embrace collaboration and continue to eliminate waste in our supply chain. Collecting material is not a solution, we need to embrace and grow returnable packaging, aggressively expand pooling solutions and find large sinks that consume high levels of recycled material. We launched our End of Waste 2025 commitment last year and are actively investing in solutions that help us achieve our goal and in turn help our partners achieve their own sustainability objectives.” Pact is proud to partner with ALDI and our other customers to support them achieve 6 9 / E N V IRONME N T their own sustainability objectives and targets. Innovation ONE OF AUSTRALASIA’S MOST INNOVATIVE COMPANIES In FY19 Pact Group was named as one of Australasia’s Most Innovative Companies for the seventh consecutive year. Pact Group ranked second on the Manufacturing & Consumer Goods list, from more than 800 nominated organisations across Australia and New Zealand. The assessment measures a top innovation implemented in the past 12 months. Specifically, the judges look at how valuable the problem is that the innovation is solving, the quality and uniqueness of the solution, and the level of impact that the innovation has had. Also assessed are internal elements such as innovation culture, strategy, resources and process, which demonstrate a sustainable and repeatable approach to innovation. 7 0 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W CASE STUDY 250 250 USED MILK RECYCLED MILK BOTTLES IN OR BOTTLES TO MAKE LANDFILL A WHEELIE BIN In Australia, there are approximately 70,000 tonnes This project forms part of the Group’s End of Waste of bailed post-consumer milk bottles per annum strategy to create large sinkholes for recycled content destined for landfill. Pact’s 2019 Australian Financial into innovative solutions such as mobile garbage Review BOSS Most Innovative Companies award was bins, telecommunication pits, freeway noise walls, for designing and manufacturing a household mobile slip sheets and underground cable covers that create garbage bin (or wheelie bin) made from 60% recycled a true circular economy for packaging waste. milk bottles. Each bin is made using up to 4.8kg of Of the seven years Pact has made the list, five of recycled milk bottle plastic, or 250 milk bottles — the Group’s winning nominations have been for the average number every Australian household innovative sustainability initiatives that increase the consumes each year. circularity of plastic material. 71 / E N V IRONME N T 7 2 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W 73–79 SOCIETY A spirit of generosity is encouraged at Pact and we see this come to life in our people. Initiatives we support align with our core product and service offering, as well as our geographic footprint. Pact is a multinational company and as such we believe in the value of community engagement at a local level and focus on supporting causes that create meaningful change. 7 3 / S OCIE T Y INVESTING IN COMMUNITY INITIATIVES AND ACTIVITIES PACT IS A GLOBAL COMPANY, OPERATING IN 15 COUNTRIES. WE ARE COMMITTED TO SUPPORTING INITIATIVES AND ACTIVITIES THAT FOSTER POSITIVE CONNECTIONS BETWEEN OUR EMPLOYEES, CUSTOMERS AND THE COMMUNITIES IN WHICH WE OPERATE. Community Giving Program At Pact, we actively encourage a spirit of generosity in our employees. Our Community Giving Program provides opportunities for employees to give back to charity groups they are passionate about, or personally connected with, in four ways: • In-kind equipment and product donations • Financial donations to charity partners with a purpose that strives to create lasting social change • Monetary donation matching of personal employee fundraising 74 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W contributions • Corporate sponsorship Given the breadth of Pact’s community programs and initiatives, we do not quantify the percentage of Group operations with implemented community engagement, impact assessments and development programs. We do acknowledge this position may change in future years as Group projects evolve. CASE STUDY PACT SUPPORTS RONALD McDONALD HOUSE CHARITIES (AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND) Pact is proud to continue its partnership with Ronald McDonald House Charities (RMHC) in Australia and New Zealand. With 16 locations around Australia and three in New Zealand, Ronald McDonald Houses are attached to major women's or children’s hospitals and work to support the ever-changing needs of seriously ill children and their families. To support the incredible work of RMHC in FY19, we provided direct financial support and essential in-kind donations which help the Houses direct money to services and programs which help make the day-to-day lives of those most in need a little easier. 7 5 / S OCIE T Y AUSTRALIA’S ROYAL FLYING BIGGEST DOCTOR SERVICE MORNING TEA For the past eight years, Pact has been a proud financial Australia’s Biggest Morning Tea is supporter of the Royal Cancer Council’s most popular Flying Doctor Service (RFDS). fundraising event and the Delivered by a dedicated team largest, most successful event of of professionals, using the its kind in Australia. latest in aviation, medical and The idea is simple — just get communications technology, your friends, colleagues or the RFDS provides extensive community together over primary health care and 24-hour some tea and treats, and help emergency service to people to raise funds that go towards over an area of 7.69 million vital cancer research, support square kilometres. It is a vital services, prevention programs, service for those that live, work and advocacy. and travel in rural and remote The event is an annual feature of the Pact calendar and we are proud to have raised and donated more than $100,000 since hosting our first Morning Tea 11 years ago. ONGOING SUPPORT TO WASTEAID 76 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W Pact’s Sulo brand is proud to continue its involvement with non-profit organisation WasteAid. WasteAid provides basic waste services to disadvantaged areas of Australia, predominantly assisting Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander populations. Sulo has provided waste bins for various projects and Pact is proud to continue to provide further support to WasteAid as it continues to implement waste services throughout remote communities. KEEP IT CLEAN In FY19, Pact was proud to continue its financial support of Keep New Zealand Beautiful and Keep Australia Beautiful. These two iconic not-for-profit organisations deliver sustainability education programs; waste minimisation and recycling initiatives; and are dedicated to keeping our communities clean, safe and beautiful. ORANGE SKY AUSTRALIA For the first time in FY19, Pact financially supported Orange Sky Australia, the charity helping to positively connect people experiencing homelessness through free laundry, showers and conversation. Orange Sky operates 248 shifts from 27 vehicles in 22 cities every week around Australia. To date, it’s provided 109,812 loads of washing, 9,952 warm showers and 175,957 hours of genuine and nonjudgemental conversation. PACT’S DONATION SUPPORTED 41 HOMELESS PEOPLE WITH CLEAN CLOTHES, WARM SHOWERS AND NON-JUDGEMENTAL CONVERSATIONS. 7 7 / S OCIE T Y CASE STUDY HELPING FIGHT HUNGER IN AUSTRALIA Each year Viscount Pooling Systems (VPS) proudly partners with Foodbank by providing in-kind hire of crates through its donation centres. When produce doesn't meet retailers specification, growers have a choice to donate it to Foodbank. In FY19 more than 40,700 crates passed through the Foodbank national network, saving the charity approximately $40,000. VPS’ position in Australia’s supply chains affords it a unique opportunity to support Foodbank, and we are excited to strengthen our long-term relationship and financial commitment in FY20 as we expand our crate retrieval program and network. PACT’S IN-KIND EQUIPMENT DONATIONS ENABLED 5.28 MILLION MEALS1 7 8 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W TO BE DONATED FY19. 1. Equivalent meals calculated at 500grams per meal. OUR SUPPLY CHAIN WE'RE COMMITTED TO MINIMISING THE ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS OF OUR PRODUCTS THROUGHOUT OUR SUPPLY CHAIN. Responsible procurement Our supply chain is relatively streamlined due to the nature of our business and the fact that raw materials make up approximately 50% of our total manufacturing costs. Overall it presents a relatively low overall risk. Our Quality Policy is in place to ensure we continue to meet the requirements of our customers and to continue to exceed international standards of responsible operation. Our Supplier Code of Conduct outlines the ethical, social and environmental requirements for our new suppliers. Assessments of existing suppliers are also carried out on a routine basis. Both our Quality Policy and Supplier Code of Conduct can be found on the Pact website: www.pactgroup.com.au/sustainability. Raw material Manufacturing Raw material Manufacturing Recycle Customer INDUSTRIAL Processor Customer Packaging Kerbside RETAIL Distribution Supply Chain recycle Packaging centre Supply Chain Industrial collection/recycling Farm/mines etc. Consumer Retail 7 9 / S OCIE T Y Landﬁll This diagram visually represents our industrial and retail packaging supply chains. 8 0 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W 81–91 ETHICS AND GOVERNANCE Pact is committed to the highest level of governance and ethics. We strive to build a culture that is focused on compliance and risk-awareness. Our Code of Conduct outlines how the Group expects its representatives to behave and conduct business in the workplace. It applies to all business activities involving suppliers, contractors, customers, shareholders and employees in Australia and overseas. 8 1 / E T HI C S A ND GOV E R N A NCE ETHICAL CONDUCT OUR GROUP CODE OF Anti-bribery and Corruption Policy Our Anti-bribery and Corruption Policy outlines the standard of CONDUCT OUTLINES appropriate behaviours in respect to this topic. Training on the applicable laws has been provided to relevant Executive and Senior OUR EXPECTATIONS Managers. We continue to focus on this and are further developing and enhancing tools and procedures to mitigate risk. IN RESPECT TO OUR During the reporting period, we have not had any incidents in which employees or contracts with business partners have been investigated or terminated due to corruption. SENSE OF CORPORATE Competition and Consumer Act Compliance RESPONSIBILITY Policy Our Competition and Consumer Act Compliance Policy states Pact’s AND INTEGRITY. commitment to acting in accordance with the obligations under the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (CCA) and Commerce Act 1986. Pact places great importance on compliance with this key area as it impacts how we deal with our competitors, suppliers and customers. Our Code of Conduct outlines how the Group expects its All our Executives, Senior Managers, sales team and other relevant representatives to behave and conduct business in the workplace. employees complete online training and refresher training is It provides a benchmark for professional behaviour to support delivered. the Group’s business reputation and corporate image within the A breach of the CCA can result in significant penalties (to both the community. It covers key topics including: conflicts of interest; company and individuals) and significant damage to the Company’s anti-bribery and corruption; gifts and commissions; facilitation goodwill and reputation in the marketplace. During the reporting payments; political contributions and securities trading. period, we have not had any legal action pending or completed It applies to all business activities involving suppliers, contractors, regarding anti-competitive behaviour in which the Group has been customers, shareholders and employees in Australia and overseas. identified as a participant. There have been no significant fines The Code encourages the reporting of unethical behaviour and or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and breaches of policy or company values. The related processes are regulations in relation to competition law. further outlined in the Group Whistleblower Policy. Supporting the Code of Conduct is a range of Group policies Environmental Policy designed to ensure compliance with laws and regulations. The Our Environmental Policy sets out our commitment to continuously Code and policies are reviewed as needed to reflect changes to improve the environmental performance of our operations and legislation, regulations or business risks. Training for employees services. This Policy reinforces our commitment to our 2025 End is provided on a regular basis either in person or via our online of Waste Promise, and to become the number one partner of learning management system. sustainable choices for our customers. 8 2 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W The Code and Group policies are available on the Pact website: www.pactgroup.com.au/sustainability. Equal Opportunity, Harassment and Bullying Policy Financial transparency We are committed to being an equal opportunity employer and Tax transparency will not tolerate unlawful discrimination, harassment, bullying, Pact Group’s approach to tax is governed by the following three vilification or victimisation in the workplace. Our Equal Opportunity, principles: Harassment and Bullying Policy sets out our expectations for high standards of behaviour in the workplace and the procedures for • Pact pays tax where the underlying economic activity occurs. making complaints and investigating issues relating to unlawful • Pact does not hide assets or income through secrecy provisions. discrimination, harassment or bullying. • Pact does not shift profits to low or zero-tax jurisdictions. Privacy Policy These principles are enforced through a Tax Governance Policy Protecting our stakeholder’s privacy is important to us and that ensures the Board reviews and signs off on all significant this Policy explains how Pact Group Ltd and its wholly owned tax decisions, and a tax risk management framework that guides subsidiaries manage personal information. management in the day-to-day management of tax issues. A Report outlining our approach to taxation and providing details Quality Policy about the taxes we paid in FY17 was published during FY19 to help our stakeholders understand our tax paying position. The Report Our Quality Policy outlines our commitment to operate our business includes information on income and other taxes we have paid, in a manner that meets customers' and international quality to provide a clearer picture of our contribution to the Australian standards. community. It is Intended that a similar report will be prepared for future years. Supplier Code Of Conduct Further information and a copy of Pact’s FY17 Tax Transparency Conducting our business ethically and with integrity includes Report can be found on the Pact website: www.pactgroup.com.au/wplooking at our supply chain. Our suppliers must comply with all content/uploads/2019/01/Pact-Tax-Transparency-Report-2017.pdf. local laws and legislation and must declare all instances where the manufacture of our goods is outsourced. Political contributions and activities Whistleblower Policy Our Code of Conduct prohibits the use of corporate funds for political purposes. Pact does not contribute any monies to any This Policy supports the Group’s Code of Conduct and is designed candidate for election to a political party. to promote and reinforce the Group’s culture of honest and ethical behaviour. The purpose of this policy is to encourage employees to We do not prohibit political activity undertaken by an employee in raise concerns about misconduct, malpractice, irregularities or any their own individual, private capacity. However, to eliminate any other behaviour which is dishonest, corrupt, Illegal or inconsistent appearance of coercion in such political activities, it is prohibited with any of the Group’s values. It also sets out how the Group for any supervisor to solicit funds from a subordinate for political intends to make sure a Whistleblower is protected for reporting purposes. unacceptable behaviour. Pact supports the involvement of its employees in community activities and professional organisations. However, outside activity Work Health And Safety Policy must not create a conflict (or the appearance of a conflict) of interest. The Group is committed to ensuring all work is completed incident and injury free, in-line with our strategic ambition Towards 8 3 / E T HIC S A ND GOV E R N A NCE Zero Harm. This policy provides an overview of the Company’s commitment to workplace health and safety and what is expected of employees and others. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT Board The Board of Directors is responsible for the overall corporate The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to two governance governance of Pact Group. The Board’s role is to ensure that the sub­-committees, which are chaired by Independent Directors. Group is properly managed, to protect and enhance shareholder The Nomination and Remuneration Committee and The interests, and to ensure the Group operates in an appropriate Audit, Business Risk and Compliance Committee have defined environment of control and corporate governance. responsibilities detailed in their respective charters. These charters The Board is comprised of a non-Executive Chairman, five can be viewed on the Pact website: www.pactgroup.com.au/ independent non-Executive Directors, and an Executive Director. investor/corporate-governance/board­andcommittee-charters. Board members have extensive experience in a range of relevant industries, including manufacturing, finance, information technology, operations, and public company experience. Further information and biographies of the Group’s Board members are available in the Annual Report, which is located on the Pact website: www.pactgroup.com.au/investor/leadership/board-ofdirectors. Corporate Governance Structure Board Managing Director and Group Chief Executive Officer Independent Audit, Nomination & Executive Auditor Business Risk Remuneration Leadership & Compliance Committee Team External Auditor Committee (NRC) (ABRCC) 8 4 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W Board Sub-Committees Risk management Pact promotes a risk-aware culture in decision-making and is The Risk Management Policy sets out our commitment to managing committed to manage all risks that may materially impact the all risks in a proactive and effective manner, to drive competitive business in a proactive and effective manner. Risks are identified advantage. The Policy is complemented by our Risk Management and managed across a variety of areas, including but not limited Framework, which sets out the process for the identification and to: operational; environmental; sustainability; cyber specific; mitigation of risks to ensure business continuity, protection of compliance; strategic; ethical conduct; reputation or brand; the Group's reputation and informed management decisions. technological product or service quality; human capital; financial The Framework is based on the Australian Standard 31000: Risk reporting; and market-related risks. Management Principles and the ASX Corporate Governance Council’s Corporate Governance Principles and Recommendations. The overall objectives of our risk management program are to: During FY19 the Risk Management Policy and Framework were • promote identification and mitigation of risks in a way that updated to reflect recent best practice and were endorsed by the protects the businesses continuity and reputation of the ABRCC. Group, informs management decisions and drives competitive advantage; The Risk Management Policy is available on the Pact website: • manage all risks that may materially impact the business in a www.pactgroup.com.au/Investor/corporate-governance/ policiesproactive and effective manner; and and-standards. • disclose all material business risks, including those in the areas of Further information on our corporate governance practices can be economic, environmental and social sustainability risks. found in the Corporate Governance Statement on the Pact website: www.pactgroup.com.au/Investor/corporate-governance/policiesThe Board of Directors has overall accountability for the risk and­standards. management program. Oversight has been delegated to the Audit, Business Risk and Compliance Committee (ABRCC) that is responsible for monitoring and review. The MD and Group CEO and Executive Committee are responsible for the day-to-day management of risk, within the risk appetite set by the Board. 8 5 / E T HI C S A ND GOV E R N A NCE Human rights Child and forced labour As a signatory to the UNGC we are committed to supporting the United Nations Global Compact abolishment of child labour and forced labour worldwide, and our The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is the world’s largest policies explicitly prohibit this. corporate sustainability initiative, where businesses commit to There have been no incidents of child or forced labour within the aligning their operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted Group that we are aware of during the reporting period. principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption, and to progress the Sustainable Development We will release our first Modern Slavery Statement in FY20, and Goals. comply with the principles of the Australian Modern Slavery Act (2018). As a signatory to the UNGC and a member of the local chapter, Global Compact Network Australia, Pact Group upholds the principles of universal human rights, including accessibility, nondiscrimination and labour rights across all our operations. We demonstrate our commitment through the Group’s: • Code of Conduct, which requires the fair and equitable treatment of all Pact stakeholders and outlines the responsibilities of all employees in accordance with this; and • Equal Opportunity, Harassment and Bullying Policy, in which Pact is committed to being an equal opportunity employer and to ensuring our workplace is free of unlawful discrimination, harassment and bullying. Our online corporate induction covers our expectations with regards to the Group and employees upholding the principles of universal human rights. All new salaried employees are required to complete this within the first period of employment. We lodged our annual UNGC Communications On Progress in December 2018 which can be downloaded from the UNGC website: www.unglobalcompact.org. There have been no grievances about human rights impacts filed through formal grievance mechanisms during the reporting period. 8 6 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W Customer ethical audits Pact participates in a number of sustainability and ethical business audits as part of our customers’ tender and contractual requirements. These audits enable our partners to assess our sustainability credentials as key stakeholders in their supply chains. A number of our sites participate in customer-initiated audits, including: • Supplier Ethical Database Exchange (Sedex) — a secure online database that allows members to store, share and report on four key areas including labour standards, health and safety, the environment and business ethics. Some sites have also completed a Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA). • Ecovardis — an online CSR analysis system which covers 21 criteria covering environment, fair labour and human rights, “AS A SIGNATORY ethics, and sustainable procurement. TO THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL Our Affiliations COMPACT, WE CONTINUOUSLY WORK TO ALIGN OUR OPERATIONS AND BUSINESS STRATEGY TO IT'S 10 PRINCIPLES.” 8 7 / E T HI C S A ND GOV E R N A NCE ABOUT THIS REPORT This Sustainability Review for Pact Group Holdings Ltd has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4 version). This Review is in accordance with “core” GRI guidelines and no information is restated, and no changes have been identified. The information contained in this Review relates to sites wholly owned and operated by Pact Group Holdings Ltd (“Pact” or “the Company”) and its wholly owned subsidiaries (“the Group”). All data relates to the 12-month period or the status as at 30 June 2019 (FY19), unless otherwise stated. All monetary amounts in the Review are stated in Australian dollars unless otherwise stated. Information integrity and verification Pact’s Executive and Senior Management are responsible for the preparation and integrity of the information in this Review. We believe this Review fairly represents our sustainability performance during FY19. Further information Further information regarding Pact’s sustainability performance is communicated through various channels Including: • www.pactgroup.com.au • The Annual Report • The Annual General Meeting (AGM) • Disclosures to the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX), Company code (PGH). Previous Sustainability and Annual Reports can be downloaded from the investor section of our website: www.pactgroup.com.au/ sustainability. If you have any questions or feedback, please email: info@pactgroup.com.au 8 8 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W Independent Limited Assurance Statement to the Management and Directors of Pact Group Holdings Limited (Pact Group) Our Conclusion: Ernst & Young (‘EY’, ‘we’) were engaged by Pact Group to undertake ‘limited assurance’ as defined by Australian Auditing Standards, here after referred to as a ‘review’, over total combined scope 1 and scope 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (t.CO2-e) for Pact Group’s Australia and New Zealand operations included in its 2019 Sustainability Report for the year ended 30 June 2019. Based on our review, nothing came to our attention that caused us to believe that the total combined scope 1 and scope 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (t.CO2-e) for Pact Group’s Australia and New Zealand operations has not been prepared and presented fairly, in all material respects, in accordance with the criteria defined below. What our review covered Australia and New Zealand operations and related information and We reviewed the total combined scope 1 and scope 2 greenhouse applying analytical and other review procedures. gas (GHG) emissions (t.CO2-e) for Pact Group’s Australia and Our procedures included: New Zealand operations included in its 2019 Sustainability Report within the Environment – Energy and Emissions section of the ► Conducted interviews with personnel to understand the report business and reporting process Criteria applied by Pact Group ► Conducted interviews with key personnel to understand the process for collecting, collating and reporting the Selected In preparing the total combined scope 1 and scope 2 greenhouse Performance Data during the reporting period gas (GHG) emissions (t.CO2-e) for Pact Group’s Australia and New Zealand operations, Pact Group applied: ► Checked that the calculation criteria have been correctly applied in accordance with the methodologies outlined in the ► The World Business Council for Sustainable Development and Criteria World Resources Institute's Greenhouse Gas Protocol Revised Edition ► Undertook analytical review procedures to support the reasonableness of the data ► Australian National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (Measurement) Determination ► Identified and testing assumptions supporting calculations ► New Zealand Climate Change (Stationary Energy and ► Tested, on a sample basis, underlying source information to Industrial Processes) Regulations 2009 check the accuracy of the data. ► New Zealand Climate Change (Liquid Fossil Fuels) We believe that the evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate Regulations 2008 to provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusions. ► New Zealand Climate Change (Unique Emissions Factor) Limited Assurance Regulations 2009. Procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in Key responsibilities nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently the level of EY’s responsibility and independence assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is Our responsibility was to express a conclusion on the total substantially lower than the assurance that would have been combined scope 1 and scope 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions obtained had a reasonable assurance engagement been (t.CO2-e) for Pact Group’s Australia and New Zealand operations performed. Our procedures were designed to obtain a limited level based on our review. of assurance on which to base our conclusion and do not provide all the evidence that would be required to provide a reasonable We were also responsible for maintaining our independence and level of assurance. confirm that we have met the requirements of the APES 110 Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants including independence and While we considered the effectiveness of management’s internal have the required competencies and experience to conduct this controls when determining the nature and extent of our assurance engagement. procedures, our assurance engagement was not designed to provide assurance on internal controls. Our procedures did not Pact Group’s responsibility include testing controls or performing procedures relating to checking aggregation or calculation of data within IT systems. Pact Group’s management (“management”) was responsible for selecting the Criteria, and preparing and fairly presenting the total Use of our Assurance Statement combined scope 1 and scope 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (t.CO2-e) for Pact Group’s Australia and New Zealand operations We disclaim any assumption of responsibility for any reliance on in accordance with that Criteria. This responsibility includes this assurance report to any persons other than management and establishing and maintaining internal controls, adequate records the Directors of Pact Group, or for any purpose other than that for and making estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances. which it was prepared. Our approach to conducting the review You may not disclose this assurance report externally without our prior written consent. We conducted this review in accordance with the Australian Auditing and Assurance Standards Board Australian Standard on Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (‘ASAE 3000’) and the terms of reference for this engagement as agreed with Pact Group on 17 8 9 / E T HI C S A ND GOV E R N A NCE July 2019. Summary of review procedures performed Ernst & Young A review consists of making enquiries, primarily of persons Melbourne, Australia responsible for preparing the total combined scope 1 and scope 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (t.CO2-e) for Pact Group’s 09 October 2019 A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE Pact’s 2019 Sustainability Review has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4 version). The following table summarises Pact’s Summary Index performance against “core” GRI guidelines. General Standard Disclosures Standard Description Reporting Report heading Page/s Disclosure status Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker in the organisation Fully A word from our Managing Director and CEO 2–3 G4-2 Impacts and Risks summary Fully Key sustainability issues, Corporate Governance 14, 15, 84, 85 & Risk Management Organisational profile G4-3 Organisation name Fully About this report 88 G4-4 Primary products, services Fully Who we are and what we do 4 G4-5 Head office location Fully Who we are and what we do 4 G4-6 Countries of operation Fully Who we are and what we do 4 G4-7 Ownership and legal form Fully About this report 88 G4-8 Markets served Fully Who we are and what we do 4 G4-9 Scale of organisation Fully Who we are and what we do 4 G4-10 Employee structure / breakdown Fully Diversity 22, 23 G4-11 Employees covered by bargaining power Fully Industrial relations 28 G4-12 Supply chain description Fully Responsible Procurement 79 G4-13 Significant changes to organisation Fully About this report 88 G4-14 Overall approach to managing operational risk Fully Corporate Governance & Risk Management 84, 85 G4-15 External charters, principles, initiatives subscribed to Fully Human rights, product stewardship 86, 87 G4-16 Active in external memberships Fully Human rights, product stewardship 86, 87 Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 Who is covered by this report Fully About this report 88 G4-18 Boundaries of this report Fully About this report 88 G4-19 Material aspects identified Fully GRI Index — Specific Standard Disclosures 90 G4-20 Aspect boundaries — relevancy to entities inside organisation Fully Key Sustainability issues 14, 15 G4-21 Aspect boundaries — relevancy to entities outside organisation Fully Key Sustainability issues 14, 15 G4-22 Any restatements of previously reported information Fully About this report 88 G4-23 Any significant changes since last report Fully About this report 88 Stakeholder engagement G4-24 List of stakeholders Fully Stakeholders 10, 11 G4-25 Reason stakeholders chosen Fully Stakeholders 10, 11 G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement Fully Stakeholders 10, 11 G4-27 Issues raised by stakeholder groups Fully Key sustainability issues 14, 15 Report profile G4-28 Reporting period Fully About this report 88 G4-29 Date of previous report (if any) Fully About this report 88 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) Fully About this report 88 G4-31 Contact for any questions regarding this report Fully About this report 88 G4-32 In accordance with Fully About this report 88 G4-33 Approach to external assurance Fully About this report 88 Governance G4-34 Governance structure Fully Corporate governance & Risk Management 84, 85 G4-35 Process for delegating authority economic, environmental & social topics Fully Corporate governance & Risk Management 84, 85 Ethics and integrity G4-56 Organisation’s values, principles and standards e.g. code of conduct Fully Ethical conduct 82, 83 Specific Standard Disclosures Standard Description Reporting Report heading Page 9 0 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W Disclosure status Category: Economic Material Aspect: Economic performance G4-DMA Why economic performance is material Fully Our Materiality Process 12 G4-EC1 Local economic value — revenue, employees, community Fully 2019 Annual Report – Category: Environmental Material Aspect: Materials G4-DMA Materials policy Partially Materials and waste 48 G4-EN1 Materials used by weight — non-renewable, renewable Partially Materials and waste 48 Material Aspect: Energy G4-DMA Energy policy Partially Energy and emissions 46 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within organisation Partially Energy and emissions 46 Material Aspect: Emissions G4-DMA Emissions policy Fully Energy and emissions 46 G4-EN15 Scope 1 Direct GHG emissions Partially Energy and emissions 46 G4-EN16 Scope 2 Indirect GHG emissions Partially Energy and emissions 46 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE Summary Index Specific Standard Disclosures (continued) Standard Description Reporting Report heading Page/s Disclosure status Material Aspect: Effluents and Waste G4-DMA Effluents and waste policy Fully Materials and waste 48 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Partially Materials and waste 48 Material Aspect: Products and Services G4-DMA Environmental impacts policy from product & services Fully Product stewardship 49 G4-EN27 Impacts and mitigation of impacts from product & services Partially Product stewardship 49 Material Aspect: Environmental grievance mechanisms Category: Social Sub-category: Labour practices and decent work Material Aspect: Employment G4-DMA Workforce & labour practices and policies Fully Workforce breakdown 26 G4-LA3 Return to work after parental leave and retention rates Partially Parental leave 25 Material Aspect: Labour/Management relations G4-DMA Labour / management relations policy Fully Industrial relations 28 Material Aspect: Occupational Health & Safety G4-DMA OHS policy Fully Safety, Health, and wellbeing 35–40 G4-LA6 Injuries, rates, days lost Fully Safety, Health, and wellbeing 35–40 G4-LA7 Workers with high risk jobs Fully Safety, Health, and wellbeing 35–40 Material Aspect: Diversity and Equal opportunity G4-DMA Diversity & equal opportunity policy Fully Diversity 83 G4-LA12 Governance and workforce breakdown Fully Diversity 26 Material Aspect: Equal remuneration G4-DMA Equal remuneration policy Fully Diversity 24 G4-LA13 Gender remuneration breakdown by job category Partially Diversity 26 Material Aspect: Labour practices grievance mechanisms Sub-category: Human Rights Material Aspect: Investment G4-DMA Human rights policy Fully Human rights 86 G4-HR2 Percentage and number of hours employees trained in human rights Partially Human rights 86 Material Aspect: Non-discrimination G4-DMA Non-discrimination policy Fully Human rights 86 G4-HR3 Number of discrimination incidents, resolutions Fully Human rights 86 Material Aspect: Freedom of association and Collective bargaining G4-DMA Freedom of association & collective bargaining policy Fully Industrial relations 86 G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers violating this right Partially Industrial relations 86 Material Aspect: Child labour G4-DMA Child labour policy Fully Human rights 86 G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers with incidents of child labour Partially Human rights 86 Material Aspect: Forced or Compulsory labour G4-DMA Forced or compulsory labour policy Fully Human rights 86 G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers with incidents of forced labour Partially Human rights 86 Material Aspect: Supplier human rights grievance mechanisms G4-DMA Policy for human rights grievance mechanism Fully Human rights 86 G4-HR12 Percentage and number of supplier human rights grievances Partially Human rights 86 Sub-category: Society Material Aspect: Local communities G4-DMA Community investment and engagement policy Fully Community 74–77 G4-SO1 Percentage operations with community engagement & development Partially Community 74–77 Material Aspect: Anti-corruption G4-DMA Anti-corruption policy Fully Ethical conduct 82 G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption Fully Ethical conduct 82 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption, resolution Fully Ethical conduct 82 Material Aspect: Public policy 9 1 / E T HI C S A ND GOV E R N A NCE G4-DMA Political contribution policy Fully Financial Transparency 83 G4-SO6 Value of political contributions, broken down Fully Ethical conduct 83 Material Aspect: Anti-competitive behaviour G4-DMA Anti-competitive behaviour policy Fully Ethical conduct 82 G4-SO7 Number of legal actions from anti-competitive behaviour Fully Ethical conduct 82 Material Aspect: Compliance G4-SO8 Value of fines from non-compliance Fully Ethical conduct 82 92 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W 9 4 / PAC T 2 0 19 S U S TA IN A B ILI T Y R E V IE W www.pactgroup.com.au
