AKKÖK HOLDING UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2017 AKKÖK HOLDING UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2017 1 TABLE OF CONTENTS » About the Report 03 » Message from the CEO 04 » Corporate Profile 05 » Corporate Governance 09 » Human Rights 11 » Labor Standards 12 » Environment 16 » Anti-corruption 22 » Corporate Social Responsibility 24 AKKÖK HOLDING UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2017 About the Report Akkök Holding United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress for 2017 was prepared in line with the requirements of the United Nations Global Compact, of which the Akkök Holding (Holding) is a signatory. The policies, practices and performance results of Akkök Holding and its subsidiaries in relation to the 10 core principles put forward by the compact under the headings of “Human Rights”, “Labor Standards”, “Environment”, and “Anti-Corruption” during the period between 01.01.2017 and 31.12.2017 were presented to the views of stakeholders as it is required by the Company’s principles of transparency and accountability. While the consolidated data of Akkök Holding and all its subsidiaries were included for social and financial performance indicators, environmental indicators include data only for subsidiaries carrying out sustainability reporting practices, namely Aksa Akrilik, AkKim and Akenerji. Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) constitute another reference point for the disclosed performance results. Please communicate feedbacks, suggestions, questions and criticisms regarding the report to: surdurulebilirlik@akkok.com.tr 3 AKKOK HOLDING UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2017 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Esteemed Stakeholders, While leaving behind a challenging year in regards to economy, conjuncture and trade, we are proud to create a more value-added economy and employment for our country thanks to an investment of 905 million TL and exportation of 1.6 billion TL in 2017. We continue to put into practice value-added projects for our stakeholders with the achievements we fulfilled due to 65 years of experience and a strategy focusing on sustainable growth. With this report that we prepared based on our commitment to UN Global Global Compact, of which we are a sinatory as of 2017, we present our performance in line with the 10 principles set out to our stakeholders. We will continue to sustain this reporting practice which Ahmet C. DÖRDÜNCÜ represents a summary of our performance in the CEO of Akkök Holding related subjects in the forthcoming periods as well. Our corporate governance approach, an indispensable environmental impact of our Group companies’ component of our operations, embraced by all of our operations. Akenerji, which voluntarily shares its companies continued to win approval based on the carbon performance data with the public every year as evaluations in 2017. Our subsidiaries participating part of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), raised its in the Corporate Governance Index were subjected performance score from “C” level to “B” level in 2016; to assessments like before within the framework of and in addition to this success, received CDP Turkey Capital Market Board (SPK) Corporate Governance 2017 Water Leadership award as a result of grading principles. Akiş GYO increased its rating from 9.44 conducted for CDP Turkey Water Program in 2017. over 10 which was identified in the previous period to Aksa Akrilik, the first company in Turkey to receive 9.49 while Aksa Akrilik increased its rating from 9.60 the ISO 14046 Water Footprint Standard Certificate in to 9.63. We took pride in Aksa Akrilik which achieved the field of sustainable water management, obtained the highest score and ranked first both in 2016 and 85% of the total water consumption in 2017 from the 2017, and ranked as the 1st company, rising up to the Reverse Osmosis Facility, which was commissioned 3rd highest ranking in Corporate Governance Index in 2015. In 2017, 2,956,500 kwh electricity and 12,035 with this score. tons of steam were saved with the projects realized Creating a pluralistic and participatory business within the scope of Ak-Kim operations. environment that shows respect to human and In addition to creating sustainable added values employee rights is among Akkök Holding’s main for our stakeholders in the region we operate, we business priorities. In this regard, we take advantage continued our projects and practices in culture & art of effective communication and audit mechanisms and sports in 2017 as well. We aim to increasingly in order to prevent possible violations of rights and continue our investments and activities in corporate discrimination. In this context, we carried on our social responsibility in the forthcoming periods. activities that ensure the complete implementation of “Akkök Group of Companies Code of Business Ethics” All the successful results we have achieved as Akkök that we established in 2014 as our key guide in the are possible thanks to our sustainable business reporting period as well. approach and our operations carried out in this direction with precision. I would like to thank all our As part of our environmental sustainability strategy, stakeholders, especially our employees, who are we continued to make significant investments in striving for our further enhancement of this value. fighting against climate change and conserving natural resources, and also reducing the Sincerely, 4 AKKÖK HOLDING UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2017 CORPORATE PROFILE Founded by dear departed Raif Dinçkök in 1952, Akkök Holding operates in chemistry, real estate and energy sectors, comprises 19 trade and industrial companies of which one is overseas and also 19 production facilities within its body. Exporting to over 50 countries with its more than 5,000 employees, Akkök Holding aims to meet the global competition conditions in all of its companies and reach world standards. 5,138 19 11 Number of actively Million TL Number of employees operating countries Combined net sales 1.6 905 1,410 Billion TL Million TL Million TL Export revenue Investment Consolidated EBITDA 8,420,647 4,818,781 Thousand TL Thousand TL Total Assets Total Liabilities Net Sales EDBITDA EDBITDA Combined Combined Combined (Millon TL) (Million US Dollar) (Million US Dollar) 1,410 11,043 1,185 1,124 8,301 8,660 543 6,863 788 284 106 46 2014 2015 2016 2017 2014 2015 2016 2017 2014 2015 2016 2017 5 AKKÖK HOLDING UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2017 CHEMICALS ENERGY AKSA AKENERJİ Coalition between Akkök Holding and Czech Founded in 1968 as part of Akkök Holding. Energy Company CEZ Group Production capacity of 315 thousand tons/ Representative of foresight and stability in year with 100% Turkish capital the energy industry 1224 MW of installed power, of which 320 MW Established on a site of approx. 502 thousand m2 is renewable The only domestic acrylic fiber manufacturer 10.2 TWh sales volume in Energy Trade of Turkey AK-KİM EGEMER 800 thousand tons of total production Akenerji’s largest investment capacity and more than 1,500 products Erzin Natural Gas Combined Cycle Power Exports spreading across 70 countries on six Plant with a capacity of 904 MW installed continents power and 7.4 Twh annual production capacity A capacity that can provide 3% of the electric 488 employees in total energy needs of Turkey by itself became operational in the third quarter of 2014 GİZEM FRİT SEDAŞ Uninterrupted energy distribution service for 24/7 on a 20,000 square kilometers area Established in 1979, Gizem Frit embarked comprising the regions of Sakarya, Kocaeli, Bolu upon its first frit production and Düzce, to a population of 3.5 million in total of four regions, 45 districts, 49 municipalities, 766 villages and 1366 neighborhoods Annual production capacity of 132,500 tons Prospective plans and projects following with 30 thousand m2 of indoor plant area on a new technology for high quality and reliable 60 thousand m2 site electric energy Over 400 employees, indirect employment to Modern business management at a speed 1,000 individuals suitable for today DOWAKSA SEPAŞ ENERJİ Electricity retail sales company as the A joint enterprise of The Dow Chemical end supplier for the region in Bolu, Düzce, Company and Aksa Akrilik Kimya Sanayii A.Ş. Sakarya and Kocaeli. 6 AKKÖK HOLDING UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2017 One the strongest companies in production 1.7 million customer portfolio throughout of carbon fiber and its byproducts Turkey Integrated carbon fiber composite solutions Investments in technology with the aim of offered to industrial sectors, mainly energy, maximizing customer experience transportation, defense One and only Turkish company operating in Efforts to maintain market leadership in the the carbon fiber sector designated supply zones SERVICES REAL ESTATE AKMERKEZ LOKANTACILIK AKİŞ GYO An achievement born out of the experience An atmosphere offering both elegance and and expertise of Akkök Holding in shopping comfort at Paper Moon center investment An urban classic among the distinguished brands of food and beverage sector in World class investments Diversified projects İstanbul The leading company in the real estate World class food and service quality sector for its quality and credibility A wide portfolio offering different real estate Interior design reflecting luxury and investment options such as shopping center simplicity and lifestyle center, housing, land and factory buildings AKASYA ÇOCUK DÜNYASI AKMERKEZ GYO Owner of the franchise license in Turkey for Innovative perspective, an aesthetic and KidZania which operates in 19 countries and comfortable space 24 cities Nearly 100 role-play opportunities for More like a lifestyle center than a shopping children in 65 activity areas according to their mall skills and areas of interest Brings liveliness to urban life with its 8,000 m2 site authentic design and social and cultural activities AK-PA AK TURİZM Exports to over 70 countries on five continents Tourism investments planned in Kaşık Island (acrylic fiber, carbon fiber, inorganic and which has a significant investment potential organic chemical materials and frit) as it is located in the city center 7 AKKÖK HOLDING UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2017 Brand power in the market with fiber and Cultural and touristic opportunities away yarn group products (polyester, polyamide, from the city buzz viscose, cotton) Among Turkey’s leading exporter companies Elaborate approach towards the needs of the in the textile sector city, environmental and social conditions AKTEK DİNKAL The most contemporary practices in Among the preferred companies of the information technologies insurance sector Developing applications to keep Group companies’ Potential to provide services in all branches technological infrastructure up to date of insurance Among the leading brands of the informatics Offering creative solutions to customers sector specific to their needs High standards of service and customer High quality service standard satisfaction CORPORATE MEMBERSHIPS Turkish Ethics and Reputation Association (TEİD) Internal Audit Institute of Turkey (TİDE) Istanbul Chamber of Commerce (İTO) Turkish Corporate Governance Association (TKYD) Business World and Sustainable Development Yenidenbiz Association Association Corporate Risk Management Association (KRYD) 30% Club Private Sector Volunteers Association (ÖSGD) Professional Women’s Network (PWN) Turkish Industrialists and Businessmen’s Association (TÜSİAD) 8 AKKÖK HOLDING UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE An open, transparent and accountable has no executive duties. Chairman of the corporate governance approach is one of Executive Board which is under the Board the most important factors that underlie of Directors and consists of 6 members Akkök Holding’s success. Together with including the Executive Board Advisor, is this understanding and structure formed in the CEO of the Company and is responsible light of its 65-year of business experience, for all the executive operations of Akkök the Holding undertakes operations that Holding before the Board of Directors. The add value to societies in which it exists Company has identified its senior staff as by focusing on sustainable development. the Executive Board, the members of the Akkök Holding’s sustainability approach is to Board of Directors, General Managers and actualize projects that create added value in Company Directors. 44% of Akkök Holding social, environmental and economic areas Board of Directors members and 30% of in addition to its policies, practices and the Board of Director members of all Group targets. In this context, all Group companies companies are female. embrace Akkök Holding’s sustainability approach and continue their activities Akkök Holding supports its corporate determined in this common agenda. governance approach and relevant sustainable growth strategy with policies Adherence of all subsidiaries to laws and envisaged by the international initiatives Code of Business Ethics is a process Akkök of which it is a party. Having signed Holding manages meticulously, and is a the UN Global Compact, the Holding key component of ts corporate governance presents its activities conducted in line approach. While full compliance is achieved with principles and headings to the views through internal audit and internal control activities that are conducted, corporate risk of its stakeholders through the reporting management program identifies risks that practices it undertakes annually. might endanger the existence and future of Group companies present their performance the Holding upon which relevant actions and in the areas of corporate governance and business strategies are formed. sustainability management in the most Akkök Holding senior management consists transparent and accountable way. Besides of a two-level system that embodies Akkök Holding, Aksa Akrilik, Akenerji and Board of Directors and Executive Board. Akiş GYO publish annual reports as well. While Akkök Holding Board of Directors While Aksa Akrilik and Akenerji publish that consists of 9 members, carries the sustainability reports annually, Ak-Kim responsibilities of taking action in the publishes Communication of Progress name of the Company and representing Report biannually as part of the United it, the Chairman of the Board of Directors Nations Global Compact. 9 AKKÖK HOLDING UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2017 Akkök Holding’s subsidiaries are subject to assessments every year under the main headings of shareholders, public disclosure and transparency, stakeholders and board of directors within the framework of Capital Market Board (SPK) Corporate Governance principles. In this context, Akiş GYO, increased its Corporate Governance Rating from 9.28 (out of 10) which was identified in 2015, to the level of 9.44 in 2016 and to the level of 9.49 in 2017. With this rating, Akiş GYO achieved to preserve its position of highest company with its Corporate Governance Rating among real estate investment comanies and construction companies. Another Akkök Holding subsidiary, Aksa Akrilik Kimya Sanayii A.Ş. increased its Corporate Governance Rating from 9.50 that was identified in 2015, to the level of 9.60 in 2016, and to the level of 9.64 in 2017. Rising up to the 3rd highest ranking in Corporate Governance Index with its rating in 2015, the Company achieved the highest score and ranked first both in 2016 and 2017, and ranked as the 1st company. Aksa Akrilik, the world’s largest acrylic fiber producer, won the first prize in the 7th Corporate Governance Awards organized by Corporate Governance Association of Turkey. 10 AKKÖK HOLDING UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2017 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Akkök Holding considers undertaking benefitting from effective communication operations that respect to human rights and audit mechanisms to spread this among its main priorities. In this context, understanding in its value chain. All the one of the fundamental principles of Akkök Group companies adopt Akkök Holding Holding is to establish an effective dialogue Human Resources Policy and the principle with its stakeholders, guard the rights of of providing equal opportunities for everyone its stakeholders and regulate its activities in any human resources process as they act based on this approach. For this purpose, proactively against discrimination based on communication and auditing mechanism religion, language, race and gender. is actively used to expand human rights The companies organize trainings and conduct approach in the value chain. Akkök Holding communication works in order to raise and Group companies execute evaluations on consciousness among employees regarding human rights principles in auditing practices human rights issues. In the reporting period, for suppliers and contractors. Aksa employees were provided with 121 The Holding strives to create a democratic man*hour while Ak-Kim employees were working environment respectful of human provided with 141 man*hour of ethical training rights in all Group companies while comprising human rights topics. 11 AKKÖK HOLDING UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2017 LABOR STANDARTS Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Akkök Holding, which embraces its employees as the main component of its achievements Aksa TV Starts Broadcasting! and the most valuable capital, strives to create a pluralistic and participatory In addition to the improvements regarding business environment that respects human Aksa and Aksa employees, Aksa TV which and employee rights. In line with its Human includes Turkey’s and world’s most upResources Policy that is accepted as the to-date news has started broadcasting. main reference in all Group companies, fair Aksa TV that operates with close circuit and non-discriminative approach is pursued broadcasting system started its first in all human resources processes from operation in Aksa Yalova factory in 4 recruitment to performance evaluation, from different broadcasting location. Aksa TV remuneration to employee development which aims to increase the number of practices. Employees are encouraged to broadcasting locations in the forthcoming participate in the decision-making processes period include various dynamic content through effective communication mechanisms such as weather forecast, fixtures, stock with which a democratic working environment and exchange information. is achieved. At Akkök Holding companies where the principle of equal pay for equal work policy is adopted, there is no base salary practice discerned by gender. The performance and competencies of employees are taken as a basis in remuneration and promotion practices and also the proportion of female employees working at decision-making positions is increasing steadily. During the reporting period, there was not any case of discrimination reported within the operations of Akkök Holding and Group companies. 12 AKKÖK HOLDING UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2017 Respecting human and employee rights is considered as the fundamental principle in all activities of Akkök Holding and Group companies. Accordingly, the employees’ right to unionization and collective bargaining are protected and the continuity of labor peace is guaranteed. During the reporting period, there were no cases of child labor or forced/compulsory labor within the scope of the operations of Akkök Holding and Group companies. Again, there are no activities bearing risks regarding these issues within the supply chain of the Holding and Group companies. Representation of Women in Mid-Senior Management and Boards of Directors Total Number of Mid Senior Board Employees by Gender Management Management of Directors 698 836 815 667 62 135 35 68 31% 69% 34% 66% 4,001 4,301 4,389 4,468 49 17 74% 26% 2014 2015 2016 2017 Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Akkök Holding conducts its business Suggestion systems are one of the most activities transparently while encouraging its important means of receiving feedback employees to participate in decision-making from the employees at Akkök Holding processes through effective and bi-directional companies. During the reporting period, communication mechanisms offered both 858 suggestions were received from at the level of the Holding and the Group employees at Aksa Akrilik, 247 of these companies. Believing in the importance suggestions were actualized. Again, in of a participatory working environment, the same period, 63 of 158 suggestions the Holding builds trust and loyalty in its received from Ak-Kim employees were relationship with its employees and obtains implemented. important inputs in favor of business processes and the working environment by reaching out employees’ innovative ideas. 13 AKKÖK HOLDING UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2017 Great Place to Work Aksa Akrilik and Ak-Kim receive feedbacks of their employees regarding the working environment through ‘Great Place to Work’ Trust Index and obtain important inputs for their performance in this field. Companies make improvement plans after survey studies they conduct under the headings of “Trust,” “Respect,” “Fairness,” “Pride,” and “Team Spirit” to receive the evaluations of the employees. Ak-Kim Innovation Culture Project Ak-Kim Innovation Culture Project aims to raise awareness in regards to values that form the basis of innovation culture, to encourage participation and to execute an action plan to create an environment that embraces innovation. In this project, the target is to increase the revenue obtained from incentives, the total revenue from innovation projects, and the profitability of the company. Higher level of endorsement obtained through less number of new products in 2017 is the proof of the development of the new products and the high added value. Ak-Kim innovation index has risen from 7.5% to 13.9% since 2014. 14 AKKÖK HOLDING UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2017 Aksa Culture and Internal Communication Project Aksa Culture and Internal Communication Project is initiated in 2017 at Aksa Akrilik in order to define the elements of company culture and to strengthen interaction and communication with employees according to the dynamics of company culture. Based on this purpose, over 100 documents reflecting the internal operation and practices that are related to employees were examined. A meeting was organized that hosted 174 employees with an aim to detect how employees perceive Aksa culture and how communication can be strengthened. In this project, the long-term target is to expand cultural elements that help Aksa reach its strategic goals, to strengthen internal communication, to increase commitment, sense of belonging and motivation of employees by focusing on their experiences, to make Aksa an ideal employee brand by making employees the ambassadors of the brand, to solidify corporate dignity, to increase attraction, and to contribute to keep the talents in hand and to reach high qualified nominees. 15 AKKÖK HOLDING UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2017 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Akkök Holding acts with the awareness of its that accounts for all lifecycles from product responsibilities in fighting against climate to services, from supply to development change and protecting natural resources, and and from production to distribution are also designs pioneering practices in order meticulously pursued and vigorous efforts to minimize environmental impact arising are made to extend this understanding from the operations of the Holding and throughout the value chain. Group companies. Following Akkök Holding’s Group companies organize regular trainings management approach, Group companies on environment in order to help employees that create a wide sphere of impact across adopt Akkök Holding’s environmental its wide operational geography focus on sustainability approach. In this context, Aksa technological investments, stakeholder Akrilik provided a total of 3,540 man*hour collaborations and product life cycle and environmental trainings to the employees of ensure continuous development of their Akenerji and Ak-kim in the reporting period. environmental sustainability performance. Group companies act in line with Akkök Akkök Environmental Committee, the highest Holding’s management approach in fighting authority in the context of Akkök Holding’s against climate change and continuously environmental sustainability management, is improve their performance on this subject responsible for the identification of strategies through effective energy and emission in this area and the standardization of the key management practices. In accordance with performance indicators monitored across internationally accepted standards, these the Group. Represented by all Akkök Holding practices are carried out by the Energy companies, the Committee ensures the Management Units, Boards or related units complete implementation of the Holding’s of the Companies and the performance environmental sustainability approach in all results are presented to stakeholders in Group companies. Strategies and targets, line with voluntary global initiatives such as which are formed with an understanding Carbon Disclosure Project. 16 AKKÖK HOLDING UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2017 Group companies manage their energy consumption and greenhouse Aksa Coal Power Plant Boiler-2 gas emissions in light of concrete Combustion Optimization targets and monitor these targets with international standards such as ISO This project aims to obtain improvement 50001 Energy Management System in boiler efficiency by achieving the and ISO 14064-1 Greenhouse Gas same vapor capacity with lesser coal Calculation and Reporting Standards. consumption by reducing unburnt While Aksa Akrilik and Ak-Kim fulfill the carbon ratio in ash (reduced from mean requirements of ISO 14064-1, Akenerji value of 9% to 4%). With this project, the meet the requirements of ISO 14064-1. target is to produce the same amount of An independent institution audits the vapor with 2,075 t/year less amount of emissions of all the Group companies coal, to produce 208 t/year less ash and every year and their emission amount is to dispose 17 t/year less clinker. certified with extensive assurance. The companies within the scope of this report achieved the following in Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in 2017: Compared to the previous reporting gas plant in Akenerji activities operated period, the basic reason of increase in more in terms of hours compared to Scope 1 emissions is that Erzin DGKÇS 2016. Despite this increase in emissions, which forms almost all of Scope 1 the amount of emission per electricity emissions and which is the only natural unit produced was reduced in 2017 compared to 2016. The most significant reason for the increase in Scope 2 emissions is that maintenance-related issues of power plant in Aksa operations Greenhouse Gas is higher compared to last year; and Emissions (ton CO2e) meanwhile, the electricity was obtained from the network. Group companies execute significant investments in energy efficiency and 239,044 104,281 green energy in order to minimize 93,862 120,433 carbon footprints and sign under 2,680,987 innovation practices. Aksa Akrilik 2,543,581 obtained 84,329 GJ thermal energy 2,397,351 saving through 52% more efficiency 2,105,823 and 9,747 GJ electric energy through 92% more efficiency compared to 2016 2014 2015 2016 2017 thanks to energy efficiency projects Scope 1 Scope 2 executed in the reporting period. 17 AKKÖK HOLDING UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2017 These savings are equivalent to 10,562 Both the Holding and Group companies tons of CO2 reduction. Ak-Kim achieved act with precision in preserving 2,956,500 kwh electricity and 12,035 tons and conscious-use of natural of vapor savigns in 2017 thanks to the resources according to Akkök Holding projects executed within its operations. sustainability approach. In this context, In 2017, Akenerji Energy Services various practices, primarily recycling achieved 47% efficiency in electric and reducing wastes at source, were put energy, 89% in natural gas through into practice which results in a better projects it sustains without making any performance expectation. additional investment on its businesses, and equalized its own record it achieved in 2016. Ak-Kim Energy Emission Management Projects Ak-Kim put into practice significant practices in energy and emission reduction through projects it initiated and completed during the reporting period. With inorganic facilities, the goal is to reach 300,000 kwh saving per year by increasing efficiency in water consumption and energy consumption through renewing cooling towers. 642,000 kwh saving is obtained through Driver Application and Fan Exchange at Sodium Percarbonate Plant Fans. In lighting, it is assumed to obtain 300,000 kwh saving by exchanging all armatures with led ones. CDP Climate Change and Water Program Akenerji, shares its carbon performance publicly on a voluntary basis within the scope of Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Climate Change Program of which it became a part in 2011. Aksa Akrilik aims to complete the preliminary preparations for the CDP climate study in 2017; and the process continues. In this regard, Aksa Akrilik’s goal for 2018 is to prepare climate and water reports. 18 AKKÖK HOLDING UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2017 Akenergy Renewable Energy Investments Akenerji has started its renewable energy oper-ations by joining with the first hydroelectricpower generation facility tender opened by Energy Market Regulatory Authority (EMRA) in 2005. Akenerji is among the first electricity producer in in the private sector to invest in this field. Akenerji produced 5.7 TWh electricity, 11% of which was obtained from renewable resources, in 2017, increasing its electricity production by 54% compared to 2016. Akenerji enhanced the capacity of Ayyıldız Wind Power Plant by 88% from 2016 to 2017 and continues its market research with an aim to improve its renewable energy percentage and profitability. Aksa Akrilik has become the first company to obtain ISO 14046 Water Footprint Standard Certificate in our country in chemistry and textile industry thanks to its studies on sustainable water management. In addition to this pioneer practice, in 2017, Aksa obtained 85% of its total water consumption from Reverse Osmosis plant initiated in 2015 in regards to a holistic water management approach that includes diversity of water resources, efficient consumption of water and water management approach given to receiver environments. Group companies allocate significant resources for ecoTotal Water Consumption friendly technologies and (m3) environmental protection activities and create efficiency in the use of 9,387,761 energy, water and raw materials in their projects and practices. 5,271,296 5,923,510 During the reporting period, Aksa 5,784,551 Akrilik allocated 1.2 million USD for environmental protection 2014 2015 2016 2017 expenditures and investments. In the same period, Ak-Kim allocated 10 million and Akenerji spent 500,000 TL for the investments and expenditures in this area. 19 AKKÖK HOLDING UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2017 Wastewater Lines Joint Treatment Facility Infrastructure Project With the Project that was completed In Aksa Akrilik’s Wastewater Lines in 2015, a joint treatment facility Infrastructure Project which was was established in YALKIM initiated in 2016 and planned Organized Industrial Zone, where to be completed by the end of Aksa, Ak-Kim and DowAksa from 2018, the target is to prevent land Akkök Holding are located. At the pollution and protect environment facility all household and industrial in addition to water management. wastewaters are treated together. The goal is to prevent potential At the facility where improvement environmental pollution by activities were carried out in 2016, renewing all underground lines, 2.641.180 m3 waste water was converting them into aerial treated in accordance with the lines and immediately detecting regulations. Waters covered at the potential accidents. facility are characterized as raw water at dam water quality, while impacts on ecological balance were significantly reduced with the alternative raw water source that was formed. Total Water Discharge Akenerji Water Amount Discharged (m3) Ak-Kim-Aksa per Electricity Production (m3) 3,064,690 3,073,910 2,720,375 2,641,180 0.367 0.225 0.192 2014 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 20 AKKÖK HOLDING UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2017 Akkök Group companies at Akkök Holding fully fulfill their Environmental Impact Assessment obligations regarding new investment fields or capacity increases at existing plants, and thus avoid possible negative impacts on biodiversity. During the reporting period, 68% of the hazardous waste and 93% of the Waste Amount by Type nonhazardous waste were recycled. As a (ton) result, the proportion of waste recycled increased from 63% to 92% compared to the previous period. 6,392 5,648 Based on the project conducted in the reporting period, Ak-Kim achieved both 910 1,299 waste reduction and raw material recovery 2,572 2,550 1,549 1,599 using ammonia stripping system; the total nitrogen was reduced from 1,130 mg/l to 2014 2015 2016 2017 730 mg/l. In addition to this project, 9 ton/ Hazardous Waste Nonhazardous Waste month DMAC was recovered through a project on preventing DMAC escape and product loss. Aksa reduced the waste ash ratio to 1/10 CDP Water Program level with its project on converting the volatile ash that is disposed as waste into a Akenerji has been participating in product using CE certification. the CDP Water Program since 2015 which aims at mobilizing private sector to take responsibility in the issue of water, provides companies with a platform where they can transparently disclose their water use and risks and strategies regarding water. Akenerji achieved to receive CDP Turkey 2017 Water Leadership award as a result of the rating conducted in 2017 in regards to CDP Turkey Water Program to which Akenerji is still the only energy company to participate. 21 AKKÖK HOLDING UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2017 ANTICORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Accepting the great responsibilities that compliance. The principles define the Group the business world bears in the combat approach in the face of legal and ethical against corruption, Akkök Holding aims to risks comprising the issues of bribery and constitute an example for both the sectors corruption. where it operates and its stakeholders The Holding establishes the necessary with the practices it carries out in this organizational structure for the effective field. While the Holding perceives opposing implementation of the Code of Business bribery and corruption as one of its primary Ethics in the company and its subsidiaries. responsibilities for society, it conducts An Ethics Board, which was formed from effective communication, training and audit Company ethics members, conducts practices concerning these issues at the level its activities in line with Akkök Group of of the Holding and Group companies. Companies Ethics Board Working Directives. “Akkök Group of Companies Code of An Ethics Line was established and is Business Ethics” that was formed in 2014, managed by an independent institution to reflects the ensemble of rules that all Group ensure that all stakeholders, especially companies must take basis in their relations employees are able to communicate the with stakeholders. The text that defines violations of principles. On the line, which the framework of the Holding and Group operates on the basis of confidentiality and companies’ relations with its employees, is accessible every day of the week, the partners, suppliers, customers, vendors, identifying information of notifiers are kept other stakeholders and the public, predicates confidential and shared with the Ethics Board upon the principles of responsibility, only upon the permission of the individuals honesty, trust and equality, privacy and legal concerned. You can access Akkök Group of Companies Code of Business Ethics at http://www.akkok. com.tr/Kurumsal/Pages/Akkok-holding-Is-Etigi-Ilkeleri.aspx 22 AKKÖK HOLDING UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2017 The primary activities that Akkök primarily increasing the efficiency Holding carries out to ensure all of operations, ensuring financial Group companies act with the security and compliance with laws same understanding and rigour are and regulations; with the audits it communication and training practices. conducts through internal audit teams In this respect, these activities and independent auditors. Periodical continued during the reporting period inspections are carried out in relation in an attempt to enable the approval to bribery and corruption risks within of these principles as fundamental the framework of the annual internal and indispensable corporate audit plan of the Group. During the values, to ensure their adoption and reporting period, there were no cases implementation in all Group companies. of corruption or bribery identified within The Akkök Holding Internal Audit Group the scope of the audits. carries out controls in various areas, Akkök Holding guarantees not to take any adverse action against individuals who notify violations. 23 AKKÖK HOLDING UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Akkök Holding aims to contribute to social Support for Yalova Orthopedics Sports Club and cultural development as much as to the Akkök Holding, which has actualized corporate economic development of the geography in social responsibility projects that add value to which it operates. In this respect, it carries social and cultural life, gives support for sports out important corporate social responsibility in Yalova where its production facilities are activities. In line with the responsibilities located since 2012. Since November 2012, the corporate citizenship demands, the Holding Group is the main sponsor of Yalova Orthopedics manages projects and support activities that Sports Club (YOSK), one of the leading sports prioritize its regions of operations and focus clubs competing in the Wheelchair Basketball on education, art and environmental issues. Super League. The Holding predicates its CSR practices upon stakeholder participation as in all business Raif Dinçkök Cultural Centre processes while it promotes volunteerism in all Akkök Holding, brought Raif Dinçkök Cultural its activities. Center into service in 2011 to enrich the social Support for Education and cultural life in Yalova. The center, which was built with a contemporary architectural Akkök Holding believes that sustainable approach, has responded to Yalova’s important social development can be achieved mainly need with the facilities it provided. Built in four by supporting education and sustain training separate blocks on a 10,000 m2 provided by of younger generations in a knowledgeable, Yalova Municipality, the Center includes various deliberate and sensitive manner. The Holding, sections such as multi-purpose halls, organized which has built schools in various regions of training workshops, foyer, exhibition and Turkey, also provides infrastructural support cafeteria areas, belvedere and terrace that allow for the universities mainly in the regions of for different cultural and art representations in operations. the center. Among the schools the Holding has built so Mamut Art Project far: Raif Dinçkök Primary and Middle School (Çerkezköy/Tekirdağ), Aksa Vocational and In 2017, the Holding continued to support the Technical Anatolian High School (Yalova), Güzin Mamut Art Project, whose main sponsorship it Dinçkök Primary Middle School (Maltepe / assumed in 2016 for the first time, within the Istanbul), ISOV Vocational Training Center and framework of its “Investment in the Future” Social Facilities, Dinçkök Anatolian Technical strategy. Since 2013, the Mamut Art Project High School (Zincirlikuyu / Istanbul), Güzin brings young artists together with collectors, Dinçkök Primary School (Van). In addition to galleries, culture-art institutions and art lovers these projects, the Holding undertook the and exhibits its success by winning many construction of the rectorate building of Yalova awards received since its foundation. University and Maslak dormitories of Istanbul Technical University. 24 AKKÖK HOLDING UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2017 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed s.11 human rights; and Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses s.11 LABOUR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of s.12-13 the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; s.12-13 Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and s.12-13 Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. s.12-13 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; s.16-21 Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and s.16-21 Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. s.16-21 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. s.22-23 25
