2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS HUMAN RIGHTS W. Giertsen Energy Solutions reaffirms its support of Human Rights. We believe that human rights are rights inherent to all human beings, regardless of race, sex, nationality, ethnicity, language, religion, or any other status and that everyone is entitled to these rights, without discrimination. We conduct business keeping this principle as a core of our practice. We take the following actions and polices toward the UN Global Compact issue area of human rights: • Abidance by the UN Supplier Code of Conduct • We will conduct business only with companies or entities that recognize and demonstrate that their employees are protected from the any form of abuse, physically, economically, socially or psychologically. • We offer a safe, suitable, and sanitary working environment to our employees at all of our various working locations. • Selection and monitoring of partners to ensure that the company monitors or eliminate ingredients, designs, defects or side-effects that could harm or threaten human life and health during manufacturing, usage or disposal of products WGES with partner Ndkay Zambia Limited – Rooftop solar installation, Zambia, part of Solar4Hleath Program W. Giertsen Energy Solutions AS Nygårdsviken 1 • N-5165 Laksevåg-Bergen • Norway Tel: +47 55 94 30 40 • E-mail: energy@giertsen.no www.giertsenenergy.com • Org.no: NO 914 323 924 VAT Page 2 of 7 LABOUR WGES has offices in Norway, Germany, Kenya and Uganda and engages in projects throughout East Africa and the world. Given the international scope of our business it is critical that we are aware and mindful of labour practices and expectations both locally and internationally. As of January 2019, WGES has the 17 staff members of which 12 are men and 5 are women. There are four positions at the senior level of management, one of which is held by a Kenyan woman. We team up with Germany/Europe, Kenya Uganda, and with our local partners to expand our growing partnership with the UN. We will continue to identify opportunities to deliver products and services to our global community. WGES employment policy and human resource structure is sensitive to the locations in which we operate as well as the partners that we engage with for local projects. W. Giertsen Energy Solutions AS Nygårdsviken 1 • N-5165 Laksevåg-Bergen • Norway Tel: +47 55 94 30 40 • E-mail: energy@giertsen.no www.giertsenenergy.com • Org.no: NO 914 323 924 VAT Page 3 of 7 WGES Team Meeting and Training in Nairobi, Kenya June 2018 We take the following actions and polices toward the UN Global Compact issue area of labour: • We abide by the UN and internationally recognized labor standards • Abidance by the UN Supplier Code of Conduct • Employees are compensated according to local and relevant working locations • WGES does not tolerate any form of forced labour, child labour, or bonded labour from its partners, manufacturers or any entity doing business with WGES. • All employment-related decisions are based on objective criteria, competence, experience and education. ENVIRONMENT W. Giertsen Energy Solutions’ is a company providing solar energy products and solar energy systems to East Africa and the world; we design and execute projects geared at reducing long term energy cost and environmental impact. WGES WaterBox, solar irrigation system, installation in Kenya W. Giertsen Energy Solutions AS Nygårdsviken 1 • N-5165 Laksevåg-Bergen • Norway Tel: +47 55 94 30 40 • E-mail: energy@giertsen.no www.giertsenenergy.com • Org.no: NO 914 323 924 VAT Page 4 of 7 Since 2014, we have successfully delivered over 39 projects with more projects currently in the pipeline. Thus, the environment and the products/solutions we provide to our customers as a core and important part of our business structure. We take the following actions and polices toward the UN Global Compact issue area of environment: • WGES QHSE Policy • WGES Code of Conduct and Guidelines for Practice • Abidance by the UN Supplier Code of Conduct • Selection of suppliers that monitor and ensure that they avoid environmental damage via regular maintenance of production processes and environmental protection system (air pollution control, waste, water treatment, etc.) • Selections of partners with ISO certification or other internationally recognized equivalent quality and environment standards. • Selections of suppliers with ISO certification or other internationally recognized equivalent quality and environment standards. • Provision of training for safe handling, maintenance and disposal of solar energy systems with local staff and partners. ANTI-CORRUPTION All the projects that W. Giertsen Energy Solutions undertakes are in partnership with international agencies, corporations, multi-national companies, etc. A major part of the project development and execution plan encompasses issues such as risk, ethics, and anti-corruption. W. Giertsen Energy Solutions AS Nygårdsviken 1 • N-5165 Laksevåg-Bergen • Norway Tel: +47 55 94 30 40 • E-mail: energy@giertsen.no www.giertsenenergy.com • Org.no: NO 914 323 924 VAT Page 5 of 7 WGES values its reputation as a company which is trustworthy, dependable and committed to quality in all dimensions. We take the following actions and polices toward the UN Global Compact issue area of AntiCorruption: • WGES Code of Conduct and Guidelines for Practice • Abidance by the UN Supplier Code of Conduct 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES OPPORTUNITIES FOR IMPROVEMENT IN 2019: • Development of a WGES Supplier Code of Conduct encompassing the themes of Human Rights, Labour, Environment, and Anti-corruption. • Establishing a requirement for partners and suppliers to provide evidence either in their policies and/or practices that they abide by the WGES Supplier Code of Conduct and the UN Supplier Code of Conduct. • Development of project management and execution strategy based on the Circles of Sustainability. 1 1 UNGCCP., 2012. Circles of sustainability: Approaching urban sustainability from its relationship to the social. United Nations Global Compact Cities Program (UNGCCP), RMIT University, Australia W. Giertsen Energy Solutions AS Nygårdsviken 1 • N-5165 Laksevåg-Bergen • Norway Tel: +47 55 94 30 40 • E-mail: energy@giertsen.no www.giertsenenergy.com • Org.no: NO 914 323 924 VAT Page 6 of 7 CONCLUSION: W. Giertsen Energy Solutions has the potential to have an important and positive impact on global community lives and the environment. We aim to effectively execute our policy of transparency and social fairness through our quality management and project delivery strategies. In summary: • We are excited to contribute to a sustainable tomorrow. • We are committed to integrating international and globally recognized standards into our business practices. • We will seek to only interact with companies who promise and demonstrate delivery of ethical and practical solutions. WGES is not only low-carbon and environmentally sustainable, but also turns poverty, inequality, gender inequality, and lack of financial access into new opportunities for counties using our leadership and renewable technology. W. Giertsen Energy Solutions AS Nygårdsviken 1 • N-5165 Laksevåg-Bergen • Norway Tel: +47 55 94 30 40 • E-mail: energy@giertsen.no www.giertsenenergy.com • Org.no: NO 914 323 924 VAT Page 7 of 7
