1 Communication on Progress (COP) Statement of Continued Support Malmö, 19 September 2019 I am pleased to confirm that Solenco AB reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Kjell Knutsson, CEO 2 Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals Solenco adheres to Swedish legislation. Our Integrated Quality and Environmental Management System (according to to ISO 9001 and ISO 14001), Code of Conduct (see Attachment 1), and Integrity Policy are guidelines for how we at Solenco conduct our business in an ethical, social and sustainable manner. To fulfill our Code of Conduct, we aim to place environmental demands on our suppliers and have high environmental requirements for the goods and services we purchase. Our overall goal for human rights is to maintain our record of no formal complaints or legal breaches in this area. Currently there is no specific goal placed on our suppliers, but we hope to integrate this into our Human Rights goals within the next several years. Implementation We have ensured that all our employees are provided with all our company policies/guidelines and the Solenco employee handbook. If concerns are raised, then we promptly investigate and take the necessary action. Our Code of Conduct and Integrity Policy are posted on our company website (www.solenco.se). We also have posted our company mapping to the UN Sustainable Development Goals, Swedish Environmental goals, GRI, and Planetary Boundaries (from the Stockholm Resilience Center). Even though we are only a small company, we have worked very hard to aligned ourselves with as many relevant systems as possible. We have an open-door policy to capture and grievances but also have quarterly planning/administrative meeting where suggestions and/or grievances can be openly communicated. Our organization is still quite small and there is very little hierarchy and thus all communication is open and welcomed directly to our CEO. Priority shall be given to suppliers who are certified in accordance with ISO14001 or can demonstrate that they comply with similar environmental management systems and that work in accordance with the UN Global Compact. Measurement of outcomes The Solenco Code of Conduct was distributed to all employees and they have signed that they will abide by this. During this past reporting period, no formal complaints or legal issues related to Human Rights was received. 3 Labor Assessment, policy and goals Solenco fully supports and adheres to the strict laws in Sweden regarding freedom and labor practices. Sweden has ratified all of the International Labour Organization (ILO) fundamental conventions – freedom of association, forced labor, discrimination and child labor. We put strong focus and attention on open dialogue to identify and resolve issues before they become problems. A key part of our labor strategy was defining Solenco’s values and goals early in the company’s development. Our employee handbook covers policies concerning our employee rights, discrimination, equality, and compensation and responsibilities. We will continue to refine our employee handbook as needed. Our CEO has ensured that during the company’s founding the health and other insurance as well as pension coverage was above and beyond branch standard. Our goal is to maintain this high standard and thus the CEO will review the coverage on a regular basis to keep it up to date. The company supports training activities to improve the employees’ knowledge relevant to our core services. One of our goals for the coming year or two is to take on interns to help introduce them to the industry and even hire them when their education is complete. Another goal is to create better bonds among our employees with activities and events (e.g., volunteering). Our work environment is a critical part of our business and we are always seeking to improve and make changes as desired by the employees. Solenco provides compensation for gym membership, free massage treatments (ca monthly), reimbursement for glasses needed for work at a computer, support of an ergonomic specialist and associated equipment (height-adjustable desks, stand-up mats, ergonomic chairs), free parking, and access to a company car, for example. When we have a project with a workplace that is not at our office, but at an outdoor building site, we conduct a risk assessment before work begins to ensure all workers’ safety on site. Our goal for the coming year is to develop more materials and templates for project managers to more easily conduct this risk assessment and make it as comprehensive and robust as possible. We strive to have a good gender and age balance within our organization, although we have no goals for what this balance might be as it is more important to value competence and how our employees fit in our organization. Employees that are satisfied with their workplace, tasks, manager, etc. are more productive and innovative at work. Our goal is to implement an employee satisfaction survey every year and follow up with an action plan for issues that show more than 20 percent dissatisfaction. Implementation We have ensured that all our employees are provided with training opportunities as requested. We have also provided all our company policies/guidelines and the Solenco employee handbook. If concerns are raised, then we promptly investigate and take the necessary action. We have an opendoor policy to capture and grievances but also have quarterly planning/administrative meeting where suggestions and/or grievances can be openly communicated. Our organization is still quite small and there is very little hierarchy and thus all communication is open and welcomed directly to our CEO. 4 To prevent discrimination for pay we adhere to the law, our policies, and benchmark area industries. Our first company survey was sent out in August 2019. Measurement of outcomes The employee handbook was updated and distributed to all employees in the spring of 2019. Training was completed by several employees, including for the following: Fitwel Ambassador certification, Svanen certification, Planetary Boundary and Sustainable Cities courses, BREEAM-SE Assessor certification, Energy expert certifications (one for Advanced level), and Better working environment course. We have also taken on one intern from vocation school who is doing training here during studies and another highly educated recent immigrant who was previously working a temporary job at a furniture store but fit very well in Solenco’s professional and technical team. In addition, during the Malmö festival in August 2019, Solenco helped a local company called Natur & Trädgårdsvård Sverige AB (Nature and Garden care) to roll mud balls and distribute them to clean a small pond in the local park. During the last year, the benefit of having an ergonomic specialist was included. For building work sites, a template was developed and is now included in standard project start-up. We maintain, in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation, demographics by gender and age. Gender: • Male 12 (80%) • Female 3 (20%) Age: • under 30: 2 (13%) • 30-40: 4 (27%) • 41-50: 8 (53%) • 51-60: 0 (0%) • over 60: 2 (13%) More than 60 percent of employees responded to the 2019 survey. The results of the survey show: • Overall results show 83 percent satisfaction (mostly or very satisfied) • 50% of employees responded that they somewhat often or often felt stressed • 20% responded that they would like more organized social activities • 90 percent of employees felt completely safe and had no issues related to security or other violations in our workplace An action plan is under development for the issue related to stress and to follow up on other items (e.g., social aspects, better incorporating sustainable aspects into daily work). 5 Environment Assessment, policy and goals Overall environmental goal: Solenco works with and should be perceived as sustainable in its services and its attitude. We aim to try and make environmental issues an integral part of what we provide and ensure that there are financial benefits for the project. This is in part described in our Integrated Quality and Environmental Management System (according to to ISO 9001 and ISO 14001) and company Code of Conduct. We have also posted our company mapping to the UN Sustainable Development Goals, Swedish Environmental goals, GRI, and Planetary Boundaries (from the Stockholm Resilience Center). We have a further overarching goal to be an active part of relevant sustainable networks in our region. Detailed environmental goals for the next 5 years: • Record our environmental certifications each year • Map our CO2 footprint for travel and office energy each year • Report CO2 savings that our services have contributed to our projects • Identify all suppliers from the point of view of environmental work / sustainability • At least 50% of purchased products must be eco-labelled • Change to renewable electricity for our office • Follow up with clients on Solenco’s environmental progress Implementation Even though we are only a small company, we have worked very hard to aligned ourselves with as many relevant systems as possible (see Attachment 2, Solenco’s Communication on Progress (COP) towards Sweden’s Environmental Objectives and other relevant goals). Solenco is a part of the Sweden Green Building Council, the Technology, Economics and Environment foundation’s (TEM’s) CSR Skåne network, Hållbart byggande Syd (Sustainable Builders South region), and the “Local roadmap for a climate-neutral construction and civil engineering sector in Malmö 2030 ”(LFM30) initiative. Solenco has a division dedicated to environmental/sustainability services. Our environmental/sustainability specialists on staff help to drive and implement our goals in this area. In addition, we perform annual training on environmental concerns and we recycle cardboard, paper, metal, batteries, lightbulbs, and food waste. We separate our waste stream by law. CO2-footprinting was done with the help of our accounting system and the finance department. The development of accounting methods for projects was produced by the sustainability department. The project manager is responsible for completing this before the end of the financial year. Survey of suppliers will be conducted by the sustainability department during the next reporting period. A client survey was developed in June 2019 to be implemented in the coming year to measure how they have experienced the environmental and sustainable aspects in our projects. 6 The agreement is in progress for changing our office’s electricity contract to a Green contract. The agreement will be in place from October 1, 2019, with 100 percent wind power and a ”Bra miljö” (“good environment”) eco-label from the Swedish Society for Nature Conservation (Naturskyddsföreningen). Follow-up will be done on during the management's review during Quarter 4 and in conjunction with Global Compact reporting. Measurement of outcomes As part of our environmental/sustainability services, the following buildings are undergoing or have been certified during the 2018-2019 period: • BREEAM-SE o 2 ongoing hotels (both Very good ambition) o 2 ongoing offices (both Outstanding ambition) • BREEAM in-use International o 4 office re-certifications (1 Very good, 2 Good and 1 Pass for Part 1, and 1 Good and 1 Pass for Part 2) o 2 shopping center re-certifications (Part 1, one Excellent, one Very Good) o 7 ongoing shopping centers (Part 1, Very good ambition for all) • LEED v4 BD+C o 1 office (Gold ambition) o 1 industrial production building (Gold ambition) o 1 warehouse (Gold ambition) o 1 industrial support building (Gold ambition) An analysis of Solenco’s carbon footprint was conducted for 2018 through August 2019. The results show that: • The potential CO2 savings is 15,400 tons total, with the energy measures proposed with a return of investment (ROI) of less than 5 years. • The likely actual CO2 savings is 3,078 tons, assuming that 25 percent of the proposed savings are implemented and removing those projects that are on hold or have not budgeted yet for these savings. • This means that we have saved 217 times more CO2 than we have generated for our airline and car travels during this period. • Energy consumption for our office: 37,224 kWh • Water consumption for our office: 99.5 m3 From our preliminary analysis, about 15% of our total products purchased from September 2018 to August 2019 can be categorized as sustainable. We wish to increase this number with our 2019/20 sustainable products project. 7 Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals Sweden signed the UN Convention against Corruption on December 9, 2003 and ratified our commitment on September 25, 2017. Solenco’s Code of Conduct and company employee handbook are guidelines for how we conduct our business in an ethical, social and sustainable manner in accordance with the UN convention. Implementation We will implement policies related to corruption in our most recent company handbook. Any reported corruption will be dealt with in accordance with company policy and external authorities. Measurement of outcomes During this past reporting period, Solenco had no known corruption issues. The employee survey showed no signs of being exposed to or involved with bribery. Attachments Attachment 1: Solenco Code of Conduct Attachment 2: Solenco’s Communication on Progress (COP) towards Sweden’s Environmental Objectives and other relevant goals Attachment 1 1 Code of Conduct The Code of Conduct is a guideline for how we at Solenco conduct our business in an ethical, social and sustainable manner. The Code is an overall framework for our operations and is largely based on international conventions, such as the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, the UN Declaration on Human Rights, the UN's ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles of Rights at Work and the UN Global Compact. The Code of Conduct covers all our employees and permeates our work and guides our business, together with Solenco’s other policy documents. Responsibility At Solenco, we have a shared responsibility for the impact that the company has, through its decisions and activities, on social development, its customers, employees and other stakeholders concerned by the company. We are therefore responsible for ensuring that all activities are carried out in line with the Code of Conduct and that measures are taken in cases where the activities have or may result in deviations from this. We shall, in a clear, accurate and complete manner, publish our guidelines, decisions and activities that affect people, our society and the environment. This applies both to the individual employee and to our other stakeholders. However, in some cases, which are not of particular public interest, discretion may be used concerning information about employees, assignments and the company. All employees at Solenco shall perform our profession with integrity and honesty, not with misleading or partial interest. We, and everyone who cooperates us with or works on behalf of Solenco, shall respect and comply with international conventions as well as applicable laws and regulations. The individual employee must have a good knowledge of how their work is affected by international conventions as well as applicable laws and regulations. We shall behave ethically in accordance with values of honesty, justice and integrity. We will show consideration for people, animals and the environment and show consideration for our / all stakeholders' needs. Solenco should be a workplace without barriers where everyone feels safe to say their opinion, where everyone thrives and develops. The individual employee's work environment and health should be the focus. A developing workplace with mutual trust, commitment, community and humor. Bribery We at Solenco must not offer, pay out or receive bribes. Each employee must have knowledge of what is classified as a bribe. Representation is allowed, but must be done with moderation and taking into account any parties' restrictions on the issue. Environment and Sustainable Development Solenco will contribute to long-term sustainable development through proactive environmental and sustainability work in all our business areas, locally and globally. An annual review of the Code of Conduct determines the need for evaluation and any revision thereof. Date: 2018-01-15 Kjell Knutsson, CEO SOLENCO AB Telefon Stekelgatan 1 +46 40 23 41 88 212 23 Malmö Attachment 2 Communication on Progress (COP) towards Sweden’s Environmental Objectives Solenco AB, including subsidiaries Solenco VVS AB and Solenco Automation AB This document is Solenco’s COP related to Sweden’s 16 Environmental Objectives. The overall goal of the objectives is to hand over to the next generation a society where the major environmental problems are solved, without causing increased environmental and health problems outside Sweden's borders. For our annual reporting under the UN Global Compact – during the reporting year from September 2018 through August 2019 – we have briefly described how Solenco is working towards achieving Sweden’s environmental objectives. And we have mapped out how these objectives are aligned with other relevant global environmental and sustainability goals, principles and standards, including: • UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) (see figure below) • UN Global Compact’s 10 Principles • Stockholm Resilience Centre’s 9 Planetary Boundaries (see figure to the right) • Global Reporting Initiative’s Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) The UN SDGs are shown below in a graphical depiction that emphasizes that not all the goals are equally weighted. The fulfillment of the biosphere goals is in fact the basis for all other goals to be achieved. Solenco is proud of our commitment to working towards these goals and we look forward to continuing to move forward in the next year! Source: Stockholm Resilience Center Kjell Knutsson, CEO Solenco AB Malmö, 2019-09-19 Source: Stockholm Resilience Center 1 Objective Description Solenco’s work on objective Related goals and principles Solenco’s work other goals 1 Reduced The concentrations of Constantly try to reduce our UN SDGs climate impact greenhouse gases in the climate impact, but since we 7 (7.2, 7.3) Work to ensure that our contract is eco-labelled electricity atmosphere must be are a relatively small consulting for the office. During 2020, the owner aims to install solar stabilized at a level that firm, we have no direct cells. Have several large energy-efficiency projects. will prevent dangerous influence more than our travels 12 (12.2, 12.3, 12.5, 12.6) Have only small amounts of material in stock, but make anthropogenic and electricity use in our office. supplier assessments, aim to buy eco-labelled products and interference with the Travel is necessary in many not over-consume. Sort eight streams including food waste. climate system. This goal cases because our projects exist 13 (13.2) Work according to ISO 9001 and 14001 continuously so that must be achieved in such a globally and require on-site if there are improvements measures are taken if there are way and at such a pace inspections. However, we log deviations or new information is added. that biological diversity is the savings we have made in preserved, food projects domestically and UN Global Compact production is assured, and abroad and our goal is that the Principle 7 Risk assessments are done continuously in the organization other goals of sustainable savings compensate for our and on projects. development are not impact by a significant margin. Principle 8 Offer sustainable services and / or sustainability consultants jeopardized. to advise on projects. Also evaluate our suppliers from an environmental and quality point of view. Principle 9 Carried out in our projects through design or advice for environmentally-friendly technologies and solutions. Planetary boundaries Climate change Contribute to reduced climate change by spreading knowledge and new technologies / solutions in our global projects. GRI standards G4-EN3/302-1 See UN SDG 7 G4-EN4/302-2 When the opportunity to charge a car at work is available, hybrid/electric cars in the business and in personal cases will benefit. Other trips are made as sustainable as possible. G4-EN15/305-1 Influence during our projects G4-EN16/305-2 See G4-EN3 G4-EN17/305-3 See above G4-EN21/305-7 Influence during our projects and see above 2 Objective Description Solenco’s work on objective Related goals and principles Solenco’s work other goals 2 Clean air The air must be clean Have Euro 6 as a requirement when UN SDGs enough not to buying cars, regardless of whether it is a 3 (3.9) High requirements for employees regarding represent a risk to company car or a car. safety and works continuously with well-being human health or to Chosen office location to reduce in the form of e.g., massage, flexible working animals, unnecessary everyday transports and hours plants or cultural there will be installed electric charge for 11 (11.6) Work with energy efficiency and enhancement assets. electric and hybrid cars on rented of industry as well as commercial buildings and parking spaces. certification according to a variety of Education/development continuously environmental / sustainability systems such as regarding new products that can be BREEAM, LEED, etc. Plumbing design according prescribed and usually works in projects to Swedish standard. with requirements for logbook for UN Global Compact chemical products according to Principle 7 Risk assessments are done continuously in the Byggvarubedömningen or Sunda hus. organization and on projects. In the projects involving energy Principle 8 Offers sustainable services and / or efficiency, the exchange of energy sustainability consultants to advise on projects. source is common, which means that we Also evaluates our suppliers from an can often influence the change from environmental and quality point of view. fossil fuels. Principle 9 Carried out in our projects through design or advice for environmentally-friendly technologies and solutions. Planetary boundaries Atmospheric aerosol loading No studded tires are used on the company's cars and the euro 6 is a requirement. Novel entities Continuous education and restrictive with prescribing new products where the information is doubtful / lacking. Usually works with logbooks via Sunda house or the construction product assessment. GRI standards G4-EN15/305-1 Influence during our projects G4-EN16/305-2 Work to ensure that our contract is changed to eco-labelled electricity for the office. During 2019/2020, solar cells will be installed. G4-EN17/305-3 See environmental goals 1 G4-EN21/305-7 See environmental goals 1 and we can influence in our projects 3 Objective Description Solenco’s work on objective Related goals and principles Solenco’s work other goals 3 Natural The acidifying effects of Have started the transition from vehicles UN SDGs acidification only deposition and land use with fossil fuels by having chosen the 6 (6.3) Work with plumbing issues in new must not exceed the right location, property owners who will construction and existing properties and limits that can be install electric charging stations on the then with improvement. tolerated by soil and site. Traveling as sustainably as possible. 15 (15.2) Shop locally and largely eco-labeled water. In addition, El? products deposition of acidifying substances must not UN Global Compact increase the rate of Principle 8 Offer sustainable services and / or corrosion of technical sustainability consultants to advise on materials located in the projects. Also evaluate our suppliers from ground, water main an environmental and quality point of systems, archaeological view. objects and rock Principle 9 Carried out in our projects through design carvings. or advice for environmentally-friendly technologies and solutions. Planetary boundaries Ocean acidification It is possible that this will be affected by Atmospheric aerosol loading projects by improving industrial areas. No studded tires are used on the company's cars and the euro 6 is a requirement. GRI standards G4-EN21/305-7 See environmental goals 1 and we can influence in our projects 4 Objective Description Solenco’s work on objective Related goals and principles Solenco’s work other goals 4 A non-toxic The presence of Training takes place UN SDGs environment substances in the continuously when it comes to 2 (2.1, 2.4) environment that have products and chemical 3 (3.9) High requirements for employees regarding safety and been created or substances that we prescribe, work continuously with well-being in the form of e.g., recovered by society use or recommend to keep us massage, flexible working hours should not threaten updated. 6 (6.1, 6.3, 6.6) Work with plumbing issues in new construction and existing human health or We are sometimes exposed to properties and then with improvement. biodiversity. The levels subjects when we work in 8 (8.8) Have no collective agreements when decisions on this have of extraneous nature projects and stay at been taken unanimously at a special meeting. Agreements substances are close to construction sites, during etc. follow Swedish legislation and growth and profit share zero and their impact on renovations / refurbishments or are jointly decided. human health and inventories. Procedures exist to 12 (12.4, 12.5, 12.8) Have only small amounts of material in stock, but make ecosystems is negligible. minimize this. supplier assessments, aim to buy eco-labelled products and The levels of naturally Do not buy GMOs or other not over-consume. Sort waste. Environmental education. occurring substances are modified products. 14 (14.1) close to the background Implement the Swan and other 15 (15.1, 15.3, 15.4, 15.5) levels. sustainability certification systems that focus on materials UN Global Compact and the chemical content. Principle 7 Risk assessments are done continuously in the organization and on projects. Principle 8 Offer sustainable services and / or sustainability consultants to advise on projects. Also evaluates our suppliers from an environmental and quality point of view. Principle 9 Carried out in our projects through design or advice for environmentally-friendly technologies and solutions. Planetary boundaries Novel entities Continuous education and restrictive with prescribing new Atmospheric aerosol loading products where the information is doubtful / lacking. Usually works with logbooks via Sunda house or the construction product assessment. No studded tires are used on the company's cars and the GRI standards euro 6 is a requirement. G4-EN1/301-1 Materials we use are food, office supplies and technology. Compilation of ordered material for the year is done each G4-EN2/301-2 year in pieces or weight. We report the amount of recycled and eco-labeled purchased products per year. 5 Objective Description Solenco’s work on objective Related goals and principles Solenco’s work other goals 5 A protective The ozone layer must be A natural part of fulfilling, improving in UN SDGs ozone layer replenished so as to the projects we have where cooling is 3 (3.4) High requirements for employees provide long-term included in everything from choice of regarding safety and works continuously protection against system to the choice of coolant. Even with well-being in the form of e.g., harmful UV radiation. when changing systems, this is followed massage, ergonomics, flexible working up. hours 12 (12.4, 12.5) Have only small amounts of material in stock, but make supplier assessments, aim to buy eco-labelled products and not overconsume. Waste separation. UN Global Compact Principle 8 Offer sustainable services and / or sustainability consultants to advise on projects. Also evaluate our suppliers from an environmental and quality point of view. Principle 9 Carried out in our projects through design or advice for environmentally-friendly technologies and solutions. Planetary boundaries Stratospheric ozone depletion Work preventively with the right refrigerants (preferably natural). GRI standards G4-EN20 /305-6 Can be affected by projects 6 Objective Description Solenco’s work on objective Related goals and principles Solenco’s work other goals 6 A safe radiation Human health and Can be done in projects when we work UN SDGs environment biological diversity must in projects and stay at construction sites, 3 (3.4) High requirements for employees be protected against the during renovations / renovations or regarding safety and works continuously harmful effects of inventories. Procedures exist to with well-being in the form of e.g., radiation. minimize this. massage, ergonomic, flexible working hours 8 (8.8) Follow Swedish legislation and a Global Compact signatory. Have Code of Conduct. UN Global Compact Principle 8 Offer sustainable services and / or sustainability consultants to advise on projects. Also evaluates our suppliers from an environmental and quality point of view. Principle 9 Carried out in our projects through design or advice for environmentally-friendly technologies and solutions. Planetary boundaries Biogeochemical flows GRI standards 7 Objective Description Solenco’s work on objective Related goals and principles Solenco’s work other goals 7 Zero Nutrient levels in soil Not directly relevant UN SDGs eutrophication and water must not be 6 (6.3, 6.6) Work with plumbing issues in new such that they adversely construction and existing properties and affect human health, the then with improvement. conditions for biological 14 (14.1, 14.2) diversity or the possibility of varied use UN Global Compact of land and water. Principle 8 Offer sustainable services and / or sustainability consultants to advise on projects. Also evaluate our suppliers from an environmental and quality point of view. Principle 9 Carried out in our projects through design or advice for environmentally-friendly technologies and solutions. Planetary boundaries Biogeochemical flows GRI standards G4-EN22/306-1 G4-EN24/306-3 8 Objective Description Solenco’s work on objective Related goals and principles Solenco’s work other goals 8 Flourising lakes Lakes and watercourses May be impacted in some projects. UN SDGs and streams must be ecologically 6 (6.3, 6.6) Work with plumbing issues in new sustainable and their construction and existing properties and variety of habitats must then with improvement. be preserved. Natural 15 (15.1, 15.5, 15.8, 15.9) productive capacity, biological diversity, UN Global Compact cultural heritage assets Principle 7 Risk assessments are done continuously in and the ecological and the organization and on projects. water-conserving Principle 8 Offer sustainable services and / or function of the sustainability consultants to advise on landscape must be projects. Also evaluate our suppliers from preserved, at the same an environmental and quality point of time as recreational view. assets are safeguarded. Principle 9 Carried out in our projects through design or advice for environmentally-friendly technologies and solutions. Planetary boundaries Biogeochemical flows Land-system change Freshwater use Minimal GRI standards G4-EN8/303-1 Only relevant in the office for drinking water, dishes and cleaning. G4-EN9/303-2 May be relevant in projects G4-EN11/304-1 May be relevant in projects G4-EN12/304-2 Material selection is made according to environmental databases G4-EN13/304-3 G4-EN14/304-4 G4-EN22/306-1 May be relevant in projects G4-EN24/306-3 G4-EN26/306-5 May be relevant in projects 9 Objective Description Solenco’s work on objective Related goals and principles Solenco’s work other goals 9 Good-quality Groundwater must Not a goal that affects the business may UN SDGs groundwater provide a safe and be possible to impact in specific 6 (6.3, 6.4, 6.6) Work with plumbing issues in new sustainable supply of projects. construction and existing properties and drinking water and then with improvement. contribute to viable 12 (12.2, 12.4) Have only small amounts of material in habitats for flora and stock, but make supplier assessments, aim fauna in lakes and to buy eco-labelled products and not overwatercourses. consume. 15 (15.1) UN Global Compact Principle 7 Risk assessments are done continuously in the organization and on projects. Principle 8 Offer sustainable services and / or sustainability consultants to advise on projects. Also evaluate our suppliers from an environmental and quality point of view. Planetary boundaries Freshwater use Minimal GRI standards G4-EN22/306-1 May be relevant in projects G4-EN24/306-3 10 Objective Description Solenco’s work on objective Related goals and principles Solenco’s work other goals 10 A balanced The North Sea and the Not directly relevant UN SDGs marine Baltic Sea must have a 14 (14.1, 14.2, 14.4) environment, sustainable productive 15 (15.5, 15.8, 15.9) flourishing coastal capacity, and biological areas and diversity must be UN Global Compact archipelagos preserved. Coasts and Principle 7 Risk assessments are done continuously in archipelagos must be the organization and on projects. characterised by a high Principle 8 Offer sustainable services and / or degree of biological sustainability consultants to advise on diversity and a wealth of projects. Also evaluates our suppliers from recreational, natural and an environmental and quality point of cultural assets. Industry, view. recreation and other Principle 9 Carried out in our projects through design utilisation of the seas, or advice for environmentally-friendly coasts and archipelagos technologies and solutions. must be compatible with the promotion of Planetary boundaries sustainable Biogeochemical flows development. Land-system change Particularly valuable Fresh water use Minimal areas must be protected against encroachment GRI standards May be relevant in projects and other disturbance. G4-EN22/306-1 No G4-EN24/306-3 G4-EN25/306-4 11 Objective Description Solenco’s work on objective Related goals and principles Solenco’s work other goals 11 Thriving The ecological and Not directly relevant UN SDGs wetlands water-retaining function 6 (6.4, 6.6) Work with plumbing issues in new of the wetlands in the construction and existing properties and landscape should be then with improvement. maintained and valuable 15 (15.1, 15.3, 15.5, 15.7, 15.8, 15.9) wetlands preserved for the future. UN Global Compact Principle 8 Offer sustainable services and / or sustainability consultants to advise on projects. Also evaluate our suppliers from an environmental and quality point of view. Principle 9 Carried out in our projects through design or advice for environmentally-friendly technologies and solutions. Planetary boundaries Biogeochemical flows Land-system change Freshwater use Minimal GRI standards G4-EN11/304-1 May be relevant in projects G4-EN12/304-2 Material selection is made according to environmental databases G4-EN13/304-3 G4-EN14/304-4 12 Objective Description Solenco’s work on objective Related goals and principles Solenco’s work other goals 12 Sustainable The value of forests and Not directly relevant, but perhaps UN SDGs forests forest land for biological indirectly in some individual projects. 15 (15.1, 15.2, 15.7, 15.8) production must be Very little use of materials internally. protected, at the same UN Global Compact time as biological Principle 7 Risk assessments are done continuously in diversity and cultural the organization and on projects. heritage and Principle 8 Offer sustainable services and / or recreational assets are sustainability consultants to advise on safeguarded. projects. Also evaluate our suppliers from an environmental and quality point of view. Principle 9 Carried out in our projects through design or advice for environmentally-friendly technologies and solutions. Planetary boundaries Land-system change GRI standards G4-EN1/301-1 Materials we use are food, office supplies and technology. Tracking of material ordered each year is done (by number and/or weight). We report the amount of recycled and eco-labeled purchased products per year. G4-EN11/304-1 May be relevant in projects G4-EN12/304-2 Material selection is made according to environmental databases G4-EN13/304-3 G4-EN14/304-4 G4-EN26/306-5 May be relevant in projects 13 Objective Description Solenco’s work on objective Related goals and principles Solenco’s work other goals 13 A varied The value of the farmed Not directly relevant UN SDGs agricultural landscape and 2 (2.4) landscape agricultural land for 15 (15.1, 15.2, 15.7, 15.8) biological production and food production UN Global Compact must be protected, at Principle 7 Risk assessments are done continuously in the same time as the organization and on projects. biological diversity and Principle 8 Offer sustainable services and / or cultural heritage assets sustainability consultants to advise on are preserved and projects. Also evaluate our suppliers from strengthened. an environmental and quality point of view. Principle 9 Carried out in our projects through design or advice for environmentally-friendly technologies and solutions. Planetary boundaries Land-system change Changed land use GRI standards G4-EN11/304-1 May be relevant in projects G4-EN12/304-2 Material selection is made according to environmental databases G4-EN13/304-3 G4-EN14/304-4 G4-EN26/306-5 May be relevant in projects 14 Objective Description Solenco’s work on objective Related goals and principles Solenco’s work other goals 14 A magnificent The pristine character of the Not directly relevant UN SDGs mountain mountain environment Goal 15 (15.1, 15.4, 15.5, 15.7, landscape must be largely preserved, 15.8, 15.9) in terms of biological diversity, recreational value, UN Global Compact and natural and cultural Principle 7 Risk assessments are done continuously in assets. Activities in the organization and on projects. mountain areas must Planetary boundaries respect these values and Land-system change assets, with a view to promoting sustainable GRI standards development. Particularly G4-EN11/304-1 May be relevant in specific projects valuable areas must be G4-EN12/304-2 Material selection is made according to protected from environmental databases encroachment and other G4-EN13/304-3 disturbance. G4-EN14/304-4 G4-EN26/306-5 May be relevant in specific projects 15 Objective Description Solenco’s work on objective Related goals and principles Solenco’s work other goals 15 A good built Cities, towns and other This goal is our core area in UN SDGs environment built-up environments environmental / sustainability 6 (6.3) Work with plumbing issues in new construction and existing should constitute a certifications using various properties and with improvement. good and healthy living globally-recognized and 9 (9.1) Spread knowledge, solutions and technology in the industry environment and regional/local systems, and in locally and globally. Also nationally and be involved in contribute to a good sustainability consulting developing systems, solutions etc. that are more sustainable. regional and global throughout our range of 11 (11.6) Work with energy efficiency and enhancement of industry as environment. Natural expertise, design, energy well as commercial buildings and certification according to a and cultural assets efficiency improvements of variety of environmental / sustainability systems such as must be protected and industries and real estate, etc. BREEAM, LEED, Svanen, Fitwel, WELL, etc. developed. Buildings 12 (12.3, 12.5) Have little material in stock, but make supplier assessments, and amenities must be aim to buy eco-labelled products and not over-consume. located and designed in accordance with UN Global Compact sound environmental Principle 7 Risk assessments are done continuously in the organization principles and in such a and on projects. way as to promote Principle 8 Offers sustainable services and / or sustainability consultants sustainable to advise on projects. Also evaluates our suppliers from an management of land, environmental and quality point of view. water and other Principle 9 Carried out in our projects through design or advice for resources. environmentally-friendly technologies and solutions. Planetary boundaries Biogeochemical flows Freshwater use Minimal Land-system change GRI standards G4-EN1/301-1 Materials we use are food, office materials and technology. G4-EN2/301-2 Tracking of material ordered each year is done (by number and/or weight). G4-EN8/303-1 Only in offices for drinking water, dishes and cleaning. G4-EN9/303-2 May be relevant in projects G4-EN10/303-3 0% G4-EN22/306-1 May be relevant in projects G4-EN23/306-2 Cannot be measured for us as the building’s waste sorting is in a common area outdoors G4-EN24 No 16 Objective Description Solenco’s work on objective Related goals and principles Solenco’s work other goals 16 A rich diversity Biodiversity must be Not directly relevant, but UN SDGs of plant and preserved and used in perhaps indirectly in some 11 (11.4) Work with energy efficiency and enhancement of industry as animal life a sustainable way, for projects well as commercial buildings and certification according to a current and future variety of environmental / sustainability systems such as generations. Species BREEAM, LEED, Svanen, Fitwel, WELL, etc. habitats and 12 (12.2) Have only small amounts of material in stock, but make ecosystems and their supplier assessments, aim to buy eco-labelled products and functions and not over-consume. processes must be 13 (13.1) Works according to ISO 9001 and 14001 with constant safeguarded. Species improvements so that measures are taken in case of deviations must be able to survive or when new information is added. in long-term viable 14 (14.2) populations with 15 (15.1, 15.5, 15.7, 15.8, 15.9) sufficient genetic variation. UN Global Compact Finally, people must Principle 7 Risk assessments are done continuously in the organization have access to a good and on projects. natural and cultural Principle 8 Offer sustainable services and / or sustainability consultants to environment rich in advise on projects. Also evaluates our suppliers from an biological diversity, as environmental and quality point of view. a basis for health, quality of life and wellPlanetary boundaries being. Climate change Contribute to reduced climate change by spreading knowledge and new technologies / solutions in our global projects. Biogeochemical flows Land-system change Minimal Freshwater use GRI standards G4-EN11/304-1 May be relevant in projects G4-EN12/304-2 Material selection is made according to environmental databases G4-EN13/304-3 G4-EN14/304-4 G4-EN26/306-5 May be relevant in projects 17
