Report 2018 Summary LETTER TO THE READER ..............................................................................................................................................5 1. MESSAGES FROM LEADERSHIP ...................................................................................................................6 1.1 Message from the CEO...........................................................................................................................6 1.2 Message from the Chairman of the Board..................................................................8 2. ABOUT THE REPORT................................................................................................................................................10 3. 2018: THE YEAR OF THE DOUBLE CHALLENGE...................................................................14 3.1 Preparation for the merger..........................................................................................................16 3.2 Business does not stop.....................................................................................................................22 4. THE NEW SUZANO......................................................................................................................................................74 4.1 Our numbers .................................................................................................................................................76 4.2 Our culture .......................................................................................................................................................78 5. INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT ..................................................................................90 6. GRI CONTENT INDEX ..............................................................................................................................................94 7. GRI ATTACHMENT ................................................................................................................................................... 106 8. CREDITS .............................................................................................................................................................................. 140 LETTER TO THE READER Dear readers: We present to you the 2018 Report of Suzano, the world’s largest producer of eucalyptus pulp and leader in the paper market in Latin America. This publication depicts the merger of two large forest-based companies—Suzano Pulp and Paper and Fibria—completed on January 14, 2019. The process to prepare for the merger of the businesses, however, began in March of the previous year. During this period, the companies continued to operate separately, as they organized for the change. [GRI 102-1] The merger is, therefore, the guiding thread of our narrative. In this report you will learn how the teams of both companies achieved good operating results in 2018, despite the uncertainties inherent to the formation of a large company in the market. You will also learn about the strategies used, the challenges, risks and lessons learned. You will get to know some projects that stood out in the forest and industrial areas of the companies, as well as the social and environmental results, our positioning, and initiatives in the field of innovation and new business. The economic dimension will also be presented in this document and more details can be obtained in the 2018 Financial Statement at http://ri.suzano.com.br/ptb/7366/666830.pdf. The work to define the material topics and indicators reported is detailed in the section ‘About the Report’. We also dedicate a special section for information regarding the new company. We want to convey the meaning of our culture Drivers—what they are, how they were conceived and what impact they will have on Suzano’s strategic management—and how these references will help us support an organizational culture capable of promoting change in society. Finally, we present the challenges for 2019, which can be summarized in the alignment of our more than 35,000 direct and indirect employees and in the capture of new and old synergies, identified in 2018 during preparation for the merger and after the effective union of the businesses. In addition to the printed edition, the report has an online PDF version, available for download at http://www.suzano.com.br/en/r2018. More information about Suzano can be obtained on our institutional website www.suzano.com.br. We would like to hear your opinion on the report and, to this end, suggestions, questions or comments can be sent by email to relatoriosuzano@suzano.com.br. Seedling Nursery in Três Lagoas (Mato Enjoy your reading! Grosso do Sul state) Photo: Araquém Alcântara Suzano Report 2018 5 1 M e s s a g e s f ro m Leadership Walter Schalka CEO Photo: Sérgio Zacchi WE ARE LIVING A VERY SPECIAL MOMENT. OUR DREAM HAS COME TRUE: WE HAVE UNITED TWO COMPANIES WITH SUCCESSFUL STORIES TO BUILD AN EVEN BETTER FUTURE. Watch Walter’s testimonial on the most relevant issues for Suzano in 2018 Messages from Leadership Welcome To Suzano! [GRI 102-14] To get here, we faced significant challenges. with practices that express the organization’s In 2018, the companies Suzano Pulp and intention on a daily basis. Paper and Fibria Celulose continued to operate separately, while preparing for the merger, We are aware of the size of our responsibility which required enormous effort from our given our leadership position in the market we teams. After all, we went through one of the operate. It is not by chance that sustainability largest M&A transactions ever held in Brazil. permeates all culture Drivers and is present in During this process, the companies benefited Suzano’s global strategy. This means that from the rare combination of high dollar the economic, environmental and social aspects exchange rate and pulp prices, which helped of our initiatives will also be strengthened, boost our results in the period. In the months seeking greater representation in society. We during the transition, the companies were want to be transforming agents, not spectators, financially more protected against turmoil in however we will not be able to embrace all the the political and economic scenario in Brazil and existing demands in Brazil. Therefore, given the abroad, aggravated by the trade war between nature of our business, the challenges related China and the United States. to water, energy and climate change will be some of the main issues in the environmental The effort the teams dedicated to the day to dimension. In social terms, we will work on day of the business also contributed to the territorial development programs associated stability and to the excellence with which both with education and income generation. companies reached the agreed upon goals, achieving great performance in the year. If, on Innovation goes hand in hand with the one hand, we kept focused on the routine, sustainability. On the one hand, we have on the other, a group of professionals was excellent researchers and access to the latest exclusively dedicated to the merger process. It technology. On the other, we have eucalyptus was up to them to identify the synergies that forests, mills and a large production chain. were to be captured by Suzano, and to organize We have in our hands the perfect conditions all the legal aspects that culminated in the to advance in the search for solutions to approval of the operation. a low-carbon economy, responding to the aspirations of society for sustainable As of November 30, when we received the last production and renewable products. authorization for the conclusion of the business and we were able to announce the structure of I feel encouraged and very happy to be part the executive team and, soon after, we started of this special moment in Suzano’s history. working on the process to integrate and define We have important challenges to overcome in the culture of Suzano. With the positive and 2019, such as the delivery of synergies and the inspiring involvement of first-tier executives, consolidation of our organizational culture. I plus the participation of professionals from am convinced that we will be able to overcome various business areas, we created our culture them and open paths that will positively impact Drivers, a set of references of what we want Brazil and the world. to be and how we will get there. Our focus in 2019, in addition to capturing the synergies, Walter Schalka is to form a unique and balanced culture, CEO of Suzano Suzano Report 2018 7 “ AT SUZANO, INNOVABILITY IS A FUNDAMENTAL STRATEGIC PILLAR OF THE TRANSFORMATION WE WANT TO ACHIEVE. WE WANT TO KEEP GROWING AND TRANSFORMING FOR MANY GENERATIONS TO COME, Photo: WITHOUT LOSING OUR ESSENCE.” Ricardo Teles Messages from Leadership David Feffer President of Suzano Holding and Chairman of the Board of Directors A dream that left the drawing board [GRI 102-14] Suzano was born 95 years ago and since then That is why, at Suzano, innovability is has undergone many challenging periods and a fundamental strategic pillar of the many periods of celebration as well. Eighteen transformation we want to achieve. years ago, when we became market leaders, we were not sure how we would advance, but We want to keep growing and transforming we followed our intuition and our heart, with for many generations to come, without a dash of courage. That’s why we challenged losing our essence. To this end, we need ourselves to leave the 21st century stronger to ensure that Suzano has the best than when we came in. team and winning strategies. We work to build a culture of leaders: people who The merger between Suzano Pulp and Paper are skilled, inquisitive, engaged, aligned and Fibria Celulose was another step in this with our values and with diverse profiles, journey. Now, together, we have the potential genders and backgrounds. A team ready for an incredible range of opportunities, to think outside the box and deal with all new ways of operating and reinventing. challenges—current and future. Both companies have a history of growing commitment to care for nature and people, Our founder, Leon Feffer, challenged us to seeking to create value for shareholders, always have the courage to take initiatives. customers, suppliers, employees, communities, “It doesn’t matter if one or other initiative society as a whole and our planet. [GRI 102-40] will fail, but the ones that you do get right will be of great value!” “It’s only good for us if it’s good for the world” is one of Suzano’s culture Drivers, presented We will continue with the courage to dare throughout this report. It’s how we want to and take initiatives, on several fronts. make our decisions. We are part of the daily Always in a strong and gentle way, faithful lives of billions of people in the world and, to our values and our essence. with the birth of this new company, we have expanded our global reach. We have the chance David Feffer to act and defend our beliefs in a different way, President of Suzano Holding and Chairman as protagonists in the evolution of society. of the Board of Directors of Suzano Suzano Report 2018 9 2 About the Report In a unique year for Suzano Pulp and Paper and Fibria Celulose, Suzano’s 2018 Report depicts the performance of the two companies during the transition— in which both organized for one of the largest mergers in the forest-based industry in the world. 10 Suzano Report 2018 Francisley de Bortoli Pandolphi Production of Wood Chips, in Aracruz (Espírito Santo state) Photo: Márcio Schimming About the Report The document addresses the various challenges faced by the two companies to achieve the business goals set for the period, while their teams prepared for the change and addressed the legal demands involved in merger. The economic, social, and environmental indicators in this report also reflect the exceptional nature of this moment. In their previous reports, Suzano Pulp and Paper reported nearly 100 indicators and Fibria, 140, meeting the expectations and aspirations of their respective stakeholders. As soon as the merger was completed, in January 2019, we cross-referenced the materialities of the former companies along with some market demands from customers, investors and financial analysts. In this process, we selected 90 indicators responsible Participants in the Rural Land for representing and addressing all material Development Program (PDRT), topics from the former Suzano Pulp and Paper which trains more than 1,100 families of smallholder and Fibria, while considering the current farmers in Três Lagoas context of Suzano. (Mato Grosso do Sul state) Photo: Araquém Alcântara Thus, it was also necessary to consider which of them were fit to be collected, in accordance with the limitations and consolidation rules of the new company. and aspects to be worked strategically in Thus, in this report, a total of 79 indicators management and with our stakeholders. were reported separately, since they [GRI 102-42, 102-43, 102-44] refer to the period from January 1 to December 31, 2018, when the companies The contents of this publication have were still operating independently. been submitted to external assurance [GRI 102-46, 102-49, 102-50] by Bureau Veritas, which can be viewed on page 90. In addition to the printed After the first months of the merger, Suzano edition, the report has an online PDF is in the process to develop its sustainability version, available for download at strategy and relationship plan with strategic http://www.suzano.com.br/en/r2018. audiences. To this end, the company is More information about Suzano can be conducting an in-depth consultation with its obtained on our institutional website stakeholders in order to identify perceptions www.suzano.com.br. For questions or about the new company, what is expected of suggestions, contact us by email through it and what the priority topics are. Based on relatoriosuzano@suzano.com.br. these inputs, we will define a list of topics [GRI 102-53, 102-56] 12 Suzano Report 2018 MATERIAL TOPICS [GRI 102-47] Suzano Pulp and Paper Fibria • Certification and supply chain • Community relations • Local development • Management of water resources • Strategy, brand and communication • Sustainable forest management • Environmental management • Climate change • Governance and conduct • Innovation and technology • Recognition of the workforce • Regional and local development • Relationship with the government • Transparency and leadership • Supply chain management • Business expansion • Human capital management • Economic management • Government relations • Customer focus Suzano Report 2018 13 3 2018: The year of the double challenge 14 Suzano Report 2018 Annatto picked by members of the Ofayé Indigenous community in Brasilândia (Mato Grosso do Sul state) Photo: Araquém Alcântara March 16, 2018 will certainly be a milestone in Suzano’s history. It was on this day that two of the world’s largest companies in the pulp sector, Suzano Pulp and Paper and Fibria, announced to the market the combination of their operations to create a new company. The months following the announcement were marked by a twofold challenge: to maintain the good operating performance of the companies—which continued to operate separately—while preparing for the major changes inherent to a merger process. Suzano Report 2018 15 2018: The year of the double challenge 3.1 P reparation for the merger [GRI 102-10] IN ORDER TO OVERCOME THESE IMPORTANT PHASES, IT WAS NECESSARY TO STRENGTHEN BOTH TEAM ENGAGEMENT INTERNALLY AND DIALOGUE WITH KEY EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS. IN THIS CONTEXT, WE CARRIED OUT A SERIES OF INITIATIVES BASED ON TWO PREMISES THAT SET THE TONE FOR THE ENTIRE PROCESS: ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY. Photo: Ricardo Teles From left to right: Claudinei Macilha (facing back), Carlos Eduardo Ferreira, and Marlon de Cesaro Martins Maintenance, in Suzano (São Paulo state) 16 Suzano Report 2018 Leonardo Pires (Communication and Brand) and Patrícia Joly (People and Management) at the Suzano Central Office, in São Paulo (São Paulo state) Photo: Ricardo Teles TRANSITION TEAM While most of the teams took care of Implementation of the operation, whose day-to-day operations, a group of people mission was to comply with all legal was selected to coordinate the merger and regulatory obligations inherent to process. Two professionals—one from such a process. Suzano Pulp and Paper and another from Fibria—led the group and were removed from P  reparation of the companies for the merger, their original duties to dedicate exclusively to in order to identify the synergies obtained from the process of joining the two companies. the operation and initiate the design of the organizational structure for the new company. Called Clean Team, this group was supported by the legal departments of It was the responsibility of the external advisors— both companies and by external legal who had access to all information of both advisors to act in two fronts: companies— to filter out what could be disclosed to Clean Team without violating the principles of confidentiality of sensitive topics of the companies, since they continued to operate separately. Suzano Report 2018 17 2018: The year of the double challenge Milene Ribeiro de Morais, plant nursery assistant, in Três Lagoas (Mato Grosso do Sul state) Photo: Araquém Alcântara DISCIPLINE AND RIGOR make the integration work, the different There was very strict secrecy concerning strengths were understood and accepted data and rigorous compliance with rules and and became complementary. The two leaders deadlines for approval of the merger at all levels. ahead of the work had the responsibility And, not less important, there was also a lot of and the operational challenge of selecting discipline so that Suzano Pulp and Paper and information that could be passed on from Fibria could take the necessary steps, at the one side to the other. expected pace, to finalize the operation. The activities of the Clean Team occurred In the first meetings of the Clean Team, formed from April 2018 to January 2019, when it was by groups with approximately 100 representatives announced that all conditions for the completion from both organizations, the teams found it of the operation had been met. Initially, it difficult to balance Fibria’s more procedural was estimated that this operation would take profile with Suzano Pulp and Paper’s agility. between 12 and 15 months—nevertheless, only Teamwork, coupled with their willingness to nine months were required to complete it. 18 Suzano Report 2018 2018: The year of the double challenge PEOPLE AND CLIMATE Treating the process as a combination of EVOLUTION TRAIL businesses between the companies, rather A diagnosis made by an external consulting than as an acquisition and takeover by the identified the most pressing concerns buyer, was a position taken from the very and grievances among Suzano Pulp and Paper start. To ensure alignment among all teams employees, generating inputs for a multifunctional and prepare people for this change process, group of Human Resources and Communication both Suzano Pulp and Paper and Fibria invested professionals to trace the Evolution Trail. The in programs to prepare their leaders and, purpose of the program was to consistently and through them, their teams. transparently deal with information that could be shared about the context of the new company in Trilha da Evolução (Evolution Trail) and the various internal communication channels, such Uma Nova Jornada (A New Journey) were the as blogs and face-to-face meetings, among others. programs developed by Suzano Pulp and Paper The opportunities generated by the change, and Fibria, respectively, to provide support for humility and openness to transformation were this moment. Both shared the same goal: to some of the topics covered along the trail. raise awareness and engage the leadership to support their teams throughout the transition, Suzano Pulp and Paper also offered development always with the transparency and dialogue that opportunities to the teams. Among them, talks characterized the conduct of each company. with athletes who experienced great challenges Photo: Ricardo Teles Arquimedes Júnior Neves Pereira, Gabriela de Nadai Mauri, and Antonio Carlos de Lima Barbosa Logistics, in Mucuri (Bahia state) Suzano Report 2018 19 2018: The year of the double challenge in their journeys. At the opening of the Three moments were especially important program, former volleyball player Tande, in this process. The first, called ‘Day A’, for example, recalled moments in which he was on November 30, 2018, when Europe handled difficult decisions in the direction issued the last authorization required of his career in volleyball. Swimmer Marta for the merger of the operations. On that Izo, who in 2006 and 2011 crossed the date, in a live broadcast for the companies English Channel between Great Britain and in Brazil and in their respective international Northern France, spoke about resilience in an offices, all employees had the opportunity uncertain and turbulent environment. to meet the new Executive Board, see the new logo and ask questions anonymously, A NEW JOURNEY since the company’s rule is to make Receiving new teammates, being invited to people feel at ease so that no subjects hold another position within the company, are considered taboo. or considering no longer being part of the company are among the hundreds of ‘Day C’ was on January 14, 2019 and variables in a merger process. So how can marked the celebration of the closing one prepare for this moment? Fibria also had of the merger. All units of the new support from external consultants to assist company in the country and abroad in the development and implementation of were prepared and acclimated under the its program A New Journey. inspiration of the campaign called Somar é transformar juntos (Combining is to A series of four face-to-face meetings transform together), in which the employees brought together 346 company leaders were encouraged to make the occasion a to address personal and professional special day, with breakfasts, lunches and empowerment, helping people perceive the happy hours to gather with former and opportunities ahead and the alternatives new colleagues. Suzano in 3-D letters that would help their teams experience throughout the units, delivery of new change positively. After all, the transition company badges and shirts, as well as and integration phases bring a world of other commemorative gifts, contributed to learning and growth possibilities. The topics keeping the high spirits of that moment. addressed in person were reinforced by weekly content. All material covered and On the following day, a live broadcast was generated from the program was edited in a made, in the same format used by Suzano book and delivered to the participants. Pulp and Paper in its quarterly results meetings. Called Suzano e Você (Suzano and TOWARDS INTEGRATION You), this meeting also had entertaining Over the months, the companies organized moments. The leaders gave their welcome for the welcome day, when Suzano Pulp messages and introduced the culture Drivers and Paper and Fibria teams would become of the new company. The other employees one. With that moment in mind, the also had the opportunity to participate by Communication teams of both companies, sending messages online and in real time supported by partner agencies and the expressing, in one word*, what that moment commitment of several business areas, meant for each of them. In addition, they dedicated their efforts to the development asked questions about a variety of topics of a plan to celebrate the new Suzano in a related to the change, always respecting the welcoming atmosphere of respect and pride. anonymity of those expressing themselves. 20 Suzano Report 2018 2018: The year of the double challenge Leading role PrideGratitude Legacy Emotion Make it happen Motivation Enthusiasm Fulfillment Opportunity Innovation Strong-and-kind Modernity Giant Joy Success Unity Transformation * Cloud with words sent by employees during the transmission of Suzano and You, on 1/15, which translated the feeling at that moment. THE EVOLUTION OF GOVERNANCE Suzano Pulp and Paper has always been the New York Stock Exchange. Today, committed to high standards of corporate Suzano, amidst the process of integration governance. In September 2017, after with former Fibria, has entered into the adopting a series of preparatory measures, the phase of adjustments to comply with SOX company entered Novo Mercado (New Market), (Sarbanes-Oxley), a US act that determines the highest level of corporate governance of the need for certification of internal B3 (Brazil’s Stock Exchange). controls, and thus, of the procedures to issue and disclose financial reports, ensuring A new level was reached by Suzano Pulp transparency of business management. and Paper in December 2018, when the After this new step, the new company will be company was registered and listed on audited annually based on these regulations. Suzano Report 2018 21 2018: The year of the double challenge 3.2 B  usiness does not stop Eucalyptus planting in Aracruz (Espírito Santo state) Photo: Márcio Schimming THE IDEA BEHIND THE MERGER OF TWO LEADING COMPANIES IS THE PERSPECTIVE OF, TOGETHER, CREATING MANAGEMENT OF EVEN GREATER VALUE EUCALYPTUS FORESTS FOR THE BUSINESS, In the forestry area of both companies, leaders ITS STAKEHOLDERS took advantage of the existing dialogue with AND SOCIETY. their teams to bring the merger topic to the center of the conversation. The teams were duly Therefore, even facing all the updated with news on the subject. In tandem, challenges posed by this process, managers continued to guide their teams to Suzano Pulp and Paper and Fibria’s focus on management of their routines in order operations did not slow down in to maintain the high level of deliveries. 2018. Instead, they took advantage of the innovation and support of their The team of Suzano Pulp and Paper, for example, customers, partners and communities ended 2018 with important results: they unified to keep moving forward—committed processes in the field, respecting regional to keeping their eucalyptus forests differences, improved operating performance, productive, their mills competitive reduced costs and continued to invest in projects and, above all, being an important part aimed at forest management as a whole. The goal of the solution to the social, economic was always to generate productivity with the and environmental challenges. least possible socio-environmental impact. 22 Suzano Report 2018 Carlos Eduardo Scardua, Almir Rogerio Da Silva, and Rodolfo Photo: Márcio Araújo Loos Forest Ecophysiology, Schimming in Aracruz (Espírito Santo state) Among Suzano Pulp and Paper’s outstanding finalized in 2018. The cumulative results of the initiatives in 2018 are the full control of the Program was R$ 1.173 billion captured in NPV* in production chain of seedlings, with phase perpetuity, and in 2018 R$ 611.7 million in NPV monitoring, batch research and reporting. In captured in perpetuity. logistics, the company implemented the tracking of trucks, increasing the number of vehicles monitored Logistics was the most important value pillar for and providing greater efficiency in logistics and gains the forestry area, especially the projects related in security. At the harvest, recording of activities in to the use of light trucks and projects that the field was done digitally, facilitating management optimize maritime transport. At the harvest, a of productivity and of shutdowns and optimizing relevant project was the model that harvests 16 the harvesting process and data transmission. trees simultaneously. With the adjustment of this process alone, there were gains of R$ 25 million At Fibria, the forestry area focused strongly in NPV. In forestry, mechanization in soil on innovation, completing the Structural preparation and irrigation activities and the Cost Reduction Program. The initiative, which strategy to monitor fires were the highlights. began in 2015, developed into four management pillars: forestry, harvesting, logistics, and The exchange of information between the teams productivity. Its complete cycle comprised a of the two companies gained relevance in January portfolio of 160 projects. Of these, 33 were 2019, with the completion of the merger. * Net Present Value (NPV) is the mathematical-financial formula that determines the present value of future payments discounted at an appropriate interest rate, less the cost of the initial investment. Suzano Report 2018 23 2018: The year of the double challenge To this end, the planting operations in the know each other and be able to jointly identify Northern region of the country were assigned to a and incorporate the best practices of each world, Director coming from Suzano Pulp and Paper and and capture previously unmapped opportunities. those from the Southern region were under the This interaction is giving rise to the generation of responsibility of a Director coming from Fibria. value of the new company. Leadership also switched senior management professionals (managers, supervisors and For the coming years, significant cost reductions technicians) to streamline integration. Fibria’s are expected, such as the average structural operations in Bahia, for example, were assigned to radius given the proximity of the forest base the management of Suzano Pulp and Paper teams to the units, especially in the states of Espírito and vice versa. It was critical that people get to Santo and Bahia. INNOVATION IN FORESTS For several years, Suzano Pulp and Paper and Fibria operations have been permeated by studies, projects and innovation practices. In the area of planted forests, both companies were in the process of consolidating a series of initiatives in 2018 and identified synergies in more than 100 fronts in the forestry, harvesting and logistics processes, which, in 2019 will be implemented according to the priority of each for the company’s strategy. Field productivity projects, for example, are already being replicated in the forest management of areas that originally belonged to Fibria, in São Paulo and Bahia. The maintenance system via smartphones, with very similar functionalities in both companies, is also being evaluated and adapted to the new context, as well as on-board computers. The decision was to ensure the quality of analysis of the new scenario to then to create standardizations that allow for the integration of technologies and processes. At Fibria, a major innovation in 2018 was the Intelligent Forest project, implemented in 2015, when a diagnosis was conducted to identify the opportunities for developing digital technologies in forest processes. Last year, these opportunities became projects that reaped significant gains. The choice of these projects was permeated by global megatrends that have a high likelihood of impacting the forest environment. Demographic changes (such as urbanization), climate change, scarcity of resources and energy efficiency were some of the trends analyzed. Fibria then chose to work on four fronts: planting (forestry), harvesting, wood logistics and systemic analysis of data. More than 50 projects were developed, all with notable results. Technology has brought greater productivity and behavioral change. Some of these improvements are also being applied to the conservation and restoration processes of our protected areas. 24 Suzano Report 2018 2018: The year of the double challenge Aldieris de Oliveira Correia Fibers Line, in Aracruz (Espírito Santo state) Photo: Márcio Schimming ADVERSITIES IN INDUSTRY [GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3] In the first half of 2018, the companies mill did not have sufficient storage capacity to prepared for the merger in a scenario of handle the entire production, attempts to bring excellent growth, but having to cope with in raw materials failed. one of the largest truck drivers’ strikes in the country’s history. For Suzano Pulp and At Fibria, the teams managed to adjust to the Paper, the experience proved to be a hard lesson, event and work on contingency plans, on the use since interrupting part of its production as a of inputs, and on the utilization of stocks in the result of this type of problem was never among units. They also had the support of alternative the potential risks mapped by the company. transportation modes, such as barges, ships and railroads. All this helped minimize the impact of In only a few days, the unit of Imperatriz the strike, which was greatly reduced in terms of (Maranhão state) stopped production given production and cost. There were lessons learned for the lack of wood. Mucuri (Bahia state) stopped Suzano Pulp and Paper and Fibria, which are being shortly afterwards because the necessary inputs assimilated into the new company as knowledge were unavailable. In addition to the fact that the and preparedness for this type of situation. Suzano Report 2018 25 2018: The year of the double challenge CHINA X USA In the last quarter, the challenges were market-related. A combination of macroeconomic factors—such as the trade war between China and the US, depreciation of the Chinese currency and credit restrictions—coupled with oversupply and drop in paper prices led to a momentary slump in Chinese demand. Once this phase was overcome, the industrial area, as well as Harcid Suzano asmosantus, a whole, entered 2019 facing the construction of a culture and the ulpa dio. Ebist, qui integration of strategic to quibearcia et projects. The new year began by revealing that there autempo reperum are many more opportunities for synergy than those initially identified. Going forward, in addition to overcoming the adversities brought about by the Chinese scenario, the challenge will be to make the most suitable choices for the future considered very promising by the new company. ITACEL PROJECT Production outflow of our Imperatriz unit generation of jobs, and to the result (Maranhão state) is strategic for the of the Brazilian trade balance. competitiveness of Suzano and of the Brazilian pulp abroad. With a capacity of 1.65 million LOGISTICS BENEFITS: tons per year, part of this volume geared toward p  rojected demand is 1.5 million tons paper manufacturing, the operation will have a of pulp in the year; modern port facility as of 2021, aiming to provide greater efficiency to the exports of Suzano capacity to receive 72 railcars daily; in terms of costs, quality and security. four internal extensions for railway cars; State-of-the-art processes, structures and g  eneral cargo ships will be operated equipment are part of the Itacel Project, the at the site. Itaqui pulp port, in São Luiz (Maranhão state), leased by the company through a public auction BENEFITS FOR THE REGION: in July 2018. The area of the concession totals 53,545 square meters and is valid for 25 years  t the peak of the construction a and can be extended for additional 25 years. work, throughout 2020, Itacel will The works consist of the construction of a generate 650 jobs—75% direct and warehouse and an operations berth, estimated 25% indirect; at around R$ 300 million, an amount higher than  f the direct job openings, 85% will o the R$ 214.9 million foreseen in public bidding. be chosen from regional companies; In addition to positive impacts for Suzano, in the operation phase of the port, the expectation is that Itacel will contribute we estimate to generate 215 job to the development of the state of openings, among company employees Maranhão, through tax benefits and and third parties. 26 Suzano Report 2018 2018: The year of the double challenge PORTS REVENUE AT A HIGH  ort of Itaqui São Luis (Maranhão state) P [GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3] lease public port; A perfect combination increased pulp  elmonte Maritime Terminal (Bahia state) Veracel B profitability in 2018, benefiting Suzano private terminal – 50% Suzano/50% StoraEnso; Pulp and Paper and Fibria. Pulp is the core business of both companies, whose C  aravelas Maritime Terminal (Bahia state) transactions are mostly in US dollars. The private terminal – wood barge; price of pulp at a good level, coupled with P  ortocel – Aracruz (Espírito Santo state) the appreciated dollar throughout the year, private terminal 51% Suzano/49% Cenibra; formed an atypical scenario for the segment, an opportunity seized by both companies. P  ort of Santos (São Paulo state) lease public port third -T31, TEVAL, CESARI and DPW;  ort of Rio Grande (Rio Grande do Sul state) P lease public port. Photo: Araquém Alcântara Pulp loading in the port of Santos (São Paulo state) Suzano Report 2018 27 2018: The year of the double challenge THE ROLE OF SUZANO Year after year, Suzano expands its paper supply and currently serves a portfolio of 40,000 customers. In order to respond to the enormous demand and satisfy these audiences in such a diversified segment, the company makes constant investments in improvements of internal processes, in launching of products and in technological platforms. [GRI 102-6, 102-7] In 2018, Suzano Pulp and Paper implemented a tool that organizes customer orders and provides the exact delivery date of the product, ready and customized. Another initiative was the creation of the Suzano Sales Portal, which allows checking credit, payment slips and the status of the purchase. An expansion wave of this channel is scheduled for the first half of 2019, looking to establish and even closer relationship with end customers. SUSTAINABILITY IN ITS DNA About two years ago, Suzano Pulp and Paper decided to further differentiate itself in the segment. This time, it focused its efforts on the market of disposable cups, which accounts for approximately 600,000 tons per year in Brazil—until then produced from raw material of fossil origin or using papers imported from Asia, Europe or North America. In August 2018, the company launched the Bluecup®, a paper cup developed using cardstock from a renewable source—eucalyptus forests. The line is also working to develop the first 100% biodegradable, compostable, recyclable cardstock for cups, made from a renewable source and produced in Latin America: the Bluecup Bio®; fully integrated with the company’s low-carbon strategy. With the Bluecup® line, the company expects to become the primary supplier of cardstock for cups in the Brazilian market in 2019 and boost the share of this raw material in the segment of disposable cups. [GRI 102-2] Biodegradable products reduce the impact on the planet, since they have characteristics that allow the decomposition of the material in the environment and significantly contribute generation and disposal of solid waste. In addition, Bluecup Bio® should nourish the soil during its biodegradation. Another important differentiator of disposable cups produced with cardstock is the material’s smooth, white and uniform surface, which allows high-quality printing for better brand communication. Cardstock also offers thermal insulation and comfort while drinking. 28 Suzano Report 2018 2018: The year of the double challenge Production of Report® paper at the plant Photo: in Mucuri (Bahia state) Ricardo Teles INTEGRATION WITH FACEPA One of the highlights of Suzano Pulp and Paper’s consumer goods segment in 2018 was the integration with the Fábrica de Papel da Amazônia (FACEPA). The company, a leader in paper manufacturing in the Northern region and the secondlargest in the Brazilian Northeast, has consolidated brands of toilet paper, paper towel, napkins and diapers. With the acquisition, Suzano Pulp and Paper became a leader in the toilet paper segment in the Northeast. [GRI 102-10] During the year, the company’s business areas worked to fully absorb the new operation, taking care to evaluate the synergies to ensure FACEPA’s continuity and stability during the transition. The task in 2019 will be to revise the brand portfolio to make it even more robust, as well as standardize processes and procedures. Suzano Report 2018 29 2018: The year of the double challenge MIMMO®, LE BLANC® AND MAX PURE® [GRI 102-2] Another priority is to consolidate the distribution of consumer goods brands in the North and Northeast regions. The goal is to streamline a shift in consumption from single-layer to double-layer products, a trend in these regions. The launch of Mimmo® and Max Pure® in the Northeast in 2018, coupled with the growth of the Le Blanc brand in 2019, renamed La Vie Blanc -, acquired from FACEPA greatly contributed to the achievement of this goal. These toilet paper brands helped leverage from 34% to 37% consumption of double-layer products in the Northeast market in 2018 as they offer higher quality to customers. There are gains for consumers, retailers and the industry. The change in consumption habits is also stimulated in the Northeast by the relaunch of the Maxx Baby® diapers, which return to the shelves with better performance, greater comfort and new packaging, and by the strong presence of the brand Scala, a leader in the segment of napkins and paper towels, which also comes in new packaging. In addition, the company is working on a sanitary pads. Notable among the exclusive strategic plan for integrated production differentiators provided by eucalyptus fibers logistics for its four consumer goods plants, are greater comfort and discreet use of the located in Mucuri (Bahia state), Belém (Pará final product, such as diapers and incontinence state), Fortaleza (Ceará state) and Imperatriz underwear, as well as high absorption and (Maranhão state), since the combination of retention of liquids. Additional benefits are these operations tends to leverage the quality associated with the efficient compression of of our services and products in the North and eucalyptus fiber, a characteristic that allows Northeast, a market with many opportunities for cost reduction in packaging, transportation for development, and improve customer and and storage. [GRI 102-2] consumer service. In this sense, it is worth noting that the consumer goods segment In 2018, the year the company expanded its evaluates the possibility of expansion in those business in the US, Europe, and Asia, product locations where Fibria had strong operations. communication gained greater repercussion through activations in social media, press EUCAFLUFF IS THE FLUFF OF THE FUTURE and events for customers. The acceptance Suzano Pulp and Paper broke ground by of fluff pulp in mature markets and by large making a commercially successful production global players confirms the good performance of fluff pulp from eucalyptus fibers. The that eucalyptus fibers can also bring to the result of 11 years of research, Eucafluff disposable hygiene market. Over the past six is the first bleached kraft fluff pulp from months, multinational companies such as Ontex eucalyptus in the world, and can be applied and Vinda International (Essity), as well as major in disposable personal hygiene products such local players, have entered into agreements with as baby diapers, incontinence products and our company. [GRI 102-6] 30 Suzano Report 2018 2018: The year of the double challenge Suzano is committed to achieving even more environmental performance of its value chain results together with our customers and in order to capture and enable important attentive to new opportunities for expansion differentiators for customers and society. and innovation, always working to replace raw materials of fossil origin with materials of Eucafluff in 2019 renewable origin. The main customers for fluff are in Europe and Asia. For this reason, the first months Functional and environmental advantages of 2019 will be focused on expanding In the applications in baby and adult diapers, Eucafluff’s communication in countries in the combined use of long fiber fluff and short these regions, looking to increase knowledge fiber fluff is recommended. Feedback from the about the product and, above all, understand market shows the success of this combination of the technical benefits of applying short fibers. For applications in sanitary pads, hospital fiber Fluff. In 2019, Suzano also intends to bed linens and hygienic mats for animals, it announce to the market the results obtained is currently possible to apply 100% of short in the analysis of the product life cycle and the fiber Eucafluff. In addition to the functional environmental benefits that the adoption of benefits, Suzano is working on assessing the this fiber can bring to its customers. Photo: Márcio Schimming Toilet paper production line in Imperatriz (Maranhão state) Suzano Report 2018 31 2018: The year of the double challenge INNOVATE TO ADVANCE Thinking big and globally is always a driving Projects involving state-of-the-art force at Suzano. For this purpose, the company technology, such as the development of has innovation as a strong ally and, during the lignin, Microfibrillated Cellulose (MFC), preparation process for the integration, Suzano Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs), Pulp and Paper and Fibria demonstrated the biofuels and biocomposites, among others, balanced and complementary vision of their were being studied by both companies in investments in scientific research and in the different stages and are divided into three areas: development of new technologies.  ustainability in order to sustain the business S In 2018, the new business initiatives of the itself using the concept of shared value. two companies followed their normal course, maintaining the study and research lines. D  ifferentiation, which explores new Part of the project portfolio of the two uses for pulp. companies is geared toward developing and strengthening the competitive position of their D  iversification, with new applications eucalyptus forests and their pulp and paper for inputs from renewable energy sources production. Another portion aims to create based on eucalyptus forests. new sources of income from these eucalyptus forests, beyond commodities. Photo: Plant in Limeira (São Paulo state) Disclosure Suzano WITH THE INTEGRATION OF THE COMPANIES IN 2019, OUR BIO-STRATEGY INITIATIVES GAIN ADDITIONAL MOMENTUM, ALWAYS FOCUSED ON BALANCING WHAT IS GOOD FOR BUSINESS, PEOPLE AND THE WORLD. 2018: The year of the double challenge Greiciane Silva Costa analyst of Process Quality Laboratory, in Imperatriz (Maranhão state) Photo: Márcio Schimming THE VALUE OF LIGNIN In the last decade, Suzano Pulp and Paper and eventually became a relevant contribution of Fibria have made continuous and significant knowledge, shared between two very experienced investments in the development of products and complementary teams on this subject. and applications for lignin—the main constituent of wood, in addition to cellulose. During the The inauguration of the mill in Limeira has transition stages, both companies demonstrated become a common goal, which will be achieved the enormous benefits that this field of with greater maturity, since the 20 researchers innovation obtains from the integration of from Suzano Pulp and Paper joined the 12 teams and businesses. professionals from Fibria Innovations, located in Burnaby, Canada, also dedicated to the research in The goal of Suzano Pulp and Paper was to applications and processes to obtain lignin. inaugurate, in 2018, at the Limeira (São Paulo state) plant, the first certified eucalyptus lignin PIONEERING mill in the world. Challenges during construction The first wave of industrialization and marketing and preparation for the merger itself led to of the line of lignin products and by-products, delays in the completion of the new unit, whose called Ecolig® at Suzano, will serve resin markets, inauguration schedule was transferred to 2019. mainly for plywood, antioxidants for rubber, Nevertheless, the need to decelerate the project and thermoplastics. Suzano Report 2018 33 2018: The year of the double challenge To get to this point, the company has conducted extensive research and innovation over ten years. The receptiveness of customers who are most interested in using renewable products has been fundamental for the development of applications of Suzano’s products in various markets. After all, this is an important and challenging transformation in the production chains of these companies, since they also start to deal with new formulations and new manufacturing processes. In this context, it is important for customers to know what types of investment and return are at stake, also taking into account quality and performance criteria. The startup year, 2019, will allow us to supply lignin to the market on a larger production scale and we estimate to reach 20,000 tons of sales in up to five years. We will consolidate the first wave and, concurrently, work with other lines of research to fuel our innovation funnel. MORE WITH LESS Since its acquisition by Suzano Pulp and Paper in 2010, FuturaGene has been Mucuri river (Bahia state) dedicated to research looking to increase productivity and sustainability of planted Photo: Disclosure Suzano forests. Its laboratories in Itapetininga (São Paulo), Rehovot (Israel) and Shanghai (China) develop technologies for renewable ensuring the safety of technology for society?”; forests in the sectors of pulp and paper, and “How to produce more wood using less biomaterials, bioenergy, biofuel and green area, less chemicals and less water?”. In recent chemicals. Its integrated operation covers years, FuturaGene has stepped up its research discovery of genes, plant transformation, and applications to find the best solutions to prototyping and testing in the laboratory, these challenges. greenhouses and in the field, as well as regulatory activities aimed at the commercial Forests affected by pests can suffer losses use of genetically modified tree species. of up to 50% in productivity, according to data from the Brazilian association of the tree The work of the scientists at FuturaGene, sector (IBÁ Indústria Brasileira de Árvores). In therefore, focuses on important and urgent the state of Bahia, for example, Suzano Pulp and issues for the forest-based industry, such as: Paper and Fibria have already dealt with serious “How to make the plant increasingly resistant physiological disturbances in their planted areas. to pests, diseases and severe climate change To solve these problems, FuturaGene has been while protecting the environment and working to identify the genetic markers that 34 Suzano Report 2018 2018: The year of the double challenge allow us to determine which varieties of agrochemicals. Different Bt proteins can be trees are more tolerant and how to avoid the introduced to control specific insects. The planting of susceptible varieties. Once these first seedlings with these genes have already markers are completely mapped and tested, been tested in laboratories and greenhouses, it will be possible to make decisions about having been planted in the field in 2018 which varieties to plant after laboratory for the initial tests in one of FuturaGene’s analysis, which can be done in only two hours. experimental farms in the State of São Paulo. If the results of these tests are positive, new Another aspect of FuturaGene’s work is tests will be conducted on Suzano’s farms to minimize the use of chemicals in our in different regions of Brazil, including those forests. The motivation for this line of that belonged to Fibria. work is not only economic, but also social and environmental. We are committed to We continue to research the genetically developing technologies that are safe for modified eucalyptus with increased the environment and we work to ensure productivity, known as the H421 event, they are accepted by society. Through developed by FuturaGene in the states of genetic engineering, we are developing São Paulo and Bahia. This variety grows trees that will produce Bt proteins— faster and generates an average 20% increase using Bacillus thuringiensis genes. These in wood—that is, it increases productivity proteins have a natural insecticidal effect in the same area, which can free up land for that prevents the infestation of some other uses and capture more carbon dioxide insects, without the need of spraying of per planted area. Suzano Report 2018 35 2018: The year of the double challenge SUZANO AND INNOVATION AT A GLANCE The concept of innovability (innovation + sustainability) can be seen in all Suzano initiatives. FORESTRY INNOVABILITY  enetics and tree breeding: G • Increase in productivity by 1.5% per year, improving wood quality Key strategies: • Classic cultivation and biotechnology INDUSTRIAL INNOVABILITY  evelopment of pulp: D • Improvement in tensile strength Eucastrong and High Kappa New products: • Replacement of other materials • Fluff, biocomposites, textiles and packaging Sustainability and costs: • Less use of natural resources The megatrends that drive innovation at Suzano: Drivers: •G  lobal warming, water scarcity, volatility in energy prices, increased urban waste, limited access to raw materials, food safety challenge Opportunities: • Biomass, biofuels, biomaterials DIVERSIFICATION OF CASH FLOW THROUGH A WELL-DEFINED BIO-STRATEGY Selected Technologies > Identification of Potential > Selection & Agreements with > Pilot Investments > Agreements with Application> Commercial Investments > Estimated Market Potential/year Technology Partners Technology Partners Partners Lignin US$ 5 Bn Pyrolysis US$ 5 Bn Micro Fibrillated Cellulose US$ 10 Bn Cellulose Nanocrystals US$ 1 Bn (CNC) Bio Composites US$ 15 Bn Dissolving Pulp US$ 5 Bn + Sugars 36 Suzano Report 2018 2018: The year of the double challenge Photo: Romulo dos Santos Loureiro Márcio Timber Yard operator, in Schimming Imperatriz (Maranhão state) DIGITAL BUSINESS The year 2019 will be one of digital advancement in the new company—Suzano will continue to invest in ongoing initiatives, focusing on increased productivity and customer satisfaction. In 2018, Suzano Pulp and Paper began structuring the creation of an area dedicated to this subject by mapping hundreds of digital initiatives in the company, in the areas of maintenance, operation, sales, procurement and logistics. These are projects to innovate the company’s processes, such as studies related to the Internet of Things, 3D solutions or machine learning, among others. With the new area called Digital, a specialized group of professionals will be responsible for capturing trends, bringing Suzano closer to the startup ecosystem, accelerating projects to solve problems and strengthen the business. Also, in partnership with the Human Resources area, guide the company towards a digital culture, leveraging new capabilities and new work models, which will be developed with the existing workforce. Suzano Report 2018 37 2018: The year of the double challenge COMMUNITY RELATIONS [GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3] The news of the merger of Suzano Pulp and Next, we highlight the main initiatives of both Paper and Fibria also caused a certain anxiety companies regarding community relations. in communities that are in some way in direct contact with their forestry, industrial and logistics operations. As a matter of fact, with SUZANO PULP AND PAPER most of these communities, the companies maintain a close relationship in a journey that COMMUNITY COUNCILS aims to create shared value with the population In 2018, the Community Councils helped to that lives in the vicinity of the operations. enable, in practice, the operation model of Suzano Pulp and Paper. The strategy focused In 2018, Suzano Pulp and Paper and Fibria, on establishing a participatory and transparent already very accustomed to the frequent dialogue between the groups, strengthening and transparent dialogue with this audience, the relationship and regional development introduced the topic of the merger in the day to based on the decisions made together. These day of this relationship aiming to avoid conflict groups are formed, primarily, by members of information or uncertainty regarding the of communities, private initiative and, where commitments assumed. appropriate, other invited participants, such as public agencies. At the Forest Unit in In recent years, there has been greater Maranhão state, 14 Community Councils commitment of both companies to the various have been created to date, as well as at the training programs for income generation in Forest Unit in Bahia state. communities, seeking empowerment and selfsufficiency of these populations along their The operation model of Suzano Pulp and Paper journey. Thus, the company and its neighbors planned for social investments to be carried out develop in an environment of learning and by the main fronts, among them Community prosperity for all. Councils (medium to long term, based on the COMMUNITY AGRICULTURE (2018) Bahia State Maranhão State 343 BENEFICIARIES 530 BENEFICIARIES 1,054 TONS OF FOOD 636 TONS OF FOOD PRODUCED PRODUCED 38 Suzano Report 2018 Photo: Márcio Elcilene do Nascimento Schimming Alencar, participant in the Açaí Sustainable Extractivism Project, in Imperatriz (Maranhão state) prioritization of communities and districts with the largest population) and Projects for Income Generation and Territorial Development, already in place in the rural communities. The relationship tool to be adopted is defined based on technical evaluations (such as prioritization matrices). This process is conducted by crossing data from the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatística)—health, education, basic sanitation, etc.—with tactical and operational harvest and supply plans. At the same time, reporting—such as the Internal Social and Environmental Report (RISA Relatório Interno Socioambiental)— and active dialogue are tools to identify, prevent and mitigate possible impacts of our forestry operations. SUSTAINABLE FISHERIES Project for technical training and income generation for fishermen through the rearing of tilapia in net-tanks and earthen tanks. It also promotes awareness of the conservation of riparian forests and the sustainable use of natural resources. In 2018, a total of 25 families from the municipalities of Mucuri (Bahia state) and COMMUNITY AGRICULTURE Conceição da Barra (Espírito Santo state) The initiative was implemented in 2011 in Bahia were benefited. It is worth mentioning that, and in 2012 in Maranhão with the purpose of in Conceição da Barra, the project became strengthening local production arrangements, self-sustaining. ensuring food safety and improving the quality of life of the communities in our areas of SUSTAINABLE EXTRACTIVISM operation in these states. The project provides Launched in 2015 by Suzano Pulp and Paper technical support to family farmers, theoretical in Maranhão state, the project is a partnership and practical training on farming, management, with community associations, the Chico Mendes community organization and production Institute and the Community Development systems for family agriculture. In 2018, a total Council of the Babassu Nut Breakers. of 873 people benefited from the production of The development and marketing of 1,690 tons of food. In Bahia state, the expansion products such as mesocarp flour and of the project to new communities resulted in babassu oil, açaí pulp (seedling and fruit), record production and the project won first charcoal and almonds benefited 130 place in the RedEAmérica award in “Businesses families from nine associations in 2018. and Sustainable Communities”. Suzano Report 2018 39 2018: The year of the double challenge AS OF 2017, BEEKEEPERS IN SÃO PAULO 2018 ARE NO LONGER DEPENDENT ON SUZANO São Paulo State PULP AND PAPER’S INVESTMENTS TO ENABLE THEIR PRODUCTION. SUSTAINABLE BEEKEEPING The Sustainable Beekeeping program is 126 FAMILIES 117.5 TONS OF HONEY, carried out in partnership with associations and neighbors through free concession of conservation areas of Suzano Pulp and Paper. PROPOLIS AND POLLEN Since 2003, the project has provided alternative Bahia State income, for more than 110 partners, who produce an average of 20 kilos of honey per hive. In 2018, a total of 207.1 tons of honey, propolis and pollen were produced. 322 FAMILIES 89.6 Maranhão State TONS OF HONEY, PROPOLIS AND POLLEN 43 FAMILIES THERE WAS NO PRODUCTION OF HONEY, PROPOLIS OR POLLEN. AN ARTESIAN WELL WAS DUG IN THE COMMUNITY SCHOOL OF HEROES OF SETTLEMENT PROJECT The program, managed by Suzano Pulp and Paper CALIFORNIA AND A BEEKEEPING since 2017, involves four municipal schools in the COURSE WAS PROVIDED rural area of the Maranhão municipalities of Itinga do Maranhão and Açailândia. It promotes awareness-raising classes and DOLPHIN PROJECT actions, focusing on formation of values that Supported by the company, the entity was founded in make it possible to instill practices for improving 1996 in the municipality of Mucuri (Bahia state). The the quality of life and the environment, as project strengthens regional culture and complements well as other values related to culture and education through extracurricular activities by sustainability. It is divided into four modules on reinforcing classes and providing workshops on first aid; environment and solid waste; theoretical craftsmanship, sewing, printmaking, capoeira, singing, concepts on fighting fire outbreaks; human computer science, percussion and physical education relations in personal life and at work; physical offered to children and families in situation of high education; civic education; singing classes. social vulnerability. In 2018, the project celebrated In 2018, we formed 608 young people, from 22 years with 384 enrolled students and included 14 schools in 6 different municipalities, a number 53,000 participants in all activities offered. 5 times higher than in the previous year. 40 Suzano Report 2018 2018: The year of the double challenge FIBRIA RESPONSIBLE NETWORK increase the possibilities for marketing the products. Network for the exchange of information, In 2018, the program contributed to increasing the products, resources and services. Through income of more than 4,000 families in the states it, people, companies that are part of Fibria’s of Bahia, Espírito Santo, Mato Grosso do Sul and production chain and governments can invest São Paulo. The average income increase of the in strengthening the company’s social and participants in the year was R$ 1,505 per month. environmental initiatives for the development of Total sales in the year were R$ 31,639,201. communities in the country. In 2018, a total of 33 partners were involved in the program, raising PARTNERSHIP FOR THE ADVANCEMENT approximately R$ 23 million, helping to transform OF EDUCATION (PVE) lives in the regions where the company operates. In 2018, the PVE (Parceria pela Valorização da Educação) was developed in 24 municipalities in RURAL LAND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (PDRT) the states of Bahia, Espírito Santo, Mato Grosso Since 2012, the PDRT (Programa de Desenvolvimento do Sul and São Paulo and works to improve the Rural Territorial) has trained family farmers, working quality of public education in the municipalities on three fronts: technical assistance for production where the company operates, through partnerships and stimulus to use low-cost technologies with with municipal governments and municipal Boards reduced environmental impacts; management of Education in two fronts. One is the Public of associations and networks; and incentive and Management Support front, which trains and guidance to gain access to public policies that qualifies professionals from the municipal Boards of Photo: Márcio Schimming From left to right: Dalva de Araújo Almeida, Maria da Conceição Santos do Nascimento, Maria de Lourdes Ferreira Lima, Maria Faustina dos Santos, Raimunda Fernandes dos Reis, and Zuleide Pereira de Sousa, participant in the Babassu Nut Breakers Project, in Imperatriz (Maranhão state) 2018: The year of the double challenge Photo: Araquém Alcântara Ademilson Contadini produces food, such as cassava, amidst Suzano’s eucalyptus forests, in Aracruz (Espírito Santo state) Education and school administrators, and contribute QUILOMBOLA COMMUNITIES to strengthening public educational policies. The In recent years, there have been important other front, Social Mobilization, aims to engage advances in the relationship with the the community to increase local participation in Quilombola communities close to the forests the demands for quality education. In 2018, PVE that belonged to Fibria in Northern Espírito mobilizations benefitted 44,816 people, 302 public Santo state. In 2018, we advanced projects in schools and 764 administrators of municipal Boards, all 20 communities where the relationship had principals and counselors of participating schools in been tense. Currently, we have a much more educational and management training courses. qualified dialogue and projects in place in these communities, generating significant The program also recognized best practices in income and opportunities for young people to education in 2018 during the PVE Award ceremony. remain in the field. This means that dialogue In this edition, the winning municipalities in and engagement have matured, but the the fronts of Educational Management, School land issue remains challenging and will be Management and Social Mobilization received a prioritized by Suzano’s administration in the formative trip to São Paulo, while the highlights coming years. at national level will travel to Finland to see the educational model of that country. The One recent achievement is the alignment of municipalities of Aracruz (Espírito Santo state) the Rural Land Development Program (PDRT) and Ibiraçu (Espírito Santo state) were chosen as with the needs and specific legislation for the national highlights in a ceremony held in São Quilombolas. Supported by PDRT consultants, Paulo (São Paulo state). In addition to these two they can, for example, have a priority national highlights, other municipalities supported participation in tenders to supply food to by Fibria received honorable mentions. In the public entities. Other initiatives, such as proper School Management category for cities with more documentation, which facilitates participation than 21,000 inhabitants, the highlight was Jacareí of Quilombola producers in the formal market, (São Paulo state). The cities of Salesópolis and and a partnership with the Quilombola State Tremembé both in the state of São Paulo received Commission in training these communities for recognition in the Social Mobilization category for land planning and management also contributed cities with populations of up to 21,000 and cities greatly to increase the community’s trust with populations of more than 21,000, respectively. towards the company. 42 Suzano Report 2018 2018: The year of the double challenge SUSTAINABLE SETTLEMENTS sustainability of the indigenous lands neighboring Under the Sustainable Settlements program, the areas of the former Fibria, especially: together with the Landless Workers Movement (MST Movimento dos Trabalhadores Rurais Sem T  upiniquim and Guarani Sustainability Program Terra), 361 families moved from an encampment (PSTG) – integrated actions have contributed to to a settlement in Southern Bahia state, leaving the recovery of environmental conditions for the their tents to settle in houses in lots. The project economic activities and social and cultural practices is a partnership between the MST and the Luiz of these peoples in Espírito Santo state, since 2012. de Queiroz School of Agriculture (ESALQ), of the University of São Paulo (USP), and is intended to H  istoric agreement between Fibria and 12 develop agroforestry production in an ecological indigenous villages in Aracruz (Espírito Santo system. In 2018, a total of 2,700 people emerged state) – signed in 2017, the agreement determines from poverty with the support of Sustainable that the indigenous communities cannot harm Settlements, and more than 5,000 people were company operation in that region; Fibria continued indirectly benefitted by the production and supporting the communities through the PSTG. social ramifications of the project. In addition, the average monthly income per family jumped O  fayé Sustainability Program – aimed at 30 from R$ 300, at the beginning of the project, families of the ethnic group Ofayé, living in a in 2012, to R$ 3,200, last year. reserve in the city of Brasilândia (Mato Grosso do Sul state), the purpose of the program is to provide INDIGENOUS COMMUNITIES resources to strengthen culture, handicrafts and In the relationship with these communities, subsistence farming. Fibria supported the sales of led by an interdisciplinary team formed by Ofayé handicrafts in stores in São Paulo (São Paulo anthropologists and indigenous advocates, state), Rio de Janeiro (Rio de Janeiro state) and the objective has always been to support the Três Lagoas (Mato Grosso do Sul state). Photo: Araquém Alcântara Ivone Maria Matos, with her granddaughter Daielly, in the São Joaquim settlement, in Selvíria (Mato Grosso do Sul state) Colmeias (Hives) Program (Espírito Santo state) Photo: Araquém Alcântara DIALOGUE WITH THE COMMUNITY The Operational Dialogue was established between Fibria and all communities neighboring its operations in order to avoid or mitigate impacts caused by forestry, harvesting and timber transport activities in those locations. In 2018, nearly 2,200 dialogues were conducted, with approximately 5,500 participants from the communities involved. At Suzano Pulp and Paper, dialogues take place through the Internal Social and Environmental Report (RISA), which allows for prior definition of possible measures to avoid, minimize or correct potential impacts arising from forestry operations. RISA is prepared by socio-environmental agents, constantly involved with the local communities and who maintain an open communication channel to assist in the identification and escalation of demands. In 2018, a total of 64 agreements were established with the communities through RISA, with the company accomplishing 92% of the agreements. 44 Suzano Report 2018 2018: The year of the double challenge BEEHIVES FISHING COMMUNITIES The Colmeias (Beehives) project in the states of Fibria established a dialogue with fishing communities São Paulo, Mato Grosso de Sul, Espírito Santo, and developed social actions and initiatives to support and Bahia works to strengthen the beekeeping this activity in these regions: activity in these states, generating employment and income by improving the production chain In Barra do Riacho, municipality of Aracruz (Espírito of honey from eucalyptus and native forests. The Santo state), where the pulp shipping terminal is program supports the implementation of new located (Portocel), promoting the integrated and technologies and training in strategic concepts participatory development of the community, on handling, management and marketing of the companies, society and public authorities. product, expanding and advancing the activity. In 2018, the program benefitted 870 producers from In Caravelas, in Southern Bahia, where barges 34 beekeeper associations. Honey production in transport part of the local eucalyptus production the areas of the company in 2018 was 1,400 tons. that supplies the three production lines of In the State of São Paulo, honey production from the Aracruz Unit (Espírito Santo state). Here, the program accounted for 30% of the State’s the initiatives foster entrepreneurship and production in the harvest. Sales in 2018 totaled strengthening of grassroots associations through R$ 3,484,330. the structuring of the fish production chain. Photo: Márcio Schimming From left to right: Thales Rayan da Cruz Santana (collaborator of the Forest Environment area), Maria Faustina dos Santos, and Anderson Luz Custódio (President of the Ciriaco Association of Nut Breakers), in Imperatriz (Maranhão state) Ecofuturo Community Library of Campinas (São Paulo state) Photo: Disclosure Ecofuturo ECOFUTURO INSTITUTE The Ecofuturo Institute, a non-profit organization Ecofuturo Community Library Project, with the created in 1999 and supported by Suzano Pulp and creation of more than 100 libraries in the country. Paper, contributes to transforming society through environmental conservation and the promotion of Parque das Neblinas (Neblinas Park), Suzano reading, integrating books, people and nature. With environmental reserve managed by Instituto the purpose of forming readers of the world, the Ecofuturo, which develops activities in Institute also acts as a coordinator between civil environmental education, scientific research, society, public authorities and the private sector. ecotourism, forest management and restoration Notable among the initiatives are: and community participation. 46 Suzano Report 2018 2018: The year of the double challenge 60 CREATED WITH INVESTMENTS UNITS FROM SUZANO 4,000 PEOPLE 113 LIBRARIES IN 12 STATES ATTENDED FREE COURSES ON PROMOTION OF READING AND LIBRARY ASSISTANT, AND 2,000 WORKSHOPS ON MANAGEMENT AND SUSTAINABILITY AND ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION PUBLIC AUTHORITIES INVOLVED COMMUNITY LIBRARIES The Ecofuturo Community Library project, in place since 1999, works to implement libraries in public schools, open to the community, and aims to provide universal access to books, promote reading and contribute to public policies on reading and libraries. The main highlights are: 2018:  Inauguration of four Ecofuturo  Ecofuturo was recognized with the title Community Libraries, with investments “Friend of the Book 2018”, by the Brazilian from the CPFL Group: Chamber of Books (CBL Câmara Brasileira • Bebedouro and Marília (São Paulo state). do Livro). • Igrejinha and Taquara (Rio Grande do Sul state). Launch  of survey on impacts of the project, which demonstrated an increase in the Beginning  of the implementation of a library level of education in municipalities with in Malacacheta (Minas Gerais state), with Ecofuturo Community Libraries. investments from Suzano Pulp and Paper, through the Nascentes do Mucuri project. 2019:  libraries are expected to be inaugurated 9+ More  than 150,000 books loaned and in 2019, seven of which with investments 660,000 people benefitted from the from Suzano. network of libraries. Suzano Report 2018 47 2018: The year of the double challenge NEBLINAS PARK  xtension of the Meu Ambiente (My Environment) E Parque das Neblinas (Neblinas Park) is a Suzano program, involving the municipalities of Suzano, private reserve located in the municipalities of Mogi Bertioga and Mogi das Cruzes all in São Paulo das Cruzes and Bertioga, in the state of São Paulo. state. In 2018, a total of 118 teachers and 1,028 students from 27 municipal schools participated. Its 6,000 hectares are managed by Instituto Ecofuturo and play an important role in the T  he Community Management Workshop program, conservation of the natural resources of Serra with neighboring rural landowners, completed do Mar, contributing to protect the Itatinga river 10 years in 2018, with the organization, during basin and the largest continuum of the Brazilian the year, of 4 workshops with 130 participants. Atlantic Rainforest—the Serra do Mar State Park In all, 30 workshops have already been held with and Serra de Paranapiacaba. more than 1,000 people involved. The goal is to share knowledge about forest management, The following are some of the results achieved conservation and appreciation. through Ecofuturo’s set of initiatives focused on scientific research, environmental education, Inauguration of Trilha das Botas, which brings the ecotourism, community involvement, restoration history of the occupation of the area prior to the and sustainable management: creation of the park. 2018:  aunch of publications Educando na Natureza L  R ecord number of visitors: 4,839 people, up (Educating in Nature) and A Biodiversidade no 42.65% over the previous year. In total, the Parque das Neblinas (Biodiversity in Parque das park has received more than 45,000 visitors. Neblinas), available for free download at the Ecofuturo website. COMMUNITY BIODIVERSITY 5,000 STUDENTS DISTRICT SCHOOLS AND 180 TEACHERS OF 70 1,250+ BIODIVERSITY HAVE PARTICIPATED IN THE ENVIRONMENTAL SPECIES IDENTIFIED, EDUCATION PROGRAM CALLED MEU AMBIENTE 3 OF WHICH ARE (MY ENVIRONMENT) SINCE 2010 NEW TO SCIENCE 85% OF THE EMPLOYEES ARE LOCAL RESIDENTS, INCLUDING 20 KILOMETERS OF TRAILS FOR RANGERS AND FORMER HUNTERS ECOTOURISM ACTIVITIES 45% OF THE PARK BUDGET RETURNS TO THE COMMUNITY 48 Suzano Report 2018 Ecofuturo My Environment Program, Neblinas Park (São Paulo state) Photo: Eliza Carneiro ECOFUTURO RESERVES 7 Provides technical advice for owners of natural, public or private areas, based on the MILLION SEEDS OF experience acquired with the management THE JUÇARA PALM PLANTED — of Parque das Neblinas. Since 2010, it has SPECIES THREATENED WITH promoted integrated actions to protect areas EXTINCTION AND IMPORTANT with remnants of native vegetation, contributing to environmental conservation and maintenance FOR THE BALANCE OF THE of ecosystem services. ATLANTIC RAINFOREST Several projects have already been studied in 477 the three biomes — Atlantic Rainforest, Cerrado and Amazon — in more than 1 million hectares. SPRINGS 2018: PRESERVED: 463 ON THE With investments from Suzano Pulp and Paper, ITATINGA RIVER AND 14 ON Ecofuturo started the development of a Social and THE ALTO TIETÊ RIVER Environmental Education program with educators and public school students in Prado (Bahia state) and Malacacheta (Minas Gerais state). Suzano Report 2018 49 2018: The year of the double challenge VOLUNTEER WORK Inspiring and transforming is at the heart of Suzano’s operation. Therefore, committed to positive and lasting changes in the world, the company invests in a program called Voluntariar (Volunteering), which for more than 10 years has encouraged employees, families, neighboring communities and partners to participate as volunteers in initiatives primarily focusing on education. SUZANO HAS The purpose of the program is to generate INVESTED IN THE opportunities for all company stakeholders VOLUNTARIAR to share their talents. Through projects such as PROGRAM 10 years Escola Formare (Formare Project) and Suzano for more than na Escola (Suzano at School), in addition to various social actions, the program fosters civic responsibilities and social empowerment for the development of a better society. In 2018, the program mobilized 2,860 volunteers and benefited 30,719 people through 24 IN 2018, 2,860 volunteering initiatives in total. In 2019, the THE PROGRAM MOBILIZED program’s values and beliefs are expected to help strengthen the culture and Drivers of the new Suzano among employees, partners and the communities where the company operates, volunteers including the audiences of former Fibria units. FORMARE PROJECT In place since 2005 in partnership with Iochpe Foundation, the project consists of training socially vulnerable youth through the course “Production Process Operator”. The project takes 1,986 Company place in the Units of Suzano (São Paulo state), employees Mucuri (Bahia state) and Imperatriz (Maranhão 191 state). The course lasts ten months 532 Vendors theoretical hours and 728 practical hours. 98 Classes are taught by Suzano volunteers Partners (during or outside working hours), who are 426 TOTAL Family trained by the Iochpe Foundation and dedicate 2,860 159 their time and talent to share knowledge and volunteers Community experiences with young citizens. Until 2018, the project relied on the support of 1,500 volunteers in training 693 young adults. 50 Suzano Report 2018 2018: The year of the double challenge Young participants of the Formare Program on a visit to the Imperatriz Unit (Maranhão state) Photo: Ricardo Teles VOLUNTARIAR IN NUMBERS BENEFICIARIES PARTICIPATING UNITS 2018 2017 30,719 29,619 + 4% 2018 2017 31 35 Increase by 1,100 VOLUNTEERS INITIATIVES Increase of 680 volunteers between 2017 and 2018 + 31% 2018 2017 16 24 Suzano Report 2018 51 2018: The year of the double challenge Volunteers and young students participating in the Suzano at School Project, in Mucuri (Bahia state) Photo: Disclosure Suzano SUZANO AT SCHOOL Suzano na Escola (Suzano at School) has been in place since 2009 and is intended to foster a entrepreneurial spirit in RESULTS BETWEEN young adults at school, broadening their vision of the job 2009 AND 2018 market and the business world. It was implemented in partnership with Junior Achievement, which offers training for our company volunteers in classes taught at public schools in the area of the company’s Units in São Paulo, Bahia, Minas Gerais, Espírito Santo and Maranhão. The main 40 SCHOOLS A COMMUNITY COUNCIL + SERVED + programs carried out under this project over 10 years: INSTITUTO NUESTRA + The advantages of Staying in School SEÑORA DEL BUEN CONSEJO (BARRANCAS, ARGENTINA) + Introduction to the Business World 3 COMMUNITIES (CÓRREGOS DO JUNDIÁ, PALMEIRAS AND ARTHUR, Let’s Talk Ethics IN ESPÍRITO SANTO STATE) Undercover Boss for a Day Minicompany Attitude for the Planet 5,148 STUDENTS  BENEFITED Skills to succeed My Money My Business Connected with Tomorrow 819 V OLUNTEERS INVOLVED Community Leadership 52 Suzano Report 2018 2018: The year of the double challenge 2018 HIGHLIGHTS 107 VOLUNTEERS 20 CLASSES INVOLVED SERVED 7 S CHOOLS SERVED + 3 COMMUNITIES 404 STUDENTSBENEFITED 110 VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS (CÓRREGOS DO JUNDIÁ, PALMEIRAS AND ARTHUR) Programs applied • MINICOMPANY (ITABATÃ AND 31 DE MARÇO, DISTRICTS IN BAHIA STATE) • ATTITUDE FOR THE PLANET (PEDRO CANÁRIO, CÓRREGOS DO JUNDIÁ, PALMEIRAS AND ARTHUR, IN ESPÍRITO SANTO STATE) • INTRODUCTION TO THE BUSINESS WORLD (31 DE MARÇO, DISTRICT IN BAHIA STATE) • CONNECTED TO TOMORROW (CENTRAL OFFICE AND LIMEIRA, IN SÃO PAULO STATE) • THE ADVANTAGES OF STAYING IN SCHOOL (REGIONAL DISTRIBUTION CENTER SUZANO, RIO VERDE AND DOMO OFFICE, IN SÃO PAULO STATE) Photo: David Marques Neves SOCIAL ACTIONS Mobilization campaigns, in partnership with public agencies and social institutions, are developed to stimulate civic responsibility and solidarity among our employees. Among them, we highlight the Solidarity Campaign, and the campaigns Amigo Solidário dos Meus Sonhos (My Dream Supportive Laís Scarabeli Pasqualini (wearing a Friend), Blood Drive and Voluntariar T-shirt), employee of the Limeira Unit emergency actions. (São Paulo state), during the 2018 Christmas Campaign Amigo Solidário dos meus Sonhos Suzano Report 2018 53 2018: The year of the double challenge COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT [GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3] IN 2018, SUZANO PULP AND PAPER AND FIBRIA CONTINUED THE PROGRAMS AIMED AT EFFICIENCY AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT OF THE INDUSTRIAL AND FORESTRY UNITS, INCLUDING PROGRAMS FOR RESTRATION OF DEGRADED AREAS AND PROTECTION OF REMNANTS OF NATIVE VEGETATION, IN THE AMAZON, ATLANTIC RAINFOREST AND CERRADO BIOMES. The strategy for social and environmental behavior is embedded in our business models and, among other contributions, helps to combat the effects of climate change by planting eucalyptus and preserving native forest areas, which increase carbon sequestration and carbon stock. In addition, the planting system of both companies, in mosaics, which intersperses natural areas with eucalyptus forests, enables maintenance and development of wildlife and flora species through ecological corridors and promotes quality and maintenance of natural cycles. It is worth mentioning that the companies have adhered to their annual planning and carried out environmental training according to the demands Forest mosaic in Três Lagoas identified through the analysis of environmental (Mato Grosso do Sul state) occurrences or operational needs. The goal is to Photo: Araquém Alcântara reduce environmental impacts and mitigate the risk of accidents that could be caused due to lack of knowledge of the operators or operational technicians about the covered topics. Further information on the subject can also be found in the public summaries of the Forest Management Plans at http://www.suzano.com.br/ suzano/comunicacao/publicacoes/ 54 Suzano Report 2018 2018: The year of the double challenge CLIMATE CHANGE [GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3] In 2018, Suzano Pulp and Paper and Fibria View the general table of emissions of both continued their processes and strategies aimed at companies and more details about their efficiency in the industry, logistics and forest area, performance at suzano.com.br/en/r2018. seeking to reduce fuel consumption by optimizing resources and implementing new initiatives. In 2018, Suzano Pulp and Paper conducted a significant review of its sources of The topic Climate Change has always been emission, reassessing processes and important for both companies. Thus, Suzano Pulp performing on-site validations, thereby and Paper and Fibria prepared their greenhouse increasing the accuracy and transparency gas inventories according to the GHG Protocol of its information, while Fibria quantified methodology, published annually on the platform reductions in emissions of some of of the Brazilian Program of the GHG Protocol its projects while using its established (https://www.ghgprotocolbrasil.com.br/). internal price on carbon. Suzano Report 2018 55 2018: The year of the double challenge Forest mosaic, Aracruz (Espírito Santo state) Photo: Márcio Schimming Both companies made significant progress processes and, as a result, cannot be added or in measuring carbon stock in native forest compared. Thus, since D-day, great efforts have areas. Within the Climate Committee, led been dedicated to analyzing the methodologies to by IBÁ (Forestry sector association in Brazil) adapt the data and define a single methodology, and other companies in the sector, the possible yielding an appropriate model capable of showing existing techniques and technologies were our actual impact in a climate change scenario. evaluated and a pilot program in the Vale do Paraíba region was used to gauge the success A first result of this effort was the calculation of of the final model. the total carbon* stock in Suzano’s eucalyptus forests (consolidating Suzano Pulp and Paper The results shown in the two inventories (still and Fibria), using the Suzano Pulp and Paper segregated, since they refer to the year 2018, when methodology as the calculation basis. Thus, it is we operated separately) were obtained based on estimated that today 128 million tons of CO2e are different assumptions used in their preparation stored in our eucalyptus forests. *A  mount of carbon captured by our eucalyptus planting—through plant growth and the photosynthesis process—and accumulated in their biomass (trunks, branches, leaves and roots). 56 Suzano Report 2018 2018: The year of the double challenge FORESTRY ENVIRONMENT Both companies already had their water balance Below are the main environmental initiatives in the calculation methodologies, responsible for forest area. More information on this topic can also quantifying evapotranspiration (loss of soil be found in the public summaries of the Forest water by evaporation and loss of plant water by Management Plans at http://www.suzano.com.br/ transpiration) in the production areas. These suzano/comunicacao/publicacoes/ studies, together with internal research, serve as input to define operational strategies in areas of Forest Water Management water stress and allow focusing on the intelligent [GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3] use of this resource. Suzano Pulp and Paper and Fibria have always focused on protecting springs and water bodies Micro-basins located in their units. In addition, they have Both Suzano Pulp and Paper and Fibria were invested in forest management technology, already measuring qualitative and quantitative prioritizing the efficient use of water resources in parameters in the main basins and micro-basins their forests to avoid risks of water availability in in their operations, in order to monitor the quality their operations and neighboring communities, and availability of resources, as well as other which also depend on the same resource. Water is possible disturbances arising from their forest used in the field only in post-planting irrigation management. These studies and monitoring are to ensure the survival of the seedlings in the early also part of the effort to search for models and days. After this phase, rainfall, which supplies the more effective techniques to reduce consumption springs and groundwater, is the only source of and ensure water availability, as well as water water for eucalyptus and natural vegetation. regulation in the locations where we operate. Photo: Araquém Alcântara Pruning of eucalyptus forest by the Cooperative of Rural Workers and Farmers of the Quilombola Community of Córrego de São Domingos, in São Mateus (Espírito Santo state) Suzano Report 2018 57 2018: The year of the double challenge Mucuri Springs The Nascentes do Mucuri (Mucuri Springs) project, In recent years, the region has been suffering in place since 2017 by Suzano Pulp and Paper, from a reduction in flow of the river because works to sustain the Mucuri River, fostering the of deforestation and consequent degradation protection of its springs and its surroundings. of water resources, with siltation of swamps, There are no Suzano units in the region where the springs and courses of water. Drought affected project is being developed. The site was chosen the region and compromised the water supply for because it has remnant vegetation from the Atlantic the population, who, living in municipalities with Rainforest. It is one of the most biodiverse and one a limited structure, needed alternative sources, of the most threatened biomes on the planet, and impacting local livestock producers and fishermen, is the source of water for our operations in Mucuri who had to give up their activities, and directly and home to an asset on which several communities affecting the composition of their income. In and local economic activities depend: the Mucuri this scenario, Nascentes do Mucuri promotes River Basin. The river is born in Northeastern Minas environmental education and training of local Gerais and its mouth is in Southern Bahia state, producers to consolidate a culture of preservation covering 446 kilometers in an area of approximately of the natural environment. 15,400 square kilometers and 537,000 inhabitants. Photo: Bruno Fujii From left to right: Cássius Pinheiro, Ivan Nery, Joaquim Lopes, and Leiliane Leal, Nascentes do Mucuri Project (Bahia state) 58 Suzano Report 2018 2018: The year of the double challenge NUMBERS IN 2018 339 S PRINGS UNDERGOING RESTORATION 1,407 HOURS  DEDICATED TO SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL 49,040 SEEDLINGS  EDUCATION PLANTED 1,108 RURAL  9,913 PEOPLE  MOBILIZED PROPERTIES VISITED 9 O FFICIAL PARTNERS (INSTITUTIONAL AND FINANCIAL), INCLUDING THE NATURE CONSERVANCY (TNC), STATE FORESTRY INSTITUTE OF MG, FOREST HOUSE, ECOFUTURO INSTITUTE, SONOCO, ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION AREA ALTO DO MUCURI, AND TERRA INSTITUTE Fire fighting As part of fire prevention initiatives, we have 110 Suzano Pulp and Paper and Fibria have always forest monitoring towers. There are 50 in the lands promoted ongoing fire awareness and environthat belonged to Fibria, 21 in areas that belonged mental education awareness activities, involving to Suzano Pulp and Paper in Espírito Santo and community workers and stakeholders in the Bahia states, and additional 39 towers in Maranhão vicinity of their eucalyptus operations and native state. Since the field teams work in full synergy forests. The companies, which are no longer with system operators, this solution allows for using fire/slash-and-burn to prepare the soil, almost immediate response in the occurrence continue to work, now as Suzano, to monitor of fires or suspicious activities in the areas. In possible fire outbreaks in their areas and in addition to the primary fire fighting purpose, the neighboring areas. cameras serve multiple purposes on our farms: The neighbors of the farms controlled by  M  onitoring to combat fire outbreaks in planted Suzano are committed to communicating forests and in preservation areas, and in areas the company, in advance, about any planned with high conservation value. controlled burning, so that the Fire Department can monitor and ensure safety to the activity.  ighting of fauna species (we have images of a S Campaigns and channels recommend that the couple of cougars in Três Lagoas, for example, communities contact Suzano if they see fire in that were captured by these cameras). the region. We follow the recommendations of the Brazilian Institute of the Environment Asset security. (IBAMA), in its PREVFOGO program, of which we are supporters. Suzano Report 2018 59 2018: The year of the double challenge OWN AND * VERACEL FORESTRY GRAND TOTAL LEASED AREAS ( Joint venture Stora Enso) PARTNERSHIP Planted + Available 1,251,917.01 51,068 138,283.23 1,441,268.24 Intended for 869,007.75 56,590 925,597.75 conservation Infrastructure 101,644.00 6,120 107,764.00 TOTAL 2,222,568.76 113,778.00 138,283.23 2,474,629.99 * including Veracel Areas for conservation Paper and Fibria voluntarily conserved areas [GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3] where they found important social and With the merger and unification of operations, environmental attributes such as biodiversity Suzano currently has 925,600 hectares of (occurrence of endangered, rare and endemic conservation areas, reaching a significant mark species, etc.), extension of well-preserved of more than 39% of its total area devoted to forest fragments and of rare/threatened this purpose. ecosystems, environmental services (such as water conservation and erosion control), among High Conservation Value Areas (HCVAs) others. Consolidating the numbers of both In addition to maintaining preservation companies, Suzano now recognizes 69 HCVAs, areas provided for by law, Suzano Pulp and which cover an area of 62,864 hectares. Photo: Adriano Gambarini/WWF Brasil Barão de Santa Branca Farm 24 Polygon (São Paulo state) 60 Suzano Report 2018 Photo: Adriano Gambarini/ Barão de Santa WWF Brasil Branca Farm Legal Reserve (São Paulo state) ZERO DEFORESTATION We remain committed to the non-commercialization of timber or any other product containing wood fibers from natural forests converted into commercial forests, pursuant to the wood purchase policies and forest management plans of the two former companies. Our operation takes place in exclusively and already consolidated agricultural areas. Biodiversity Management of forest waste [GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3] [GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3] The purpose of the regular monitoring of All forest operations are carried out in wildlife and flora, carried out in partnership accordance with the procedures adopted with NGOs and universities, is to understand, to classify, sort, store, collect, transport identify and monitor the development of and dispose of waste generated in forestry biodiversity in the region, evaluate the effects activities and operations, in order to: of forest management and adopt measures to raise awareness and protect the environment.  Reduce waste generation. The gains from this conservation and monitoring process include the identification Reuse waste generated. of rare species and even the discovery of new species. In February 2018, for example, O  ptimize its use to the fullest researchers discovered a new species of tree before final disposal. that was named Ocotea mantiqueirae belonging to the Lauraceae family (popularly known as Recycle waste. cinnamon). The discovery of a new species and the sighting of rare species shows the Handle waste properly. responsible management carried out by the company, which always seeks to contribute E  nsure proper final destination, to the conservation of biodiversity and which guarantees the conservation of the balance of the environment. soil, water and biodiversity in the areas. Suzano Report 2018 61 2018: The year of the double challenge Restoration of eucalipto anelado Taboão Farm (São Paulo state) Photo: Adriano Gambarini/WWF Brasil SUZANO AND RESTORATION [GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3] Suzano Pulp and Paper and Fibria already had Agreement, Suzano works to conserve in place restoration programs that, today, important habitats, increasing plant cover when combined, show the strength of this and biodiversity, protecting soils and springs, new company regarding this subject. With the and increasing sequestration and stock of merger of the companies, the forest restoration greenhouse gases. An important front of the program is carried out in three Brazilian biomes program that took place at Fibria was the Amazon, Atlantic Rainforest and Cerrado. In development of initiatives with vulnerable ten years, more than 11 million native seedlings rural communities for the production of were planted, contributing to maintaining native seedlings used in the program and biodiversity, and preserving springs and environmental education for restoration of quality of natural cycles. springs in neighboring communities. One of the main objectives of the restoration Best practices implemented and the knowledge program is to regenerate degraded areas, generated are widely shared with stakeholders restoring the local ecosystem. In line with of the restoration network, such as local the goals of Agenda 2030 and the Paris communities, NGOs and universities. 62 Suzano Report 2018 2018: The year of the double challenge 11million NUMBERS FOR RESTORATION AT In the last 10 years SUZANO UNTIL THE END OF 2018 With the consolidation of the two companies, in all, 3,767 hectares had their restoration process started in 2018. SEEDLINGS PLANTED In 30 years, these areas should sequestrate approximately 2,668 million tCO2e from ARE INTENDED TO the atmosphere, contributing to the RESTORE AREAS ON 1,335 environmental rebalancing of the planet. FARMS OF THE COMPANY The 11 million seedlings planted in the last 10 years are intended to restore areas on 1,335 farms in Bahia, Espírito Santo, Maranhão, Mato Grosso do Sul, São Paulo Photo: Márcio Schimming and Minas Gerais states. Tiago dos Santos Vescovi Technology Center, in Aracruz Use of software, apps and tools, such (Espírito Santo state) as GISAgri, LIDAR (Light Detection And Ranging) and drones, support the activities involving planning and monitoring of the success of performed activities. Industrial Environment Suzano’s units work with the concept of operational efficiency seeking eco-efficiency of the process, especially in terms of water, energy, waste and chemicals. Whenever possible, industrial operations work to close cycles, reusing resources and waste. The energy matrix of both companies is supported, to a large extent, by renewable sources. A very interesting point is the fact that both use eucalyptus biomass as their own source for energy generation. And, in some production units surplus energy is sold to the national public grid, supplying the country with cleaner and renewable energy. In 2018, the energy matrices of Suzano Pulp and Paper and Fibria were composed of 88% and 92% renewable sources, respectively. 2018: The year of the double challenge HIGHLIGHTS OF THE UNITS IN 2018 TRÊS LAGOAS UNIT (MATO GROSSO DO SUL STATE) ARACRUZ UNIT (ESPÍRITO SANTO STATE) Water: we had the lowest water withdrawal Effluents: the unit reduced by 22% its in the history of the unit with abstraction of phosphorus discharge in the water, contributing 26.3 m³/adt, down 11% compared with 2017. In to increasing water quality through the addition, in the year we recovered approximately installation of 11 new aerators in the treatment 520,000 m³ of rainwater from its ponds. This ponds and by reducing the temperature of rainwater is sent to the entrance of the Water the effluent by 5.6 degrees. Increased aeration Treatment Station reducing the need for and lower effluent temperature allowed for withdrawal from the Paraná River. better survival conditions of the biota, resulting in a qualitative and quantitative increase Waste: we recorded the lowest volume of waste in the number of microorganisms in the sent to landfills, considering the volume of ponds and, consequently, a greater demand waste sent per ton of pulp produced, down for nutrient consumption. 23% compared with 2017. The weighted average of the two production lines recorded Waste: there was a 16% reduction in a result of 16 kg/adt, 20% less than in 2017. waste generation compared with the The highlights were the greater sale of primary previous year. We increased recycling by sludge, burning of biological and mixed sludge, 5%. One of the initiatives that contributed reuse of sand generated in covering the landfill to this result was a 35% reduction in primary and use of lime sludge as an industrial and sludge generation and a 60% reduction agricultural byproduct. in sludge and lime generation. Carlos Rodrigues da Silva B5 Machine, in Suzano (São Paulo state) Photo: Disclosure Suzano 64 Suzano Report 2018 2018: The year of the double challenge Paula Borges Mishima Technology Center, in Jacareí (São Paulo state) Photo: Márcio Schimming JACAREÍ UNIT (SÃO PAULO STATE) MUCURI UNIT (BAHIA STATE) Waste: we significantly reduced Waste: the Effluent Treatment Station, generation of biological sludge by implemented at the end of 2017, allowed for 22,886 tons compared with 2017. a significant reduction of the organic load This was possible due to the startup discharged into the Mucuri river, using activated of the biological sludge dryer installed in sludge technology. The station’s operation the Effluent Treatment Station, which, also allowed for 23% less sludge generation in addition to reducing generation, at the end of the treatment, compared to enabled the use of dry sludge to generate what was originally expected by the project. energy in the biomass boiler. Water: Mucuri’s industrial unit achieved the Air emissions: as of September, when lowest water use per ton of pulp, reaching the project to change fuels in the lime 25.2 m³/adt in June 2018, compared with the kilns from oil to natural gas was annual average of 26.75 m³/adt. This result completed, there was an average stems from the robustness and constant reduction of 2,400,000 kg of CO2/month search for improvement in management of from these sources compared with the water use — a subject that relies on a working same period in 2017. group dedicated to its discussion and treatment. Suzano Report 2018 65 2018: The year of the double challenge IMPERATRIZ UNIT (MARANHÃO STATE) SUZANO UNIT (SÃO PAULO STATE) Chemicals: with the installation of the Water: reduction in the number for Biochemical DD-Washer, there was an increase in the efficiency Oxygen Demand (BOD5)—which indicates a cellulose pulp washing process, thus reducing decrease in the content of organic matter in consumption of chemicals, such as chlorine the water effluent—with an average result of dioxide, in the bleaching stage of the pulp. 1.31 t/day in 2018, compared with a discharge rate Consumption of chlorine dioxide reduced from of 2.1 t/day, representing the best performance approximately 11.3 kg/ton to 10 kg/ton per day. since 2013. This reduction contributes to generating a treated effluent of better quality, thus minimizing LIMEIRA UNIT (SÃO PAULO STATE) the possibility of adverse environmental impacts Water: we had the best result for water on water resources. withdrawal in the unit’s history with an average withdrawal of 2,646 m³/h, accounting Waste: we increased by 66% the destination for a reduction of 27% in relation to the of primary sludge reused as fiber (external grant established by the Brazilian National recycling), an alternative to some less Water Agency. environmentally-friendly types of final disposal, such as landfills. Waste: we improved the rate of recyclable waste in waste sorting collection, reaching 62%. Primary sludge = 20,135 t/year This reflects an increase in people’s awareness recycled in 2017 of the importance of proper sorting of waste, contributing to a reduction in the volume sent to landfills. Primary sludge = 33,388 t/year recycled in 2018 Photo: Márcio Schimming Plant in Imperatriz (Maranhão state) 2018: The year of the double challenge RIO VERDE UNIT (SÃO PAULO STATE) Waste: 95% of the primary sludge generated in 2018 was recycled as fiber (external recycling), compared with 75% recycled in 2017, replacing other types of final disposal. 2018 GOALS: INDUSTRIAL ENVIRONMENT GOALS RESULTS ACHIEVED GOALS IMPERATRIZ1 Water consumption (m3/adt) 23.73 24.8 No BOD (kg/adt) 0.45 0.07 Yes Waste generation (kg/adt) 135.2 132.4 Yes Waste sent to landfill (%) 53.1 60.16 – LIMEIRA 2 BOD (t/day) 1.1 0.46 Yes Water consumption (m /t of market pulp, paper 3 29.15 29.37 No and transfers) Recyclable material (%) 57.7 62.7 Yes MUCURI Water consumption (m3/adt) 27.01 26.75 Yes BOD (t/day) 1.0 0.9 Yes Waste sent to landfill (kt/month) 11.5 9.4 Yes RIO VERDE Water consumption (m3/t) 11.8 12.8 Yes BOD (% removal efficiency) 88 93 Yes SUZANO3 Water consumption (m3/t) 37.37 39.11 No BOD (t/day) 2.1 1.3 Yes Waste sent to landfill (kt/month) 1.2 0.7 Yes 1 Imperatriz: Pursuant to the management method developed to achieve this goal, an engineering modification was conducted to replace the use of industrial water with cooling water from the heat exchanger of the cooking process. However, this change was not successful and, consequently, it was necessary to return to the original system. 2 Limeira: the specific water consumption target (m³/ton of market product) was not reached due to the truck drivers’ strike and deviations in production. 3 Suzano: the goal was not met due to the high consumption of water in the paper production area. For 2019, the reliability team is expected to be involved in strategic operation in equipment with a water recovery function, thus ensuring the availability of the equipment for that purpose. Suzano Report 2018 67 2018: The year of the double challenge OUR COMMITMENT TO HEALTH AND SAFETY [GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3] Commitment to team safety in all forestry, industrial, logistics, laboratory or office operations is another topic common to Suzano Pulp and Paper and Fibria. The year 2018 was marked by a series of initiatives that demonstrate how serious the issue of safety is for the Izabela Lobato de Souza and companies and how committed they are to the Jessly Bandeira de Oliveira Occupational Safety, in evolution of the culture of and engagement with Imperatriz (Maranhão state) safety and, as a consequence, zero accidents. Photo: Márcio Schimming At Fibria, industrial operations had the best historical result in 2018. For the fifth 5 consecutive year, the rate of accidents with lost time was less than 0.2 accidents per 200,000 th MHW (man-hours worked), below the average consecutive for the industry, which shows consistency in the health and safety management model implemented by Fibria in operations. It is worth yearIN WHICH THE LOST mentioning that in 2018 there were no fatalities TIME INJURY FREQUENCY RATE in the operations of Fibria or Suzano Pulp and WAS BELOW 0.2 ACCIDENTS Paper. The zero accident goal will continue to be pursued year after year. PER 200,000 MHW 68 Suzano Report 2018 2018: The year of the double challenge Below we highlight the main initiatives: Training on safe behavior: each year, dozens of professionals are trained to become Internal Week for the Prevention observers. They learn to develop a keen eye of Workplace and Environmental to detect risks, assist in analyzing opportunities, Accidents (SIPTMA): held at all the and record everything they see on the Work company’s operating units, the Internal Risk Assessment (ORT Observação de Risco Week engaged all employees with this no Trabalho) form. topic and brought about valuable considerations on the importance of At Suzano Pulp and Paper, the year 2018 was putting safety first in all activities, once again marked by a reduction in the number whether inside or outside the company. of occurrences with lost time, a feat that has been achieved in the last five years and, in the Safety Pact: a forest operations last three years, we have reached a rate below program jointly developed between 0.11 accidents per 200,000 MHW, considering all the leadership and the field teams, operations of Suzano Pulp and Paper. The result in which everyone signs a large banner is below those recorded for the segment and containing safety guidelines, reaffirming, year indicates that the company has been advancing after year, the commitment to zero accidents. its culture of safety and zero accidents. Suzano Report 2018 69 Photo: Ivair Ferreira de Almeida Márcio Forestry JFI, in Capão Schimming Bonito (São Paulo state) Here are some initiatives: Hearts and Minds: Suzano Pulp and Paper was supported by a consulting firm specializing in the Safety sponsors: all newly hired employees from Hearts and Minds methodology to strengthen the operational areas are now supported by safety the company’s culture of safety. Employees of sponsors to support them in the first year with the operations have been heard since 2018 to the company. The goal is to reduce the number of identify strengths and needs for improvement accidents that occur most frequently during the in order to raise the level of safety within first 12 months of employment. the company. The consulting work should be completed by the end of 2019. Blocking of energy sources: the forest area implemented a new process during maintenance SI Safety Indicator: the implementation of of the machines used in forestry. Power sources, SI, in which the safety tools applied by team such as ignition or main switches, are now blocked leaders and safety programs applicable to the with locks placed by the machine operator and team are now quantified (IGS) and qualified mechanic, preventing trucks, tractors and other (IQS). This enabled the mapping and definition equipment from moving involuntarily while of even more assertive actions in a continuous maintenance is being performed. search for improvement of the process and for the maturing of the safety culture. 70 Suzano Report 2018 2018: The year of the double challenge OUR CERTIFICATIONS The certifications adopted by Suzano should Industrial Scope: reflect the continuity of the governance model already consolidated by Suzano Pulp and Paper  NBR ISO 9001 Quality and by Fibria, both in industry and in forests.  NBR ISO 14001 Environmental management Forest Scope1:  OHSAS 18001 Health and Safety  P  EFC/Cerflor® (Brazilian Forest Certification Program) Forest management  P  EFC/Cerflor (Brazilian Forest Certification Program) Chain of custody  F  SC® (Forest Stewardship Council®) Forest management2  F  SC (Forest Stewardship Council®) Chain of custody2 1 Nearly 79% of Suzano’s planted areas are certified. 2 FSC-C104120 and FSC-C010014 chain of custody and FSC-C100704 and FSC-C009927 forest management certifications. Photo: Márcio Schimming From left to right: Sergio Fernando Dalmaschio, Lara Confolonieri Bastos, and Marluce Feitosa Maciel Drying, in Aracruz (Espírito Santo state) Suzano Report 2018 71 2018: The year of the double challenge OUR RECOGNITIONS IN 2018 SUZANO PULP AND PAPER Best Brands – Lojas Papelaria, Informática, Brinquedos & Cia Magazine Executivo de Valor – Valor Econômico White and Colored Printer/Copier Papers category Cardboard, paper and pulp category Walter Schalka LIDE Education and Innovation Award CEO of the Year in Latin America – RISI Education category Walter Schalka Largest Companies in the World – Forbes Bonds & Loans Latin America Awards Bonds & Loans Global 2000: World’s Best Employers – Forbes Sub-Investment Grade Corporate Bond Deal of the Year category Industry Highlights – ABTCP Manufacturer of Tissue Paper category HSM Leadership Management Leadership Teams category 17º Graphprint Award Revista Graphprint Transformational Leaders category Walter Schalka Coated Writing and Printing Paper category Hexagon Shaping Smart Change – Hexago Best Companies to Work – Você S/A Most Admired Legal and Finance Executives – 150 Best Companies to Work for and Analysis Legal and Finance Executives – Career categories Marcelo Bacci Sofidel Suppliers Sustainability Award – Sofidel 50 Best Agribusiness Companies in Brazil Forbes Best Companies for an Internship Interview – Love Mondays Best Practice in Management of Legal Departments – Intelijur Ranking 50 Most Beloved Companies in Brazil – Love Mondays chosen for the second time with an Best CEOs in Brazil – Forbes overall satisfaction rating of 4.15 on a scale of 1 to 5. Walter Schalka O Equilibrista – IBEF-SP Empresa de Valor – Valor Econômico CFO of the Year Marcelo Bacci The Best of Dinheiro – IstoÉ Dinheiro 45 Best Companies to Start a Career – Você S/A Corporate Governance of the Pulp and Paper Employer Branding category Segment category Bonds & Loans Awards 5 “Latin American Corporate Counsel th Categories Latin America Investment Grade Bond Association Awards” LACCA Deal of the Year, Latin America Syndicated Loan Deal of the Year, Corporate Bond Deal of the Year Companies that Best Communicate with and Syndicated Loan Deal of the Year Journalists – Negócios da Comunicação Magazine Forestry Base category 72 Suzano Report 2018 2018: The year of the double challenge FIBRIA Institutional Investor Magazine Categories: Best IR Professional Camila PMI Project of the Year Award – Nogueira, Best IR Program, Best Analyst Day, Project Management Institute Best Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Project Horizonte 2 was chosen one of the three Metrics, and Best IR Team among Sell Side analysts best projects in the world, based on the excellence adopted in its management practices Best of Dinheiro – IstoÉ Dinheiro Green Seal – Certificate of Environmental Best Agribusiness Award – Highlight – Jornal do Meio Ambiente do Estado Globo Rural Magazine de São Paulo Pulp and Paper category Neide Castanha Award – Executive Secretary Época Negócios 360° – Época Negócios Magazine of the National Committee to Combat Sexual Violence against Children and Adolescents Aberje Regional Award São Paulo Social Responsibility category Digital Communication category with the project Pessoas Únicas e Suas Histórias (Unique People The 50 Best Agribusiness Companies in and Their Stories Brazil – Forbes Brasil Exame Sustainability Guide Top of Mind LEC Compliance – 6 International th Compliance Congress Financial Compliance Jatobá Excellence and Innovation Award in PR category Adjarbas Guerra – Internal Communication and Corporate Media categories Gazeta Empresarial Award – Instituto Futura Best Company in Aracruz category 10 Innovative and Scalable Initiatives for Sustainable Land Development in Latin Most Admired Financial Executives Award – America and the Caribbean – FAO-UN Honorable Revista Análise Editorial – Most Admired CFOs in Mention for the PDRT Brazil category Guilherme Cavalcanti The Legal 500 – GC Powerlist Brazil – Ranking 100 Open Startups Mariangela Bartz Ranked 19th in the Top 50 Open Corps UPM Changshu Supplier Award Business Leader – Rede Vitória/RECORD Best Strategic Supplier by UPM and newspaper Folha de Vitória Quality Assessment (QA) Certificate – Leader of the Year and Leader in Largest The Institute of Internal Auditors Inc. – IIA Companies of Espírito Santo – Marcelo Castelli Eco Brazil Award by Amcham – Global 2000 – Forbes (Fibria) (Brazil-US Chamber of Commerce) Sustainability in Process category with Highlights of the Year – ABTCP Forest the Case ‘Natural Capital’: Valuation of Development Category (Aracruz timber logistics Fibria Externalities project) and Market Pulp Maker (construction of the second Três Lagoas line, Horizonte 2 project) Suzano Report 2018 73 Rita De Cassia Escalfoni Technology Center Cell 3, in Aracruz (Espírito Santo state) Photo: Márcio Schimming 4 Suzano New [GRI 102-2, 102-4, 102-6, 102-7] 74 Suzano Report 2018 Suzano Report 2018 75 The new Suzano 4.1 Our numbers Nearly 1.3 million HECTARES OF 113 ECOFUTURO COMMUNITY LIBRARIES PLANTED AREAS IN 12 STATES Over 900,000 HECTARES OF CONSERVATION More than 35,000 AREAS, INCLUDING NEBLINAS COMPANY EMPLOYEES PARK IN SÃO PAULO AND CONTRACTORS 7 pulp Energy: 90 MWh AVERAGE SURPLUS OF MILLS 3 paper MILLS (EQUIVALENT TO A CITY WITH A POPULATION OF 1.4 million) 86 countries SUPPLIED WITH Veracel – result of a joint-venture with Stora Enzo PRODUCTS Integrated supply chain FROM SUZANO 35,000 10.9 million 1.4 million TONS OF ANNUAL TONS ANNUAL CUSTOMERS PULP CAPACITY PAPER CAPACITY IN THE PAPER SEGMENT 8 INTERNATIONAL OFFICES 8 RESEARCH CENTERS 20 DISTRIBUTION CENTERS IN BRAZIL 76 Suzano Report 2018 The new Suzano R$ 22 billion INVESTMENT OVER THE * R$ 31.7 billion NET REVENUE LAST THREE YEARS R$ 26 billion * R$ 16.4 billion OF ADJUSTED EBTIDA EXPORTED IN THE R$ 12.5 billion LAST 12 MONTHS * 40% MARKET SHARE IN BRAZIL IN PRINTING AND WRITING PAPER, OF OPERATING CASH GENERATION 42% CONSIDERING SUZANO’S MARKET OF OPERATION * GROWTH OVER THE PREVIOUS YEAR More than 2 billion PEOPLE WORLDWIDE IMPACTED 3 PORTS FOR PULP EXPORTS All mills located near the coast BY OUR SERVICES AND PRODUCTS or connected to railways * Proforma data seek to reflect, based on the annual results of the two companies which in 2018 were still independent the numbers and results of the new Suzano. 12 FULLY DEDICATED SHIPS FULLY INTEGRATED global distribution MILL RAILWAY PORT Suzano Report 2018 77 The new Suzano 4.1 Our culture AT THE END OF 2018, SUZANO PULP AND PAPER AND FIBRIA COULD LOOK BACK AND SEE THAT THEY WERE BOTH SUCCESSFUL IN THE DOUBLE MISSION OF DELIVERING STRONG OPERATIONAL RESULTS AND SIMULTANEOUSLY ORGANIZING THE COMPANIES FOR THE MERGER. THEY STARTED 2019 READY TO BUILD THE NEW SUZANO TOGETHER! Photo: Ricardo Teles From left to right: Everaldo Souza Mota, Waleska Botacim Tonole, and Hawanni Ferrete Batista Forest Logistics and Administrative Coordination, in Mucuri (Bahia state) 78 Suzano Report 2018 Giovani Henrique de Almeida and Adriano Silva Teodoro B8 Machine, in Suzano (São Paulo state) Photo: Ricardo Teles A unique and strong business is made by people Directors was submitted for validation by working in the same direction. For this reason, focus groups, formed by people from different the greatest challenge has been to align company hierarchies, positions and locations from both employees and contractors around the same companies, who confirmed the compliance convictions, beliefs and values. Regardless the with the principles. business front—from employees in the field who are in contact with our neighbors to the After the creation of the culture Drivers and colleagues who interact with our customers or consolidation of the business in January 2019, representatives of the government sector—we the CEO and the Board of Directors visited want to be able to tell the same story after all together all Suzano Units to communicate the we all have the same goal. Drivers to the employees, in a first step of the engagement. The mobilization wave that As soon as the first tier of Suzano’s executives followed, also in 2019, involves the translation were defined, in December 2018, they gathered of the culture Drivers into the day-to-day for three-day off-site meetings to kick-off activities of the company, through various the integration. During the meeting, in training and communication actions, and a welcoming, engaging and productive the revision of processes and of our people atmosphere, the group put together the new management practices. At all levels of the Company’s culture Drivers, a set of guidelines company, decision-making should comply about who we are, what we do and how we do with these culture guidelines. This is a it—and that reflect what the company intends project that will take up an extensive to be. Subsequently, the work done by the company agenda throughout 2019. Suzano Report 2018 79 The new Suzano DRIVERS OF THE NEW JOURNEY [GRI 102-16] Who we are What we do People who inspire and transform Create and share value We believe in: We believe in: • Having courage and competence to make • Thinking and acting big and globally things happen • Evolving continuously and quickly • Cultivating diversity makes us stronger • Innovating to advance • Working together and for everyone • Building and sharing success considering • Overcoming expectations is what drives us everyone involved • Being ‘strong-and-kind’ We do not believe in: We do not believe in: • Being arrogant • Levelling down • Not learning from mistakes • Seeking results at any cost • Complicating what is simple • Focusing solely on short-term goals How we do it t’s only good for us if it’s good for the world We believe in: • Establishing a dialogue to build better things in a better way • Being a protagonist in the evolution of society • Always helping in a sustainable manner • Seeking for the admired profit We do not believe in: • ’Assistentialist’ practices • Losing focus on competitiveness 80 Suzano Report 2018 Photo: Ricardo From left to right: Roberta Amorim Teles Tannus, Ana Elisa de Almeida Rossi, and Claudio Covolo Júnior Legal Department, at the Suzano Central Office (São Paulo state) TRANSFORMATION AGENTS [GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3] Suzano is born a leader and this leadership brings with it a world of responsibilities and opportunities. For a company with 35,000 employees and that directly impacts 2 billion people with services and products, it is not enough to simply comply with all laws and rules. We must go beyond! Therefore, sustainability is approached cross-sectionally in the culture Drivers, entering as a strategic part of the business. Our goal is to have a leading role in the industry where we operate and, through it, become a transforming agent of society. We want to show that it is possible to be profitable while being inclusive and respectful with people and the environment. We will not back away from, for example, participating in debates on urgent issues for the country, as is the case of education, which affects the development of Brazil. Suzano created and has maintained, since 1999, Ecofuturo Institute, a non-profit organization that works to transform society by fostering reading and environmental conservation (learn more on page 46). In addition, we are committed to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), which are 17 global goals set by the UN General Assembly to engage companies, governments and institutions in a common sustainable agenda. Suzano Report 2018 81 The new Suzano THE DIFFERENCE Thus, since the beginning of 2019, a multidisciplinary THAT STRENGTHENS group, led by the Human Resources Department, has been working on a set of actions aimed at valuing diversity and [GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3] inclusion as a competitive differentiator in our company. Overseeing the mapping and monitoring the work DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION developed voluntarily by the employees is Grupo Plural, MAKE US STRONGER. THIS IS which is an organic movement started in 2016 at Suzano ONE OF THE CONCEPTS THAT Pulp and Paper and which today engages employees who WE WANT TO EXPERIENCE ON are interested in dealing with this topic in the company. In A DAILY BASIS IN OUR NEW 2018, Plural, which previously focused on the gender issue, CULTURE. BOTH SUZANO PULP gained strength with the inclusion of two other thematic groups: Plural Black, which discusses racial and ethnic AND PAPER AND FIBRIA HAD inclusion, and Plural Pride, which debates the issues of the IN PLACE PRACTICES THAT LGBTI+ community (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, FOCUSED ON THIS TOPIC. Intersex and others). Photo: Ricardo Teles From left to right: Andreia Silvestre (Procurement), André Dias (Procurement), Renata Lima (Communication), Tomas Barrandeguy Oreste (Procurement), and Joseane Silva (Procurement), in São Paulo (São Paulo state) 82 Suzano Report 2018 The new Suzano For 2019, in addition to the coordination work the definition of roles, responsibilities, sponsors carried out by volunteers and allies of Plural, for affinity groups (involving the Executive and there is a professional in the HR expertise team Functional Board) and goals. Everything is closely dedicated to diversity and inclusion at Suzano. monitored by the Department of Strategy, People, The inclusion of this topic in the structure of Communication, IT and Digital, to which the HR the HR Department is new and demonstrates Department reports. the importance that this topic has for the company. The 2019 agenda also includes a In addition, in March 2019, Suzano reaffirmed coordination work, with the participation of the adherence assumed by Fibria to the Business an internal network of employees, to mobilize Initiative for Racial Equality, which brings ten leaders and their teams towards the advances commitments that the company must pursue that the company hopes to achieve. These will in order to promote the issue internally. New be initiatives on several fronts, especially in the commitments on other fronts worked by structuring and definition of governance for the Plural are being studied to be presented to diversity movement within the company, with the company’s leadership. THE MAIN CHALLENGES FOR 2019 IN ADDITION TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF A SINGLE CULTURE, THE CAPTURE OF SYNERGIES (SEE IN THE INFOGRAPHIC BELOW SOME OF THE SYNERGIES ALREADY MAPPED), THE INTEGRATION OF IT SYSTEMS, AND BUDGET PLANNING ARE SOME OF THE GREAT CHALLENGES FOR THE YEAR. STRUCTURAL COMPETITIVENESS BOOSTED BY SYNERGIES SELECTED LOGISTICS/ INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROCUREMENT G&A EXAMPLES COMMERCIAL Initiative • Reduction in • Wood supply • Routes • Contractual • Organizational products (SKUs) optimization optimization parameters structure per plant equalization adjustment Benefit • Lower • Wood logistics • Operational • Lower cost in • Headcount consumption of cost reduction scale expansion industrial and reduction chemicals forestry inputs • Transshipment and fuel • Higher overall costs reduction equipment effectiveness Suzano Report 2018 83 The new Suzano INTEGRATING PROCESSES AND PEOPLE [GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3] Also in 2018, many of the people management initiatives are being carried out based on policies and practices were evaluated in a the high standard of corporate governance. comparative manner during the Clean Team One of them is the consolidation of the work within the established legal boundaries. risk matrix, with the commitment to Soon after January 14, the day when the being validated biannually by the Board of new Suzano was born, the Human Resources Directors, and defining and monitoring the Departments began to communicate what action plans to mitigate risks. would be the main policies and practices that were critical to the start of the joint operation, The Code of Conduct and the policies such as the topic of benefits. that originally supported the former companies are convergent, such as the In addition, processes such as performance anti-corruption policy or the policy on appraisal and recruitment and selection are compliance with the competition law. being redesigned, taking into account the best With the new culture Drivers, we are from both companies in order to create a model reviewing all critical documents to ensure that meets the challenges of the new Suzano. consistency and alignment with company values. For the revised guidelines, training On other fronts, such as internal controls, is being made available to employees risk management and compliance, various and contractors. ROBUST GOVERNANCE IN PLACE Board of Directors: WELL-BALANCED MANAGEMENT Up to 10 members Eligibility assessment 20% independent members Supported by: • Audit Statutory Committee • Management and Finance Committee • Innovation and Strategy Committee • Sustainability Committee • Talent and Compensation Committee 84 Suzano Report 2018 From left to right: Reinaldo Gonçalves and Lucas Aparecido Plata Martins Drying, at the plant in Jacareí (São Paulo state) Photo: Ricardo Teles TALK TO SUZANO PULP AND PAPER AND FIBRIA The channels operated separately and will be unified in the new company. CONTACT US SUZANO ANSWERS The institutional websites of Suzano Structured to answer questions and receive Papel e Celulose and of Fibria contain suggestions and criticism, it can be accessed a form for sending messages on by the service center 0800 022 1727 or by various subjects. email suzanoresponde@suzano.com.br TALK TO FIBRIA EXTERNAL OMBUDSMAN’S OFFICE Widely disseminated in the regions, the channel Confidential channel for answering questions and receives questions, criticism and suggestions in receiving reports on ethical deviations. It can be the regions where the company operates: accessed by phone and email. Upstate São Paulo: 0800 707 9810 Suzano Pulp and Paper: 0800 771 4060 and Espírito Santo and Bahia: 0800 283 8383 ouvidoriaexterna@austernet.com.br Mato Grosso do Sul: 0800 642 8162 Fibria: 0800 8911730, www.fibria.com.br, link “Ouvidoria” and by PO Box nº 81011, CEP 04537-970. CORPORATE TOUR PROGRAM Guides groups of customers, suppliers, employees and their families, as well as people from the community, in monitored tours to our industrial and forestry units. Participation can be scheduled via email at visite@suzano.com.br Suzano Report 2018 85 The new Suzano TIMELINE November 29th “A” DAY: July 31 EUROPEAN COMPETITION APPROVAL CHINA: AUTHORITY APPROVES THE APPROVAL OF THE TRANSACTION, FINALIZING THE CONDITIONS FOR THE MERGER December 10th MERGER BY CHINA’S NYSE – SUZ: COMPETITION LISTING OF AUTHORITIES November 1st SUZANO PULP AND PAPER ON APPROVAL CADE: THE NEW YORK March 16th CONSENT FROM THE ADMINISTRATIVE COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC DEFENSE STOCK EXCHANGE ANNOUNCEMENT: (CADE CONSELHO ADMINISTRATIVO SUZANO AND FIBRIA DE DEFESA ECONÔMICA) IN BRAZIL COMMUNICATE THE MERGER 2018 December 3, 4 and 5 OFF-SITE MEETING OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD: November 14 EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS CHOSEN TO LEAD THE NEW APPROVAL ANTAQ: COMPANY CREATE SUZANO’S APPROVAL BY THE CULTURE DRIVERS NATIONAL AGENCY June 1st OF WATERWAY TRANSPORTATION (ANTAQ APPROVAL USA: AGÊNCIA NACIONAL APPROVAL OF DE TRANSPORTES December 17 and 18 THE MERGER BY AQUAVIÁRIOS) VALIDATION OF THE DRIVERS: US ANTITRUST MULTIDISCIPLINARY GROUP OF AUTHORITIES EMPLOYEES OF BOTH COMPANIES MEET TO DISCUSS AND VALIDATE THE CULTURE DRIVERS September 6 APPROVAL SHAREHOLDERS: AT THE MEETING, SHAREHOLDERS OF SUZANO PULP AND PAPER AND FIBRIA APPROVE THE MERGER OPERATION. APPROVAL BY TURKISH AUTHORITIES 86 Suzano Report 2018 Photo: Márcio Schimming Application of herbicide, Forestry in Capão Bonito (São Paulo state) January 4 B3: SUZB3: FIBRIA’S SHAREHOLDERS BEGIN TO TRADE SUZB3, 2019 HAVING AS EXCHANGE RATIO FOR EACH SHARE OF SUZANO January 3 BASELINE DATE: LAST DAY OF FIBRIA TRADING ON B3 AND NYSE (DELISTING) January 14 CLOSING: PAYMENT IN FULL OF THE ADJUSTED CASH PORTION BEGINNING OF THE JOINT OPERATION AND MERGER OF THE CENTRAL OFFICES OF BOTH COMPANIES Suzano Report 2018 87 The new Suzano OUR TEAM BOARD OF AUDITORS BOARD OF DIRECTORS AUDIT COMMITTEE 88 Suzano Report 2018 The new Suzano EXECUTIVE OFFICERS FORESTRY Alexandre Chueri INDUSTRIAL, PULP, ENGINEERING, AND ENERGY Aires Galhardo PROCUREMENT, LOGISTICS, COMMERCIAL, PULP, AND FLUFF Carlos Anibal PAPER BUSINESS UNIT Leonardo Grimaldi CONSUMER GOODS Luis Renato Costa Bueno FINANCE Marcelo Bacci CEO Walter Schalka STRATEGY, PEOPLE, COMMUNICATION, IT, AND DIGITAL Christian Orglmeister NEW BUSINESS Vinicius Nonino TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION Fernando Bertolucci SUSTAINABILITY Malu Pinto e Paiva LEGAL AND INSTITUTIONAL RELATIONS Pablo Machado AUDIT Mariano Zavattiero Suzano Report 2018 89 Independent Assurance Statement 90 Suzano Report 2018 Independent assurance statement Independent assurance statement Bureau Veritas BUREAU VERITAS CERTIFICATION METHODOLOGY BRAZIL (‘BUREAU VERITAS’) WAS The Assurance covered the following activities: ENGAGED BY SUZANO S.A. (‘SUZANO’) 1. Interviews with the personnel responsible TO CONDUCT AN INDEPENDENT for material issues and involved in the Report ASSURANCE OF ITS ANNUAL REPORT content; FOR THE YEAR 2018 (HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AS THE REPORT). 2. On-site visits to the Central Administration office located in São Paulo – SP and the following THIS ASSESSMENT WAS CONDUCTED operational sites: ;Mucuri BA and Jacareí SP; BY A MULTIDISCIPLINARY STAFF WITH EXPERTISE IN NON-FINANCIAL DATA. 3. Review of documentary evidence provided by Suzano in relation to the reporting period (2018); 4. Evaluation of the systems used for data SCOPE OF WORK compilation; The scope of this verification encompassed the Standard and Principles1 of the Global Reporting 5. Analysis of Suzano’s stakeholder engagement InitiativeTM GRI for Sustainability Reports, for the activities; and period from 1 January to 31 December 2018. 6. Evaluation of the method used to define material SUZANO´S AND BUREAU VERITAS issues included in the Report, taking into account RESPONSIBILITIES the sustainability context and the scope of the The collection, calculation and presentation of information published. the data published in the report are Suzano’s management sole responsibility. Bureau Veritas is The level of verification adopted was Limited, responsible for providing an independent opinion according to the requirements of the ISAE 3000 to the Stakeholders, pursuant to the scope of work Standard2, which were incorporated to the internal defined in this declaration. assessment protocols of Bureau Veritas. 1 Materiality, Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Sustainability Context, Completeness, Balance, Comparability, Accuracy, Periodicity, Clarity, and Reliability 2 International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 – Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information Suzano Report 2018 91 Independent assurance statement LIMITATIONS AND EXCLUSIONS TECHNICAL OPINION Excluded from the scope of this work was any • In their report Suzano presents data and assessment of information related to: information about the impacts of the activities developed by former companies Fibria S.A. and • Activities outside the defined assessment Suzano Pulp and Paper, companies that were period; officially merged in January 2019; • Statements of position (expressions of opinion, • Suzano reviewed and prioritized the material beliefs, goals, or future intentions) on the part themes regarding the former companies to of Suzano; define the Report content. Nevertheless we did not evidence a materiality test conducted • Economic and financial information contained in for this publication; this Report which has been taken from financial statements verified by independent financial • It is our understanding that the Report discloses auditors; the main relevant themes of the pulp and paper sector, transparently addresses the challenges of • Inventory of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions, the merger of the two companies and presents in verified by Bureau Veritas in a different scope a balanced manner the impacts of their activities; of work. • We noticed some differences in the methods of The following limitations apply for this assurance data collection for some indicators, given that engagement: these data were managed by distinct teams that had a different understanding with regard to the • The principles of Accuracy and Reliability were interpretation of the indicators; limited to data samples related to material aspects published within the Report; • We also evidenced a difference in the level of completeness of indicators associated with the • Economic and financial data presented within the material aspects of the GRI between the two report were assessed against the GRI reporting former companies. Yet, it is our understanding principle of Balance; that sufficient indicators were reported to comply with the GRI Core option; • Although we verified the energy and emissions indicators, we did not deliver assurance of the Inventory of Green Gas (GHG) emissions. 92 Suzano Report 2018 Independent assurance statement RECOMMENDATIONS DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE • Conduct a materiality test for the new AND IMPARTIALITY company that was officially created in 2019, Bureau Veritas Certification is an independent so that the themes that are relevant for the professional services firm specializing in next publication can be updated; Quality, Health, Safety, Socialand Environmental Management, with more than185 years’ • Align the data collection methods of the two experience in independent assessment. former companies concerning the indicators related to the material aspects of the GRI; Bureau Veritas has a quality management system that is certified by a third party, according to • Align the completeness of the operational and which policies and documented procedures non operational indicators of the two former are maintained for the compliance with ethic, companies. professional and legal requirements. CONCLUSION The assessment team has no links with Suzano As a result of our assurance nothing has come to and the assessment is performed independently. our attention that would indicate that: Bureau Veritas implemented and follows a • The information presented in the Report is not Code of Ethics throughout its business, in balanced, consistent and reliable; order to assure that its staff preserve high ethical, integrity, objectivity, confidentiality • Suzano has not established appropriate and competence/ professional attitude systems for the collection, aggregation and standards in the performance of their activities. analysis of quantitative and qualitative data At the end of the assessment, a detailed used in the Report; report was drawn up, ensuring traceability of the process. This Report is kept as a Bureau • The Report does not adhere to the Principles Veritas management system record. for defining report content and quality of the GRI Standards and does not meet its Core level. CONTACT Bureau Veritas Certification is available for further clarification on www.bureauveritascertification.com.br/ faleconosco.asp or by telephone (55 11) 2655-9000. São Paulo, Brazil, May 2019. Alexander Vervuurt Lead Auditor; Assurance Sustainability Reports (ASR) Bureau Veritas Certification – Brazil Suzano Report 2018 93 GRI Content Index The indicators presented in the GRI Content Index and in the GRI Attachment used the 2016 version of the GRI Standards. 94 Suzano Report 2018 GRI Content Index Global GRI Standard Disclosure Page, link or direct disclosure Omission SDG Compact GRI 101: Foundation 2016 General Disclosures GRI 102: 102-1 Name of the LETTER TO THE READER General organization Disclosures 102-2 Activities, brands, Eucafluff is the fluff of the future, products, and services THE ROLE OF SUZANO, Sustainability in its DNA, Mimmo®, Le Blanc® and Max Pure®, NEW SUZANO 102-3 Location of São Paulo, SP headquarters 102-4 Location of NEW SUZANO operations 102-5 Ownership and legal Formed as a result of the merger form between former Suzano Pulp and Paper and Fibria, Suzano is a forest based publicly held company controlled by Suzano Holding, with shares traded on B3 (Brasil, Bolsa, Balcão) and NYSE (New York Stock Index). 102-6 Markets served Eucafluff is the fluff of the future, NEW SUZANO 102-7 Scale of the THE ROLE OF SUZANO, organization NEW SUZANO 102-8 Information on GRI ATTACHMENT Information on 6 8 employees and other employees per work workers hours was not available in the period. 102-9 Supply Chain GRI ATTACHMENT 102-10 Significant changes to PREPARATION FOR THE MERGER, the organization and Integration with FACEPA its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary GRI ATTACHMENT Principle or approach 102-12 External initiatives Suzano Pulp and Paper: <http://www.suzano.com.br/ relatoriodesustentabilidade2017/pdf/ Relatorio_2017.pdf?v=6> (Page 76); Fibria: <http://r2017.fibria.com.br/nossosrelacionamentos/relacionamento-como-governo-organizacoes-e-foruns/> 102-13 Membership of Suzano Pulp and Paper: associations <http://www.suzano.com.br/ relatoriodesustentabilidade2017/pdf/ Relatorio_2017.pdf?v=6> (Page 76); Fibria: <http://r2017.fibria.com.br/nossosrelacionamentos/relacionamento-como-governo-organizacoes-e-foruns/> 102-14 Statement from Message from the President, senior decision-maker Message from the Chairman of the Board Suzano Report 2018 95 GRI Content Index Global GRI Standard Disclosure Page, link or direct disclosure Omission SDG Compact GRI 102: 102-16 Values, principles, Drivers of the new journey 10 16 General standards, and Disclosures norms of behavior 102-17 Mechanisms for GRI ATTACHMENT advice and concerns about ethics 102-18 Governance structure Governance 102-40 List of stakeholder Message from the Chairman of the groups Board 102-41 Collective bargaining GRI ATTACHMENT 3 8 agreements 102-42 Identifying ABOUT THE REPORT and selecting stakeholders 102-43 Approach to ABOUT THE REPORT stakeholder engagement 102-44 Key topics and ABOUT THE REPORT concerns raised 102-45 Entities included in The report covers the same entities the consolidated included in the Financial Statements of financial statements Suzano Pulp and Paper. In the case of Fibria, Veracel is not considered in the indicators, except when signaled. 102-46 Defining report ABOUT THE REPORT content and topic Boundaries 102-47 List of material topics ABOUT THE REPORT 102-48 Restatements of Restatements of data are provided in information the tables throughout the Report or in the GRI ATTACHMENT. 102-49 Changes in reporting ABOUT THE REPORT 102-50 Reporting period ABOUT THE REPORT 102-51 Date of most 2018. recent report 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual. 102-53 Contact point for ABOUT THE REPORT questions regarding the report 102-54 Report of the This Report was produced in in accordance accordance with the GRI Standards, option chosen by Core option. the organization 102-55 GRI Content Index GRI CONTENT INDEX 102-56 External Assurance ABOUT THE REPORT 96 Suzano Report 2018 GRI Content Index Global GRI Standard Disclosure Page, link or direct disclosure Omission SDG Compact Material Topics Economic Performance GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of ADVERSITIES IN INDUSTRY, Management the material topic REVENUE AT A HIGH Approach and its boundaries 103-2 The management ADVERSITIES IN INDUSTRY, The goals for this approach and its REVENUE AT A HIGH topic were not components available in the period. 103-3 Evaluation of the ADVERSITIES IN INDUSTRY, management approach REVENUE AT A HIGH GRI 201: 201-1 Direct economic GRI ATTACHMENT 2, 5, 7, Economic value generated and 8, 9 Performance distributed Market Presence GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of GRI ATTACHMENT Management the material topic Approach and its boundaries 103-2 The management GRI ATTACHMENT The goals for this approach and its topic were not components available in the period. 103-3 Evaluation of the GRI ATTACHMENT management approach GRI 202: 202-2 Proportion of senior GRI ATTACHMENT 6 8 Market management hired Presence from the local community Procurement Practices GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the GRI ATTACHMENT Management material topic and its Approach boundaries 103-2 The management GRI ATTACHMENT The goals for this approach and its topic were not components available in the period. 103-3 Evaluation of the GRI ATTACHMENT management approach GRI 204: 204-1 Proportion of GRI ATTACHMENT 12 Procurement spending on local Practices suppliers Suzano Report 2018 97 GRI Content Index Global GRI Standard Disclosure Page, link or direct disclosure Omission SDG Compact Anti-corruption GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Integrating processes and people Management the material topic Approach and its boundaries 103-2 The management Integrating processes and people The goals for this approach and its topic were not components available in the period. 103-3 Evaluation of the Integrating processes and people management approach GRI 205: 205-2 Communication and GRI ATTACHMENT Information on 10 16 Antitraining about communications corruption anticorruption in anti-corruption policies and policies and procedures procedures, on training and communications for governance bodies and on the percentage of employees trained was not available in the period. 205-3 Confirmed incidents GRI ATTACHMENT 10 16 of corruption and actions taken Anti-competitive Behavior GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of Integrating processes and people Management the material topic Approach and its boundaries 103-2 The management Integrating processes and people The goals for this approach and its topic were not components available in the period. 103-3 Evolution of the Integrating processes and people management approach GRI 206: 206-1 Legal actions for antiGRI ATTACHMENT 16 Anticompetitive behavior, competitive anti-trust, and Behavior monopoly practices Energy GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT Management material topic and Approach its boundaries 103-2 The management COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT The goals for this approach and its topic were not components available in the period. 103-3 Evaluation of the COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT management approach 98 Suzano Report 2018 GRI Content Index Global GRI Standard Disclosure Page, link or direct disclosure Omission SDG Compact GRI 302: 302-1 Energy consumption GRI ATTACHMENT 7, 8 7, 8, Energy within the 12, 13 organization 302-3 Energy intensity GRI ATTACHMENT 8 7, 8, 12, 13 Water GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Forest Water Management Management material topic and Approach its boundaries 103-2 The management Forest Water Management The goals for this approach and its topic were not components available in the period. 103-3 Evaluation of the Forest Water Management management approach GRI 303: 303-2 Management of water GRI ATTACHMENT 8 6, 12 Water and discharge-related Effluents impacts 303-3 Water withdrawal GRI ATTACHMENT 7, 8 6, 12 Biodiversity GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT, Management material topic and AREAS FOR CONSERVATION, Approach its boundaries BIODIVERSITY, SUZANO AND RESTORATION 103-2 The management COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT, The goals for this approach and its AREAS FOR CONSERVATION, topic were not components BIODIVERSITY, SUZANO available in the period. AND RESTORATION 103-3 Evolution of the COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT, management AREAS FOR CONSERVATION, approach BIODIVERSITY, SUZANO AND RESTORATION GRI 304: 304-1 Operational sites GRI ATTACHMENT 8 6, 14, Biodiversity owned, leased, 15 managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 304-2 Significant impacts GRI ATTACHMENT 8 6, 14, of activities, products, 15 and services on biodiversity 304-3 Habitats protected GRI ATTACHMENT 8 6, 14, or restored 15 304-4 IUCN Red List GRI ATTACHMENT 8 6, 14, species and national 15 conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations Suzano Report 2018 99 GRI Content Index Global GRI Standard Disclosure Page, link or direct disclosure Omission SDG Compact Emissions GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Climate change Management material topic and Approach its boundaries 103-2 The management Climate change The goals for this approach and its topic were not components available in the period. 103-3 Evaluation of the Climate change management approach GRI 305: 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GRI ATTACHMENT 7, 8 3, 12, Emissions GHG emissions 13, 14, 15 305-2 Indirect (Scope 2) GRI ATTACHMENT 7, 8 3, 12, GHG emissions 13, 14, 15 305-3 Other indirect GRI ATTACHMENT 7, 8 3, 12, (Scope 3) GHG 13, 14, emissions 15 305-4 GHG emissions GRI ATTACHMENT 8 13, 14, intensity 15 305-7 Nitrogen oxides GRI ATTACHMENT 7, 8 3, 12, (NOX), sulfur oxides 13, 14, (SOX), and other 15 significant air emissions Effluents and Waste GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Management of forest waste Management material topic and Approach its boundaries 103-2 The management Management of forest waste The goals for this approach and its topic were not components available in the period. 103-3 Evaluation of the Management of forest waste management approach GRI 306: 306-1 Water discharge GRI ATTACHMENT 8 3, 6, Effluents by quality and 12, 14 and Waste destination 306-2 Waste by type and GRI ATTACHMENT 8 6, 12 disposal method 306-5 Water bodies affected GRI ATTACHMENT 8 15 by water discharges and/or runoff 100 Suzano Report 2018 GRI Content Index Global GRI Standard Disclosure Page, link or direct disclosure Omission SDG Compact Supplier Environmental Assessment GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the GRI ATTACHMENT Management material topic and Approach its boundaries 103-2 The management GRI ATTACHMENT The goals for this approach and its topic were not components available in the period. 103-3 Evaluation of the GRI ATTACHMENT management approach GRI 308: 308-1 New suppliers that GRI ATTACHMENT 8 Supplier were screened using Environmental environmental criteria Assessment 308-2 Negative environmental GRI ATTACHMENT 8 impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Employment GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Transformation agents Management material topic and Approach its boundaries 103-2 The management Transformation agents The goals for this approach and its topic were not components available in the period. 103-3 Evaluation of the Transformation agents management approach GRI 401: 401-1 New employee GRI ATTACHMENT Information on the 6 5, 8 Employment hires and employee rate of new hires, turnover turnover rate by region and total number of new hires and terminations in the period was not available. Occupational Health and Safety GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Our commitment to health and safety Management material topic and Approach its boundaries 103-2 The management Our commitment to health and safety The goals for this approach and its topic were not components available in the period. 103-3 Evaluation of the Our commitment to health and safety management approach GRI 403: 403-1 Workers representation GRI ATTACHMENT 3, 8 Occupational in formal health and Health and safety committees Safety 403-2 Types and rates of GRI ATTACHMENT Health and safety 3, 8 injuries, occupational rates by gender and illness, lost days, region were not absenteeism and available in the period. number of workrelated fatalities Suzano Report 2018 101 GRI Content Index Global GRI Standard Disclosure Page, link or direct disclosure Omission SDG Compact Training and Education GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Integrating processes and people Management material topic and Approach its boundaries 103-2 The management Integrating processes and people The goals for this approach and its topic were not components available in the period. 103-3 Evaluation of the Integrating processes and people management approach GRI 404: 404-1 Average hours of GRI ATTACHMENT 6 4, 5, 8 Training and training per year per Education employee 404-3 Percentage of GRI ATTACHMENT 6 5, 8 employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the The difference that strengthens Management material topic and Approach its boundaries 103-2 The management The difference that strengthens The goals for this approach and its topic were not components available in the period. 103-3 Evaluation of the The difference that strengthens management approach GRI 405: 405-1 Diversity of GRI ATTACHMENT 6 5, 8 Diversity governance bodies and Equal and employees Opportunity 405-2 Ratio of basic salary GRI ATTACHMENT The ratio of 6 5, 8 and remuneration of remuneration of women to men women to men was not available in the period. Non-discrimination GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the The difference that strengthens Management material topic and Approach its boundaries 103-2 The management The difference that strengthens The goals for this approach and its topic were not components available in the period. 103-3 Evaluation of the The difference that strengthens management approach GRI 406: 406-1 Incidents of GRI ATTACHMENT 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 10 Nondiscrimination and 4, 5, 6 discrimination corrective actions taken 102 Suzano Report 2018 GRI Content Index Global GRI Standard Disclosure Page, link or direct disclosure Omission SDG Compact Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the GRI ATTACHMENT Management material topic and Approach its boundaries 103-2 The management GRI ATTACHMENT The goals for this approach and its topic were not components available in the period. 103-3 Evaluation of the GRI ATTACHMENT management approach GRI 407: 407-1 Operations and GRI ATTACHMENT 8 Freedom of suppliers in which Association the right to freedom and Collective of association and Bargaining collective bargaining may be at risk Child Labor GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the GRI ATTACHMENT Management material topic and Approach its boundaries 103-2 The management GRI ATTACHMENT The goals for this approach and its topic were not components available in the period. 103-3 Evaluation of the GRI ATTACHMENT management approach GRI 408: Child 408-1 Operations and GRI ATTACHMENT 5 8, 16 Labor suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor Forced or Compulsory Labor GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the GRI ATTACHMENT Management material topic and Approach its boundaries 103-2 The management GRI ATTACHMENT The goals for this approach and its topic were not components available in the period. 103-3 Evaluation of the GRI ATTACHMENT management approach GRI 409: 409-1 Operations and GRI ATTACHMENT 4 8 Forced or suppliers at Compulsory significant risk for Labor incidents of forced or compulsory labor Suzano Report 2018 103 GRI Content Index Global GRI Standard Disclosure Page, link or direct disclosure Omission SDG Compact Rights of Indigenous and Traditional People GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the RELATIONSHIP WITH THE Management material topic and COMMUNITIES Approach its boundaries 103-2 The management RELATIONSHIP WITH THE The goals for this approach and its COMMUNITIES topic were not components available in the period. 103-3 Evaluation of the RELATIONSHIP WITH THE management COMMUNITIES approach GRI 411: 411-1 Incidents of violations GRI ATTACHMENT 1 2 Rights of involving rights of Indigenous indigenous peoples Peoples Human Rights Assessment GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the GRI ATTACHMENT Management material topic and Approach its boundaries 103-2 The management GRI ATTACHMENT The goals for this approach and its topic were not components available in the period. 103-3 Evaluation of the GRI ATTACHMENT management approach GRI 412: 412-1 Operations that GRI ATTACHMENT 1 Human Rights have been subject Assessment to human rights reviews or impact assessments Local Communities GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the RELATIONSHIP WITH THE Management material topic and COMMUNITIES Approach its boundaries 103-2 The management RELATIONSHIP WITH THE The goals for this approach and its COMMUNITIES topic were not components available in the period. 103-3 Evaluation of the RELATIONSHIP WITH THE management approach COMMUNITIES GRI 413: Local 413-1 Operations with GRI ATTACHMENT 1 Communities local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 413-2 Operations with GRI ATTACHMENT 1 1, 2 significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities 104 Suzano Report 2018 GRI Content Index Global GRI Standard Disclosure Page, link or direct disclosure Omission SDG Compact Supplier Social Assessment GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the GRI ATTACHMENT Management material topic and Approach its boundaries 103-2 The management GRI ATTACHMENT The goals for this approach and its topic were not components available in the period. 103-3 Evaluation of the GRI ATTACHMENT management approach GRI 414: 414-1 New suppliers that GRI ATTACHMENT 2 5, 8, Supplier were screened using 16 Social social criteria Assessment 414-2 Negative social GRI ATTACHMENT 2 5, 8, impacts in the supply 16 chain and actions taken Suzano Report 2018 105 GRI Attachment The GRI Attachment of Suzano's 2018 Annual Report presents the GRI disclosures of Suzano Pulp and Paper and Fibria for the period from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018. Whenever comparable, the information of both companies was shown in the same table. When calculated differently, the information is shown in separate tables. The criteria for calculating the indicator, as well as the assumptions adopted, may have been different for the two companies—this is signaled throughout the document in footnotes. The indicators presented in the GRI Content Index and in the GRI Attachment used the 2016 version of the GRI Standards. For any questions, please contact relatoriosuzano@suzano.com.br. 106 Suzano Report 2018 GRI Attachment GRI 102: General Disclosures GRI 102-8. INFORMATION ON EMPLOYEES AND OTHER WORKERS TOTAL NUMBER OF COMPANY EMPLOYEES BY TYPE OF CONTRACT AND GENDER IN 2018 SUZANO PULP AND FIBRIA FUTURAGENE FACEPA PAPER1 Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Open-ended/ permanent 7,216 1,023 8,239 4,076 673 4,749 49 80 129 941 255 1,196 contracts Fixed-term/ temporary 26 34 60 125 76 201 2 0 2 36 11 47 contracts 1. For the indicator, no employees from international offices were considered. TOTAL NUMBER OF COMPANY EMPLOYEES BY REGION IN 20181 SUZANO PULP AND PAPER1 FIBRIA FUTURAGENE FACEPA Open-ended/ Fixed-term/ Open-ended/ Fixed-term/ Open-ended/ Fixed-term/ Open-ended/ Fixed-term/ Total Total Total Total permanent temporary permanent temporary permanent temporary permanent temporary Midwest 32 0 32 1,768 74 1,842 0 0 0 0 0 0 Northeast 3,893 22 3,915 0 0 0 0 0 0 217 46 263 North 224 0 224 0 0 0 0 0 0 979 1 980 Southeast 4,014 36 4,050 2,918 126 3,044 64 2 66 0 0 0 South 76 2 78 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total Brazil 8,239 60 8,299 4,686 200 4,886 64 2 66 1,196 47 1,243 International 145 0 145 63 1 64 65 0 65 0 0 0 offices Total 8,384 60 8,444 4,749 201 4,950 129 2 131 1,196 47 1,243 1. International offices for SPC and Futuragene include expatriates. Midwest for Fibria includes the unit in Três Lagoas, while Southeast includes the units in Aracruz, Jacareí, Headquarters (São Paulo), Capão Bonito and Vale do Paraíba. TOTAL NUMBER OF CONTRACTORS IN 20181 SUZANO PULP AND PAPER FIBRIA TOTAL 11,253 14,158 25,411 1. For Fibria, fixed-term contractors, that is, contractors with continuous access, with frequency equal to or greater 20 hours per week and contractors with permanent contracts, are considered: 1) Continuous and uninterrupted activity; 2) Contract for a 12-month period; 3) Monthly billing, 4) Regular frequency of third-party employees. Examples: property and forest surveillance; building cleaning and maintenance; landscaping maintenance; electrical maintenance and instrumentation of the mill. At SPC, activities that require specializations and/or specific business guidelines, such as forestry in the forest units and facilities, are performed by third parties. Suzano Report 2018 107 GRI Attachment GRI 102-9. SUPPLY CHAIN Suzano has a chain of suppliers committed to its values and sustainability. Therefore, in its value chain, the company values committed partners with best management practices regarding economic, social and environmental aspects, in order to minimize the risks and mitigate the impacts. Supplier relationship guidelines establish recommendations for maintaining relationships of trust and mutual respect, valuing dialogue, ethics and transparency, thus encouraging a learning environment, creating innovative solutions and achieving sustainable results. GRI 102-11. PRECAUTIONARY PRINCIPLE OR APPROACH SUZANO PULP AND PAPER Suzano Pulp and Paper explored the concept of first line of defense through standards of conduct developed and disseminated in the business areas in order to identify and mitigate possible risks in its operations. The company understood that large organizations are driven by their own cultural dynamics, supported by the employees who form their processes and procedures. The Company also has in place the Integrated Risk Management, a methodology based on its business environment—in the respective paper, pulp and consumer goods units—which lists a risk portfolio based on evaluation of parameters of financial, compliance, image and health, safety and environment impacts, as well as in the likelihood of occurrence. The Integrated Risk Management model is presented in public policy and monitored quarterly by the Management and Audit Committee. Specifically for 2018, Internal Controls performed significant work in mapping processes and implementing controls for the Sarbanes-Oxley certification and compliance. This certification imposes high internal control standards, aiming at the integrity of our financial statements and soundness of the Company's processes. This movement is in line with the trading of shares in the North American market, with the Suzano integration process and with best market practices. FIBRIA Fibria adopts the precautionary principle in the management and operation of its industrial and forestry activities, having in place measures to control and monitor production, such as agricultural studies, genetic improvement in eucalyptus production, which involves the adaptation of species in different climatic conditions, monitoring of water consumption in forest areas, sector closure of industrial effluents, reuse of water in production processes, among others. GRI 102-41. COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS 100% of SPC and Fibria employees were covered by conventions and collective bargaining agreements in 2018. 108 Suzano Report 2018 GRI Attachment GRI 201: Economic Performance GRI 201-1. DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED SUZANO PULP AND PAPER VALUE ADDED FOR DISTRIBUTION (VAD) – SUZANO PULP AND PAPER (IN THOUSANDS OF REAIS) HOLDING COMPANY CONSOLIDATED 2017 2018 2017 2018 Value added for distribution 5,340,894 7,974,567 5,644,333 8,089,716 People 1,075,168 1,283,376 1,122,991 1,338,106 Direct remuneration 869,192 1,048,000 910,152 1,090,613 Benefits 164,774 190,733 171,637 197,143 F.G.T.S (employee severance payment fund) 41,202 44,643 41,202 50,350 Taxes, fees and contributions 858,513 320,361 802,491 430,694 Federal 729,287 144,326 702,940 185,191 State 124,038 170,499 94,491 239,756 Municipal 5,188 5,536 5,060 5,747 Remuneration of third-party capital 1,599,780 6,052,491 1,911,418 6,002,456 Interest 1,521,446 5,944,922 1,827,502 5,890,268 Leases 78,334 107,569 83,916 112,188 Remuneration of own capital 1,807,433 318,339 1,807,433 318,460 Dividends 380,515 8,074 380,515 8,074 Retained profit in the period 1,426,918 310,265 1,426,918 310,386 Value added distribution 5,340,894 7,974,567 5,644,333 8,089,716 FIBRIA VALUE ADDED FOR DISTRIBUTION (VAD) – FIBRIA (IN THOUSANDS OF REAIS) 2017 2018 Value generated for the company 11,187,555 12,845,000 Investment in communities 57,000 Dividends 257,750 725,000 People 880,530 1,129,000 Taxes, fees and contributions (Government) 952,455 1,569,000 Suppliers 9,096,820 9,365,000 Suzano Report 2018 109 GRI Attachment GRI 202: Market Presence GRI 202-2. P  ROPORTION OF SENIOR MANAGEMENT HIRED FROM THE LOCAL COMMUNITY SUZANO PULP AND PAPER PROPORTION OF SENIOR MANAGEMENT MEMBERS OF SIGNIFICANT OPERATING UNITS HIRED FROM THE LOCAL COMMUNITY1 BRAZIL 2016 2017 2018 Midwest 0 0 0 Northeast 15 0 3 North 0 3 0 Southeast 88 88 86 South 0 0 0 1. Senior management includes Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director, Director, Executive Manager, and Functional Manager. All senior management members were considered, including those hired in other years. FIBRIA PROPORTION OF SENIOR MANAGEMENT MEMBERS OF SIGNIFICANT OPERATING UNITS HIRED FROM THE LOCAL COMMUNITY1 BRAZIL 2016 2017 2018 Midwest 0 25 0 Northeast 0 0 0 North 0 0 0 Southeast 41 39 0 South 0 0 0 1. Senior management includes Directors and General Managers. Only senior management members hired in the period were considered, thus, the numbers for 2018 are zero. GRI 204: Procurement Practices GRI 204-1. PROPORTION OF SPENDING ON LOCAL SUPPLIERS SUZANO PULP AND PAPER FIBRIA PROPORTION OF SPENDING ON LOCAL SUPPLIERS1 PROPORTION OF SPENDING ON LOCAL SUPPLIERS1 2017 2018 2017 2018 Imperatriz 54% 72% Aracruz 65% 64% Limeira 88% 92% Jacareí 78% 76% Mucuri 37% 32% Três Lagoas 49% 47% 1.Fibria considers as local suppliers those established in the same State of its units. Suzano 80% 89% 1. SPC considers as local (regional) suppliers those established in the same State of its units. 110 Suzano Report 2018 GRI Attachment GRI 205: Anti-corruption GRI 205-2. C  OMMUNICATION AND TRAINING ON ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICIES AND PROCEDURES SUZANO PULP AND PAPER1 TRAINING IN ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICIES TRAINING IN ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICIES AND PROCEDURES FOR EMPLOYEES AND PROCEDURES FOR EMPLOYEES BY FUNCTIONAL CATEGORY IN 2018 BY REGION IN 2018 Administration 1,113 Brazil Board member 1 Midwest 33 Consultant 374 Northeast 3,323 Coordinator 177 North 175 Director 9 Southeast 3,854 Executive Director 5 South 13 Specialist 760 Subtotal 7,398 Executive Manager 54 Abroad Functional Manager 185 Argentina 107 Operational 4,681 United States of America 10 Supervisor 197 England 1 Total 7,556 Switzerland 9 Austria 1 1. Considers the total number of employees trained. Israel 22 China 8 Subtotal 158 Total 7,556 FIBRIA1 TRAINING IN ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICIES TRAINING IN ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICIES AND PROCEDURES FOR EMPLOYEES AND PROCEDURES FOR EMPLOYEES BY FUNCTIONAL CATEGORY IN 2018 BY REGION IN 2018 Executive Board 1 Headquarters 95 Management 31 Aracruz 1,044 Consultants and Coordinators 205 Jacareí 876 Administration 1,471 Três Lagoas 953 Operational 1,328 International Offices 68 Total 3,036 Total 3,036 1. Considers the total number of employee participation in anti-corruption topics, and one employee may have participated in more than one event. Suzano Report 2018 111 GRI Attachment GRI 205-3. C  ONFIRMED INCIDENTS OF CORRUPTION AND ACTIONS TAKEN In 2018, neither Suzano Pulp and Paper nor Fibria had any confirmed cases of corruption. For Suzano Pulp and Paper, the concept of corruption was used as provided for in Brazilian law. For Fibria, the concept of corruption is understood as corruption of public agents. GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior GRI 206-1. LEGAL ACTIONS FOR ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR, ANTI-TRUST, AND MONOPOLY PRACTICES In 2018, neither Suzano Pulp and Paper nor Fibria was a party to any outstanding or terminated lawsuits relating to unfair competition or violations of antitrust laws or monopoly regulations. GRI 302: Energy GRI 302-1. ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION TOTAL DIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION FROM RENEWABLE SOURCES IN 2018 (GJ) Suzano Pulp and Paper Fibria1 Biomass 12,635,816.16 6,545,755.16 Ethanol 18,122.93 Black Liquor 86,806,890.72 107,042,429.88 Methanol 894,157.86 983,473.33 CNG 875,510.55 Total 100,354,987.67 115,447,168.92 1. For Fibria, biomass includes both purchased and produced biomass. 112 Suzano Report 2018 GRI Attachment TOTAL DIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION FROM NON-RENEWABLE SOURCES IN 2018 (GJ) Suzano Pulp and Paper Fibria Liquid Petroleum Gas 349,015 Natural Gas 8,351,988 8,747,246 Gasoline 64,889 Greases 134 Lubricants 216,767 Methanol (fossil) 32,785 Fuel Oil 3,032,029 1,924,409 Diesel 1,317,886 106 Jet fuel 10 Total 13,365,502 10,671,761 TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION IN 2018 (GJ) Suzano Pulp and Paper Fibria Renewable sources 100,354,988 115,447,169 Non-renewable sources 13,365,502 10,671,761 Total 113,720,490 126,118,930 PERCENTAGE OF ENERGY FROM RENEWABLE SOURCES IN 2018 Suzano Pulp and Paper Fibria 88% 92% SUZANO PULP AND PAPER FIBRIA ENERGY PURCHASED AND EXPORTED ENERGY PURCHASED AND EXPORTED IN 2018 (GJ) IN 2018 (MWH/ADT) Purchased 2,940,832 Total electric energy 0.70 generated in the facilities Exported 2,283,985 Electric energy consumed 0.63 Electric energy purchased 0.05 Electric energy exported 0.11 GRI 302-3. ENERGY INTENSITY ENERGY INTENSITY (GJ/ADT) Suzano Pulp and Paper1 Fibria 24.59 20.70 1. For SPC, the calculation of energy intensity considers all energy consumption within the company in relation to the production of market pulp, paper, fluff and tissue. Suzano Report 2018 113 GRI Attachment GRI 303: Water GRI 303-2. W  ATER SOURCES SIGNIFICANTLY AFFECTED BY WITHDRAWAL OF WATER SUZANO PULP AND PAPER In 2018 there was an increase in absolute Suzano Pulp and Paper withdraws water from indicators (water withdrawal and generation of some sources with high biodiversity value, effluents in m³/year) due to the operations because they are in environmental preservation of mill 2, which in 2017 operated only for areas or RPPN (Private Natural Heritage 4 months. However, a better performance Reserves), or because they have high value for is observed when the specific value is the community. In this sense, the company obtained, that is, m³/adt of water withdrawn, withdraws water from the tributary of Ribeirão for example. dos Veados, a tributary of Ribeirão Tamanduá, a tributary of the Santo Inácio River, an unnamed Our unit does not use the final effluent tributary of the Jurumirim Reservoir, aquifer after treatment at Effluent Treatment Formação Pirambóia, aquifer Formação Serra Stations. Some companies and processes Geral, Alto Paranapanema Basin, Córrego make use of the effluent after treatment, such da Lajinha, Córrego Rodrigues and Ribeirão as in fertigation. There is no application for do Atalho, all located in the Environmental this case. Industrial processes prior to effluent Protection Area of Botucatu. The company also treatment recycle and reuse water, such as withdraws water from Córrego Piracema and cooling towers and countercurrent circuit for Água Palmeirinha River, both of which are part the filtrates in the fiber line. It is worth of the RPPN of Matão Olavo Setúbal and of mentioning that in 2018, specific projects the rivers Mucuri, Piracicaba, Tietê, Tocantins for the internal re-use of water resources and Três Barras, the latter with high value for were carried out, and the work developed the community and local population, since it significantly contributed to improving the supplies 50,000 people in the Itararé region. specific volume withdrawn. FIBRIA Jacareí Unit Fibria affects the surrounding sources in its The average flow of the Paraíba do Sul three units: River, which is the water source of the Jacareí Unit, is 75 cubic meters per second. Três Lagoas Unit The average volume of water withdrawn The average flow of the Paraná River, which is for the Unit is 0.7 m³/s, which accounts for the water source of the Três Lagoas Unit, is 0.93% of the river flow. Although not impacting 6,000 cubic meters per second. The average the river, the Unit conducts environmental volume of water withdrawn for Line 1 is monitoring as a prevention and control 1.27 m³/s and for Line 2, it is 1.5 m³/s, measure to verify eventual changes. Water which accounts for 0.046% of the river flow. samples are collected for qualitative and Although not impacting the river, we conduct quantitative analysis of physico-chemical, environmental monitoring as a prevention and biological and microbiological parameters. control measure to verify eventual changes. Water samples are collected for qualitative Aracruz Unit1 and quantitative analysis of physico-chemical, Surface water is withdrawn from the Gimuhuna biological and microbiological parameters. River (Captação Mãe Boa), which is influenced 114 Suzano Report 2018 GRI Attachment by the adduction of the Gimuhuna River basin and a significant contribution of the channel called Canal Caboclo Bernardo (Doce River). Currently, no water resources are impacted by withdrawal. 1. Fibria and the Municipality of Aracruz were jointly and severally convicted in a Public Civil Action filed by the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, to carry out, within six months, an Environmental Impact Study and Environmental Impact Report (EIS/EIR) regarding the project to transpose water from Doce River to Riacho River. In a judgment of appeal filed by Fibria, the Federal Regional Court of the 2nd Region issued a decision suspending the obligation to submit the EIS/EIR within six months, since it is a short period of time due to the complexity of the study. Concurrently, Fibria filed an appeal where it questions, among other points, the existence of damages capable of justifying the requirement for the EIS/EIR for the subject project. The appeal is pending decision. GRI 303-3. WATER RECYCLED AND REUSED SUZANO PULP AND PAPER1 WATER RECYCLED/REUSED IN 2018 Total volume of water recycled/reused (m3) 11,536,099 Percentage of water recycled and reused 18% 1. S PC considers the percentage in relation to the total water withdrawn in the units where the water is reused (Imperatriz and Limeira industrial units and the forestry unit in Bahia). FIBRIA WATER RECYCLED/REUSED IN 2018 Total volume of water recycled/reused (m3) 796,258,526 Percentage of water recycled and reused 78% GRI 304: Biodiversity GRI 304-1. OPERATIONAL UNITS OWNED, LEASED, MANAGED IN, OR ADJACENT TO, PROTECTED AREAS AND AREAS OF HIGH BIODIVERSITY VALUE OUTSIDE PROTECTED AREAS OPERATIONAL UNITS OWNED, LEASED, MANAGED IN, OR ADJACENT TO, PROTECTED AREAS AND AREAS OF HIGH BIODIVERSITY VALUE OUTSIDE PROTECTED AREAS, IN 2018 (ha) Suzano Pulp and Paper1 Fibria2 Within 25,308.32 Adjacent 4,964,296.24 106,250.20 1. Suzano Pulp and Paper includes the protected areas adjacent to its units. 2. For this indicator, Fibria includes the operational areas within or adjacent to protected areas and areas of high biodiversity index outside protected areas. The buffer zone criterion is used to calculate adjacent areas. This criterion is in line with the concept of this indicator and the ecological purpose of buffer zones. In 2018, the boundaries of the Conservation Unit RDS Mangueiros do Piraquê-Açu were readjusted, according to information provided by IEMA (Espírito Santo state), and Conservation Unit ARIE Degredo as per the decree, justifying the changes in relation to the total reported in 2017. Suzano Report 2018 115 GRI Attachment GRI 304-2. S  IGNIFICANT IMPACTS OF ACTIVITIES, PRODUCTS, AND SERVICES ON BIODIVERSITY SUZANO PULP AND PAPER of areas. During and after implementation, in the Although it does not identify significant and case of rain, we monitor points for correction irreversible negative impacts, Suzano Pulp and and improvements in conservation of soil Paper identifies some potential impacts of and roads. This process should be continuous its industrial and forestry operations on the throughout the first forestry cycle. environment. Regarding air emissions, which may cause A possible impact is the change in the quality of changes in air quality, SPC collects and burns the water and/or soil due to pollution (introduction gases at designated sources and performs selfof substances that do not occur naturally in the monitoring. And in relation to the use of water, habitat, from persistent and non-persistent which could alter water resources, the company sources) and disposal of solid waste. For this, closes part of the circuit and reuses water. SPC has in place forest management plans, manuals and procedures that guide employees FIBRIA in forestry processes (chemical control, ant As a sustainable forestry company, biodiversity extermination, etc.), and provides land use conservation is part of Fibria's strategy to create maps containing protected areas, as well as field shared value and well-being for people. markings signaling Permanent Protection Areas. In its industries, Suzano monitors its emissions In Fibria, raw material is eucalyptus wood, a (air and water) according to the requirements tree originating from Oceania that has adapted of local environmental agencies and according to Brazilian conditions without having the to the relevant legislation. The company also characteristics of invasive species. Our forests has in place a Solid Waste Management Plan and replace areas already affected by human has authorization for disposal of Class I waste intervention, increasing their carbon stock. and some industrial waste in licensed sites (authorization issued by CETESB). Biodiversity is included in the company's materiality matrix, and its Sustainability Another possible impact is damage to Policy attests to the commitment to reducing biodiversity due to fire or erosion. In the first adverse environmental impacts and improving case, SPC has in place the Floresta Viva (Living the quality of the environment. The company Forest): a program to consolidate the image sets aside approximately 32% of its properties of the company in the communities where it as conservation areas. These areas represent operates and their relationship with the forestry different types of ecosystems located along units, through awareness of environmental rivers and between the eucalyptus forests, preservation and prevention of fire outbreaks forming a mosaic landscape. in reforestation areas. In the case of erosion, we use ridges associated with water outlets, with Fibria's forestry activities follow its Forest variations in size and spacing, due to slope of Management Plan (FMP), a document that the land and soil type, respecting the limits of describes the forestry operations, available height and length they must take up the entire resources, practices and procedures adopted width of the road. The water outlets are built in to sustainably achieve short-, mediumand between the planting lines, thus avoiding waste long-term management goals. 116 Suzano Report 2018 GRI Attachment The construction and maintenance of roads considered relevant or significant are individually and firebreaks, planting and maintenance of addressed for each operation. eucalyptus in areas of commercial planting, seedling production, forest harvesting, wood When monitoring biodiversity, we work to learn transport, and other support activities, about and protect the species and populations including restoration of conservation areas and of native wildlife and flora and to ensure the environmental monitoring, are part of forest environmental quality of the areas maintained management. All management activities are by the company. evaluated through the Aspects and Impacts (AIA) matrix, in line with the ISO 14001 environmental Fibria understands that well-managed eucalyptus management system certification. forests and native trees, respect for biodiversity, and systemic land use, restore a series of ecosystem Among the main aspects of forestry services, such as carbon sequestration and water operations likely to generate impacts on conservation, and this association of planted and biodiversity are landscape modification, road native forests improves forest management. kill of wild animals, fires, leaks, spills and noise that could alter wildlife and aquatic Fibria's Environmental Restoration Program fauna, cause localized damage to the flora stands out as one of the activities with direct and temporary scaring of animals, on the positive impact on biodiversity. The restoration other hand, we also have a positive impact on methodologies employed are planting of the increase of biodiversity. For all negative native tree species, natural regeneration, and aspects, the following are defined: controls control of invasive species, as well as protection such as awareness and training, contractual against degradation factors. In 2018, a total requirements for suppliers, documented of 2,980 hectares of protected area in Atlantic internal procedures, micro-planning, social and Rainforest and Cerrado began to be restored, environmental recommendations and monitoring accounting for 27,680 hectares since 2012, of biodiversity. In this way, impacts related about 69.2% of the company's goal of restoring to wildlife and flora are controlled and those 40,000 hectares by 2025. GRI 304-3. HABITATS PROTECTED OR RESTORED For both companies, the areas mentioned include areas set aside for conservation purposes (Permanent Preservation Areas and Legal Reserve). SUZANO PULP AND PAPER FIBRIA HABITATS PROTECTED AND/OR RESTORED HABITATS PROTECTED AND/OR RESTORED BY FORESTRY UNIT (ha) BY TYPE OF BIOME (ha) Bahia1 83,054 Atlantic Rainforest 181,063 Maranhão2 205,290 Cerrado 126,940 São Paulo3 60,613 Restinga 4,323 Total 348,957 Total 312,325 1. Bahia Forestry Unit encompasses areas in the states of Bahia, Espírito Santo and Minas Gerais. 2. Maranhão Forestry Unit encompasses areas in the states of Maranhão, Pará, Tocantins and Piauí. 3. São Paulo Forestry Unit encompasses areas in the state of São Paulo. Suzano Report 2018 117 GRI Attachment GRI 304-4. IUCN RED LIST SPECIES AND NATIONAL CONSERVATION LIST SPECIES WITH HABITATS IN AREAS AFFECTED BY OPERATIONS SUZANO PULP AND PAPER1 TOTAL NUMBER OF ENDANGERED SPECIES IN 2018 IUCN National list State Lists Plants 20 19 9 Birds 39 32 51 Mammals 9 20 12 Amphibians 0 0 0 Reptiles 0 0 0 Fish 0 0 0 Crustaceans 0 0 0 Total 68 71 72 1. Includes the forestry units in Bahia and Maranhão, and Maranhão does not consider state lists. The total number of endangered species is the summation of those classified as Critically endangered, Threatened, and Vulnerable. Amphibians, reptiles, fish and crustaceans were not accounted for. FIBRIA1 TOTAL NUMBER OF ENDANGERED SPECIES IN 2018 IUCN National list State Lists Plants 19 104 4 Birds 36 81 62 Mammals 24 57 34 Amphibians 2 0 0 Reptiles 1 1 1 Fish 0 1 1 Crustaceans 0 2 5 Total 82 246 107 1. The IUCN list is updated in real time, which are incorporated into the list and may, therefore, contain fluctuations in numbers compared with previous years, upwards or downwards, even without new studies. The national list is from IBAMA. The total number of endangered species is the summation of those classified as Critically endangered, Threatened, and Vulnerable. 118 Suzano Report 2018 GRI Attachment GRI 305: Emissions GRI 305-1. DIRECT (SCOPE 1) GHG EMISSIONS GRI 305-2. INDIRECT (SCOPE 2) GHG EMISSIONS GRI 305-3. OTHER INDIRECT (SCOPE 3) GHG EMISSIONS CO2 EMISSIONS IN 2018 (tCO2eq) Suzano Pulp and Paper Fibria1 Scope 1 983,341 1,264,657 Scope 2 60,205 21,907 Scope 3 525,068 1,265,030 Total emissions (scope 1 + scope 2 + scope 3) 1,568,614 2,551,595 1. All gases (CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all) are considered, even though not all gases are present in Fibria's production process. GRI 305-4. INTENSITY OF GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS SUZANO PULP AND PAPER EMISSION INTENSITY BY OPERATION BLOCKS (tCO2e PER TON OF PRODUCT)1 2017 2018 Units: Suzano, Limeira and Rio Verde. Forestry Unit: SP 0.24 0.24 Unit: Imperatriz. Forestry Unit: MA 0.18 0.22 Unit: Mucuri. Forestry Unit: BA 0.15 0.16 Unit: FACEPA (Belém and Fortaleza) 0.56 Overall average2 0.19 0.21 1. The production of market pulp and paper production (finished paper, fluff and tissue) was considered as a product. 2. Includes emissions from other units (Headquarters, Futuragene, SPP, International Units). FIBRIA INTENSITY OF SEQUESTRATION AND EMISSIONS OF GREENHOUSE GASES (GHGs)¹ ² 2017 2018 Sequestration (tCO2eq/adt3) 3.40 3.47 Emissions industrial, forestry and logistics operations (tCO2eq/adt3) 0.32 0.40 Emissions biomass (tCO2eq/adt3) 1.79 1.71 Balance (sequestration emissions) (tCO2eq/adt3) 1.29 1.36 1. Includes scopes 1, 2 and 3. 2. Gases considered: CO2, CH4 and N2O. 3. adt Air-dry ton. Suzano Report 2018 119 GRI Attachment GRI 305-7. N  ITROGEN OXIDES (NOx), SULFUR OXIDES (SOx), AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT AIR EMISSIONS NITROGEN OXIDES (NOx), SULFUR OXIDES (SOx), AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT AIR EMISSIONS (TONS) Suzano Pulp and Paper Fibria NOx (direct emissions) 5,632.97 7,553.98 SOx (direct emissions) 1,345.77 850.41 Particulate Matter (PM) 2,486.69 2,547.23 Other (TRS) 175.12 156.92 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste GRI 306-1. WATER DISCHARGE BY QUALITY AND DESTINATION SUZANO PULP AND PAPER DISPOSAL AND QUALITY OF EFFLUENTS Belém Limeira Suzano Rio Verde Imperatriz Mucuri Total nitrogen (t) n/a 83.68 n/a n/a 0.06 243.86 Total phosphorus (t) n/a 38.36 n/a n/a 0.02 70.06 COD (mg/L) 299.20 236.30 216.40 181.20 4.96 279.00 BOD (mg/L) 62.86 9.97 20.20 38.80 0.07 7.30 Not AOx (kg) n/a n/a n/a 0.06 76,345.26 performed, Volume of effluents (m3) 1,218,193 17,434,172 23,994,010 852,432 30,674,201 44,908,979 DISPOSAL OF EFFLUENTS BY DESTINATION Was it used by Type of effluent treatment 2018 another organization? São Joaquim Primary Treatment -Clarification No 1,218,193 Channel Primary sedimentation, activated sludge, secondary Piracicaba River No 17,434,172 sedimentation, polishing and discharge. Primary treatment, secondary treatment in aerated ponds, Tietê River No 24,846,442 facultative lagoon (polishing pond) and, finally, discharge. Tocantins River Sludge activated through prolonged aeration No 30,674,201 Primary treatment followed by aerated pond and MBBR and, Mucuri River No 44,908,979 concurrently, Primary treatment followed by activated sludge 120 Suzano Report 2018 GRI Attachment FIBRIA DISPOSAL AND QUALITY OF EFFLUENTS 2018 Total nitrogen (kg/adt) 0.15 Total phosphorus (kg/adt) 0.05 COD (kg/adt) 8.54 BOD (kg/adt) 1.17 Suspended solids (kg/adt) 2.79 Volume of effluents (m3/adt) 24.58 DISPOSAL OF EFFLUENTS BY DESTINATION Was it used by Type of effluent treatment 2018 another organization? Atlantic Ocean Aeration ponds (Biological) No 57,720,543 Paraíba do Sul River Sludge activated double stage No 25,887,814 Paraná River Activated sludge through prolonged aeration No 66,938,242 GRI 306-2. WASTE BY TYPE AND DISPOSAL METHOD WEIGHT OF HAZARDOUS WASTE, FROM THE INDUSTRIAL AREA, BY TYPE OF FINAL DISPOSAL (TONS) Suzano Pulp and Paper2 Fibria Re-refining 95.420 284.55 Reprocessing/recycling 2.019 21.40 Co-processing 346.246 294.62 Incineration 0.159 0.37 Landfill1 70.340 102.39 Recovery 12.460 0.00 Total 526.64 703.32 1. For Fibria, landfill includes internal and external landfills (Class I). 2. Considers the industrial units of Imperatriz, Limeira, Mucuri and Suzano. In the period, Imperatriz Unit sent 16,800 liters for refining, not considered in the table above. Suzano Report 2018 121 GRI Attachment WEIGHT OF NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE, FROM THE INDUSTRIAL AREA, BY TYPE OF FINAL DISPOSAL (TONS) Suzano Pulp and Paper2 Fibria Reuse 97,384.68 453,776.71 Reprocessing/recycling 214,688.10 387,051.42 Co-processing 44,169.36 0.00 Composting 72,135.00 0.00 Landfill 1 296,152.78 149,400.94 Storage 304,240.73 0.00 Other 68,752.22 7,018.53 Total 1,097,522.86 997,247.59 1. For Fibria, landfill includes internal and external landfills (Class I). 2. Considers the industrial units of Imperatriz, Limeira, Mucuri, Rio Verde and Suzano. GRI 306-5. W  ATER BODIES AFFECTED BY WATER DISCHARGES AND/OR RUNOFF WATER BODIES AFFECTED BY WATER DISCHARGES AND/OR RUNOFF IN 2018 Suzano Pulp and Paper Fibria UNI Belém UNI Maranhão UNI Limeira UNI Mucuri UNI Suzano Aracruz Jacareí Três Lagoas The entire Type and Piracicaba Paraíba do São Tocantins Mucuri River Tietê River watershed size of the River Atlantic Sul River Joaquim River (average flow (average flow of the water body (average flow Ocean (average flow Channel (8,000) 50.35 m3/s) 5.32 m3/s) Paraná River (m³) 48.53 m3/s) 75 m3/s) (29 billion) 122 Suzano Report 2018 GRI Attachment GRI 307: Environmental Compliance GRI 307-1. N  ON-COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS SUZANO PULP AND PAPER In 2018, we received 10 environmental notices, none of which had significant amounts (over 1 million reais). We did not suffer non-monetary sanctions (seizure, suspension, work embargo or activity, or restriction of rights) as a result of non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. FIBRIA In 2018, 22 notices were registered due to non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations, only one notice having a significant amount of BRL 2,758,500.00 (two million, seven hundred fifty-eight thousand and five hundred reais). The infraction was assessed by IBAMA, which questions Fibria for allegedly performing construction work or activity of environmental resources considered effectively or potentially polluting, assessing a penalty on alleged noncompliance with conditions 2.1 and 2.4 of the operating license (OL) 898/2008, based on a Memorandum and a Technical Note dated 2016. A defense was filed, pending a response from the agency. Fibria was also notified in 135 non-monetary sanction procedures assessed by the Agricultural and Livestock Defense Coordination Office of Sorocaba for allegedly having presented an invoice and agronomic revenue issued to a location other than the one specified for the application of the pesticide. GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment GRI 308-1. NEW SUPPLIERS THAT WERE SCREENED USING ENVIRONMENTAL CRITERIA SUZANO PULP AND PAPER In 2018, 65% of the new suppliers hired by Suzano Pulp and Paper were screened using environmental criteria. The assessment of environmental criteria is performed during the registration and certification process for specific supply categories that require this type of analysis. FIBRIA In 2018, 61% of new suppliers hired by Fibria were screened using environmental criteria, and 53% of suppliers were selected based on these criteria. For the first item (percentage of suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria), we considered the total number of suppliers registered in 2018 that were screened (approved and rejected) using Environmental criteria versus the total number of suppliers registered that were screened. For the second item (percentage of suppliers that were selected using environmental criteria), we considered the total number of suppliers registered in 2018 that were approved and screened using environmental criteria versus the total number of suppliers registered that were screened. Suzano Report 2018 123 GRI Attachment GRI 308-2. N  EGATIVE SOCIAL IMPACTS IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN AND ACTIONS TAKEN SUZANO PULP AND PAPER In 2018, a total of 168 Suzano Pulp and Paper suppliers were submitted to environmental impact assessments, 9 of which were identified as causing significant negative environmental impacts. Action plans and strategies for monitoring these impacts were defined for these 9 suppliers. In the period, SPC did not terminate the relationship with any supplier. FIBRIA In 2018, a total of 397 Fibria suppliers were submitted to environmental impact assessments, 16 of which were identified as causing significant negative social impacts. Action plans and strategies for monitoring these impacts were defined for 38% of these suppliers. In the period, Fibria did not terminate the relationship with any supplier. GRI 401: Employment GRI 401-1. N  EW EMPLOYEE HIRES AND EMPLOYEE TURNOVER TURNOVER RATE BY GENDER AND AGE GROUP IN 20181 Suzano Pulp and Paper Fibria Futuragene Facepa Men 13% 9% 6% 1% Women 16% 20% 8% 0% Up to 30 years of age 20% 21% 8% 3% From 30 to 50 years of age 11% 8% 5% 1% Over 50 years of age 9% 6% 17% 0% 1. SPC and Fibria calculate turnover rates as follows: (new hires + terminations)/2/average number of employees by gender or age group. 124 Suzano Report 2018 GRI Attachment GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety GRI 403-1. WORKERS REPRESENTATION IN FORMAL HEALTH AND SAFETY COMMITTEES At Suzano Pulp and Paper, 100% of the workers are represented in formal health and safety committees. At Fibria, this total is 99.95%. The 0.05% not accounted for relates to international offices. GRI 403-2. TYPES AND RATES OF INJURIES, OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS, LOST DAYS, ABSENTEEISM AND NUMBER OF WORK-RELATED FATALITIES SUZANO PULP AND PAPER HEALTH AND SAFETY INDICATORS IN 2018 Company employees Contractors Accident frequency rate without lost time 1.33 0.9 Lost time injury frequency rate 1.03 0.14 Rate of lost days (RLD) 62 5 Absolute number of deaths 0 0 FIBRIA HEALTH AND SAFETY INDICATORS IN 20181 Number of injuries 29 Injury rate (IR) (overall) 0.11 Number of occupational diseases 0 Rate of occupational diseases (ROD) 0 Number of lost days 2,532 Rate of lost days (RLD) 9.92 Absolute number of deaths 0 1. The indicator includes company employees and contractors. Suzano Report 2018 125 GRI Attachment GRI 404: Training and Education GRI 404-1. A  VERAGE NUMBER OF TRAINING HOURS PER YEAR BY EMPLOYEE SUZANO PULP AND PAPER AVERAGE NUMBER OF TRAINING HOURS BY EMPLOYMENT CATEGORY IN 20181 Men Women Administration 13.85 5.76 Apprentice 56.59 15.50 Board member 1.50 0.00 Consultant 26.54 6.46 Coordinator 20.42 6.58 Director 4.75 0.00 Specialist 13.56 11.28 Intern 29.49 29.16 Manager 13.22 2.08 Operational 70.45 2.88 Supervisor 49.85 1.90 Total average 61.52 27.70 1. The indicator does not consider temporary, international and expatriate employees. FIBRIA AVERAGE NUMBER OF TRAINING HOURS BY EMPLOYMENT CATEGORY IN 2018 Men Women Executive Board 22.00 16.00 Management 60.31 73.38 Consultants and coordinators 57.86 59.12 Administration 38.27 31.52 Operational 69.49 62.02 Total average 62.68 45.79 126 Suzano Report 2018 GRI Attachment GRI 404-3. P  ERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES RECEIVING REGULAR PERFORMANCE AND CAREER DEVELOPMENT REVIEWS SUZANO PULP AND PAPER Suzano's performance evaluation includes 100% of our employees. Once a year, all employees go through a process we call Development Management, when we assess the level of delivery (What) and the way these deliveries were made (How). The How is based on the expected behaviors of each employee, according to corporate values. Initially, each employee makes a self assessment, then, the supervisor makes his/her assessment. In addition, assessment calibration committees are also held, composed of the leadership, in order to calibrate the discussions and obtain different perceptions. We then hold formal feedback sessions, which we call Touchpoints, where supervisor and employee, together, create an individual development plan. We are currently working hard to hold Touchpoints throughout the year, providing constant and fluid feedback, thus serving the purpose of developing our employees. FIBRIA: In 2018, 100% of Fibria's employees in the executive categories (General Managers and Managers) and Supervisors/Technical staff underwent performance evaluations. In the operational category, this total was 95.8% for men and 85.4% for women, while in the administrative category, this total was 96.7% for men and 92.6% for women. GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity GRI 405-1. DIVERSITY OF GOVERNANCE BODIES AND EMPLOYEES BREAKDOWN BY MINORITY GROUPS Suzano Pulp and Paper Fibria Futuragene Facepa Women 12% 15% 63% 21% Employees 50 and older 9% 15% 5% 14% Suzano Report 2018 127 GRI Attachment SUZANO PULP AND PAPER1 TOTAL NUMBER OF COMPANY EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT CATEGORY AND GENDER IN 2018 Suzano Pulp and Paper Men Women Total Administration 806 356 1,162 Board member 1 0 1 Consultant 304 76 380 Coordinator 125 42 167 Director 10 0 10 Executive Director 5 0 5 Specialist 410 360 770 Executive Manager 47 7 54 Functional Manager 157 27 184 Operational 5,238 213 5,451 Supervisor 8 192 200 Total 1,089 7,295 8,384 TOTAL NUMBER OF COMPANY EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT CATEGORY AND GENDER IN 2018 Futuragene Men Women Total Administration 47 17 64 Board member 0 0 0 Consultant 2 0 2 Coordinator 9 8 17 Director 0 4 4 Executive Director 0 1 1 Specialist 20 9 29 Executive Manager 0 2 2 Functional Manager 2 6 8 Operational 0 0 0 Supervisor 0 2 2 Total 80 49 129 128 Suzano Report 2018 GRI Attachment TOTAL NUMBER OF COMPANY EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT CATEGORY AND GENDER IN 2018 Facepa Men Women Total Administration 215 67 282 Board member 0 0 0 Consultant 1 0 1 Coordinator 6 2 8 Director 0 0 0 Executive Director 0 0 0 Specialist 22 10 32 Executive Manager 0 0 0 Functional Manager 6 0 6 Operational 622 161 783 Supervisor 32 2 34 Total 904 242 1,146 PERCENTAGE OF COMPANY EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT CATEGORY AND GENDER IN 2018 SUZANO PULP AND PAPER FUTURAGENE FACEPA Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Executive Board 100% 0% 100% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Management 86% 14% 100% 80% 20% 100% 100% 0% 100% Consultants and 69% 31% 100% 44% 56% 100% 81% 19% 100% Coordinators Administration 71% 29% 100% 30% 70% 100% 76% 24% 100% Operational 96% 4% 100% 0% 0% 0% 79% 21% 100% TOTAL NUMBER OF COMPANY EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT CATEGORY AND AGE GROUP IN 2018 SUZANO PULP AND PAPER Between 30 and Under 30 years of age Over 50 years of age Total 50 years of age Administration 386 716 60 1,162 Board member 0 0 1 1 Consultant 52 273 55 380 Coordinator 23 130 14 167 Director 0 7 3 10 Executive Director 0 3 2 5 Specialist 389 346 35 770 Executive Manager 0 39 15 54 Functional Manager 5 156 23 184 Operational 1,361 3,596 494 5,451 Supervisor 16 153 31 200 Total 2,232 5,419 733 8,384 Suzano Report 2018 129 GRI Attachment TOTAL NUMBER OF COMPANY EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT CATEGORY AND AGE GROUP IN 2018 FUTURAGENE Between 30 and Under 30 years of age over 50 years of age Total 50 years of age Administration 38 25 1 64 Board member 0 0 0 0 Consultant 0 2 0 2 Coordinator 3 12 2 17 Director 1 0 3 4 Executive Director 0 0 1 1 Specialist 5 23 1 29 Executive Manager 0 0 2 2 Functional Manager 0 7 1 8 Operational 0 0 0 0 Supervisor 0 2 0 2 Total 47 71 11 129 TOTAL NUMBER OF COMPANY EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT CATEGORY AND AGE GROUP IN 2018 FACEPA Between 30 and Under 30 years of age over 50 years of age Total 50 years of age Administration 65 184 33 282 Board member 0 0 0 0 Consultant 0 0 1 1 Coordinator 0 8 0 8 Director 0 0 0 0 Executive Director 0 0 0 0 Specialist 4 25 3 32 Executive Manager 0 0 0 0 Functional Manager 0 3 3 6 Operational 188 493 102 783 Supervisor 3 17 14 34 Total 260 730 156 1,146 PERCENTAGE OF COMPANY EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT CATEGORY AND AGE GROUP IN 2018 SUZANO PULP AND PAPER FUTURAGENE FACEPA Between Between Between Under 30 over 50 Under 30 over 50 Under 30 over 50 30 and 50 30 and 50 30 and 50 years of years of Total years of years of Total years of years of Total years of years of years of age age age age age age age age age Executive Board 0% 67% 33% 100% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Management 2% 83% 14% 100% 0% 60% 40% 100% 0% 50% 50% 100% Consultants and 32% 59% 9% 100% 19% 75% 6% 100% 9% 67% 24% 100% Coordinators Administration 32% 63% 5% 100% 67% 33% 0% 100% 23% 65% 12% 100% Operational 25% 66% 9% 100% 0% 0% 0% 0% 24% 63% 13% 100% 1. The tables do not include temporary employees. 130 Suzano Report 2018 GRI Attachment FIBRIA1 TOTAL NUMBER OF COMPANY EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT CATEGORY AND GENDER IN 2018 Men Women Total Executive Board 11 2 13 Management 83 16 99 Consultants and 323 111 434 Coordinators Administration 755 391 1,146 Operational 3,029 229 3,258 Total 4,201 749 4,950 PERCENTAGE OF COMPANY EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT CATEGORY AND GENDER IN 2018 Men Women Total Executive Board 85% 15% 100% Management 84% 16% 100% Consultants and 74% 26% 100% Coordinators Administration 66% 34% 100% Operational 93% 7% 100% TOTAL NUMBER OF COMPANY EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT CATEGORY AND AGE GROUP IN 2018 Between 30 and Under 30 years of age over 50 years of age Total 50 years of age Executive Board 0 6 7 13 Management 0 67 32 99 Consultants and 17 337 80 434 Coordinators Administration 271 720 155 1,146 Operational 847 1,935 476 3,258 Total 1,135 3,065 750 4,950 PERCENTAGE OF COMPANY EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT CATEGORY AND AGE GROUP IN 2018 Between 30 and Under 30 years of age over 50 years of age Total 50 years of age Executive Board 0% 46% 54% 100% Management 0% 68% 32% 100% Consultants and 4% 78% 18% 100% Coordinators Administration 24% 63% 14% 100% Operational 26% 59% 15% 100% 1. The tables do not include temporary employees. Suzano Report 2018 131 GRI Attachment GRI 405-2. RATIO OF BASIC SALARY AND REMUNERATION OF WOMEN TO MEN SUZANO PULP AND PAPER RATIO OF BASIC SALARY OF WOMEN TO MEN 2017 2018 Administration 79% 69% Apprentice 100% 92% Consultant 91% 100% Coordinator 87% 101% Director1 Specialist 91% 94% Executive Manager 91% 97% Functional Manager 100% 107% Operational 77% 66% Supervisor 88% 89% Total average 90% 91% 1. SPC does not have data for the Director and Board Member categories. FIBRIA RATIO OF BASIC SALARY OF WOMEN TO MEN 2017 2018 Directors1 Managers 107% 101% Consultants and Coordinators 93% 94% Administration 103% 96% Operational 86% 70% Total average 97% 90% 1. Since there is only one Female Director, Fibria does not report this figure. 132 Suzano Report 2018 GRI Attachment GRI 406: Non-discrimination GRI 406-1. INCIDENTS OF DISCRIMINATION AND CORRECTIVE ACTIONS TAKEN SUZANO PULP AND PAPER Type Records Under analysis Processed Resolved Unfounded Reports of discrimination received 1 0 1 0 1 in 2017 and addressed in 2018 Reports of discrimination received 9 0 9 4 5 in 2018 and addressed in 2018 Total 10 0 10 4 6 FIBRIA Current status of cases of discrimination received 2018 Considered and deemed unfounded 3 Under analysis 0 Founded 0 GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining GRI 407-1. OPERATIONS AND SUPPLIERS WHERE THE RIGHT TO FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING MAY BE AT RISK GRI 408: Child Labor GRI 408-1. OPERATIONS AND SUPPLIERS WITH SIGNIFICANT RISK OF INCIDENTS OF CHILD LABOR Suzano Report 2018 133 GRI Attachment GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor GRI 409-1. OPERATIONS AND SUPPLIERS AT SIGNIFICANT RISK FOR INCIDENTS OF FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR During the reporting period, no actual or working hours and rest periods, rehabilitated potential risks were found in the operations of professionals, among others. In this control, Suzano Pulp and Paper, Fibria or its suppliers Coordinators and Managers confirm that local with respect to freedom of association and practices are in line with legislation and what collective bargaining, child labor and forced or points can be improved or treated in a way that bonded labor. Further details on practices to is safer and that adheres to the labor principles avoid and mitigate any risks in both companies and collective agreements signed. can be found below. All the information collected, as well as the SUZANO PULP AND PAPER descriptive analyzes of the HR managers are Aiming to provide workers with suitable registered in the CSA (compliance system) workplace conditions, as well as conditions and and its results are endorsed by HR practices in line with the conservation of the management and presented to the environment, all suppliers who undergo the organization's Executive Board. Registration and Certification process must agree to comply with the requirements of the In its supply chain, Fibria has in place a set of social and environmental responsibility terms, specific practices to avoid and mitigate any risk which covers adherence to legal practices regarding this aspect. regarding child labor, forced labor, compulsory labor, anti-corruption legislation, freedom of In forest partnership, we have: association and collective bargaining rights, environment, among others. • Contractual clauses regarding restriction of child and bonded labor; In addition, we monitor and follow up on labor criteria, field audits and access permission in • Checklist applied by the savings technicians to order to evaluate and mitigate possible risks and service providers, evaluating documentation; nonconformities with respect to Suzano's best practices. • Evaluation of service providers during inspections. FIBRIA On a quarterly basis, Human Resources (HR) In general terms, the operational and technical controls adequacy of our practices to labor teams, supervisors and analysts are often on legislation at all regional levels. A total of 20 the work fronts, assessing the teams of service items are analyzed for topics such as learning providers in all aspects, with special attention to contracts, documentation of new hires, the use of child and bonded labor. 134 Suzano Report 2018 GRI Attachment GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous and Traditional Peoples GRI 411-1. CASES OF VIOLATIONS INVOLVING RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS PEOPLES In 2018, there were no cases of violation of the rights of Indigenous peoples at Suzano Pulp and Paper or Fibria. GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment GRI 412-1. OPERATIONS THAT HAVE BEEN SUBJECT TO HUMAN RIGHTS REVIEWS OR IMPACT ASSESSMENTS SUZANO PULP AND PAPER In the case of behavioral, procedural and/ In 2018, Suzano Pulp and Paper had in place a or regulatory deviations, the Company's specific framework to assist in the process of Whistleblowing Channel is a secure and identifying and mitigating risks, in compliance independent contact channel. Under the with national and international laws, rules and responsibility of a third party company, the regulations and adherence to the guidelines and channel guarantees the anonymity of the values of our Code of Conduct, internal policies whitlesblower and directly reports to the and procedures. In this scenario, it is possible Conduct Committee. In 2018, the channel to list the Ombudsman Coordination, the recorded 510 grievances, 94% of which were Conduct subcommittee and committee, and our processed and resolved during the year, and whistleblowing channel. 62% of which were considered unfounded. Of all grievances recorded, 204 involved human rights, The responsibility of following the principles 93% of which were processed and, of this total, of Corporate Governance, Integrity, Equality, 47% were resolved in the period. Transparency, Recognition of Professionals and Sustainable Development is mandatory for all FIBRIA employees. The Company also has in place corporate 100% of Fibria's operations were continuously policies with the purpose of guiding the ethical, evaluated in 2018 for risks and impacts of honest and transparent performance of Board human rights. As a standard process, Fibria Members, Directors, employees and stakeholders, required, upon hiring the services, all documents encompassing our network of relationships. proving legal compliance in hiring employees, Suzano Report 2018 135 GRI Attachment as well as their employment relationship with of employees, and any and all deviations the contracting company, which includes are handled by Fibria through corrective hiring minors (not allowed by Fibria, except or preventive interventions. Through this for the legal hiring of minor apprentices within process, we ensure compliance with the appropriate parameters). This goes to a unified terms of the ILO to which Brazil is a signatory, and auditable database. as well as prevention of any inappropriate work conditions. Regularly, service providers would hand over to Fibria's control area, documents proving In addition to this information, all workers are compliance with social security tax collections, associated with a specific trade union, which which ensures ongoing verification of legal has free transit/dialogue with the companies compliance in contractual labor relations and with Fibria. Fibria has a formal ombudsman (good standings in terms of payment of rights channel that can be used if any deviations are and duties). This practice is provided in Fibria's perceived by anyone. list of procedures. Fibria also had some channels, such as the As an operational standard, a field audit is Ombudsman's Office, to receive grievances. In conducted annually through a representative 2018, the channel recorded 373 grievances, of sampling of Fibria service providers, focusing which 86% were reports, 83 (22.2%) associated on ensuring compliance with working with human rights, 47 of which were deemed conditions, management, safety, environment unfounded and were filed, 31 were deemed and infrastructure. This process is recorded founded and addressed, and 5 were pending at via an individual interview concerning reports the end of the year. GRI 413: Local Communities GRI 413-1. OPERATIONS WITH LOCAL COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT, IMPACT ASSESSMENTS, AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS In 2018, 100% of Suzano Pulp and Paper's and Fibria's operations implemented community engagement programs. At Fibria, 100% of operations also implemented community impact assessment programs and local development programs in the surrounding area. 136 Suzano Report 2018 GRI Attachment GRI 413-2. O  PERATIONS WITH SIGNIFICANT ACTUAL AND POTENTIAL NEGATIVE IMPACTS ON LOCAL COMMUNITIES In 2018, the following negative impacts on the operations of each of the companies were identified: SUZANO PULP AND PAPER Area Aspect Impact Damage to public assets (roads, sidewalks, etc.), resulting in loss of time on roads and economic losses with maintenance of roads and vehicles Traffic of vehicles on roads Wood Risk of accidents transport Falling wood on roads during transportation Generation of dust from wood transport Risk of downing power lines Perception of health risk from application of herbicides and insecticides in eucalyptus forests Application of herbicide and insecticide and dispersion of Perception of damage to crops of neighboring landowners or pesticides and fertilizers by aerial communities around farms application Shading in the crops in adjacent properties, leading to poor Shading caused by eucalyptus productivity and economic loss forests Forestry Interruption of power supply due to falling trees on the Falling trees power grid Forest growth Blocking of telephone signals by older forests Communities enclosed by forests Risk of accidents due to falling of trees and forest fires; damage to health from the application of pesticides; Waste dispersal presence of venomous animals at harvest Risk of accidents on public roads Noise caused by harvesting machines and trailer trucks Nuisance and disturbance of sleep Transport Falling of trees during harvest and/or harvest Damage to property of wood Harvesting of plots, causing Entry of insects and venomous animals into households displacement or proliferation of venomous animals and insects Extension of eucalyptus forests Difficulties for income generation and unemployment Consumption of surface and in the region groundwater Eucalyptus Forests Belief that eucalyptus forests reduce water availability Decommissioning of work fronts, reducing the need for direct and Unemployment; Rural exodus; Economic loss indirect labor in their activities (mechanization/optimization) Property and Unauthorized activities Compromise biodiversity Sustainability Fish ban Livelihood Suzano Report 2018 137 GRI Attachment FIBRIA Fibria considers as social impact on the communities from its forest management any change (harmful or beneficial) that is caused, totally or partially, by its forestry operations within a radius of three kilometers of its properties or areas leased for the production of eucalyptus. Impact relevance is defined based on the application of the Social Impacts Matrix, which weights factors such as severity, frequency, likelihood and scope of the impact identified. This weighting is followed by a qualitative analysis and validation of the level of significance of the social impact by the Local Relationship Committee (CRL) of each unit. Impacts classified as moderate or substantial are considered significant and will be subject to controls, associated with the definition and/or documentation of operational criteria, specific operating procedures, supplier treatment parameters, planning, training and awareness, and maintenance requirements, including machinery, equipment and/or infrastructure. Activity Impact Modification of the local land structure Isolation of properties and communities Alteration in landscape (visual) and loss of reference Change in the municipal production agenda change in local production Appreciation of the land Expansion of forest base Commitment to food safety Disruption in the way of life of local communities Unemployment of families living in the acquired properties Change in archaeological and historical heritage Decommissioning of real estate Increased risk of traffic accidents (people and animals) Transport Compromise the capacity and quality of the road network Damage to public and private property Transportation and road Dust generation construction and maintenance Noise generation Harvesting, transport, road construction Interference in communication systems and maintenance Power interruption Change in water quality and availability Aerial application of pesticides and forest inputs Forestry, harvesting, road construction and Change in water availability maintenance Change in water quality Plantation near roads 138 Suzano Report 2018 GRI Attachment GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment GRI 414-1. NEW SUPPLIERS THAT WERE SCREENED USING SOCIAL CRITERIA SUZANO PULP AND PAPER In 2018, 100% of the new suppliers hired by Suzano Pulp and Paper were screened using social criteria. The Supplier Registration and Certification process is carried out through a systemic tool that performs automatic consultation with public agencies such as CEIS, CEPIM and the Ministry of Labor to verify possible social and labor irregularities. In this way, 100% of the suppliers submitted to the process were selected based on these criteria. In addition, all suppliers who undergo this process must agree to comply with the requirements of the social and environmental liability terms, which covers adherence to best practices in relation to child labor, forced labor, compulsory labor, anti-corruption legislation and freedom of association and collective bargaining rights. FIBRIA In 2018, 84% of the new suppliers hired by Fibria were screened using social criteria and 64% of suppliers were selected based on these criteria. For the first item (percentage of suppliers that were screened using social criteria), we considered the total number of suppliers registered in 2018 that were screened (approved and rejected) using Sustainability and Occupational Hygiene, Safety and Medicine (HSMT) criteria versus the total number of suppliers registered that were screened. For the second item (percentage of suppliers that were selected using social criteria), we considered the total number of suppliers registered in 2018 that were approved and screened using Sustainability and Occupational Hygiene, Safety and Medicine (HSMT) criteria versus the total number of suppliers registered that were screened. GRI 414-2. NEGATIVE SOCIAL IMPACTS IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN AND ACTIONS TAKEN SUZANO PULP AND PAPER In 2018, a total of 283 Suzano Pulp and Paper suppliers were submitted to social impact assessments, 20 of which were identified as causing significant negative social impacts. Action plans and strategies for monitoring these impacts were defined with these 20 suppliers. In the period, we chose to terminate the relationship with 1 supplier. FIBRIA In 2018, a total of 443 Fibria suppliers underwent social impact assessments, 31 of which were identified as causing significant negative social impacts. Action plans and strategies to monitor these impacts were defined for 48% of the suppliers. In the period, Fibria did not terminate the relationship with any supplier. Suzano Report 2018 139 Credits CREDITS EDITION Bianca Conde Cristiano Oliveira Guilherme Miranda Heloísa Predomo Amurov Maria Augusta Bottino Priscila Almeida Raquel Botinha Sarita Severien Valéria Parisotto COORDINATION, TEXT AND EDITORIAL DESIGN Quintal 22 GRI CONSULTING Avesso Sustentabilidade GRAPHIC DESIGN AND LAYOUT Adesign PHOTOGRAPHY Adriano Gambarini (WWF Brasil) Araquém Alcântara Bruno Fujii David Marques Neves Eliza Carneiro Márcio Schimming Ricardo Teles Image Bank Suzano Image Bank Instituto Ecofuturo VIDEO Márcio Schimming ENGLISH VERSION Gotcha! Idiomas CONTACT For questions and suggestions, please contact us via email relatoriosuzano@suzano.com.br COVER PHOTOS • Rural worker of the 20 de Março Settlement, in Três Lagoas (Mato Grosso do Sul state), prepares vegetables for planting. Photo: Araquém Alcântara • Francisca Elibania Matias Alves – Occupational Safety – Suzano Unit (São Paulo state) Photo: Ricardo Teles • Forest Mosaic in Capão Bonito (São Paulo state) Photo: Márcio Schimming 140 Suzano Report 2018 suzano.com.br report: suzano.com.br/en/r2018 investor relations: ir.suzano.com.br linkedin: linkedin.com/company/suzano instagram: instagram.com/suzano_oficial youtube: youtube.com/Suzanovideos facebook: fb.com/suzanoempresa
