GLOBAL COMPACT ANNUAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS – SME VERSION Company Name EOD Contracts Ltd Date 18 July 2019 Unit (if applicable) Address Unit G1, Holly Farm Business Park, Honiley, Kenilworth, Warwickshire CV81NP Membership date 30/10/2006 Country United Kingdom Number of 10 employees Contact name Shane Meaker Contact Position General Manager Sector Commercial Demining, Risk Mitigation, QA/QC and ERW disposal Contact telephone +44 (0)1926485708 no. Brief description of nature of business UXO Risk Mitigation Contractor. All explosive services provided including, but not limited to: QA/QC Demining Explosive quarrying Mine Risk Education and Training Demilitarisation Small Arms Ammunition demilitarisation Fire work and marine pyrotechnic disposal Intrusive and Non-Intrusive UXO Surveys Desk Top Studies and Risk Mitigation UXO/ UXB Awareness Briefings EOD Divers and ROV Pilots Utility & Underground Services Detection Statement of support As Group General Manager, I can confirm that EOD Contracts Ltd (part of the Pharos Group of Companies) continues to support the UN Global Compact and renews its ongoing commitment to the initiative and its ten principles, as highlighted in detail throughout the rest of this COP. Signature Position Pharos Group General Manager 18/07/2019 PRINCIPLE 1 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS Our Commitment or Policy EOD Contracts Ltd is fully committed to supporting and respecting the protection of all internationally acknowledged human rights. It is the company policy to ensure that such rights are assured for everyone at all levels of processes and activities. By promoting a culture of respect for the law, and consideration of all members within the organisation and with others with whom the company comes in contact with and ensuring that all such contacts are in no way complicit in human rights abuses. A brief description of Company Processes or Systems EOD Contracts Ltd have now been awarded and are fully accredited to ISO 9001:2015 and ISO 14001:2015. Alongside this the company continues to work with construction companies around the UK to ensure that it remains at the top of its game in achieving further industry standards, such as CHAS, Constructionline (Gold Standard), IMAS, CIRIA C681. All employees continue to have access to the company’s comprehensive complaints and redress procedure; from informal discussions with their line manager or the PHAROS Group General Manager. Should the matter not be resolved to an individual’s satisfaction; they retain the right to request a redress of the matter at each stage. They also retain the right to lodge the matter with the external tribunal dealing with employee arbitration and reconciliation, access to this official body is assured under UK and European legislation. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year EOD Contract Ltd has continued to review and update their policies and procedures to ensure they are suitable and sufficient to meet the needs of the employees and those of the company. A number of workshops and training days were again held by the company over the last year and have proven to be an useful forum in which to discuss the moral and ethical aspects of business activities. Providing practical solutions in many areas. In the last year, such training days have again proved to be a great success with trading partners, clients and associates and these are to be extended into 2020. Alongside this, onsite audits are carried out at random with all of the Sub-Contractors working for EOD Contracts Ltd. To ensure that EOD Contracts Ltd are providing the Client with all their UXO Risk Mitigation requirements, regular meetings are held by senior management (of both EOD Contracts & long-term Clients) to ensure standards are maintained throughout. Measurable Results or Outcomes There have been no reported incidents during the last 12 months, or over the company’s history. All company procedures are to be effective to protect internationally proclaimed Human Rights for all, with a zero tolerance of non-compliance. PRINCIPLE 2 BUSINESS SHOULD ENSURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES EOD Contracts Ltd continues to be fully committed to ensure that the company is not knowingly complicit in any Human Rights abuse. It is the company policy to ensure that it will not associate, or accept commission from anybody, corporate, private or official, where their actions are questionable in respect of Human Rights abuses. A brief description of Company Processes or Systems EOD Contracts Ltd insist all external contractors and suppliers are ISO registered and, by default, compliant. Alternatively a company representative may visit non-registered contractors to ensure they comply with IHR in the performance of their activities. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year EOD Contracts Ltd continue to review their systems to ensure they are fit for purpose. While not exclusive, EOD Contracts Ltd. have identified a number of compliant contractors with whom the company are confident to work. It is the company’s intention to continue to expand the number of compliant contractors in the same way. Measurable Results or Outcomes EOD Contracts and contractors have had no incidents regarding Human Rights issues over the past 12 months. The company’s procedures continue to be effective in protecting internationally proclaimed Human Rights for all with a zero tolerance of non-compliance. PRINCIPLE 3 BUSINESS SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Our Commitment or Policy EOD Contracts Ltd continues to uphold and demonstrate the freedom of association and effectively recognise the right of collective bargaining. A brief description of Company Processes or Systems All offers to tender are evaluated to see if a partnership is needed to ensure the client is offered a total package including allied processes, if necessary. All of EOD Contracts Ltd.’s partners are required to meet our own high standards and business ethics. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year EOD Contracts Ltd. intend to continue to invite specialist contractors to tender for work or participate on a joint venture basis, on the condition that the company is ISO compliant. Measurable Results or Outcomes System has resulted in 100% success of projects on safety, time and within budget. PRINCIPLE 4 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR Our Commitment or Policy EOD Contracts Ltd is a British registered company and will always operate within the parameters of employment Law. EOD Contracts Ltd do not work with any organisation, individual or environment that employs or condones forced labour. The company is fully committed to eliminating all forms of forced and or compulsory labour. A brief description of Company Processes or Systems All employees are contracted to work set hours at an agreed rate of pay and may terminate their employment with notice, as stipulated within individual contracts. The UK also operates a minimum wage law to ensure young workers are not abused and the company adheres to this law. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year EOD Contracts Ltd is an accredited British ISO 9001:2015 and ISO14001:2015 registered company. The company procedures are reviewed regularly and employment contracts are always reviewed before issue, to ensure they comply with UK and European legislation. Measurable Results or Outcomes All systems are designed to meet all legal requirements and regularly pass external audit. PRINCIPLE 5 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR Our Commitment or Policy EOD Contracts Ltd supports the abolition of child labour. The company will not condone nor be complicit in any matter concerning the use of children as workers. A brief description of Company Processes or Systems Due to the nature of business, no individual under the age of 18 years or who has not had specialist military experience, is contracted by EOD Contracts or partners in any capacity whatsoever. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year EOD Contracts Ltd continues to review in-house procedures. Employment contracts are reviewed prior to issue to ensure they are compliant with UK and European Law. Measurable Results or Outcomes Systems meet all requirements and pass external audit. PRINCIPLE 6 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION Our Commitment or Policy EOD Contracts Ltd fully supports the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation and has a zero-tolerance policy. A brief description of Company Processes or Systems EOD Contracts Ltd operates under UK and European Law, which prohibits any discrimination between employment and occupation. This not only covers sexual agenda and race but also includes age. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year EOD Contracts Ltd will continue to use procedures that comply with UK and European Law. Measurable Results or Outcomes All systems meet requirements and constantly pass external audit. PRINCIPLE 7 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES Our Commitment or Policy EOD Contracts Ltd commitment to ensuring the health, safety and welfare of its employees and clients. Those who come into contact with the organisation’s activities are the cornerstone on which all procedures are designed and executed. These, in turn, develop greater public awareness of environmental and ecological issues. Our accreditation to ISO 14001:2015 also acts as an example to our commitment to this area. A brief description of Company Processes or Systems We have an Environmental SOP but, in summary, this document will be reviewed when any of the following circumstances apply: (a) Any change in UK or European legislation. (b) Post environmental accident. (c) Reported Near-miss. (d) Reported breach of environmental regulations. (e) Changes or additions to EOD Contracts Ltd core activities. (f) 12 months have lapsed since the last review. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year No changes to existing SOP is deemed necessary but continued reviews of the systems are carried out and specific works methods devised for all tasks. All field operatives are to be UK Construction Safety Certification Scheme (CSCS) registered. With several of its operatives holding multiple cards with different skill sets. Measurable Results or Outcomes All systems are to pass internal review, client agreement and external audit. PRINCIPLE 8 BUSINESS SHOULD UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Our Commitment or Policy In line with the EOD Contracts Ltd. Safety Policy, environmental protection is regarded as of paramount importance; it has impact on all of us. EOD Contracts do not conduct any activities where the risk is perceived to be significant in causing environmental damage. EOD Contracts always employ suitable mitigation measures to reduce any risk to an acceptable level in all activities and actively work beyond current UK and EU legislation. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Environmental Impact assessments are to be conducted for all tasks. All risks are to be assessed should include (but not be limited to) the following common risks: (a) Ground Services – Gas, Water, Oil, Sewage. (b) Ground water contamination. (c) Top soil damage. (d) Vegetation damage – protected and non-protected species. (e) Wildlife impact – protected and non-protected species. (f) Ground contaminants Asbestos, Hydrocarbons. (g) Spills of materials. (h) Dust. (i) Noise. (j) Fumes. (k) Vehicle hazards – Highway, Railway and site movement. (l) Biological contaminants biological agents or disease bearing organisms. (m) Flora or Fauna requiring avoidance, isolation or special handling. (n) Ordnance – particularly container type WP or CW natures. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year EOD Contracts Ltd continues to comply with all environmental requirements. Measurable Results or Outcomes Nil incidents occurred during the last 12 months and throughout the organisations history. All systems to pass external audit. PRINCIPLE 9 BUSINESS SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Our Commitment or Policy EOD Contracts Ltd is constantly working with other organisations and corporate bodies to ensure the use of the latest technologies and utilising the most environmentally friendly systems. It is the company goal to achieve zero adverse environmental impact in all activities. A brief description of Company Processes or Systems The environmental protection is the responsibility of everyone engaged in or associated with our activities. It is one of the primary concerns within the company. Its importance is promoted at every level within the company. Proper briefing, equipment, training and reporting is seen as the major tool by which we maintain the high levels of environmental awareness within its ranks. Environmental protection is not only mandatory in law; it is given the highest possible priority when planning our works worldwide. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Further investment in new and alternative environmentally friendly technologies. It is EOD Contracts intention to continue to run environmental seminars with the assistance of environmental specialist contractors. The stated aim; to increase awareness of environmental issues and to identify the friendliest works methodologies currently available. Measurable Results or Outcomes EOD Contracts have not had any environmental incidents in the past 12 months or throughout the organisations history, all company systems are reviewed periodically and have been found to be fit for purpose. PRINCIPLE 10 BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY Our Commitment or Policy EOD Contracts Ltd is totally committed to ensure that NO form of extortion or bribery takes place from within the business or any outside body with whom the company conducts any commercial activity, in line with our Bribery & Fraud Policy. A brief description of Company Processes or Systems All projects are audited internally and the company audited externally each year. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Continued vigilance and monitoring of all procurement and auditing systems. Continued promotion of high ethical standards and transparency in all of our business practices. Measurable Results or Outcomes EOD Contracts Ltd. have not had any incidents of this type during the company’s lifetime. All systems are to pass external audit. How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders? EOD Contracts Ltd COP continues to be available to all of our stakeholders, through EOD Contracts Ltd. and UN Global Compact websites. We urge our stakeholders to visit the sites and support our goals. Additionally, we will publish our COP in company literature periodically. Within the company, members of staff are provided with details of the COP within company induction briefings, on joining the company and regularly throughout their term of employment.
