OKQ8 Scandinavia Sustainability Report 2018/19 Sustainability Report 2018/19 1 Sustainability Report 2018/19 01 Welcome to OKQ8 Scandinavia’s Sustainability Report 2018/19. As one of Scandinavia’s leading fuel and energy companies, we have a great focus Introduction on and work actively to reduce our environmental CEO statement 3 impact and in this way create a positive effect on Key results of the year 4 society. This report describes how we carry out The path to a sustainable future 5 this important work. Mobility of the future 7 Risks and material areas 9 This is OK-Q8 AB’s Sustainability Report, and it is in compliance with both the Danish and the Swedish Annual Accounts Acts. OK-Q8 AB has its own offices and activities through subsidiaries 02 in Sweden and Denmark, which make up the OK-Q8 AB Group . The Group also has a joint venture agreement in OK Detaljhandel Sustainability AB, owned by OK Ekonomisk Förening. These constitute the name OKQ8 Scandinavia. In cases where OK Detaljhandel AB is not per area included in the sustainability report, this is described either in text or footnote. Additional information on the Group’s structure and Our supply chain 11 its subsidiaries is provided in Chapter 3. Sustainable stations 13 Environment and climate 15 The Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance with Employees and customers 18 the Global Reporting Initiative´s (GRI) standards for sustainability Our social engagement 23 reporting, GRI Standards application level Core. 03 Our company Organisation 26 Economy 28 Compliance and reporting 29 Goals and results 33 GRI Index 36 CEO statement During the year, we have increased our Our strategy and goals also support and have sedum and solar panels on the ambition to take OKQ8´s sustainability the UN Global Compact, as well as our roof. The stations are built from sustainwork to the next level. Our Sustainability Code of Conduct, which is based on the able materials and also use less than 50 Report describes the initiatives and efforts UN Global Compact's ten principles for percent energy compared to traditional we make to be an enabler for sustainable human rights, working conditions, the stations, and are an important part of our solutions and contribute to a better society, environment and anti-corruption. zero vision of CO2e emissions by 2030. today and in the future. In addition to a number of examples of activities and One step in the direction towards climate Another area is our investments in social projects, the report contains key figures adaptation is the acquisition of Sweden's sustainability, where we work to be an for the goals in which we measure our leading solar panel company, Kraftpojkarequal workplace, with employees who contribution to a more sustainable future. na, which also strengthens our opporthrive and develop, and where differtunities in charging electric cars. This ences are encouraged. We want to be Transport still accounts for about one is a good example of how we invest in a company that contributes to social third of total carbon dioxide emissions renewable fuels and sustainability, which development and reflects society, with (CO2e emissions). As a fuel and energy also contributes to our own company an inclusive culture that helps to reduce company, we bear much of the responwhen we install solar panels at several of exclusion and contributes to diversity. sibility for the climate impact generated our stations. In Denmark, our collaboraI am particularly proud of our project by transport. The transition from fossil to tion with Too Good To Go has reduced Youth on their way that we have been renewable has only begun and, as with our food waste by 40,849 meals, which affiliated in Avesta since 2014. During the the continued digitalization, there are corresponds to 98 tons of saved CO2. year, 21 young people worked within the external factors which affect our business. programme, which aims to give young If we are to continue to be a successful By 2030, the CO2e emissions from our people a chance to reduce exclusion. fuel and energy company in the future, it own operations will be zero. Fortunately, About 40 percent of those have got a job is not enough to be good; we have to be since last year we have reduced our CO2e after one year. In Denmark, the collabothe best. Each of our actions for a sustainemissions by 13 percent and reduced ration with Save the Children has led to able society is crucial to our development. our energy use by 15 percent per m3 of more children in vulnerable families being product sold. This is an important step given the opportunity to participate in To achieve our sustainability goals and towards our goal. We are also proud leisure activities, something that seems reduce our environmental impact requires of our sustainable stations which, in obvious for others, but where reality looks increased use of renewable resources addition to offering renewable fuels and completely different. It feels good and and optimised resource utilisation. Our chargers for electric cars, are operated important that we can be a part of maksustainability goals are directly linked to with minimal environmental impact. In ing this possible for young people, both the global efforts for sustainable develFebruary 2019, we welcomed the first for the individual and for our society. opment. Our three long-term goals are customers to our two new sustainable based on three of the UN's sustainable stations in Denmark, Kalbygaard Skov I hope that you have an enjoyable and development goals: Reduced inequality, North and South. The two stations chalinspiring read! Sustainable cities & communities and lenge the image of how service stations J. Magnus Kamryd, CEO Climate action. look, as they follow the surroundings´ hilly terrain with their unique architecture Sustainability Report 2018/19 3 Key results of the year Energy CO2e Vi-skogen 15% 13% 450 TSEK We have reduced our energy use by We have reduced our CO2e emissions We have supported Vi-skogen´s projects 15 percent per m3 sold product since by 13 percent per m3 sold product since on tree planting and poverty reduction 2017/18 2017/18 with 450 TSEK Food waste Employee satisfaction Revenue 3.25 39 BSEK We have saved 40,849 meals, which Employee satisfaction index has OK-Q8 Group’s revenue was 39 BSEK in corresponds to the annual electricity use increased from 3.14 to 3.25 on a scale 2018/19 of 122 families or 98 tons of saved C02 from 1 to 4 4 Sustainability Report 2018/19 The path to a sustainable future OKQ8 Scandinavia is currently facing massive and historic challenges, which, handled correctly, will generate financial and sustainable values for the environment, our employees, customers and owners. Our mission, on a real-world basis, is to steer the company towards a sustainable future. We must be able to contribute to a sustainable future, while taking into account external driving forces as well as the internal and external challenges we have identified. Based on our vision of being a sustainable enabler for people in motion, it is natural for us to invest resources moving forward in alternative products, services and business areas. We also need to get the full potential of our key assets, which includes all our employees. All in all, this is the basis for our sustainability work. Sustainability is an established and integral part of the goals and activities of every division in the company. This approach underpins our updated sustainability strategy and goals. Sustainability strategy and goals Sustainability is a crucial parameter in everything we do, affecting all the activities we implement and creating the future we face. For that reason, it is essential that our activities are in line with OKQ8 Scandinavia’s business strategy – to remain a successful player and an attractive brand in the future. Our approach to sustainability is also firmly rooted in the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. Sustainability Report 2018/19 5 The UN’s Sustainable Development Goals A number of the UN goals are relevant for The UN’s 17 sustainable development goals, SDGs, and 169 subgoals, form a common us, however we have decided to prioritise plan for how the world should be 2030. All countries commit to completely eliminating the following three goals: poverty and hunger in the world, protecting the planet, ensuring prosperity for all, reducing Reduce inequality inequality and promoting more sustainable economic growth. Create opportunities for All countries play a critical role in delivering proposals which can help meet these challenges social inclusion through while creating new business opportunities. There will be high pressure on companies to partnerships deliver on these goals by 2030, and to prioritise the goals which they have the greatest impact on. We have therefore examined the 17 SDGs which we have the greatest impact on and which can create opportunities linked to our strategy. Sustainable cities and communities Our new sustainability strategy takes into account the transport sector’s transition to fossilSustainable stations and free energy and CO2 reduction towards 2030. In addition, we must contribute to social contributing to a vibrant development and ensure economic sustainability. We do this by focusing on three overall society goals. Climate action Responsible resource usage Our three overall goals Sustainable mobility and Climate neutral development Economic growth We want to create sustainable We want to be climate neutral We want to create sustainable mobility and contribute to social by 2030 growth development We contribute to UNs We contribute to UNs We contribute to UNs sustainable develpment goals sustainable develpment goals sustainable develpment goals Climate neutral Sustainable mobility and development Economic growth By 2030, CO2e emissions from our own We want to create sustainable mobility so For us to remain relevant for people in activities will be zero. Initiatives to we can contribute to the development of motion, sustainable economic growth is achieve this include: local communities. Initiatives to achieve vital. • Use energy from renewable sources this include: at our stations, IDS, depots and • Work closely with our partners to All our sustainability work must ensure offices meet future environmental and economic growth and contribute to • Ensure that our distributors use social challenges strengthening our brand. renewable fuel to transport our • Collaborate with thinktanks or products to service stations and universities on future mobility and business customers alternative fuels • Offset the climate impact of the CO2e • Joint activities for our employees Our strategy for achieving the emissions for our business travel by air and our customers goals: • Review both our car rental offering • Support the Ung på väg (Youths • Reduce our environmental impact and our company car fleet from a on their way) and Korta vägen through increased use of renewable sustainable perspective (Short way) programmes in Sweden resources and optimised resource • Replace plastic with more to support young people and new utilisation sustainable alternatives immigrants in their working lives • Dialogue and partnership with • Increase knowledge about food, external stakeholders food waste, organic and locally • Sustainability requirements in the produced products supply chain • Competent and engaged employees 6 Sustainability Report 2018/19 Mobility of the future OKQ8 Scandinavia’s role in OKQ8 Scandinavia offers four types of Facts PFAD society is to be a sustainable biofuels that are mixed in our fuels in • Palm Fatty Acid Distillate is produced enabler for people in motion different amounts; ethanol, RME2), HVO3) as a by-product from the production and at the same time and biogas. Ethanol is made from plants of palm oil, and is classified as residual product by the Swedish Energy Agency. contribute to the society and such as wheat, maize or sugar cane, • From 1 July 2019, PFAD will be transport sector's transition while RME is a biofuel produced from reclassified from a residual product to to a fossil free future. New rapeseed oil. HVO is produced primarily a by-product. This means that the raw technology, changed customer from vegetable oils and animal fats, and material must have full traceability all behaviour, conditions in the biogas from waste products such as food the way back to the farm. We believe market and political decisions waste, although it can also be derived the reclassification will result in a mean that our travel patterns, from crops. reduction of available volumes. We vehicles and preferences will will ensure that our products meet change. We therefore work Since 2016, our HVO has contained PFAD, the requirements for greenhouse gas extensively to identify and but with a limit of up to 60 percent PFAD. performance in current sustainability develop new products and In 2017/18, there was no crude palm oil criteria. businesses. in our HVO. Our supplier of renewable • The primary purpose of palm oil diesel, which contains PFAD, deals production, is to extract palm oil for the Sustainable fuels exclusively with palm oil suppliers who food industry. Petrol and diesel still dominate new car are certified under the RSPO (Round Table • The PFAD content of crude palm oil is sales, but cars with, among other things, on Sustainable Palm Oil) sustainability up to five percent, and it is not possible different types of electricity are taking standard. This means, for example, that to use this in food products. market shares now and in the future. our suppliers’ supply chain must comply During 2018, the proportion of cars with agreed codes of conduct, have or Reduction obligation in Sweden to using alternative fuels was 15 percent, begin the process of certification and reduce CO2e emissions which is five percent more than the year distance themselves from deforestation. During 2018, Sweden introduced a before. We constantly strive to increase new law which means that we have to the percentage of renewable fuels in our reduce CO2e emissions by more than existing products, and to offer completely 40 percent from the fuels we sell. The renewable alternatives such as electricity Reduction Obligation Act originates in and biogas. The more sustainable the common long-term goal that Sweden fuels are demanded and used by our must be fossil-independent by 2030. If customers, the more CO2e emissions are the obligation is not fulfilled, the actor is reduced, and the environmental impact punished by having to pay a penalty fee. on society is reduced. Clear rules are In 2018, the proportion of renewable in place on what can be regarded as a 1) Directive 2009/28/EC, Renewable energy directive fuels in our products was 19 percent on renewable fuel1). RME Rapeseed oil methyl ester the energy base in the Swedish market, 2) 3) HVO Hydrogenated vegetable oil compared with 14.7 percent in 2017. Sustainability Report 2018/19 7 Quota obligation in Denmark Expanded cooperation with Charging infrastructure In Denmark, we have a quota obligation E.ON for a more sustainable As the demand for electric vehicles for fuels, and 5.75 percent of all energy society increases, and more and more electric sold in the form of liquid fuels for road During 2018, E.ON and OKQ8 cars come on the market, prices will transport must be renewable. The quota Scandinavia have strengthened the move closer to the levels of fossil-fuelled will increase to ten percent in 2020. collaboration on biogas and quick vehicles. Even the range of batteries is We are of course complying with the increasing constantly – and this is an chargers with the goal to contribute to legislation, and are currently having important argument from a consumer climate adaptation. ongoing discussions with suppliers, perspective. In response, we have installed quick chargers at an evercar manufacturers, partners, industry Biogas increasing number of stations, and, at organisations and the authorities on how Since 2008, it has been possible to present, we have a total of around 40 the CO2e emissions can be reduced in a refuel biogas from E.ON at selected quick chargers spread geographically sustainable and long-term way. stations. Through this partnership, across Sweden. we have managed to combine what GoEasy care for your engine both companies are good at. E.ON has Our strategy going forward is to continue During 2017 and 2018 we launched a helped us introduce another green fuel to expand quick chargers at our stations new Scandinavian fuel concept, GoEasy, at stations, and we have helped E.ON in selected places. In addition, we with new additives in all our liquid fuels, providing excellent locations where are currently implementing the next which care for and clean the car´s engine. customers can come and refuel. Currently, generation of chargers (so-called ultraGoEasy makes the car more reliable, there are around 55,000 biogas cars in fast charger) where the power is 150-350 increases the engine performance and Sweden. Thanks to the collaboration, kW instead as today 50 kW. service life, and thereby reduces fuel use both our customers and E.ON’s now have and CO2e emissions. access to Sweden’s largest network of In 2018, we have had 4,000 private stations with biogas. cars that have charged electricity at our stations. This is equivalent to 56 megawatt hours and about 280,000 green kilometers. How do you visualise the service What is happening within new station of the future? mobility services? “OKQ8 Scandinavia is committed to ”The trend is that people in cities do not contribute to a sustainable society, and own their cars to the same extent as within this framework, we look at new today. Instead, people will prefer to share services which can improve people’s vehicles and buy mobility as a service. daily lives, both in urban and rural Today cars stand still on average 96 areas. This may, for example, involve percent of the time and it is expensive developing stores and offers in response and difficult to have a car in the city. to people’s changing travel needs. We participate, among other things, in a We see that demand is increasing for research project with RISE, the publiclyvarious vehicle sharing solutions and owned, independent research Institute mobility services. In Sweden we already that promotes and supports all types of lease out trailers and cars, and in the innovation processes. In the project, we future we will have more vehicle types, are looking at various mobility solutions new locations and we will offer other Petra Edlund, Head of New together with, among others, Nacka solutions to facilitate mobility in urban Business & Innovation Municipality and Linköping Municipality. areas. OKQ8 Scandinavia will be a natural The overall focus for OKQ8 Scandinavia’s player in future mobility services”. development department is to create ”We are also involved in the LIMA Project attractive and sustainable services for (Lindholmen Science Park), which is led people in motion, and thereby new by Drive Sweden. Here we collaborate profitable business beyond fossil fuels. with municipalities, parking companies, property developers and architects to develop combined mobility in the city – locations where people switch between transport modes and have access to a range of mobility and everyday services, both in city centres and in the suburbs”. 8 Sustainability Report 2018/19 Risks and material areas Four integrated dimensions constitute the strategy and goals for our sustainability work Sustainability Buisiness strategy Risks and Strategy and goals areas and UN goals material areas Sustainability areas Social responsibility and employees External collaboration Our sustainability work focuses on four At OKQ8 Scandinavia, we respect that all We take our responsibility and support: areas: people are equally worthy. No one should be discriminated because of skin colour, • Global Reporting Initiativ (GRI) • Environment and climate gender, sexual orientation, civil status, • UN Global Compact • Social responsibility and employees pregnancy, parenting, religion, political • Agenda 2030 • Human rights • Anti-corruption views, nationality, ethnic background, • UN’s 17 global sustainable social origin, social status, disabilities, development goals The policies we use to manage the age or union membership. We work above four areas are our SSHE Policy, preventively with the work environment UN initiatives Safe, Sound & Sustainable, and our at all our locations and with our partners. OKQ8 Scandinavia supports the UN Global Code of Conduct for all employees and Compact’s 10 principles on human rights, our business partners. These policies Human rights govern our work and ensure that we have labour rights, the environment and antiOKQ8 Scandinavia respect international internal processes in place within the four corruption, which were signed in 2014. human rights, which are, among other sustainability areas. things, written in the UN declaration It is important that we are part of the and related conventions. We ensure that great influential group which supports this Environment and climate human rights and diversity are a part of global standard. The principles correspond At OKQ8 Scandinavia, we work our business. No employee may in any to our own Code of Conduct, our approach proactively to reduce our environmental way cause or contribute to human rights to sustainability and our policies. Similarly, and climate impact, and to use resources violations. we support the UN’s 17 global sustainable in a responsible way. We ensure that our development goals in the development of employees have the knowledge required Anti-corruption our three sustainability goals. to take responsibility for the environment At OKQ8 Scandinavia, we oppose all and climate in their daily work, and forms of corruption, including extortion we comply with applicable laws and and bribery, and we comply with the regulations in the countries where we do applicable laws and regulations on business. gifts, rewards and other benefits in the countries where we operate. Sustainability Report 2018/19 9 Materiality assessment Our materiality assessment provides us with guidelines for developing our strategy and goals for sustainability. Climate change Highest priority Responsible supply chain Air quality Biodiversity and Ethics land use Spill and leakage Political decisions Security Sustainable stations Transparency New business areas Health and safety Stakeholders priorities Water use Diversity Human rights Wide range of fuels Public relations Talent management Noise Custumers satisfaction Circular economy Ressource scarcity Partnerships Brand perception High priority Food range Highest priority OKQ8 Scandinavia’s priorities Risks and material areas Through our risk assessment, we have identified the most significant risks in relation to our business activities and which have a negative impact on the four sustainability areas. In order to identify the most important areas, we have taken into account our stakeholders' views. Business risks, opportunities and challenges, as well as external driving forces throughout the supply chain, have also been taken into account. External driving forces include climate change, the switch from fossil to renewable fuel, urbanisation and mobility, resource constraints, as well as digitalisation and electrification. Our most important stakeholders Material areas Customers Employees The materiality assessment gives us guidelines for the development of strategy and goals Owners Partners within our sustainability work. With the help of external stakeholders and our internal Politicians Authorities State and Sustainability Council, which consists of representatives from every division within OKQ8 Suppliers municipalities Scandinavia, we have identified a number of areas within sustainability, where we intend to Industry organisations NGOs prioritise our efforts and set goals. Media In the dialogue with our stakeholders, we have addressed important issues that have also been taken into account in the development of our strategy and goals. The stakeholders are particularly interested in where we see ourselves in the future when there will no longer be fossil fuels. We have an ongoing constructive dialogue on challenges and opportunities within sustainability with our key stakeholders and we constantly develop new areas to reach further. 10 Sustainability Report 2018/19 Sustainability area Current and potential risks Mitigation Spills and leakage Policies and procedures are in place and Environment We handle large amounts of fuel and despite safety are clearly communicated to employees measures spills can occur that are difficult to limit. and contractors. Fire and explosion Policies and procedures are in place and Environment and We handle flammable products and despite all are clearly communicated to employees employees precautions, a fire can occur which can have major and contractors. consequences for the environment and people. Work related incidents Policies and procedures are in place and Employees Despite clear guidelines for the health & safety, work related are clearly communicated to employees accidents arise which can have serious consequences. and contractors. Violence and threats Policies and procedures are in place and At our stations, our employees can be confronted with are clearly communicated to employees. Employees violence and threats from outsiders which can have Quick help is available in the form of an physical and mental consequences. alarm for police and crisis assistance. Violation of human rights by suppliers All suppliers must comply with our Human rights Suppliers can use, for example, child labor and Code of Conduct. other illegal or offensive behavior. Corruption Employees ask for, directly or indirectly, benefits or similar All employees must comply with Anti-corruption to or from third parties, for example, receive, promise, offer our Code of Conduct. or hand over gifts, services or remuneration. We always try to avoid situations Environment and NGO activities at our locations that attract negative attention social responsibility Political groups or NGOs protest against our company. from some groups. Sustainability Report 2018/19 11 Our supply chain Climate change poses major risks and challenges for all countries and industries. At OKQ8 Scandinavia, we work actively to reduce our environmental and climate impact throughout the supply chain. It is primarily within our fuel business that we can make the greatest improvements. The fuel supply chain Since we neither extract oil nor own refineries, we are relative latecomers in the process. We purchase both renewable and fossil raw materials in the form of refined products and additives. Our renewable raw materials are agricultural products in the form of vegetable or animal-based oils from many different countries. Our fossil raw materials comes from various Nordic suppliers. The crude oil we use comes primarily from Russia and the North Sea. The majority of the oil products are distributed to our depots in Denmark and Sweden. We storage fuels at our depots, and blend in additives before they are distributed to our stations or to private and business customers. Lubricating oils are blended and packed at our depots before they are distributed to customers. A large proportion of the used lubricating oil, for example from car workshops, are collected by us and returned to refineries for reuse, which generates both an economic and environmental benefit. Fossil raw materials Refining Raw materials OKQ8 Scandinavia Customers Refined products Fuels Private Additives Lubricating oils Business Renewable raw materials Stations and IDS Upstream activities Own activities Downstream activities 12 Sustainability Report 2018/19 Suppliers of fuels Suppliers of renewable fuels When assessing renewable fuels, we Products and services The fact that we neither extract oil nor Other environmental and climate impacts own refineries ourselves, is something we take into account a number of our own from our supply chain come from the regard as a strength. We are not bound criteria and the UN Global Compact’s products and services we offer at our to sell any specific product, but can sell 10 principles. For example, fuels must stations. In our stores, a large range of the products, which are demanded by the be produced in a way which does food and drink products and accessories market and that contributes to climate not violate human rights. With thirdare sold for vehicles. At most of our adaptation. OKQ8 Scandinavia has eleven party certifications such as the ISCC stations we have car wash facilities and Nordic fuel suppliers, six of whom supply (International Sustainability & Carbon space to care for the car. At a small fossil fuels and five supply renewable Certification) and the RSPO (Round Table number of stations in Sweden, we also fuels. We purchase finished products on Sustainable Palm Oil), as well as full provide a vehicle workshop. from refineries, who we have long-term traceability, we can trust the handling of relationships with and who have a highlyrenewable fuels. developed approach to the environment and sustainability. Follow-up is carried out through our control Product Parameter system, which follows the guidelines of the Food and drinks Organic, vegetarian, Dialogue and checks law on sustainability criteria for biofuels. locally produced, Our Code of Conduct for suppliers is based The law aims, among other things, to Disposable articles Nordic Ecolabelled, on the ten principles of the UN Global protect land with high biodiversity. We renewable material Compact. During our annual procurement have received a sustainability letter Coffee and tea Fairtrade, negotiations we require our suppliers to from the Swedish Energy Agency, which Rainforest Alliance comply with this Code. guarantees that all biofuels handled are sustainable in accordance with the law. Each year, we set goals for which of our fuel suppliers are to be audited by a third Suppliers of fossil fuels party. The audit is based on established Our suppliers mainly purchase their crude sustainability criteria and whether they oil from Russia and the North Sea. In comply with our Code of Conduct. In the final product, the raw materials that 2018/19 none of our suppliers were come from several different places are audited. We plan to audit one of our mixed. We therefore require our suppliers suppliers in 2019/20. to assess and evaluate their suppliers in accordance with our Code of Conduct for suppliers, or their own equivalent Code of Conduct. Sustainability Report 2018/19 13 Sustainable stations Sustainable stations use as a minimum 50 percent less energy than a traditional station. Since 2012, we have built eight completely new sustainable stations in Sweden. In February 2019, we opened two new sustainable stations in Denmark, which also architecturally stand out from how service stations normally look. Kalbygård Skov North and South are the names of the two new stations along the new highway between Århus and Silkeborg. Building sustainable stations requires construction style and sustainable choices tailored to the individual station and its local environment. The two stations are adapted to the hilly terrain and are constructed on sustainable principles. We also work on how we can make our existing stations more sustainable in terms of energy use, the use of solar energy and new technology. 14 Sustainability Report 2018/19 Architectural drawing of Kalbygård Skov North and South Electricity trading supplier Kalbygård Skov North and South OKQ8 Scandinavia and E.ON have signed Solar panels on station roofs In February 2019, we opened two new an agreement on electricity, where E.ON As part of our participation in a local stations in Jutland in Denmark. The sells renewable energy to our stations. district initiative, we have installed stations are categorised as sustainable, The collaboration also includes analysis solar panels on the roof of our station which means that after one year, they of all locations to identify areas where in Västberga, Stockholm. The goal is must achieve an energy use, which is the environmental impact can be to make the district a model for other minimum 50 percent lower compared to reduced. The agreement covers all the districts and cities that want to reduce a station of the same size and with the stations and offices we own, as well as their energy use and CO2 emissions. same service selection. Petrolia. This will provide us with an overview Sustainable carwash Sustainable stations and analysis of the exact electricity use Carwash is an important part of our From our perspective, it is the station's at each station. It paves the way for business, and we are constantly working energy use that defines the station's future optimisations of the energy at to develop our services to suit our status as sustainable. the stations in question. The information customers' different needs. An example enables us to invest in the right locations, is the opening of the self-service concept When more stations become sustainable, such as where we should install solar in Denmark and with more large carwash the requirement for the other stations panels. centers in Sweden. increases. At the end, the sustainable stations will help us achieve the goal of New solar panel installations The water from a car wash contains becoming climate neutral from our own As part of the analysis of the energy use, oil, heavy metals, asphalt, tire debris, operations by 2030. we have installed more solar panels at our and chemicals from car care products. stations in Sweden during this year. These pollutants can damage Examples of sustainability criteria can be: Currently, OKQ8 Scandinavia has installed people, animals and plant life solar panels, LED lighting, heating pumps solar panels at 12 stations in Sweden, and for a long time if they end up and geothermal heating. at two of our newly-opened stations in in the sewage. In addition, Denmark. The solar panels mean that the the discharge of untreated electric power during much of the year wastewater into the daily wells can be driven entirely by solar energy. in connection with car wash is against The solar panels work best during the environmental regulations. spring, when they are at peak efficiency. Once the temperature exceeds 15 By washing the car in a car wash facility degrees, it is a bit too warm for optimal or self-service wash hall, the water treated function. in the treatment plant and through oil separators, which is a sustainable alternative for the environment. All car products that we use in our car wash are Nordic Ecolabelled. Sustainability Report 2018/19 15 Environment and climate In 2016, we established Spills and leakage, water use, waste, Solar energy generated by solar panels goals for reducing our CO2e noise and air quality are other on the roofs of our stations, depots emissions and energy use to areas which we also are focusing on and offices, will be able to be used for 20 percent for both areas. We improving. Our environmental work everything from quick charging of cars have already achieved this, also supports our ISO 14001 certified to lighting and comfort in stores and and have therefore challenged environmental management system in car wash halls. In the future, we will be ourselves with a new and even identifying and planning environmental able to utilise more opportunities in more ambitious climate goal. improvements. charging, energy storage and energy optimisation. Since 2014/15, we have had a positive New goal – Climate neutral development in terms of our CO2e 2030 emissions and energy use. This has led We have set our own goal that we want to a reduction of CO2e emissions by 40 to have zero CO2e emissions from our percent and 26 percent, respectively, own operations in 2030. In order to when it comes to energy use. achieve this long-term goal, we must already now set ambitious goals within our business. About Kraftpojkarna We have carried out energy surveys at Kraftpojkarna is Sweden’s largest stations and depots, because of new consulting solar wholesalers. The EU legislation, but also to increase our Investing in solar energy for the company is a systems distributor which own understanding. As a result of the environment contributes to the sustainable society surveys, continuous improvements can The sun will be one of our most by offering turnkey systems, products be made in the daily operations. important energy sources in the future, and services for solar energy, energy and OKQ8 Scandinavia wants to be storage and charging infrastructure. Focus on the most important part of this development. We believe Kraftpojkarna started in 2012 and owns that there will be increased demand areas the Nordic Region’s first 1MW park for products and services to generate We know that climate impact in terms with solar trackers, located between electricity from the sun. of energy use and CO2e emissions are Västerås and Enköping in Sweden. the biggest environmental impact in our As a part of this approach, during this own operations. Our updated climate year, we have acquired the company, goal will contribute to the society´s and Kraftpojkarna, and thus take the step transport sector's transition to a fossil into the future energy type in the form free future and reduced CO2e load in of energy from sun. The newly-acquired the coming period until 2030. company is a supplier of everything needed for a turnkey solar energy installation. 16 Sustainability Report 2018/19 Waste and recycling Spills and leakage DripStop for diesel To minimize waste and optimise We are handling large amounts of fuel To solve the problems of spills with resource use, we use a variety of and other potentially environmentally diesel when fuelling, there is now approaches: harmful products. Therefore it is crucial DripStop on all diesel pumps. Using a • In Denmark, rum truffles are made for us to work systematically to prevent stop function on the nozzle prevents the from leftover Danish pastries spills and leakage. With procedures, last drops of diesel from dripping onto • We reduce the price of products safety regulations, tests and training the ground. As petrol does not drip in which are approaching their best of our employees and distributors, we the same way as diesel from the nozzle, before date prevent spills and leakage as much as the need is not as big on the petrol • Too Good To Go in Denmark is possible. Spill zones are in place in the pumps. If the last couple of drops go reducing food waste by helping our ground under all our stations. There, all into the customer’s tank rather than stores sell their left overs through spillage from refueling can drain into onto the ground, this will prevent at an app oil separators, to protect the soil and least 3,000 litres of diesel to be wasted • We have increased our efforts in the environment around a station. Oil sorting waste at the source, both at separators have also been installed in Better environmental choise stations and at collection locations. the ground at our depots, which receive Our own environmental symbol, OKQ8/ • The majority of all windscreen and load fuels. Q8 Better environmental choice, has washer fluid comes in plastic bags been designed to promote those of our rather than (as previously) in bulky We comply with the strict regulations own products and services which have plastic containers. set by the authorities to protect both a lower impact on the environment the environment and the people who and climate. In this way, we help our Too Good To Go work and live in the area. customers make a better environmental Every day at our stations, we throw ou choice where possible. food, which could have been sold. In Spill incidents Denmark, all Q8 stations are part of the Despite safety measures, there may During 2018, we launched the labelling Too Good To Go programme, through be spillages that are difficult to limit. on several of our lubricating oils, which our customers can purchase During 2018/19, we had two significant which contain at least 25 percent or products which would otherwise be spills, one in Sweden totaling 500 litres 45 percent respectively of renewable thrown out. Through this programme of diesel and one in Denmark totaling raw materials, and are partially we contribute to solving the major 888 litres of heating oil. Both spills biodegradable. challenge of food waste, and were remedied with no damage to the contribute to the responsible environment. A number of minor spills The label is also used on our biogas use of resources, reducing CO2 amounted to a total of 3,200 litres, of and electric rental vehicles. The biogas emissions and our costs. Every which approximately 40 litres reached vehicles reduce CO2e emissions by at month, we save around 4,000 meals. the environment. These were remedied least 90 percent in and did not damage the environment. comparison to fossilToo Good To Go is available in 10 fuelled cars, while countries, but not yet in Sweden. In the electric vehicles val Sweden there is a similar initiative, release no emissions ilj ö OK Q 8 B ä ttre m Karma, which we are now testing on at all. selected stations. Sustainability Report 2018/19 17 CO2e emissions Category Unit 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2014/15 Direct CO2e – Scope 11) ton 2,382 2,459 2,8414) 4,047 Indirect CO2e – Scope 22) ton 8,876 9,591 11,881 17,692 Other indirect CO2 – Scope 33) ton 11,343 11,616 11,252 12,021 Total CO2e ton 22,601 23,666 25,974 33,761 Total CO2e per sold m3 kg/m3) 6.37 7.34 8.17 10.70 1) Scope 1: Direct CO2e-emissions from company controlled buildnings and vehicles. 2) Scope 2: Indirect CO2e-emissions from electricity and heat produced by other company. 3) Scope 3: Other indirect CO2e emissions which are not Scope 1 and 2, are from distribution, air travel and customer sales. 4) The large reduction of scope 1 emissions is due to the fact that we no longer distribute fuel with own trucks in Sweden. CO2e emissions from activities Category Unit 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2014/15 Stations and IDS ton 8,683 9,327 11,822 17,329 Distribution ton 10,950 11,293 10,868 12,786 Production of lubricating oils ton 1,074 887 953 1,188 Depots ton 266 294 363 616 Business travels1) ton 1,538 1,754 1,850 1,633 Offices ton 90 111 117 209 1) From 2018/19, train travel is included in business travels Energy use Category Unit 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2014/15 Non-renewable energy kWh 31,846,562 47,195,302 52,491,566 62,408,990 Renewable energy1 ) kWh 85,821,738 79,933,598 78,986,734 80,291,410 Total energy use2) kWh 117,668,300 127,128,900 131,478,300 142,700,200 Renewable proportion of energy % 733) 63 60 56 Total energy use per m3 sold product kWh / m3 33.18 39.42 41.35 45.23 1) Includes renewable from electricity and drstrict heating 2) Energy type 80.5 % electricity, 15 % district heating, 15 % burning oil and 0.2 % natural gas Development of the environment Q8 Bedre miljøvalg Vores egen mærkning for produkter og tjenester, som har lavere påvirkning på Since 2017/18, the CO2e emissions from our own operations have been miljøet og klimaet, så du som kunde kan træffe et bedre miljøvalg, når det er muligt. Læs mere om mærkningen og vores bæredygtighedsarbejde på Q8.dk reduced by 13 percent and energy use was reduced by 15 percent. This significant reduction is mainly due to our efforts to reduce energy at our stations. At our depots, replacing heating oil with electricity and district heating has led to around 60 percent reduction of CO2e emissions since OKQ8 Better environmental choice OKQ8 Bättre miljöval Our own label for products and services that have lower impact on the 2014/15. Another reason for the reduction of CO2e emissions is an increase Vår egen märkning environment för produkter and climate, so that astjänster och har lägre som you a customer påverkan can make på miljö a better och klimat, så att du som kunditkan göra ett bättre miljöval där det är möjligt. in renewable energy in Denmark and Sweden, which has meant a decrease environmental Läs mer Read more choice om about märkningen where ochand vårtour the label is possible. hållbarhetsarbete på OKQ8.se sustainability work on OKQ8.se. in the emission factors. From 2018/19 we will report on the development of our new climate goal to be climate neutral in our own activities in 2030. 18 Sustainability Report 2018/19 Employees and customers Employees today and in the future Employee Satisfaction Index Management training At OKQ8 Scandinavia, we believe that Since 2014, we have carried out an During the year, we have implemented our most important resource is our internal employee survey. The result has a new type of individually-tailored employees, both those who currently improved from 3.01 in 2014 to 3.25 in training for 60 of our managers, to help work for us and those we will need 2019 on a scale of four. Last year the them achieve the goals that have been to recruit in the future to achieve our index was 3.14. The response rate is set. This training process also enables goals. Our HR strategy has four focus 94 percent this year, in 2018 it was 93 us to clearly identify the competences areas, and these are the foundation percent. We are, of course, very satisfied we have and those which we need to of our initiative: Life with OKQ8 with the result and see that what we supplement. The work is carried out Scandinavia. do to increase employee satisfaction is throughout the company so that we reflected in the results. can adapt our future training plans to our actual needs, on the basis of the Employee appraisal conversations strategy adopted. Courageous leaders – we – taking the temperature of the encourage our leaders to be organisation New trainee programme courageous in taking decisions and Employee appraisal conversations are During 2018, we launched a new driving our business forward. held with all employees once a year, and trainee programme. In January, four can be regarded as a type of annual people began the 1-year training, where Family and leisure time – we value report, which is documented in the they get the chance to develop within a sound work/life balance, and we internal system, PiM. The conversation the organisation and take a key position encourage rest and recuperation provides an opportunity to look back within the company. The programme during free time. over the past year and help each other began with an introductory week at develop further to achieve even greater OKQ8 Scandinavia’s head office in Development & talent – we success. The conversation follows a Stockholm. This is followed by four template which is completed by both internship periods in different areas foster talent and offer training to the manager and employee. The within the company. employees who intend to develop employee appraisal conversation is part themselves or increase their of the development process throughout expertise. the year in terms of ongoing discussions and catch-ups between managers and Flexible workplace – We are mobile, employees. and we believe that a flexible workplace makes us more effective and more receptive. Sustainability Report 2018/19 19 How did it come about that you Congratulations! What advise do you applied to OKQ8 Scandinavia? have for others who are in the same At first I saw the ad on Linkedin. I situation? was looking for a trainee programme Really take the chance, even though because I think it fits well when you it might be tough financially. I really come directly from school. I wanted to wanted to get a job and preferably gain a holistic view and create a network in Stockholm, which means tough within a company. I think the fuel competition. If you want something industry is interesting because so much enough, you get it to work! is happening right now. I thought that a trainee programme at OKQ8 Scandinavia Where will you be working? would be fun, and give me valuable I work in a division called Direct B2B. experience for the future. The positive We work with everything related to our thing about this type of employment business customers. Trainee programme – is that you get the chance to try a wide Felix Simones range of different things – I look forward How do you see the future? to that. I don’t know exactly where I will end up within the company. It appeals to me Hi Felix, how old are you and what How does the setup look to you? that I can be involved in deciding which background do you have? The programme started in January particular role I am best suited for, based I’m 24 years old, and I was born and 2019, but some of the others on the on experience, interests and competence. raised in Belgium. I have a bachelor’s degree in International Business programme started in December. We Studies from the University of Antwerp all have our own mentor, and work in Belgium, as well as a Masters in in different departments within the International Strategic Management company. The good thing is that we get from Lund. to see and experience so many different parts of the company. Everything from visiting our depots, to sitting in customer service and working at our stations, it feels very exciting. 20 Sustainability Report 2018/19 Health & safety We follow up on all accidents, and offer in both Denmark and Sweden, which We work strategically and operationally consultations with the occupational are composed so that all employees with the physical and psychosocial work health service in the event of serious are represented. The health & safety environment at our stations and depots, incidents. We do this to minimise the committees meet twice a year to follow as well as at our offices. negative impact of the incident and up and discuss work-related issues and to enable employees to return to work incidents, as well as to decide which A fundamental part of our approach quickly. work-related activities should be carried to health & safety is our management out during the year. system: How we do things, which Safety rounds largely follows the standards: OHSAS Several times a year at each station The development of health & safety 18001 (health and safety) and ISO and depot, safety rounds are carried Based on our management system: 14001 (environment). This includes out. The purpose of safety rounds is to How we do things, we work with processes such as handling incidents identify and eliminate possible causes continuous improvements in the health and crises, audits, safety rounds, risk of incidents. During 2018/19, 2,481 & safety area. Focus on improvement assessment, supplier mangament, safety rounds were carried out, which lies in psychosocial work environment, environment, health & safety and exceeds our target of 2,000. where perhaps the biggest challenges security. How we do things also provides are in relation to a tough social a framework for our systematic health Every year, we carry out audits environment. & safety work. We work proactively, according to our audit plan. Audits can investigating, assessing risk, taking be carried out by us or by an external We have had an increasing number of action and checking not only the company, such as a certification audit. reported incidents between 2017/18 physical work environment, but also The purpose of these audits is to assess (943 pcs.) and 2018/19 (1,113 pcs). the organisational and social work whether the management system is The number of reported near misses environment, on a continuous basis. followed and whether it generates value has increased with 12 percent during Health & safety shall be a natural part and efficiency. the same period. Compared to last of the daily work and collaboration year, the number of personal injuries between employer and employee shall Training and the number of days absence has create a good work environment for all On our training portal, we offer a increased by 22 percent and 34 percent, employees within OKQ8 Scandinavia. range of online courses and training respectively. modules on security, health & safety We have a tool for reporting undesired and environment. Certain courses are We monitor absence due to illness, incidents. Around 1,000 undesired mandatory, while others are voluntary. and we also look specifically at how we incidents are reported in the system The training is registered and forms can reduce work-related absence due each year. The purpose of reporting the basis of our training index which is to illness. During 2018/19, our healthincidents is to enable us to constantly calculated as the number of training related absence was 3.6 percent. We improve and create a safer and more hours per employee. This year, we use an external service in Sweden for secure working environment and to achieved a training index of 3.63, our employees to report sick and to reduce our environmental impact. compared to our target of 3.7. notify us when they are ready to return to work. As part of the service, our Although we have a zero vision for As part of our preventive work, we employees are given the opportunity accidents at work, incidents do occur have an excellent benefits programme to ask for an advisory conversation where people and the environment are for all employees, such as a health through the company’s nurses. injured. contribution which can be used by every employee. We have a health & safety committee Sustainability Report 2018/19 21 Employees Number of employees Employment contract Employment type 3,6201) Permanent Temporary Full time Part time Total Women/ Men Women/ Men Women/ Men Women/ Men Denmark 49% / 49% 1% / 1% 13% / 13% 37% / 37% Sweden 36% / 32% 19% / 13% 21% / 21% 34% / 24% 1) Includes full time, part time and hourly paid employees Employee categories Women Men Board, Q8 Danmark A/S 33% (2) 67% (4) Board, OK-Q8 AB 29% (2) 71% (5) Management 60% (6) 40% (4) Total employees at 1,912 1,708 OKQ8 Scandinvia 53 % 47 % Sick leave The company’s distribution of 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 women and men Denmark 1.2 1.9 2.111) Sweden 5.1 5.4 5.9 1) Due to a new payroll system, an average of 9 months is reported. Incidents Own employees Contractors Number of incidents Incident index1) Number of incidents Incident index1) Type of incident 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 Crime2) 260 245 13.3 12,6 20 27 1.97 2.75 Personal injuries 152 117 7.80 6,00 56 51 5.52 5.19 Near misses 308 259 15.8 13,3 129 128 12.7 13.0 Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Customer related incidents 61 27 3.13 1,39 13 12 1.28 1.22 1) Incident index: Number of accidents x 200,000 per number of hours worked. 2) Contains only external incidents such as robbery, fraud, burglary and violence. Employee accidents with lost working days LWC1) LWC Severity2) LWC Severity rate3) 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 Own employees 24 14 6.5 7.07 8.01 5.08 Contractors 3 5 7.33 6.60 2.17 3.36 1) LWC (Lost workday cases) – Number of accidents with lost working days. 2) LWC Severity – Number of lost workings days per LWC. 3) LWC Severity rate – Number of lost working days at employee accidents x 200 000 per number of hours worked. 22 Sustainability Report 2018/19 Our customers Our customers include consumers and companies that buy services at our more than 600 service stations in Denmark and Sweden and through our bank and direct sales. In 2018, we signed a new agreement with DCC Energi, who operates the Shell network in Denmark, to provide business customers access to Denmarks largest network of over 400 staffed service stations. A large proportion of our customers consist of different businesses, for example, agriculture, forestry, transport and the automotive industry. We have an ongoing discussion with our customers, to ensure that we are constantly adapting our products and services to meet our customers’ needs to ensure sustainable growth. What does the agreement between Were there any other aspects of susyou and OKQ8 Scandinavia involve? tainability which swayed the decision? Since we are publicly owned in both DenIt felt like we have a common view of mark and Sweden, a procurement process sustainable transport and how the future was carried out in the supply sectors development should look. covering the Nordic region. This applies primarily to two product areas; fuel How do you work with social sustain(petrol, diesel, Adblue and vehicle wash) ability? and vehicle products (such as screen One example relating to our collaborawash, oil and windscreen wiper). It is a tion is parking and safety for our drivers. three-year agreement with the possibility Our drivers can already use toilets and of extension. showers at the OKQ8 Scandinavia service stations which have this. We are jointly Why did you choose on OKQ8 Scandilooking at expanding this to more staInterview PostNord navia? tions as well as improving safety in park– Søren Rathmann They scored highest in both price and ing places where our drivers, for example, Category Manager Fleet geographical coverage in Sweden and park overnight. Denmark. For Sweden, it was also import& Transport Equipment ant that they offer renewable fuel which How do you see your fuel needs in the actually exceeds the statutory reduction future? About PostNord requirements. We see increased demand for renewable PostNord offers communications fuels, particularly for HVO, which is easiest and logistics solutions to, from and Was sustainability a parameter in to use, and in the near future, we will within the Nordic countries. We unite your choice of fuel supplier? increase the number of electric vehicles in companies, authorities and private inYes, absolutely. This is very important for our fleet. This trend is driven by players in dividuals, which makes us a vital part us. What stands out is access to renewthe industry as well as by legislators and of Nordic business and society. We able fuel, which is something we see even consumers. We have, for example are proud of the fact that we have increasing over the next few years. It was a test in Denmark where local residents been confident in ensuring the postal also important that OKQ8 Scandinavia wanted their mail cars to run on electricservice for private individuals and accepts PostNord’s Code of Conduct for ity. companies in Sweden and Denmark. suppliers. Sustainability Report 2018/19 23 Our social engagement Our overall goal for social We help young people and new Ung på väg helps young people sustainability is to create arrivals to get a job In 2014, we started the programme sustainable mobility and Despite a relatively low unemployment Ung på väg in Sweden, an internship development in society. rate in our countries, there are two programme to reduce the exclusion groups of people who find it more of people within the framework of the Our social initiatives and partnerships difficult than others to get a job: Employment Service's job guarantee are dedicated to achieving our social young people and new arrivals. OKQ8 for young people. This means that we goals starting from our vision of being Scandinavia work with two programmes receive interns for three months to a sustainable enabler for people in to help people into working life. The give them experience in working life. motion. Our social approach should also programmes are called Ung på väg At our customer service in Avesta, we ensure the possibility of local anchoring (Youths on their way), which is aimed receive about 50 young people a year. and that the initiative is relevant to at unemployed young people and Korta The most important thing for us is that both employees and customers. vägen (Short way), which is aimed at our internship should lead to work and new arrivals. so far, 40 percent of our interns have secured a job after about a year. How long have you worked in this How did you get in touch with Ung på trainee programme at OKQ8? väg? 4-5 weeks. The programme lasts for 3 The Swedish Public Employment Service months in total. recommended applying. They told me that it was an excellent programme. I Which department are you working at? was really interested, since it involved getI am working at Customer Service with ting a real job. I feel that administration administration. suits me very well. How do you like it? Was it what you expected? I enjoy it very much. No, it was better than I expected. I was given more work than I thought, and Have you worked with something like considerable responsibility for my own this before? work. I enjoy that. Ung på väg No, this is my first time. I had been unemAlexander Samuelson ployed since I left school in June 2018, Would you like to continue working and I saw the traineeship as a chance here? and an opportunity for a job. I think it would be really fun to continue working with administration. This is a very nice workplace and I really like working here. 24 Sustainability Report 2018/19 Korta vägen helps new arrivals Photo: Sofie Tejre During the refugee wave of 2015, OKQ8 In Syria, she studied economics for four Scandinavia saw an opportunity to years, specialising in banking and finance. offer work to newly-arrived academics. Before she left the country, she worked It is important for us that we are a part with an insurance company and with a of society and provide help where it is charity helping children affected by the needed. That is why we developed a war. She also worked as a trainee in a mentoring programme, which is aimed bank. In Sweden, through the University at academics who have recently been of Stockholm, she had her qualifications granted residence permits. The goal is recognised as a bachelor’s degree in to introduce them to Swedish working economics. life, and, so far, 15 people have joined the programme, which involves working Clara is carrying out her internship at at any of our offices in Sweden. two departments within the company, Cash Accounting & Billing and Accounts Korta vägen – Clara Dieb Payable. started her internship at What is it like to work at OKQ8 OKQ8’s Finance Department Scandinavia? in December 2018. It’s a great workplace! Everyone has been very nice and given me a lot of help. The Clara, from Syria, is 25 years old. She internship programme is fantastic – I came to Sweden 16 months ago, and really want to learn everything, so I ask speaks exceptionally good Swedish. loads of questions and I have already learned a great deal. I am very grateful to OKQ8 for giving me this chance in Sweden. I see it as a major opportunity for me. Sustainability Report 2018/19 25 Other social partnerships We work with several charities that help us make a difference and be a good citizen, and who also help to solve a social challenge. These include the environmental forestry charity, Vi-skogen, and Save the Children. Vi-skogen OKQ8 Scandinavia supports Vi-skogen’s work in tree planting and combating poverty in Africa. We do this by collaborating with the recycling company, Returpack, to increase the recycling of metal cans and plastic bottles at our stations and offices. During 2018, 375,000 cans and bottles were collected. We also support Vi-skogen through the OKQ8 Bank´s campaign, which encourages customers to switch to e-invoicing. For every customer who signs up for e-invoicing, one tree is planted. Vi-skogen is a Swedish aid organisation that plants trees in West Africa, an area that is severely affected by climate change and deforestation, and which for many years has lived with the devastating effects for both people and nature. A tree creates opportunities to use the soil, it provides wood, shade and animal feed. In addition, the trees bind CO2, fix nitrogen in the soil and prevent soil erosion. By planting trees and educating local groups of farmers in sustainable agriculture, equality and economy, Viskogen combats both climate change and poverty. How does the collaboration with OKQ8 How does this type of collaboration Scandinavia work? with companies affect your daily We began collaborating with Q8 in work? Denmark in 2017, when they decided The financial aspects of this type of to donate their Christmas gift to Save collaboration are obviously fantastic, and the Children. The same thing happened this is essential for us to be able to help in 2018, but this time it also involved as many vulnerable children as possible. customers. Before Christmas, we started At least as important, is the commitment a barcode campaign, which enabled which Q8’s employees show by actively customers at Q8’s service stations to choosing to help us. For us, this is a donate an extra 25 DKK for vulnerable recognition that what we are doing is children. important, and that, together, we can fight for the human rights of all children. Where does the money go? With this type of long-term cooperation, Save the Children In the agreement with Q8, we have the we can also, through the company's – Merete Gotsæd opportunity to send the money where it channels such as at the stations, get the Falkenstrøm Director of is needed most. This year, a large part of opportunity to communicate what we do the money went to vulnerable children and how we affect the lives of vulnerable Fundraising & Marketing in Denmark. In this case, to children who children. have difficulty and end up outside social leisure activities. Vulnerable children How do you see the potential going often find it difficult to feel involved in the forward? social life that their friends are a natural First and foremost, I would like to express part of. Then we can help the children to my sincere thanks to all employees pick them up at home and take them to and customers at Q8 for their strong activities like football training, wait in the commitment and the generous meatime and then follow them home donations! Together, we have raised over again. This means an awful lot to these 200,000 DKK. This type of collaboration children. is absolutely crucial for our work. I am sure that we can continue to find new ways and new information channels to get across our message that so many children need support. 26 Sustainability Report 2018/19 Organisation Organisation OKQ8 Scandinavia consists of OK-Q8 AB and its subsidiaries in Denmark and Sweden. OK-Q8 AB is jointly owned by OK ekonomisk förening and Kuwait Petroleum International, with each having a 50 percent ownership of the company. The group has a joint venture agreement in OK Detaljhandel AB, owned by OK Ekonomisk Förening. Together, constitutes the term OKQ8 Scandinavia, one of Scandinavia’s largest fuel and energy companies. OKQ8 Scandinavia has around 1,000 stations designed for both cars and heavy traffic. Many of the manned stations have car wash, self-service facilities, car rental and car workshops. We also market products such as fuel and lubricating oils for customers in agriculture, transport industry, shipping and workshops. OK-Q8 Bank AB is the bank for customers on the move. Since the start in 2009, we have been providing a wide and attractive range of cards, loans and insurance through our 40 employees. OK-Q8 Bank is owned by OK-Q8 AB and is thus part of OK Ekonomisk förening through which we have about one million members. OKQ8 Bank is under the supervision and control of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. OKQ8 Scandinavia’s vision to be a sustainable enabler for people in motion affects everything we do from the our daily operational work to the more strategic one. 743 274 11 depots OKQ8 Scandinavia’s station network stations in Sweden – OKQ8, stations in Denmark – Q8, 3 in Denmark consists of approximately 1,000 Minipris, Tanka and IDS F24 and IDS and 8 in Sweden stations manned, unmanned and IDS in Denmark and Sweden Sustainability Report 2018/19 27 OK-Q8 Group legal structure (1 March 2019) OKQ8 Scandinavia 50% 50% Individual franchise takers OK Ekonomisk Förening Kuwait Petroleum Europe B.V. 100% 100% OK Detaljhandel AB OK-Q8 AB 50% POL Transport Aktiebolag 20% 80% 100% Other OK-associations OK-Q8 Marknad AB Q8 Danmark A/S 23% Svensk Petroleum 4% 100% Förvalting Aktiebolag 81% Petrolia AB OK-Q8 Bank AB 15% 37% AB Djurgårdsberg Lantmännen 100% Bensinpumpen Ekonomisk Förening BENFA Fastigheter AB 17% 100% Lasingoo Sverige AB Arithma Holding AB 100% 1% SPI OK-Q8 Shared Service AB Miljösaneringsfond AB 1% Slläckmedelscentralen 100% OK-Q8 Invest AB SCM AB 94,48% OK-Q8 Solar Holding AB STCT Sunstainable Invest AB 100% Kraftpojkarna Sverige AB Governance structure Our business model OKQ8 Scandinavia is governed by a OKQ8 Scandinavia is one of separate Management team and a Scandinavia’s largest fuel and energy Board of Directors in accordance with companies. We operate in Denmark and Danish and Swedish law. The Board of in Sweden and our products are primarily Directors is responsible for the overall intended for private and business management of OKQ8 Scandinavia as customers in the two countries. On an well as the appointment and dismissal annual basis, we sell around 3 million m3 of the Management team. The elected of fuel. members of the Board of Directors are independent while additional members Our sustainability work aims to reduce are elected by OKQ8 Scandinavia our own and our products’ environmental employees in Denmark and Sweden. impact, and to create a positive effect on The Board of Directors choose members society. Our business development work who have professional expertise in areas aims to find new business beyond fuels. that support the company’s needs, and provides a balanced age and gender Sustainability is the responsibility of distribution on the Board. Management Management team. The Management is responsible for the company's ongoing team is responsible for the company’s leadership and reports quarterly on sustainability strategy and goals and to strategic results to the Board. allocate resources and make decisions in economic, environmental and social areas. 28 Sustainability Report 2018/19 Economy The OKQ8 Group’s revenue for 2018/2019 amounted to SEK 39 billion. Our assessment is that we have an underlying stability in the economy which gives us the prerequisites to continue working long-term with our social and environmental responsibility. Profit for the year was affected by non-recurring items in the form of write-offs of fixed assets and provisions for future closure of operations at Loudden in Sweden. From a volume perspective, the market has been stable during the year. On the other hand, large variations in Platt's price index, driven by the crude oil price, and a significantly weaker Swedish krona against the US dollar, have led to large price fluctuations on the fuel price to the end customer. The prices of the raw materials for our fuels are influenced by several external factors that we do not have control over, such as economic activity and supply. These in turn are affected by global politics, natural phenomena and political uncertainties. The fuel prices in our sales markets are also affected by the rules governing renewable fuels and how fuels are taxed. OKQ8 Scandinavia is engaged in a number of projects to contribute positively to the environment and in the contexts in which we operate, including Vi-skogen and Save the Children. For financial results, we refer to the OK-Q8 Group's annual report on www.okq8.se. Sustainability Report 2018/19 29 Compliance and reporting Policies Code of Conduct Compliance An important part of our sustainability We support, and base our internal Code In the beginning of 2018/19, we strategy is to ensure that we have of Conduct, on the UN Global Compact’s implemented a whistleblower system, guidelines and objectives for how we work principles on human rights, labour rights, which will apply to all our activities with social responsibility and that our the environment and anti-corruption in both Denmark and Sweden. More employees are informed about and are and bribery. It follows, among other specifically, this means that all familiar with these. This means that we things, that we support and respect the employees are anonymously given the have policies for the environment, social protection of international human rights opportunity to report serious events and employment conditions, human in our business within the sphere we can within the company about, for example, rights, anti-corruption and bribery. influence; enforce regulations on labour violations of human rights and also in rights; take environmental responsibility other areas described in our Code of Safe, Sound & Sustainable throughout our organisation and that we Conduct. This whistleblower system Our SSHE policy for people and for do not accept any form of corruption and will ensure that OKQ8 Scandinavia’s the environment applies to our entire bribery. ethics, business culture and brand are company. It includes aspects that affect maintained. Information on reported the environment, employees and society. OKQ8 Bank has processes to combat events in our whistleblower system is Through our Safe, Sound & Sustainable corruption, but also to facilitate the treated confidentially. policy, we continuously assess the detection of money laundering according company’s risks and reduce all negative to the regulatory requirements. Internal fraud is not reported in our impacts on society, including reducing internal incident system, Oops & Ouch, climate impact. Similarly, we have a Code of Conduct and is therefore not included in our that our suppliers must follow and which incident statistics. is part of the suppliers’ contractural obligations. 30 Sustainability Report 2018/19 Reporting Health & Safety Environmental data This report covers the financial year 1 Reported data relating to health and Reported data on the environment covers March 2018 – 28 February 2019, and safety covers all OKQ8 Scandinavia’s all OKQ8 Scandinavia’s own activities. is the OK-Q8 AB Group’s fifth joint own activities and employees. Reported Environmental data also includes our sustainability report. It has been prepared data also include employees at stations distributors, who transport our products in accordance with the Global Reporting operating on a franchise basis under our to customers and stations. However, our Initiative’s standards (GRI) on Core` brand. Our distributors, who transport our reporting does not include franchiselevel. The report has been reviewed by an products to customers and stations are based stations. The environmental data external auditor who has stated that the also included in this report. The lubricant includes our energy use and greenhouse report complies with identified GRI areas. business, Petrolia is not included in our gas emissions (CO2e), which have a great In order to determine the scope of the reporting as they report incidents in their environmental impact. Energy use is report, the starting point was in our value own system. primarily based on data from our energy chain, and included the areas which we suppliers. consider relevant to us. Accordingly, we Social and financial data have made an evaluation of which GRI Reported data on social aspects and For CO2e reporting, we use a web-based topics we want to highlight in the report. finances include all OKQ8 Scandinavia’s system, CEMAsys, which is based on A thorough materiality assessment has own activities and employees. OKQ8 the Greenhouse Gas Protocol standard. also been carried out where both internal Detaljhandel AB is not included in the The system uses conversion factors, experts and selected stakeholders were financial data. that are recognised in both Denmark given the opportunity to express their and Sweden. This means that we can views with the aim of ensuring that ensure a high standard of credibility in our sustainability work is relevant and our data, as the conversion factors are effective. All reported data comes from automatically updated by the system various internal and external systems. owner. All data from the financial year 2014/15 is included in the system. Sustainability Report 2018/19 31 Assurance Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on OKQ8 Scandinavia Sustainability Report To OKQ8 Scandinavia Introduction We have been engaged by the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer of OK-Q8 AB to undertake a limited assurance engagement of OKQ8 Scandinavia’s (as the organization is defined of page 28) Sustainability Report for the year 2018/2019. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer for OKQ8 Scandinavia’s Sustainability Report The Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer are responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report in accordance with applicable criteria, as explained on page 31 in the Sustainability Report, that are part of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines published by GRI (The Global Reporting Initiative), that are applicable to the Sustainability Report, as well as the accounting and calculation principles that the Company has developed. This responsibility also includes the internal control relevant to the preparation of a Sustainability Report that is free from material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainability Report based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed. Our assignment is limited to the historical information that is presented and does not cover future-oriented information. We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000 Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of financial information. A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and applying analytical and other limited assurance procedures. A limited assurance engagement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. The firm applies ISQC 1 (International Standard on Quality Control) and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We are independent of OKQ8 Scandinavia in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. The limited assurance procedures performed do not enable us to obtain assurance that we would become aware of all significant matters that might be identified in an audit. The conclusion based on a limited assurance engagement does not provide the same level of assurance as a conclusion based on an audit. Our procedures are based on the criteria defined by the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer as described above. We consider these criteria suitable for the preparation of the Sustainability Report. We believe that the evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusions below. Conclusions Based on the limited assurance procedures performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Sustainability Report is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the criteria defined by the Executive Management and Chief Executive Officer. Stockholm, 7 May 2019 KPMG Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab KPMG AB Tomas Gerhardsson Jon Beck Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant 32 Sustainability Report 2018/19 Auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report To the general meeting of the shareholders in OK-Q8 AB, corporate identity number 556027-3244 Engagement and responsibility It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the sustainability report (OKQ8 Scandinavia Sustainability Report) for the financial year 2018/2019 and that it is prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The scope of the examination Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR:s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor's opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination of the statutory sustainability report is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. Opinion A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Stockholm 7 May 2019 KPMG AB Tomas Gerhardsson Authorized Public Accountant Sustainability Report 2018/19 33 Goals and results We review our goals and our progress at least once a year. When necessary, the goals are adjusted and renewed. All goals are linked to the highest priority aspects identified in the materiality assessment, and comply with our sustainability strategy. The table below shows our current goals and goal fulfillment. Goal Year Progress A survey shows that we We will be in Top 50 on the Universum Overall goal 2025 are placed between “Most Attractive Employer ranking” 110-150 Late February, we had LinkedIn We will have 14,000 followers at LinkedIn 2018/19 12,690 followers During 2018/19, we Korta vägen – We will employ interns 2018/19 employed 3 interns Social initiatives During 2018/19, we Ung på väg – We will employ interns 2018/19 employed 21 interns Employee satisfaction In February 2019, we We will increase NMI-index to 3,2 2020 (NMI) achieved an index of 3.25 During 2018/19, we had 27 Health & Safety We have a vision of zero job related Ongoing incidents with sick leave incidents with sick leave Goal Year Progress We will be in Top 50 on the A detailed report shows Overall goal 2025 where we can improve ”Sustainable Brand Index” In Sweden we will build one new station each In 2018/19, we did not Ongoing build any new stations year according to our criteria for sustainability Sustainable stations In Denmark our reconstructed stations In 2018/19, we have built Ongoing must live up to our criteria for sustainability two sustainable stations None of our high-risk High risk suppliers must be audited by third Fuel 2018/19 suppliers were reviewed in party 2018/19 We will install 30 quick chargers; 25 in During 2018/19, we have Electric chargers 2018/19 Sweden and 5 in Denmark installed 5 quick chargers We will support Vi-skogen´s tree planting In 2018/19, we donated Partnership 2018/19 and poverty reduction 450 TSEK to Vi-skogen 34 Sustainability Report 2018/19 Goal Year Base line Progress We will reduce our CO2e by CO2e emission was Overall goal 2030 2014/15 20% per m3 sold product reduced by 40 % Total We will reduce energy use from own Energy use was reduced 2030 2014/15 energy use operation with 20% per m3 sold product with 26% We will reduce CO2e from distribution with CO2e emission was 2030 2014/15 20% per driven km reduced by 12% We will reduce CO2e from depots with 20% CO2e emission was Logistic 2030 2014/15 per m3 driven product reduced by 61% We will reduce energy use from depots with Energy use was 2030 2014/15 20% per m3 dispatched product reduced with 21% We will reduce CO2e from Petrolia with 30% CO2e emission was Lubricating oil 2030 2014/15 per m3 product produced increased with 25% Nya miljömål År Basår Resultat We will be climate neutral from our Overall goal 2030 2018/19 New goal own operations Total We will use 100 % energy from renewable 2030 2018/19 New goal energy use sources in our own operations Our distributors shall use 100 % renewable fuels to transport our products to stations and 2030 2018/19 New goal business customers We will climate-compensate CO2 emissions Subgoal 2030 2018/19 New goal for our business travels by air Business cars and rental cars must be with 2030 2018/19 New goal zero CO2 emissions Sustainability Report 2018/19 35 GRI content index GRI Standard Disclosure Comment / omission Page GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 102-1 Name of the organization OK-Q8 AB and Q8 Danmark A/S and subsidiaries. Activities, brands, products, and 102-2 27, 28 services 102-3 Location of headquarters OK-Q8 AB and Q8 Danmark A/S and subsidiaries. Arne Jacobsens Allé, 2300 Copenhagen S 102-4 Location of operations and Sveavägen 155, 104 35 Stockholm. 102-5 Ownership and legal form 27, 28 102-6 Markets served 27 102-7 Scale of the organization 22, 27-29 Information on employees and The majority of our activities are performed 102-8 22, 31 other workers by our own employees. 102-9 Supply chain 12-13 Significant changes to the There have been no significant 102-10 organisation and its supply changes in the organisation, in chain ownership or in the supply chain. The precautionary principle is incorporated into Swedish legislation in Miljöbalken, the Swedish Precautionary Principle or Environmental Code. In Denmark there are 102-11 approach similar requirements in the Danish Environmental Protection Act. We consider the precautionary principle when purchasing goods and materials. 102-12 External initiatives 9 Swedish Petroleum and Biofuels Institute (SPBI), On the Road to Climate Neutral Freight Transportation Membership of associations 102-13 (KNEG), Danish Oil Industry Association (EOF), Danish Central Stockholding Entity, Danish Industry (DI), Employer Association KFO. 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 3 Key impacts, risks, and 102-15 opportunities 9-11 Values, principles, standards, and 102-16 9, 27, 30 norms of behavour Mechanisms for advice and concerns 102-17 9, 13, 30 about ethics 102-18 Governance structure 28 36 Sustainability Report 2018/19 GRI Standard Disclosure Comment / omission Page https://www.yumpu.com/sv/document/ 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 10 view/58322902/var-gemensamma-framtid All Swedish employees and Danish hourly paid employees are covered by a collective 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements bargaining agreement, which corresponds to 92 % of all employees in the organisation. Identifying and selecting https://www.yumpu.com/sv/document/ 102-42 view/58322902/var-gemensamma-framtid 10 stakeholders Approach to stakeholder https://www.yumpu.com/sv/document/ 102-43 10 engagement view/58322902/var-gemensamma-framtid https://www.yumpu.com/sv/document/ 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 10 view/58322902/var-gemensamma-framtid Entities included in the consoliOK-Q8 AB, Q8 Danmark A/S and 102-45 dated financial statements 2, 28 subsidiaries. Defining report content and topic 9-11 102-46 boundaries 102-47 List of material topics 9-11 No significant changes compared to 102-48 Restatements of information last year. No significant changes compared to 102-49 Changes in reporting last year. 102-50 Reporting period Financial year March 2018 February 2019. 102-51 Date of most recent report May 2018. 102-52 Reporting cycle Yearly. Karin Hellgren, Head of Communication karin.hellgren@okq8.se Contact point for questions 102-53 eller Annette Hansen, Head of SSHE & Sustainability regarding the report annette.hansen@q8.dk. Claims of reporting in accordance 102-54 2 with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index 36-40 102-56 External assurance 32-33 Sustainability Report 2018/19 37 Material topics Väsentliga ämnen Economic performance Disclosure Comment / omission Page GRI 103: Management For financial results see approach 2016 OK-Q8 Group Annual Report. Explanation of the material topic and 103-1 2, 28, 29, 31 its boundary 103-2 Management of economi 28, 29 103-3 Evaluation of management 29 Energy Disclosure Comment / omission Page GRI 103: Management approach 2016 Explanation of the material topic 103-1 9-11, 16, 18, 31 and its boundary 103-2 Management of energy 3, 6, 7-8, 14-15,16-17, 35 103-3 Evaluation of management 16-17, 35 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy use 16, 18, 31 302-3 Energy intensity 16, 18 302-4 Reduction of energy use 16, 18, 35 Biodiversity Disclosure Comment / omission Page GRI 103: Management approach 2016 Explanation of the material topic Goals and metrics in this area 103-1 7, 10, 13 and its boundary will be published during the year. 103-2 Management of biodiversity 7, 13, 38 103-3 Evaluation of management 7, 38 GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 Biodiversity and land use is one of our most important areas. Potentially, many of our renewable fuels can Significant impacts of activities, come from agricultural products, such as palm oil, 304-2 products, and services 7, 13 where there is a risk of biodiversity degradation. on biodiversity However, we have a policy that we do not use these types of products. 38 Sustainability Report 2018/19 Emissions Disclosure Comment / omission Page GRI 103: Management approach 2016 Explanation of the material topic 103-1 9-11, 16, 17, 31 and its boundary 103-2 Management of emissions 3, 6, 7-8, 9-11, 12, 14-15,16-17, 35 103-3 Evaluation of management 16-17, 35 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 18, 31 305-2 Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 18, 31 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 18, 31 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 16, 18, 35 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 16, 18, 35 Supplier environmental and social assessment Disclosure Comment / omission Page GRI 103: Management approach 2016 Explanation of the material 103-1 9-11, 12 topic and its boundary 103-2 Management of suppliers 12-13 103-3 Evaluation of management 13 GRI 308: Supplier environmental assessment 2016 Negative environmental impacts in the 308-2 12-13, 34 supply chain and actions taken GRI 414: Supplier social assessment 2016 Negative social impacts in the 12-13 414-2 supply chain and actions taken Sustainability Report 2018/19 39 Occupational health and safety Disclosure Comment / omission Page GRI 103: Management approach 2016 Explanation of the material topic 103-1 9-11, 19-21 and its boundary 103-2 Management of health and safety 21 103-3 Evaluation of management 21-22 GRI 403: Health and safety 2016 Workers representation in formal joint manageWe do not report by gender, as the 403-1 21 ment–worker health and safety committees information is not available. Types of injury and rates of injury, We do not report by gender, as the 403-2 occupational diseases, lost days, and 21-22, 31 information is not available. absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Training and Education Disclosure Comment / omission Page GRI 103: Management approach 2016 Explanation of the material topic 9-11, 19-21 103-1 and its boundary 103-2 Management of training and education 19-21 103-3 Evaluation of management 19-21 GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 We do not report by gender and Average hours of training per year 404-1 employee category, as the information 21 per employee is not available. Programs for upgrading employee skills We have individual career development 404-2 19-21 and transition assistance programs programmes as well as programmes for pre-retirement planning. 40 Sustainability Report 2018/19 Sustainability Report 2018/19 41
