Sustainability Report 2017 SEKEM Sustainability Report 2017 Dear Readers, Friends and Partners! The year 2017 has been a very special one for SEKEM. In spring, the whole SEKEM community and many wonderful friends from all over the world celebrated the 80th birthday of my father and SEKEM’s founder Ibrahim Abouleish. We honored his life-work: the realization of a sustainable community in the Egyptian desert that serves the holistic development of people. On the 15th of June, my father passed away. His farewell to the earthly life was certainly painful for all of us – but the gratitude for all he has done for and with us prevails our sorrow. We are full of trust and commitment to continue the path of development that he had started. His spirit is still alive in SEKEM and in every one of us. That became apparent in autumn when we celebrated the 40th anniversary of SEKEM Initiative. Again, all our co-workers, partners and friends came together and showed how the SEKEM vision is carried by them into the future. It was always my father’s goal to address societal challenges holistically. Following his lead, we continued to formulate our vision and mission for 2057 in all four spheres of life. As my father accomplished a miracle in the desert within the past 40 years, we also wish to realize many more miracles inspired by his philosophy. The intensive year 2017 was filled with determining turning-points in SEKEM. Besides our own transformation journey as an organization and community, the situation in Egypt is still challenging us. However, we are full of confidence looking into the future, as my father showed us how especially out of hard times and burdens, development opportunities arise. Cairo, 12th of August, 2018 Helmy Abouleish Chief Executive Officer, SEKEM Group 04 SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2017 Securing of animal Efficient usage of welfare, energy natural habitats and and application of wildlife diversity alternative energy Economic Life Societal Life Fair and ethical value Equal opportunity (along creation in harmony with the human rights), respect environment, and societal and human dignity for and cultural development every stakeholder Improving air Biodiversity and quality and avoiding organic seeds of Greenhouse Gas highest quality emissions Enhancing Efficient and and sustaining responsible the fertility of usage of water soil Cultural Life Holistic continuous development of values, knowledge, capacities and consciousness for individual empowerment Our Vision Sustainable development towards a future where every human being can unfold his or her individual potential; where mankind is living together in social forms reflecting human dignity; and where all economic activity is conducted in accordance with ecological and ethical principles. 05 SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2017 About SEKEM SEKEM is serving the community for 40 years – an enduring journey. It started in 1977 by revitalizing the Egyptian desert and building a sustainable community. With faith in human beings and nature we believe in a sustainable future for all of us and work passionately every day to contribute to this, our common goal. The SEKEM Group of companies is a part of the SEKEM Initiative founded by Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish. It strives for Sustainable Development in four dimensions: Economy, Societal Life, Cultural Life and Ecology. After pioneering Organic and Biodynamic agriculture in Egypt, the SEKEM Group started to enlarge its activities by processing and producing Biodynamic products, textiles and phyto-pharmaceuticals in Egypt, the Arab World and on international markets. With part of their profits the SEKEM companies co-finance the social and cultural activities of the SEKEM Development Foundation, which runs schools, the vocational training center, a medical center and an institution for children with special needs among others. In 2012, the Heliopolis University for Sustainable Development was opened under SEKEMs patronage and combines a holistic approach to teaching, research and practice. It is the first university in the Middle East declaring sustainable development as its overall goal. While being worldwide connected, SEKEM considers the needs of the co-workers, community members and the environment at all times. SEKEM herewith gives more than 20,000 people a life and work perspective. SEKEMs “Economy of Love” fosters fair and ethical trading methods and promotes efficient solutions for our global challenges in regards to environment and society. SEKEMs vision stands for individual human development and sustainable community building. With our ecological, societal, cultural, and economic activities we foster a future in which every human being can unfold his or her individual potentials; a future in which mankind is living together in social forms reflecting human dignity; and in which all economic activity is in line with ecological and ethical principles. For actively combating desertification and soil erosion in Egypt for 40 years, the United Nations to Combat Desertification (UNCCD) awarded SEKEM and its community the “Land for Life Award 2015”. SEKEM has been widely praised as an “Egyptian organic pioneer” and has received the 2003 Right Livelihood Award (“Alternative Nobel Prize”) as a „Business Model for the 21st Century” and an “economy of love”. In 2017, the SEKEM Future Council together with SEKEM employees amplified this vision of SEKEM for 2057: SEKEM as an international Center of Excellence for holistic, sustainable, individual, organizational, and societal transformation in Egypt and the world. Where we are and what we need Still, Egypt, as many other countries in the world, is facing numerous challenges: climate change, food insecurity, water scarcity, desertification, unemployment, poverty, migration, education, health problems and many more. The interests of the private economic sector strongly dominate the political as well as civil sector. This leaves the country with a lot of undesirable social, ecological, and also cultural side-effects. What we need today as 40 years ago, is a more co-creative ecosystem model that is characterized by the rise of a fourth sector in which platforms are built and that holds the space for cross-sector innovation, engaging all kinds of stakeholders. We need social innovations. We believe that one of the key solutions for Egypt is to build intentional communities in the desert, routed in Africa and the Middle East as well as the West, bridging cultures and reclaiming desert land using biodynamic agricultural methods and that are constantly developing. Communities such as SEKEM became one in the past 40 years. SEKEM itself is an example for a social innovation. It stands as a role model for realizing a great vision that has once been seen as not feasible. Although SEKEM is partially a profit-making enterprise, the whole Initiative does not aim for financial profit maximisation, but is in fact a culture and society oriented organisation for economic, ecological, social and first 06 SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2017 07 SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2017 and foremost human value-creation. Exactly this approach and the knowledge that it’s mission will never be accomplished but a continuous development path enabled the realisation of it’s vision. The SEKEM Vision that Ibrahim Abouleish created 40 years ago, is based on regaining the desert, greening it sustainably and thereby creating value for the community; as only from the green vivid soils, everything can begin and grow. Not only food is secured, but also jobs are created and hence a flourishing society starts to develop. SEKEMs Impact In The Past (Read More: https://goo.gl/2ysT8p) 40 years of SEKEM’s efforts in sustainable community building in the desert led to the following achievements: General Info Time frame 1977 2017 Time period in years 40 Total cultivated area land in ha 2,100 Investment Total accumulated investment € 112 Mio Total accumulated investment per community member €13,998 Total accumulated investment per hectare (in '000) €53,324 Impact/Result Total estimated number of trees planted 600,000 Total estimated tons of CO2e sequestered with trees and soil 0.5 Gt Accumulated calculated net present value from carbon sequestration € 5 Mio Total estimated number of direct jobs created 2,000 Accumulated calculated net present value from direct job creation € 5 Mio Total estimated number of affiliated community members 8,000 Accumulated calculated net present value from savings due to provision of local € 14 Mio health & education infrastructure Accumulated calculated net present value from local food production € 74 Mio Average estimated number of people supplied from productive area per year 22,778 Financial Assessment Total net present value (NPV) € 69 Mio Internal rate of return (IRR) 47% Note: The total accumulated investment, total estimated number of planted trees, and total number of jobs created have been distributed evenly over the total amount of years. Hence, our mission for the coming 40 years is build on the constant development of our own community while in the same time promoting other sustainable communities in the Egyptian desert. In order to create such a mission and to support social innovation and community building, a look ahead into the coming years, especially the expected challenges is needed. We see ourselves as a driver for the transformation that we need to see in our society in the future. We feel that organizations are at the driving seat for this transformation as they can take ownership of addressing societal problems while also awakening consciousness and developing people to implement the change. No top-down solution from governments, as we have seen in the past, can be the solution. Neither individual people alone can affect the change of deep transformation. Only a living organism, a community of people that are interconnected and working towards a common purpose can affect real change on the ground. We want to continue our journey and know that the most important thing is to continuously develop and be open for change while always staying connected to the core of our DNA: consciousness development. 08 SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2017 Consciousness development at the core We believe that we are at the edge of a new time age. We clearly see, that our societies are in need of a deep transformation of economic as well as political systems. Free-market capitalism has surely put the ecosystem of the earth to its limits and, despite all its wealth creation, does not provide a fulfilling life in dignity for the majority of people. For SEKEM social innovation and transformation are fundamentally linked to consciousness development: Awareness on the development of individual consciousness levels and soul qualities, in the sense of Albert Einstein words: “No problem can be solved from the same level of consciousness that created it”. Over the past 40 years, SEKEM has become a living example for what is possible when a community is driven by a strong vision and the integration and consideration of consciousness levels. Keeping this awareness and supporting people in their inner development towards a awareness that is going beyond personal interest to a deeper understanding of themselves, their community and the wider universe, has been always the core of SEKEMs vision and will continue to be for the coming 40 years. 09 SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2017 SEKEMs Vision, Mission & Values for the next 40 years In order to attain its vision SEKEM wants to continuously contribute to the following four pillars: Human Development Egypt Vision 2057 SEKEM Mission 2057 SEKEM Goals 2027 (adventus) (futurum; what we do to (futurum; what we achieve the Egypt Vision) achieved to contribute to the Egypt Vision) An educational model to SEKEM continuously develops, SEKEM and HU developed unfold individual potential enhances and spreads its a new educational concept is inaugurated (orphanage concept to unfold individual and disseminated it in Egypt included). potential. (including teacher and parent’s education, orphanage). A University model for SEKEM continuously develops, SEKEM and HU developed potential unfolding, holistic enhances and spreads the a new university model and research and social innovation University model for potential disseminated it in Egypt. is inaugurated. unfolding, holistic research and social innovation. A holistic research model with SEKEM continuously develops, SEKEM and HU developed natural as well as spiritual enhances and spreads a a new research model and science aspects is established holistic research model. disseminated it in Egypt. and combined with consciousness development. Integrative medicine and SEKEM continuously develops, SEKEM and HU developed therapy is established, enhances and spreads the concept of integrative which includes elements of the concept of integrative medicine and therapy and complementary and evidence medicine and therapy, disseminated it in Egypt. based medicine. which includes elements of complementary medicine. National and international arts SEKEM continuously develops, SEKEM and HU established the and cultures are alive in the enhances and spreads the Space of Culture, and spread Egyptian population. offer of culture and arts in the idea in the whole of Egypt. cooperation with other cultural institutions. 10 SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2017 Ecology Egypt Vision 2057 SEKEM Mission 2057 SEKEM Goals 2027 (adventus) (futurum; what we do to (futurum; what we achieve the Egypt Vision) achieved to contribute to the Egypt Vision) Biodynamic, sustainable SEKEM continuously develops SEKEM and HU developed the and organic agriculture are and optimizes the agriculture agriculture model of the future, the mainstream agricultural model of the future. which will be disseminated methods in Egypt. in Egypt (including seeds and biodynamic preparations). A sustainable and selfSEKEM continuously develops, SEKEM and HU optimized their sustaining water management optimizes and spreads its own water consumption and system is established. sustainable and self-sustaining developed a new sustainable water management system. waste water recycling system and water desalination models from salt/brackish water and an innovative water recovery system from the air, and disseminate it in Egypt. A sustainable energy concept SEKEM continuously develops, SEKEM and HU established and based on renewable energies optimizes and spreads a disseminated a sustainable and optimized consumption is sustainable energy concept. energy management system applied. which became a role model for the energy and power industry in Egypt. Biodiversity has stabilized in SEKEM continuously develops SEKEM and HU established Egypt and gains resilience. its efforts for biodiversity and disseminated concepts for optimization. biodiversity optimization. Egypt is actively involved in SEKEM continuously develops, SEKEM is a role model as a climate mitigation. enhances and spreads climate positive community concepts for climate change and disseminated this concept mitigation and adaptation to together with HU in Egypt. climate change. Egypt is a national role model SEKEM continuously SEKEM is a wastefree in reducing waste production develops, enhances and community and disseminated and in optimization of waste spreads sustainable waste the zero waste management management. management systems. concept in Egypt together with HU. 11 SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2017 Economic Value Creation Egypt Vision 2057 SEKEM Mission 2057 SEKEM Goals 2027 (adventus) (futurum; what we do to (futurum; what we achieve the Egypt Vision) achieved to contribute to the Egypt Vision) Egypt’s companies are part of a SEKEM continuously develops, SEKEM implemented circular circular economy. enhances and spreads economy in all activities and concepts of circular economy. disseminated the concept together with HU all over Egypt. Egypt’s companies start SEKEM continuously develops, In cooperation with economic implementing the “Economy enhances and spreads the partners, IAP members of Love” including transparent concept of “Economy of Love” and HU, SEKEM formed the prices and “True Cost concept of “Economy of Accounting”. Love”, implemented it in all its activities and disseminated it in Egypt. An ethical banking system is SEKEM continuously develops In cooperation with economic introduced in Egypt. the ethical banking system. partners and HU, SEKEM established and optimized a model of ethical banking and money sources, implemented the system in its activities and disseminated it in Egypt. Egypt has a wide offer of SEKEM continuously develops, In cooperation with national biodynamically grown food enhances and spreads its and international partners and and sustainable products for portfolio of biodynamic food HU, SEKEM supplies a whole all customers’ needs and social and sustainable products . range of foodstuff, medication, ranks. cosmetics and textiles in Egypt. Egypt has a comprehensive SEKEM continuously develops, With EcoVillage, SEKEM has offer of trading models, enhances and spreads developed new concepts of that transparently connect sustainable trading models. retail, catering, food service consumers and producers and hotel management, and disseminated it in Egypt together with HU. 12 SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2017 Societal Life Egypt Vision 2057 SEKEM Mission 2057 SEKEM Goals 2027 (adventus) (futurum; what we do to (futurum; what we achieve the Egypt Vision) achieved to contribute to the Egypt Vision) Egypt has went through a SEKEM continuously develops, SEKEM developed the major social transformation enhances and spreads models SEKEMsophia governance also influenced by SEKEM of sustainable community model for community, and HU through which development, based on organisational and more people feel aware and individual consciousness human development, and motivated to participate in development. disseminated it in Egypt shaping Egypt’s future and feel together with HU. responsible for Egypt. Egypt has developed modern SEKEM continuously develops, In cooperation with HU, SEKEM forms of its executive, judiciary enhances and spreads founded the SEKEMsophia and legislative governance concepts for a sustainable consultancy firm, which systems, that support citizens community life. promotes community in their development. development in Egypt and worldwide (pilot projects are Minia, Sinai, Wahat). SEKEM has also developed a new way of combining different generations in a community. 13 ” I believe that in future the meaning of money and banking has to change. If the focus is on people’s development, money must have a different role than being piled up with individuals.” Helmy Abouleish, CEO, SEKEM Holding 14 SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2017 SEKEMs Economic Life In 1977 Ibrahim Abouleish founded SEKEM with the vision that all Target 2017 2016 economic activity is conducted in accordance with ecological and 1:30 1:28 1:31 ethical principles. This lies at the core of all SEKEM companies and according to that approach success is measured. In regard to current Rate of highest to and future developments such as a complexity, population growth or lowest annual the consideration of external costs, also our economic mission will be full-time salary. adapted. Facing Economic Challenges Target 2017 2016 The economic situation in Egypt in 2017 continued to be affected by the devaluation of the Egyptian currency in November 2016 and the 10% 10% 10% resulting consequences for local market. The inflation in the country Share of net reached 33% in the middle of the year 2017 while the real income of profit invested the majority of Egyptians has shrunk and thus purchasing power has into community fallen strongly. This had of course impacts on local businesses, which development. had to deal with sales losses, in addition to the currency-related losses from the previous year. Imported products became suddenly more Target 2017 2016 expensive, which in turn opened up the possibility to manufacture and sell substitute products locally. In the second half of the year, the 60% 61% 53% situation began to recover somewhat, the inflation rate dropped to Share of sales value 23.54% and an initiative to support small and medium-sized enterprises of products that was launched, allowing these companies to receive local debt at around have a Demeter 12% interest rate instead of the 23%. Certificate SEKEM Group had been able to achieve its objectives and reached, even in this challenging situation satisfying results, such as EGP 476.45m net Target 2017 2016 sales, representing growth of over 25%. However, for the coming years, the financial reorganization of SEKEM remains in the foreground. In this 82% 65% 73% context, SEKEM could take some steps to extend part of the long-term Share of sales value liabilities during the year 2017 and, secondly, started to work with its of products that long-term partners on a long-term finacial strategy. This will enable have an Organic SEKEM to find a solution in the near future, which should strengthen the Certificate initiative both in terms of debt reduction and in regard to the cash flow. Besides, sourcing and producing Organic raw material is becoming more Target 2017 2016 challenging than ever, due to the constantly rising level of water and air 100% 84% 80% pollution. Hence, disseminating the Biodynamic practices as necessary alternative among the farmers remains to be one of the key missions Share of sales value of products that for SEKEM. Sourcing from new, less polluted lands can be also a major with known carbon undertaking, however it requires investments accordingly. footprint. 15 SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2017 SEKEM Consolidated Key Financials SEKEM and its subsidiaries were able to grow despite the challenges given in the environment, and achieved a consolidated growth of 25% in net sales, reaching EGP 476.4 million. Gross Profit grew by 19%, reaching EGP 237.9 million, and earnings before tax (EBT) reached EGP 16.3 million. 500 476.4m 400 380.9m 300 292.2m 237.9m 199.3m 200 134.6m 100 16.3m 7.4m 0 0.64m 2017 in Million EGP 2016 in Million EGP 2015 in Million EGP Total Net Sales Gross Proﬁt Earnings Before Tax The share of products exported increased in 2017 to 34% versus 30% in 2016, reaching total consolidated export sales of EGP 160.2 million. Export Export Sales Sales 30% 33.6% 2016 2017 Local Local Sales Sales 66.4% 70% 05 16 SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2017 ISIS Organic ISIS Organic generates its sales mainly from the domestic marke, which faces Target 2017 2016 economic challenges that negatively affect the population’s purchasing power 80 68 96 and consumer preferences for high quality and organic products. Therefore, the company could not fully achieve its goals however a growth compared Total amount of to the previous year is recorded. The strategy to increase the export share of customer complaints & claims. ISIS Organic resulted in doubling the export turnover. The brand “SEKEM” has been redesigned and launched both in the local and export markets. “More than 70% of our reclaimed land produces food and raw materials for the local market. And this is not a coincidence. It helps solving the hunger problem, as Target 2017 2016 Egypt remains highly dependent on food imports” 20% 11% 20% Helmy Abouleish https://goo.gl/i46KNx Share of sales value of new product Lotus development. Lotus is one of those companies that benefited from the currency devaluation at the end of 2017. This is due to the export share, which is about 50% of the total sales. Additionally, the company had already purchased the raw materials for 2017 in 2016, based on its earlier production plan at the same time, the increased inflation rate resulted in rising the company’s overhead Target 2017 2016 expenses. Hence, for instance, raw materials were acquired at prices before 100% 100% 100% the currency devaluation and sold in processed form at prices that were Share of organic adjusted to the devaluation. On the other hand, Lotus had been impacted waste recycled by the lower sales of its sister company ISIS Organic, as it is the main purchaser of Lotus’ products. Besides, sourcing organic and biodynamic raw materials is very challenging for the company, due to the rising pollution. Representatives from both companies, ISIS Organic with the new SEKEM brand, and Lotus, as distributor of raw ingredients, attended the worlds biggest fair for organic products in Germany, the Biofach 2017. Target 2017 2016 SEKEM at the leading trade fair for the organic industry https://goo.gl/hwcw16 1.1 1.0 1.5 ATOS Pharma Total weight of waste per 1,000 EGP sales in kg. For SEKEMs phytopharmaceutical company, ATOS Pharma, the devaluation of the Egyptian Pound and the authorities’ long decision-making process to adjust prices for pharmaceutical products to the economic conditions made it challenging to generate sales in the first half of 2017. However, ATOS Pharma had been able to grow slightly and started to expand the product Target 2017 2016 portfolio that is not regulated by the Ministry of Health. For instance, a probiotic preparation that had been developed in 2017 by the Biomedical 64% 74% 42% Research Department at Heliopolis University is planned to be introduced Share of non-organic to the Egyptian pharmaceutical market by ATOS Pharma. waste recycled. SEKEM Will Introduce Egypt’s First Probiotic Supplement https://goo.gl/hgd7bT 17 SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2017 NatureTex The export-oriented textile company NatureTex could benefit from the currency devaluation and accordingly increased its sales in 2017 although the sales growth is not in line with the growth in volumes. Increasing customer service and customer acquisition within the company brought a positive impact and will continue to be a priority in 2018. In 2017, NatureTex has started to produce crochet thread and knitting yarn. Besides, the company opened the Outlet “Organic & More” in Cairo, offering high quality organic certified children’s wear for discount prices. Opening of New NatureTex-Outlet https://goo.gl/f28EZf One of NaturTex’s long standing partners, the german company Alnatura with its brand People Wear Organic (PWO) received the Special Mention Award in the category “Industry Excellence in Branding Fashion” by the German Brand Award 2017 in June. PWO has convinced the jury by its modern design and “the closed brand presence of product, packaging, POS, Website and Social Media.” Thereby, the customer experiences the brand as “emotional, innovative and transparent in the same time.” People Wear Organic is a longstanding partner of NatureTex, SEKEMs Company for Organic cotton textiles and garments as well as one of Alnatura’s brands. Since 1993, NatureTex produces for People Wear Organic GOTS-certified clothing for kids and women. “We see the Special Mention of German Brand Award as an incentive to continue building our principles and values-DNA as foundation for a successful and sustainable brand management, and to always launch products that are geared to the needs of our customers.” Nicole Pälicke, from the NatureTex partner People Wear Organic https://goo.gl/eUuNbH Truly Economics of Love On the occasion of SEKEM’s 40th anniversary, Helmy Abouleish delivered a look-back into the history of SEKEM’s business relationships with it’s long-standing financial partners. “Today, much more than a purely formal relationship connects us with our long-term financial partners. There are grown stories, friendships, relationships – to my father, of course, to me and many others in SEKEM.” Also in 2017, SEKEMs financial partners and shareholders had been of immense meaning as they backed up the initiative especially in regards to debt reduction that is challenging SEKEM since the revolutionary years. Hence, for instance Bruno Wenn, Chairman of the German Investment and Development Corporation (DEG) and Dr. Marco Hollekamp, Vice President for international financing, came to SEKEM in 2017. Their visit contributed in consolidating the economic relationship between SEKEM and the DEG which goes back more than 30 years. Likewise, representatives from SEKEM’s shareholder, the GLS Bank, Oikocredit and Triodos Bank, payed a call to SEKEM during 2017, which had not only shown in great direct support but also underlined their willingness and commitment to further stand behind the initiative, regardless how challenging times are. DEG and SEKEM: Looking together into the future https://goo.gl/3ZSGCX Shaping an Associative Economy Regardless the economic challenges, or better for this very reason, SEKEM is investing into shaping an alternative and more holistic economic approach, which is based on an associative economy. Therefor, SEKEM attended the Economy Council of the Section for Agriculture at the Goetheanum and the Demeter Association, which focused on the topic “Associative Economics for the Organic Market” and aimed to develop a “Charter for Associative Economics for the Organic Market”. The charter tries to promote an economic-social society based on a transparent, responsible and purposeful cooperation between all members of the value creation. Developing a Charter for Associative Economy https://goo.gl/ST3SDh 05 18 SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2017 19 ” We are very grateful that we have so many friends in Europe who support us with such a great commitment. And it seems to me, as if there were even some more joining us in the past days.” Helmy Abouleish, CEO, SEKEM Holding 20 SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2017 SEKEMs Societal Life With the support of our network of friends and partners we could start looking 40 years ahead. And in 2017, we were able to summerize our goals and start working on our mission for realizing the vision 2057. SEKEMSophia: The Phoenix Out of the Ashes The passing away of SEKEM Founder Ibrahim Abouleish does of course show impacts especially in SEKEM’s societal and social structure. Ibrahim Abouleish was a very charismatic and strong leader, who kept the spiritual world and the earthly reality in harmonic balance. Of course it is not possible to replace such a great character whose impact can be seen and felt in every little detail of SEKEM. Hence, in July some SEKEM community members came together to draw a picture of how to create a resilient and agile governance structure for the future of SEKEM as a complex living ecosystem. The aim was to gain clarity on who is doing what and to break down the responsibilities in form of roles and circles and to fit this in the overall institutional, legal framework that also reflects actual decision making power distribution. This was the starting point of a process that SEKEM named SEKEMsophia and that aims to find a new, innovative still sustainable and holistic governance for the SEKEM Initiative. It includes a transformation that is as much about honoring the past with its successful pioneering spirit of Ibrahim Abouleish, as well as inviting the future with what wants to emerge with a new generation. SEKEMsophia: Circles Instead of Trees https://goo.gl/aFA2JV For a Balanced Society: Gender Equality Still Core Topic In 2017, SEKEM could keep its track in fostering societal life through various aspects. Promoting gender equality is still one core topic and integrated in different ways in all SEKEM institutions. At Heliopolis University for Sustainable Development, for instance, a new series of courses started in 2017. As part of the Core Program, a workshop under the title “Future of Gender Equality” included lectures about Egyptian feminists, unconscious bias, and stereotypes that contribute to the daily discrimination that women face. The aim of these classes is to bring awareness to gender equality to a more comprehensible level an essential part for building a sustainable community, which Heliopolis University is striving for. Future of Gender Equality: An Initiative by Heliopolis University https://goo.gl/6pirgE “I wish SEKEMs concept of equality would spread all over Egypt. Because then, everyone would understand that we all deserve equal chances in life and hence no one would be excluded.” Badr Zakaria, House Keeper at SEKEM Head Office https://goo.gl/jDiaMD Besides, SEKEM presented it’s commitment to gender equality in events for instance in Cairo. Basmah Metwally, SEKEMs Gender Diversity Officer, emphasized on the meaning of equal opportunities in SEKEM during a conference on the topic “Investing in Women – Private Sector Solutions”. Investing in Women is more than CSR https://goo.gl/xQSuLN In association with SEKEM’s growing activities in regards to supporting female co-workers, the total amount of female workforce increased in 2017 by +3%. Thanks to improved working conditions SEKEM can adapt more and more to their needs. 21 SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2017 Reliable Network Woven by Strong Connections As 2017 had been a very special year for SEKEM community, partners and friends played an essential role. We shared our joy and grief with reliable friends and our partners gave us a safe foundation during the challenges caused among others by the financial crisis in Egypt. SEKEM’s long standing business partnership with the Lebensbaum Foundation founded by Ulrich Walter, enabled Heliopolis University for Sustainable Development with a generous donation to open the Space of Culture after the passing away of Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish (read more under Cultural Life). Also, the relationship between SEKEM and its longstanding partner Rapunzel has surpassed business. Rapunzel supported two of SEKEM’s projects with its Hand in Hand (HIH) fund. HIH provided training sessions for 50 women wives and daughter of SEKEM’s contracted farmers teaching them small scale food and cosmetic productions that make use of the plants around their area. Such skills create job opportunities, and enable women to be independent of their husbands. Also thanks to Rapunzel, students of Heliopolis University planted trees around the university. The trees will grow with names attached of the promising future leaders. Hand in Hand Trainings for a sustainable community https://goo.gl/Cntb61 And for sure, SEKEM’s financial partners did huge efforts to strengthen SEKEM during the economic crisis in Egypt (more under “Economic Life”). One of SEKEMs shareholders, the cooperative society Oikocredit, even organised another SEKEM study tour in 2017 for its members. We could welcome 12 guests from our Dutch investment partner and introduce them to the initiative and all the activities they are investing in. With common values and engagements towards a sustainable future, the partnership between SEKEM and Oikocredit is a very precious one, and it is certain that the connection will grow deeper with every study tour that is planned to take place on a yearly basis and offers a very important direct contact and exchange between people. SEKEM Partner Visits 2017: Oikocredit https://goo.gl/Hv7hqx On the Move in the World: Making New Friends In different countries, in the framework of various events, SEKEM could present it’s concerns, share experiences and learn from others in 2017. Noha Hussein, SEKEM’s Public Relations Specialist, attended for instance an event about the 17 SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) in Cairo. SEKEM is working on all of the recently published goals by the United Nations already since the beginning even though they were called different in 1977. Various representatives of the Egyptian private sector discussed the SDGs aligning them to their present and future business activities. The event marked a successful start for cooperation and awareness in Egypt’s private sector. Making it Explicit: Embedding the SDGs Into the Core Business https://goo.gl/TmUK5s In 2017, SEKEM representatives participated in 36 events concerning sustainable development. SEKEM’s CEO Helmy Abouleish was welcomed by many old and new friends during the year 2017. He travelled several times across Europe and presented SEKEM’s current development at events in Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, Switzerland or Austria. His trips included among others meetings with Weleda, the GLS Bank, Triodos Bank, Oikocredit, the European SEKEM Friends Associations and many more. Helmy Abouleish was thereby able to visit many of SEKEM’s friends and partners who have made sustainable development in Egypt throughout the last 40 years possible. A Series of SEKEM Lecturers Abroad https://goo.gl/Ci5i89 22 SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2017 In Egypt, ISIS Organic, SEKEMs biggest company and BeFit, the leading Target 2017 2016 fitness entity in Egypt, organized the event “Grow Healthy” at the 36 26 N/A Metropolitan School in Cairo. Attended by 50 of the students’ parents, the workshop tackled the challenge of especially the young generation Number of events towards food and offered insights on how to subject their kids to nutritious on Sustainable food by developing for them healthy, yet tasty recipes. Development where SEKEM participated. Growing Healthy Kids: SEKEM solves the Equation https://goo.gl/Z1LMA9 “SEKEM community inspired me a lot. I have many questions and need to gain more knowledge in order to apply it at my own farm and cultural center in Aswan.” Target 2017 2016 Abdel Khalek El Betity, workshop participant 250 307 288 SEKEMs Chief Sustainable Development Officer, Maximilian AbouleishBoes, and his team organized a five-day workshop on building a sustainable Number of publications about economic and life model. 20 young participants from various Egyptian SEKEM in renowned organizations and institutions attended in order to get to know SEKEM’s media channels. experience. Three days at SEKEM’s main farm in Belbeis and another two days at the Al-Bahariyya oasis were included to see the differences and developments between the two places. The trips were accompanied by meetings and presentations of SEKEM founder Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish and SEKEM’s CEO Helmy Abouleish. SEKEM Model Sets a Precedent https://goo.gl/5jqS8m Target 2017 2016 Telling of SEKEM’s Holistic Activities 13 13 13 Number of active In order to inform all friends and supporters as comprehensive as possible, memberships SEKEM tries to constantly develop the communication channels. After in relevant relaunching the English SEKEM Website in 2016, we now offer a German organizations. version as well. People can read about SEKEM’s activities in the four dimensions of sustainability, Economy, Societal Life, Cultural Life and Ecology, and find the corresponding news in three languages. The Arabic translation of SEKEM.com is planned to follow soon. New Website available in German https://goo.gl/vUapKu SEKEM had been featured in various external publications in 2017. Among Target 2017 2016 many others, the UN Environment report mentions SEKEM as a best practice example in “Fostering and Communicating Sustainable Lifestyles: 15% 13% 14% Principles and Emerging Practices“, besides 15 other global campaigns and Share of females in initiatives promoting sustainable lifestyles. In 2017, SEKEM was mentioned SEKEMs managerial in more than 307 articles. positions. SEKEM Profiled in UN Report on Sustainable Lifestyles https://goo.gl/upwpMy 23 SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2017 Target 2017 2016 “SEKEM is thus integrated into the global network of 26% 25% 22% life, which is more effective than the most dangerous Share of females weapons.” in SEKEMs total Ibrahim Abouleish, SEKEM Founder workforce. In November 2017, Helmy Abouleish was elected as a Councillor of the World Future Council following his father, Ibrahim Abouleish, who cofounded the international organization in 2007. The WFC represents 50 members from politics, science, economy and culture. They meet once a Target 2017 2016 year and prepare a work program together. SEKEM highly appreciates the opportunity to continue supporting the World Future Council by Helmy 7% 7% 7% Abouleish’s membership as a councillor and thereby work with many SEKEMs total experiences representatives together for a sustainable future. employee turnover Helmy World Future Council https://goo.gl/w4Xv9k per year. Thanks to many contributors, within 30 days, SEKEM’s first crowdfunding campaign raised more than 21,000 USD (107% of its crowdfunding target). Due to these funds SEKEM Environmental Science Center (SESC) as part of the SEKEM School is now able to establish an alternative education lab to Target 2017 2016 experiment with innovative curricula serving holistic education. 1,508 1,290 1,344 Crowdfunding: Learning Out of The Box https://goo.gl/1GcSn5 SEKEMs total number of “I was raised at SEKEM School with the principles of living employees. in harmony with nature and the values of art and beauty everywhere.” Mahmoud Gamal, IT specialist at SEKEM https://goo.gl/44fPJA Employee Numbers End of 2017, all SEKEM companies employed 1,290 people, 54 less than last year. In total, SEKEM has 11 senior managers (no change), 95 middle managers (-29), 402 specialists (-73) and 587 (+13) labourers. SEKEM exercised great effort to reduce its number of daily labors from 410 in 2015 to 160 in 2016 and 168 in 2017. Daily workers are not part of the formal workforce and hence, do not get access to the same benefits. An important step is to help daily workers to get legal papers and integrate them into a long-term relationship with one of SEKEMs subsidiaries. Our aim is to reduce daily workers to zero at least for the industrial operations. 24 Societal Life SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2017 25 Societal Life ” The people with many years of professional experience and their material contributions made a big difference here – a living example for how cultures can enrich each other.” Gamal El-Sayed, Director of SEKEM Schools 26 SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2017 SEKEMs Cultural Life Supporting the potential and consciousness development of each Target 2017 2016 individual in the community lies at SEKEM’s core. 2017 had been a year 21,826 15,694 21,110 that was strongly determined by building new bases for human and cultural development for the future. Total training hours provided to all SEKEM employees. 40 Years of Human Development Celebrations had been an important part of SEKEM’s Cultural Life in 2017. No surprise, as SEKEM had many occasions to celebrate. In March, SEKEM community commemorated the 80th birthday of its founder Ibrahim Abouleish. 1.700 SEKEM employees as well as SEKEM friends from near and far did not want to miss personally sending their Target 2017 2016 heart-warming congratulations to Ibrahim Abouleish. They enjoyed 20 17 12 a wonderful day on the blooming and festive SEKEM Farm. On that Average training occasion, a comprehensive performance had been presented to the Hours per Employee SEKEM founder on stage: Qasida SEKEM (The SEKEM Story) reflected SEKEMs development in motion pictures, eurythmy, language and music. It showed by the participation of almost every of SEKEM’s cultural institutions (Kindergarten, School, students etc.) how the desert became a fertile land where people learn, work and form a social community – how it became a place where each individual can develop and act artistically. SEKEM sends best wishes to Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish https://goo.gl/MN9ewZ “We are celebrating SEKEMs 40th Anniversary in memory and with feelings of gratitude to the founder Ibrahim Abouleish. He was not only a father to me but to many other people as well. With his spiritual support, we will further develop SEKEM in the coming years.” Helmy Abouleish, SEKEM’s CEO Later on, in November, SEKEM had been celebrating again, this time the 40th anniversary of the Initiative. After Ibrahim Abouleish had passed away in June, this event was of course coloured by different feelings: grief on missing him and in the same time joy and gratitude for all he had done for the community. However, by taking a look into the future and trying to continuing and fulfilling what Ibrahim Abouleish had started 40 years ago, SEKEM community spent that day with confidence and the common belief in carrying the SEKEM vision into the future. SEKEM celebrates 40 years of sustainable developmenthttps://goo.gl/uvtJ6i 27 SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2017 Meaningful Support by the International SEKEM Friends Associations Target 2017 2016 Also the annual SEKEM Day in Stuttgart which is organized and 38 27 38 sponsored by the SEKEM Friends Association in Germany was strongly influenced by the two great anniversaries of this year: 40 years of Number of babies in SEKEM and the 80th birthday of Ibrahim Abouleish. The celebration SEKEMs Nursery. was visited by several regional representatives, among others Werner Wölfle, mayor of the city Stuttgart or the State Secretary Klaus-Peter Murawski. Target 2017 2016 In June 2017, right after the death of Ibrahim Abouleish, the committed 50 50 47 German friends held a commemoration for Ibrahim Abouleish in Niefern-Öschelbronn. The long-standing SEKEM companion Dr. Hans Number of Werner brought back his many memories that he experienced with children in SEKEMs his close friend Ibrahim Abouleish. Kindergarten. Besides, the SEKEM Friends Germany showed great support for example by the transport of two big machines for SEKEM’s metal workshop or by the school partnership with the Silberwaldschule Target 2017 2016 Stuttgart. 300 297 303 SEKEM Day in Stuttgart https://goo.gl/Kn2zxm Number of pupils enrolled in SEKEMs “Due to migration and refugees movements, we are School. living in times where there is much talk about how we can tackle these present issues. But one only needs to take a look at SEKEM” Target 2017 2016 Gilbert Prilasnig, Former Austrian Football Player 254 229 Likewise, the SEKEM Friends Association in Austria has been playing Number of SEKEM School graduates a crucial role in supporting SEKEMs cultural life for many years. since 1998. 2017 began with hosting a charity football match of a total of five intercultural teams in Graz. All the proceeds of the match were donated to SEKEMs sporting activities, in which boys and girls are equally engaged. Helmy Abouleish participated in the VIPteam Target 2017 2016 next to the former defender Gilber Prilasnig and pupils from SEKEM 37 34 Austria’s international refugee class. The Friends Association is 35 strongly committed to supporting refugees in Austria by organizing Number of students international classes that integrate the ideas of the SEKEM vision. in SEKEMs Special Education Program. Kick it like SEKEM https://goo.gl/ugZTsy 28 SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2017 Carrying the SEKEM Impulse Into the World Furthermore, SEKEM Austria initiated a the visit of the Studio Choir Target 2017 2016 of the University of Music and Performing Arts Graz to SEKEM that N/A 196 203 was moving across the SEKEM farm presenting their music in all companies and institutions to the employees. And another great Number of students project has been achieved by SEKEM Austria for further developing enrolled in SEKEMs Vocational Training the university education: Heliopolis University for Sustainable Centre. Development signed a formal agreement with the University of Music and Performing Arts, Kunstuniversität Graz in Austria that aims to foster joint activities that promote research, science and the inclusion of arts. Collaboration between Heliopolis University and Kunstuniversität Graz https://goo.gl/JrVdet Target 2017 2016 Active and mental support for SEKEM’s cultural development came as N/A 975 898 well from the SEKEM Friends in the Netherlands. In 2017, they invited Number of Helmy Abouleish for a comprehensive trip through their country, graduates of SEKEMs presenting SEKEM at various cultural events and sharing experiences Vocational Training in many different ways. In Midden-Delfland, Hollands “green desert”, Centre since 2000. he met his friends from the Durch organic and biodynamic sector for an event on the meaning of greening and reclaiming lands under different conditions. In Holland’s forest, Helmy Abouleish spoke to the youth about inspiration and holistic education and in the capital, in Amsterdam, SEKEM’s CEO discussed with international experts about sustainability in all it’s dimensions. From old and new friends https://goo.gl/wTcTn7 “With the new curricula a new generation of Biodynamic farmers and nature lovers will be educated in Egypt.” Angela Hofmann, agricultural coordinator at SEKEM The Dutch SEKEM Friends did also great effort in 2017 on the practical side. They integrated a new curricula for biodynamic agriculture in SEKEM’s Vocational Training Center (VTC) and sent two ambitious people to SEKEM, Jan Vermeulen and Ann Lust, who supported with their experience the child care, VTC and even shared their knowledge on effective micro-organisms (EM), as sustainable and eco-friendly cleaning methods. Tintin in Egypt: Do, think and feel in the plumbing workshop https://goo.gl/t8yLpm 29 SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2017 First Graduation at Heliopolis University 2017 had been a truly fulfilled year for Heliopolis University for Sustainable Development. In summer, the first students presented their graduation works on innovative projects and constructions all invented for the purpose of sustainability. Innovation: The graduation password at Heliopolis University https://goo.gl/rtd5Z4 “Serving the needs of the community in accordance with ecological ethics has been always the core message at the university.” Yassine Al-Sherif, graduated student from the Energy Department of Heliopolis University. Later in October, 104 students from the three faculties pharmacy, business and engineering celebrated their graduation together with prominent figures from the Egyptian education sector in the new premises at the campus: the Space of Culture (https://goo.gl/HsxA2X). “SEKEM is implementing innovative projects solving environmental issues sustainably, which is putting us, even as teachers, in a situation of continuous researching and learning to promote it, in order to serve the community.” Heba Mosalam, lecturer at the engineering department of Heliopolis University Get to know Heba Mosalam https://goo.gl/WvMFR2 29 30 Cultural Life SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2017 Space of Culture The Space of Culture is one main project realized in 2017 by SEKEM, Target 2017 2016 Heliopolis University and the German partner company “Lebensbaum 1,238 1,294 1,075 Foundation”. It had been a long wish of Ibrahim Abouleish to establish a space in which different kinds of art from different cultures come Total number of students in together and enrich the region with their variety. Shortly after his death, Heliopolis University. SEKEM community decided to start realizing such a place. Hence, a roman theater had been built at the HU campus and in September the first musical performance took place. Since that date, there had been events on regular basis, at least once a week: concerts, theater, exhibitions, discussions or lectures with artists from all over the world. Target 2017 2016 “The polarity between the two fundamentally different 20 20 19 cultures began to dissolve within me to the benefit of a new, distinct third quality […] this is certainly no cheap Total number of funded research compromise, it is not mere tolerance but a Synthesis.” projects running in Ibrahim Abouleish, SEKEM Founder the reporting period. HU students, SEKEM staff as well as guest from outside attended the cultural performances. In 2018, the Space of Culture had been developed further and now consists of three different venues: The Ibrahim Abouleish Theater for open-air performances, the Ibn Rushd Hall for exhibitions, lectures and presentations, and the Hoda Shaarawy Target 2017 2016 Theater for theatrical works as plays, poetry salons or musical concerts. 45,412 44,205 Opening the Space of Culture https://goo.gl/gvM8Pg Total Number of Medical Centre Visits. Promoting Health Care Also in regards to SEKEM’s medical care new activities had been developed within 2017. In cooperation with the SEKEM Medical Center for instance, a Woman’s Healthcare Mobile Unit had been stationed on the SEKEM Farm for several weeks and offered SEKEM’s female employees free mammography screenings. Fighting breast cancer https://goo.gl/Hf2cEz At the Biomedical Research Department in Heliopolis University for Sustainable Development (HU) a probiotic preparation had been developed in 2017 and will be introduced to the Egyptian pharmaceutical market soon by ATOS Pharma, SEKEMs company for phytopharmaceuticals. The probiotic supplement is made of beneficial bacteria or yeast that can promote a healthy digestive tract and a healthy immune system and will be introduced to the Egyptian market for the first time. SEKEM will introduce Egypts first probiotic supplement https://goo.gl/D8CyDP 30 31 Cultural Life ” Rudolf Steiner was one of the first people in modern era to recognize explicitly the principles of interconnectedness in relation to farming and to describe the links between the fertility of the soil and the health of plants, animals and people.” HRH Charles, Prince of Wales and SEKEM supporter https://goo.gl/Y29cNj 32 SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2017 SEKEMs Ecology With applying biodynamic agriculture according to Rudolf Steiner Target 2017 2016 everything started in 1977. In the past 40 years with this holistic 1,628 1,628 1,628 agricultural practice many hectares of former desert lands have been reclaimed and thousands of people benefit from the advantages. Hence, Amount in Feddan of desert land also in 2017 progress in different ecological ways took place in SEKEM reclaimed. and Egypt. Hand in Hand for Saving Fertile Soils 2017 started with an important commitment for sustainable land management and a healthy ecological system. The World Future Council Target 2017 2016 (WFC) that was co-founded by Ibrahim Abouleish, and now continued 100% 75% 75% by Helmy Abouleish, signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Share of Animals the United Nations Convention on Combating Desertification (UNCCD), that are kept in order to cooperate in the fight against desertification and land according to degradation which is a key element in achieving the Sustainable Demeter Standards. Development Goals. In 2015, SEKEM was awarded with the Land for All three animal life Award by the UNCCD. SEKEM considers the WFC as close partner categories (cows/ and friend together with the UNCCD, they create an active team of bulls, sheep, bees) environmental advocates. are kept according to Demeter standards. Team up against desertification https://goo.gl/F9kkX4 Chicken are kept according to organic standards. Sustainable Farming for All Egypt In October 2017, an important step had been realized in regards to promoting sustainable farming beyond SEKEM: SEKEM signed a Declaration of Intent with the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ) to support sustainable agriculture in Egypt and Africa. The Joint Declaration is built on a mutual agreement between SEKEM and BMZ, stating that “hunger, poverty and the climate change can be faced only through sustainable and equitable development.” Declaration for Sustainable Agriculture https://goo.gl/Aa4xaa “Approximately 73 percent of the worldwide cultivated cotton is genetically modified cotton is considered as the agricultural product with the highest amount of chemicals, 18 percent of the chemical plant protection active ingredients are used worldwide in cotton fields.” Further information: Organic cotton as sustainable solution https://goo.gl/WRTjVM 33 SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2017 High Quality Cotton and a Closed Value Chain Target 2017 2016 SEKEM was chosen for that declaration as the initiative is known to be Egypt’s 10 8 12 pioneer for organic agriculture and constantly developing it’s activities and commitment. Hence, for instance SEKEM is fostering the sustainable Relative amount growing of organic cotton, as Egypt is one of the main producing countries of electricity for high-quality cotton. Also in October, SEKEM celebrated its organic consumption per cotton harvest in a special event, by welcoming 20 contracted farmers thousand EGP Sales (in kwh/1,000 EGP). in Damietta Governorate, located 200 kilometers north from Cairo. The organic yield had been proactively integrated into Egypt’s export strategy for 2017. Besides, SEKEM supported an agreement signed by the Egyptian government and the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), under the title “Cotton for Life”. This initiative aims to develop and apply environmental protocols to sustain the Egyptian cotton industry, starting from its cultivation till the end product – a closed value chain, Target 2017 2016 which SEKEM already promotes since 1977. SEKEM is actively engaged in this agreement with its new partner, the Italian cotton company Filmar. 4,750 3,811 4,439 In 2017, 360 farmers cultivate a total area of more than 370 Hectares (915 Total amount of feddans) of Egypt’s lands with organic cotton crops. electricity used (in MWh). Cotton harvest in Damietta https://goo.gl/B2iAws “Besides the high-quality animal products, like milk or meat, the animals health plays a crucial role in biodynamic agriculture. Their manures function as nutritious fertilizer as the farmers use it for compost production. Hence, the soil biodiversity is stimulated Target 2017 2016 and accordingly the land’s production is boosted.” 5,448 4,633 5,008 Attia Sobhy, director of the EBDA Total amount of CO2 Emissions (in tCO2-e). New Solar Pump for SEKEM In total we faced a drastic improvement of our relative energy consumption per 1000 EGP sales because of local price increases and partial decreases in the local production, especially with ISIS Organic, which is a major driver for the energy consumption. As follows the different dynamics are explained Target 2017 2016 on company level. 12 10 13 At ISIS Organic the total energy consumption went down drastically due to Relative amount a strong decrease in bottled water production in 2017 as well as herbal tea of of emissions per production. The latter was influenced by the decision to reduce the stock value 1,000 EGP sales (in of our customers in the market and to sell out available stock, hence stop our kgCO2-e). production during the summer months for cost cutting and efficiency reasons. 34 SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2017 At Lotus, the total production decreased mainly through compliance Target 2017 2016 issues of our raw material suppliers related to organic certification and 47 46 90 the problem of environmental pollution, especially for grains and seeds. Contrary to that trend, the total energy consumption of the company went Total amount of water usage for up in 2017 due to increasd mechanical cleaning efforts needed for accepted company & personal raw materials. use (in ‘000 m3). At Naturetex the amount of gasoline consumption for vehicles decreased due to better car fleet management while at the same time the total electricity consumption increased due to higher production activities and an additional production line with a new machine for balled yarn. At Atos we see an overall increase in energy consumption because capsule and sachets production went up. At the same time extracts, syrup and tablets production decreased but the first two mentioned categories are less Target 2017 2016 energy intensive. 97 236 101 The above mentioned electricity consumption dynamics strongly influenced Relative amount the relative CO2 emission data, which also decreased strongly compared to of water usage for our last year’s performance and expectation. This was further reinforced by company & personal our original expectation for higher number of employees, which were below use (in liters/1,000 our plan due to cost saving measures, that strongly effected the emissions EGP). from employee commuting. This represents a strong driver for the overall emissions. Also in 2017, SEKEM could extend its commitment to sustainable energies. In September, a new solar water pump had been installed at SEKEMs Farm in Wahat El Bahariya. Based on an intense cooperation, as well as comprehensive trainings and practice, this new venture could had been Target 2017 2016 realized. A former student of Heliopolis University, El-Sayed Mohamed, 1,081 1,116 1,304 was responsible for installing the new pump in cooperation with SEKEM’s Total amount of Austrian partner, SEKEM Energy, and the company Merl 1928. water usage for agricultural use (in “I believe that one day all the operations at SEKEM will ‘000 m3). be running by renewable energies.” El-Sayed Mohamed, Energy Engineer at SEKEM Now, a 62-kW photovoltaic system replaces an 100-kW diesel power generator and runs a submersible water pump of 40 horsepower. And it’s worth it: the new solar pump is estimated to reduce around 50 tons of carbon dioxide emissions per year. It irrigates an area of 12 hectares Target 2017 2016 (30 feddans), with an average of 60-80 cubic meters of water per hour – 100% 100% 100% of course depending on the solar radiation and the type of the cultivated crops. On the same land in the Western Egyptian desert, SEKEM had Share of waste water already installed another photovoltaic system (PV) in 2015. recycled and reused. Sustainability from the Sun: https://goo.gl/3CCG8w 35 SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2017 Healthy Livestock: Animals Are Part of the Solution As animals play a crucial part in the natural circle of biodynamic agriculture, SEKEM organized specific activities in order to raise awareness and support its contracted farmers by keeping their livestock healthy: three veterinary medical convoys had been organized in 2017 in three villages located in Giza and Kafr El Sheikh Governorates. The project was initiated by the Egyptian Bio-Dynamic Association (EBDA) and more than 20 veterinary doctors, who volunteered from nearby directorates. The veterinarians inspected and vaccinated an average of 300 animals including cows, sheep and buffaloes for free; the EBDA funded the whole campaign, including medicines and vaccines. Further veterinary campaigns in coordination with local governmental organizations are planned, not least in order to foster the attention of conventional farmers towards healthy livestock. For Healthy Livestock: Free Veterinary Services https://goo.gl/yR8sWH SEKEM Animals Target 2017 2016 Total Number of Bulls 45 39 29 Total Number of Dairy Cows 135 132 135 Total Number of Laying Hens 16,800 16,720 19,240 Total Number of Sheep 500 542 463 Total Number of Bee Hives 30 29 35 Total Number of Pigeons 1,450 1,433 1,500 Endangered Birds N/A 11 11 36 SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2017 37 SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2017 SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2017 INDICATORS Evaluation of SEKEMs performance in 2017 through the balance score card Target Evaluation In the current review process of the Sustainability SOCIETAL CULTURAL ECONOMY Life Life ECOLOGY Flower, which forms the basis of the assessment framework, some performance aspects have been added or removed based on stakeholder request or 0 0 0 0 decision by management. In the year 2017, we set ourselves 89 targets out of 0 1 0 0 which we achieved 60%. Another 29% of our targets have been almost achieved. 1 3 4 1 8 6 1 11 17 11 9 16 Not achieved First results Half the way Almost there Achieved 38 SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2017 ECONOMY Report Indicators 2017 Aspect Indicator Unit Target 2017 2016 EvaluaComment tion Economic Value Total Net Revenue million 470,934 476,449 380,932 Creation EGP Economic Value Gross Profit million 235,488 237,857 199,356 Creation EGP Economic Value EBITDA million 130,082 131,962 100,495 Creation EGP Economic Value Net Profit before million 6,729 16,297 641 Creation Tax EGP Economic Value Export Sales % 36.70% 33.62% 30% Creation Economic Value Local Sales % 63.29% 66.38% 70% Creation Economic Value Ratio of highest Distribution to lowest annual ratio 1:35 1:28 1:31 Lowest salaries increased. full-time salary Economic Value Total amount of million Distribution internal InvestEGP 10 9.7 10 ments Economic Value Majority Share% 62.8 62.8 62.8 Distribution holder Share Share of Net Profit Economic Value invested into Com% 10.00% 10.00% 10.00% Profit share invested into activities of Distribution munity DevelopSEKEM Development Foundation ment 39 SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2017 Aspect Indicator Unit Target 2017 2016 EvaluaComment tion Increase in non-organic sales, such Share of sales as herbal teas (e.g. regime tea, anise), Product Portfolio value of organic % 82% 65% 73% olive oil, black honey, and sauces, as products (includwell as decrease in organic sales, such ing Demeter) as milk and herbal teas (e.g. mint and green tea). Share of sales Product Portfolio value of products % 60% 61% 53% that have a Demeter certificate Share of sales revenues of prodSales share does not include revenues Product Portfolio ucts with known % 100% 84% 80% from ATOS Pharma. product carbon footprint Share of total Innovation sales invested into % 0.75 0.65 0.6 company research and development Share of sales Innovation revenues from % 20% 11% 20% new products and services Operations Total weight of tons 531 493 793 Decrease in production amount waste (especially in ISIS Organic) Total weight of There was a decrease in production Operations organic waste tons 427 404 493 amounts in 2016 and 2017, such as in ISIS from 25,289 in 2016 to 18,846 Operations Share of organic % 80% 82% 69% N/A waste Operations Total weight of kg/EGP 1.1 1.0 1.5 waste per sales 1000 Operations Share of organic % 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% waste recycled Share of non-orOperations ganic waste % 63.85% 74.37% 42.00% recycled Share of recycled Lotus replaced paper with recycled Operations packaging materi% 1% 3% 1% carton al input 40 SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2017 Aspect Indicator Unit Target 2017 2016 EvaluaComment tion Responsibility Total number of to customer and customer comnumber 80 68 96 consumer plains and claims Number of supplyPartnership ing EBDA Farmers number 500 477 461 (Winter Season) Number of supplyPartnership ing EBDA Farmers number 500 518 461 (Summer Season) Total cultivated Partnership area (acres) (Winacres 3,500 3,465 2,670 One acre = 4,046 square metres ter Season) Total cultivated Partnership area (acres) (Sumacres 3,500 3,359 2,744 mer Season) 41 SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2017 SOCIETAL Life Report Indicators 2017 Aspect Indicator Unit Target 2017 2016 EvaluaComment tion Workforce ComNumber of Senior number 14 11 11 position Managers Workforce CompoNumber of Middle number 116 95 124 Decrease in Lotus and NatureTex sition Managers Workforce CompoNumber of Spenumber 485 402 475 Decrease in Lotus and NatureTex. sition cialists Workforce CompoNumber of Lanumber 683 587 574 sition bourers Workforce CompoNumber of Daily number 180 168 160 Daily workers active in farming. sition Workers Workforce CompoTotal Number of number 1,508 1,290 1,344 N/A High target linked to high production sition employees volume expectation. Workforce CompoShare of young sition employees (below % 65% 63% 64% the age of 36) Share of females There are 277 female employees in all Workforce Diverin total work% 26.00% 25.00% 22.00% companies without daily workers in sity force (excl. Daily 2017 and 265 in 2016. Increase mainly Workers) in ATOS Pharma. Share of females Workforce Diverin senior and % 15.00% 13.00% 14.00% sity middle manager positions 42 SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2017 Aspect Indicator Unit Target 2017 2016 EvaluaComment tion Workforce DiverShare of emsity ployees with % 5% 2% 2% disabilities Loyalty and MotiEmployee turn% 7% 7.48% 7.20% vation over Loyalty and MotiTotal number of number 37 38 62 N/A Reduction mainly in ISIS Organic. vation part time workers Loyalty and MotiShare of workforce vation that works part % 5.00% 3.00% 5.00% time Estimated share Loyalty and Motiof non-monetary % 10% 10% 9% vation benefits of overall salaries Number of events Advocacy for concerning SD Sustainable Develwhere SEKEM number n.a. 36 26 N/A opment representatives played an active role Advocacy for Number of awards Sustainable Develrelated to sustainnumber 0 0 0 opment able development received Number of articles Advocacy for in renowned publiSustainable Develcations on SEKEM number 250 307 288 opment and sustainable development per year Number of active Advocacy for membership in Sustainable Develorganizations relenumber 13 13 13 opment vant for sustainable development Number of emNew services available in Medical Health and Safety ployee visits at the number 6,000 6,855 5,663 Center, such as physical therapy and Medical Center pre-mature birth services 43 SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2017 Aspect Indicator Unit Target 2017 2016 EvaluaComment tion Number of other Health and Safety visits at the Medinumber n/a 38,557 38,542 N/A See above cal Center Total Number of Health and Safety Medical Center number n/a 45,412 44,205 N/A visits Share of employHealth and Safety ees with private % 25% 25.19% 26% health insurance Total number of Most employees have free choice and working days lost do not prefer to bear extra cost for Health and Safety due to sick leave number 2000 1,720 2,320 private health insurance at this time of etc. generally difficult economic circumstances Health and Safety Absentee rate % 1.4 1.9 1.8 Total number Health and Safety of work related number 0 4 5 injuries Health and Safety Number of fatal number 0 0 0 injuries 44 SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2017 CULTURAL Life Report Indicators – 2017 Aspect Indicator Unit Target 2017 2016 EvaluaComment tion Training and CaTotal Vocational pacity Building training hours Number 2,354 3,034 4,566 provided Training and CaTotal Soft Skills pacity Building training hours Number 881 589 2,890 provided Total Quality ManTraining and Caagement Systems Number 8,251 8,245 1,361 pacity Building training hours provided Training and CaTotal Cultural/ pacity Building Arts training hours Number 8,624 8,678 6,797 provided Training and CaTotal Equal Oppacity Building portunity training Number 1,000 1,280 80 hours provided Number of stuEducation dents in SEKEM Number 300 297 303 School Number of Education children in SEKEM Number 50 50 47 Kindergarten Number of stuEducation dents in VocationNumber n/a 191 203 N/A al Training Center 45 SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2017 Aspect Indicator Unit Target 2017 2016 EvaluaComment tion Number of stuEducation dents in SEKEM Number 35 37 34 Special Education Education Number of babies Number 38 27 38 SEKEM nursery for babies of SEKEM in SEKEM Nursery employee only Number of stuEducation dents in Heliopolis Number 1,238 1,294 1,075 University Total number of Education SEKEM School Number n/a 254 229 N/A graduates since 1998 Total number of Education VTC graduates Number n/a 975 898 N/A since 2000 Students GraduEducation ated from SEKEMs Number 120 77 64 Vocational Training Center Value share of stuEducation dent scholarships % 20 14 14 at HU from total tuition fees Total number Education of Community Number n/a 1,500 1,492 N/A School children since 1987 Number of stuEducation dents in profesNumber 10 8 8 sional training for eurythmy Total number of Research and funded research Development projects running Number 20 20 19 in the reporting period 46 SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2017 ECOLOGY Report Indicators – 2017 Aspect Indicator Unit Target 2017 2016 EvaluaComment tion Land Use Size of total land feddan 1,628 1,628 1,628 reclaimed Compost Total amount of tons 2,000 1,982 2,250 Reduction in cultivated area at SEKEM compost produced farms Share of seeds Seeds used by SLR from % 100 85 80 own production Number of seed Seeds varieties in own Number 344 344 330 seed bank Share of used Seeds seeds that are % 100% 85% 100% organic and untreated Animal Husbandry Total number of Number 45 39 29 Bulls Animal Husbandry Total number of Number 135 132 135 Dairy Cows Animal Husbandry Total number of Number 16,800 16,720 19,240 Laying hens Animal Husbandry Total number of Number 500 542 463 Sheep 47 SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2017 Aspect Indicator Unit Target 2017 2016 EvaluaComment tion Total number of Animal Husbandry Bees population Number 30 29 35 in hives Animal Husbandry Total number of Number 1,450 1,433 1,500 Pigeons Number of seldom Animal Husbandry birds found space Number n/a 11 11 N/A at SEKEM farms Share of animals All three animal categories (cows/bulls, Animal Husbandry that are kept % 100% 75% 75% sheep, bees) are kept according to Deaccording to Demeter standard. Only chicken are kept meter standards according to organic standard. Total amount Energy of gasoline conLiters 825,080 764,079 730,739 sumption Total amount Energy of gasoline Liters 472,129 423,841 426,229 consumption for equipment Total amount of Energy gasoline consumpLiters 352,951 340,238 304,510 tion for power generation Total electricity Energy consumption from MWh 3,822 2,915 3,506 grid Total electricity 2 PV solar pumping pumping stations Energy consumption from MWh 200 129 120 at Wahat farm cover the main energy renewable sources need for water supply. Total electricity Energy consumption MWh 4,750 3,811 4,436 Conversion factor: 1 Liter diesel = 0.38 (grid, diesel and kwh renewables) Relative amount KWh / Energy of electricity 1,000 10 8 12 consumption per EGP tousand EGP Sales 48 SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2017 Aspect Indicator Unit Target 2017 2016 EvaluaComment tion Emissions Total amount of t Co2e 5,448 4,633 5,008 emissions Relative amount kg Co2e Values for 2017 had to be updated due Emissions of emissions per / 1,000 12 10 13 to more accurate data for employee thousand EGP EGP commuting and diesel consumption Sales for power generation Total amount of ISIS water factory has a lower producWater water usage for m3 47,438 46,143 89,717 tion than last year due to technical company and capacity issues. personal use Total amount of Numbers only refer to SEKEM farms. Water water usage for m3 3,209,612 3,186,521 2,405,438 More water intensive crops or inagricultural use creased area at Sinai and Minya farm. Total amount of water usage for Numbers reflect consumption from Water agricultural use m3 1,081,063 1,115,586 1,304,339 SEKEM Wahat desert farm from fossile water source Share of water usWater age for agricultur% 34% 35% 54% al use from fossile water source Relative amount Litre Water of water usage 1,000/ 101 97 236 Reduction comes through strong defor company and EGP crease in bottled water production personal use Share of waste Water water recycled % 100 100 100 and reused for tree irrigation Amount of Water significant spills Liters 0 0 0 in liters or other impact on water 49 Issuer/Publisher SEKEM Holding for Investments Company S.A.E. Responsible for Content Helmy Abouleish, Chief Executive Officer, SEKEM Group Consultancy Services & Scientific Guidance Quality & Compliance Manager, SEKEM Group Data Collection & Evaluation: Maximilian Abouleish-Boes, Chief Sustainable Development Officer, SEKEM Group Text: Noha Hussein, PR & Communication, SEKEM Group Christine Arlt, PR & Communication, SEKEM Group Design & Realization: Noha Hussein, Public Relation Manager, SEKEM Group Thomas Abouleish, Chief Relations Officer, SEKEM Group Printing This report is published digitally and will be printed only on demand in order to save paper. Please consider the environment before printing this report. Publication Date 12th of August, 2018 Contact SEKEM Group 3, Cairo-Belbeis Desert Road, El-Salam City. P.O. Box: 2834 El-Horreya, 11361 Cairo, Egypt Tel.: (+20) 2 265 88 124/5 Fax: (+20) 2 265 88 123 Hotline: 19792 Mail us: cs@sekem.com Visit us: www.sekem.com Join us: www.facebook.com/sekemgroup Follow us: twitter.com/sekemgroup Watch us: www.youtube.com/sekeminitiative Subscribe to our newsletter: www.sekem.com/subscribe
