Benetton Group Integrated Report 2018 Benetton Group Integrated Report 2018 Contents Letter from the Chairman 7 Highlights 2018 9 Benetton Group profile 15 Our values 18 Our history 20 Governance 22 Business Model 29 The Group’s initiatives 32 Risk management 36 Our brands 39 United Colors of Benetton 42 The store in Oxford Street 44 Sisley 46 A design company 49 Product research 52 Dress Safe 53 Digital innovation 54 Priority to ideas 55 Fabrica Circus 58 A people company 61 Human resources 64 Mittelmoda International Lab 74 Human rights 75 The new faces of an Italy that studies and works 80 A green company 83 Sustainable materials 86 Management of environmental impact 88 Detox Commitment 89 Towards a circular economy 94 B-Care 95 A numbers company 97 Financial capital 100 Production capital 102 Appendix 105 Methodological notes 106 GRI content index 112 Independent Auditors’ report 121 Letter from the Chairman Dear Stakeholders, 2018 saw the first encouraging results of the development project we implemented and Benetton Group has gathered new momentum. However, 2018 was also a year of great pain and major losses. Gilberto and Carlo passed away, two of our most cherished people, who contributed to the foundation and success of our brands. Although with heavy hearts, we looked ahead with respect for those who believe in the Company, starting from the 7 500 workers in Italy, Europe and the rest of the world, who are doing an excellent job, and it is our firm intention to involve and engage them more and more. The relaunch of Benetton Group aims to bring the Company back to creating value in order to ensure a solid and profitable future. But our future is rooted in the legacy of our extraordinary history, made of ideas, innovations and unique values that we are repossessing. We aim to be competitive again, in a market where we have been undisputed pioneers. Thanks to a new creative director, we have recovered the style elements that are part of our DNA and make our 7 | Letter from the Chiarman garments immediately recognizable all over the world: color and knitwear. And, with them, we have recovered the drive and the determination to experiment with new styles, materials and techniques. Our challenge is twofold. On one hand, we intend to offer genuinely Benetton products, i.e. at the best price with quality, which we intend to further improve, enhancing our production in the Mediterranean area. In this way, we will 6 | Chi siamo also attain greater efficiency and faster procurement. On the other hand, our stores must return to being synonymous of color, light and knitwear, offering consumers a purchase experience that also integrates digital technology. A clear and well-defined vision that we will implement in Italy and abroad, thanks to a massive program of new openings which is already in an advanced roll-out phase. For some time, Benetton Group risked thinking small, seconding the choices made by other mass market brands. Today that time is past; the Company has begun to dream big again and color the world. It is our firm determination to continue doing so. Luciano Benetton Chairman Benetton Group Highlights 8 | Chi siamo 2018 1230 mln of € of net sales 85 markets 10 | Highlights 2018 11 | Highlights 2018 4 718 stores 25 101 mln garments produced* online markets * Data includes local production of Benetton India Pvt. Ltd. and Benetton Korea Inc. 70% of employees 74% 26% involved in training Employees initiatives 7 510 Banca Ore Etica Green Campus: 2 800 hours -5% electric energy 12 | Highlights 2018 13 | Highlights 2018 consumption, 27.7% -10% natural gas consumption sustainable cotton 87% of segregated and recycled waste Product safety tests >43 000 CSR audits 2016-18: 935 Benetton Group profile Since its establishment in 1965, Benetton Group has grown to become one of the world’s best-known apparel companies. Color has definitely been always its distinctive element and the merit is not only of a kaleidoscopic style that has left its mark in the history of fashion, but also of an approach that is attentive to the dignity of people and to the transformations of society. Style, affordable quality, internationality and social commitment are the values that define the Group’s identity, globally present with over 4 700 stores in the main markets and two brands, United Colors of Benetton and Sisley. Faced with the challenges posed by globalization, Benetton Group has not stood 14 | Chi siamo by and has, in fact, made targeted investments and developed its business model, with the aim of increasing processes speed and facilitating channels control. Our history Our values • Color • Quality • Freedom of expression • Social commitment • Internationality • Culture Governance 16 | Benetton Group profile 17 | Benetton Group profile Risks • Board of Directors • Investment Committee management • Control and Risk Committee • Human Resources and Remuneration Committee • Strategic risks • Organizational Model pursuant • Executive risks to Italian Legislative Decree 231/2001 • Financial risks • GDPR • Legal/compliance risks • Sustainability Committee • External risks • Benetton Group companies in the world The Group’s Business initiatives Model • The Group’s projects • Value generated by Benetton Group Our values Social commitment Producing apparel is not enough. As key player in a continuously evolving scenario, Benetton Group considers it necessary to act concretely in order to remedy social injustice, by ensuring respect for human rights and promoting the development of individuals and the community. Color The first thing that comes to mind when thinking of Internationality the Benetton Group is color, in all of its expressions. Benetton Group has always thought globally and not The colorful knits that have revolutionized the world only in relation to business. Our vision is that of a of fashion are a metaphor for a playful and positive world in which ethnic, cultural and religious differences approach to life, celebrating our Italian origins. are overcome in the name of global citizenship. Quality Culture Benetton Group is constantly committed to striving Since the beginning, Benetton Group has opened for the highest level of quality in all of its products, a dialogue with some of the most prominent processes and services. This approach is part of international figures in the world of culture to bring to the Group’s tradition and is reflected in all of the 18 | Benetton Group profile 19 | Benetton Group profile the Company new tools to understand and interpret Company’s activities, thanks to the passion and the contemporary world. Because knowledge is crucial dedication of all our employees. for the success of any enterprise. Freedom of expression Benetton Group is outspoken. We are convinced that our society can only evolve if people are provided with the right tools and allowed to express their opinions freely. This will result in more ideas, greater dialogue and more tolerance, also vis-à-vis those who see things differently. Our history 1955 Luciano and Giuliana 1962 Benetton starts producing 1965 Benetton Group was 1966 Opening of the Group’s 1969 Opening of the store on 1971 Registration of the 012 Benetton have the knits in neutral colors founded. In the same first store in Belluno. Boulevard St. Germain, brand and development intuition to develop and dyeing them based on year, the factory Paris. It is the first store of the first jacquard and and sell a colorful, the orders received. First designed by architects outside Italy. diamond patterned knits. yellow knit, a brand new development of garment Afra and Tobia Scarpa product in those days. dyed production. was inaugurated in Ponzano, in the province of Treviso. 1974 Sisley enters the Group’s 1978 Group exports reach 60% 1983 The Group enters Formula 1 1985 Benetton ad campaigns 1986 The Group is listed on the 1987 Fondazione Benetton brand portfolio. of production. as sponsor of the Tyrrel by Oliviero Toscani win Milan Stock Exchange, Studi e Ricerche is team. Three years later, the Grand Prix de la followed by the listing established, along with the after the acquisition of Publicité in France. This on the Frankfurt Stock Carlo Scarpa International Toleman, the Benetton is the first of a series of Exchange in 1988 and New Award for the Garden. Formula Limited racing awards that, together with York Stock Exchange in team wins two drivers’ and criticism and censorships, 1989. one constructors’ world fuel debate in many championships. In 2000, the countries around the team is acquired by Renault. world. 20 | Benetton Group profile 21 | Benetton Group profile 1989 Development of the iconic 1991 Development of the Colors 1994 Fabrica, Benetton Group’s 1995 Development of the 2006 Benetton Group celebrates 2007 Development of the green United Colors of magazine distributed in 40 Communications Research Undercolors brand. its 40th anniversary with an Ponzano Children Benetton logo. countries and translated in Centre, is founded. exhibition and a show at the Center for the children four languages. Pompidou Centre in Paris. of Benetton Group employees and for the children of the families of the surrounding area. 2012 Benetton Group delists 2013 Benetton Group is 2014 The Group is reorganized 2015 The partial demerger 2016 In April, Benetton Group 2017 Luciano Benetton appoints from the Milan Stock recognized by Greenpeace into three separate entities: of Benetton Group S.r.l. S.r.l. acquires full control Oliviero Toscani as Creative Exchange, after also for its commitment one directly focused on is accomplished after of Benetton Korea Inc. Director. delisting from those of to environmental the brands, one dedicated completion of the refocus Frankfurt and New York. sustainability. to manufacturing and one and relaunch plan. engaged in real estate management. 2018 Luciano Benetton appoints Jean-Charles de Castelbajac as Artistic Director of the menswear and womenswear collections for the United Colors of Benetton brand. Governance Governance C Chairman SA Standing Auditor Executive (1) General Counsel AA Alternate Auditor Non-Executive (2) Head of Governance Independent Overview of the Company’s Governance as of May 6, 2019. Composition of corporate bodies at May 6, 2019 Internal Audit C Chairman SA Standing Auditor Executive Member (1) General Counsel AA Alternate Auditor Non-Executive (2) Head of Independent Board of Directors Office Investment ControlAudit Internal Human Resources Monitoring Member Body of Benetton S.r.l. Committee and Risk and Remuneration (D.Lgs. 231/2001) Committee Committee Board of Directors Office Investment Control Human Resources Monitoring Body of Benetton S.r.l. C Committee and Risk and Remuneration (D.Lgs. 231/2001) Committee Committee Benetton S.r.l. (Single shareholder) C Benetton S.r.l. (Single shareholder) Independent Board of Statutory C Auditors Auditors Ernst & Young S.p.A. Independent Board of Statutory C Auditors Auditors C C Ernst & Young S.p.A. C C C Investment Human Resources C Committee and Remuneration Investment HumanCommittee Resources Committee Board and Remuneration 22 | Benetton Group profile 23 | Benetton Group profile Committee Board of Statutory Auditors of Directors Board Board of Statutory Auditors C of Directors SA C Control SA and Risk SA Committee AA Control SA and Risk AA Committee AA AA BoD breakdown by age Independent Board of Statutory BoD breakdown by age Auditors Auditors 1 Ernst & Young S.p.A. Independent Benetton Group S.r.l. Board of Statutory <50 Auditors Auditors 1 51-60 Ernst & Young S.p.A. Benetton Group S.r.l. <50 >70 51-60 Monitoring Body 2 4 >70 Monitoring Body 2 4 Functions: Consultive Due diligence Board Sustainability Functions: Proposals Assistance of Directors Committee Consultive Due diligence Board Sustainability Proposals Assistance of Directors Committee Board of Directors system of internal controls, which it oversees; s trategic development of human resources supporting the work of the CSR Director; The Board of Directors is responsible for managing • to provide the Board of Directors with indications and recruitment and appointment of senior • s tandardizing all sustainability activities; operations. Among other things, it examines and and information on compliance with corporate managers of the Company and the Group. • promoting dialogue with internal and external approves: governance rules; stakeholders on sustainability issues; • the guidelines for the Group’s operations; • to assess, together with the Chief Financial Officer Organizational Model pursuant to • examining and periodically reviewing corporate • the proposals concerning organization and corporate and the Independent Auditors, the adequacy of the Italian Legislative Decree 231/2001 sustainability implementation tools – starting governance; accounting standards adopted and their consistency The current Organization, Management and Control with the Code of Conduct for Manufacturers • the general guidelines regarding the management for the purposes of preparing consolidated financial Model adopted by resolution of the Board of and its implementation procedures – also in light of human resources; statements; Directors on March 1, 2016, to replace the one of possible risks related to Company and brand • the proposal for the re-organization • to verify, with the assistance of the Head of Internal approved in 2008, is composed of a general part reputation; of the Company’s structure; Audit, the process that generates the financial and numerous special parts. • providing the Board of Directors with a constant • the result of operations; reporting data; The Code of Ethics approved by the Company is flow of information and indications regarding the • the extraordinary corporate actions; • to monitor the effectiveness of the auditing process treated as an integral part of the Model. Under application of the corporate sustainability strategy • the annual budgets and quarterly, half-yearly and assess the results published in the Independent its Code of Ethics, the Group has adopted the and its tools; and annual financial results. Auditors’ report and the opinion letter; International Labor Standards (ILS) contained in the • overseeing activities related to integrated reporting • to receive the annual report from the Head of fundamental conventions of the International Labor and the disclosure of KPIs and relevant information Investment Committee Internal Audit on the application of the “Organization Organization (ILO). on environmental and social issues. The Investment Committee serves in a due diligence, and Management Model”, pursuant to Italian 24 | Benetton Group profile 25 | Benetton Group profile advisory and/or recommendation-making capacity in Legislative Decree 231/2001, which was adopted by GDPR The Committee members are listed here below: support of the Board of Directors with regard to: the Company and also includes the Code of Ethics, In 2018, with the enforcement of the European Tommaso Brusò Chief Operating Officer • specific investment projects, assessing their and to evaluate whether to present the Board of General Data Protection Regulation 2016/679 (known Ugo Giorcelli Chief Staff Officer consistency with the Group’s strategic guidelines, Directors with recommendations for updating and/or as GDPR), the Company set up a new Privacy function, Gianni Moscatelli Human Resource & Organization their profitability targets and financial sustainability; amending such model and its method of application; headed by Mauro Menardo as Data Protection Officer, Officer • Company procedures regarding investments and • to assess and express an opinion in advance and assisted by a multidisciplinary team. Andrea Piras Product, Sourcing & Operations Officer significant transactions. as necessary requirement prior to confirming the Roberto Taiariol Internal Audit & CSR Officer In general, the Committee monitors the appointment, on all auditing and non-auditing services The new function, responsible for personal data Carlo Tunioli CEO Fabrica implementation of the approved investment programs provided by the Independent Auditors; monitoring, assessment and processing, enables by monitoring their execution in terms of costs • to assess and verify the independence of the Benetton Group S.r.l. to ensure its employees, incurred and actual return on investment (post-audit), Independent Auditors. consumers and, in general, stakeholders correct analyzing the main criticalities. personal data protection in the performance of their Human Resources and Remuneration activities, so that data is always processed in compliance Control and Risk Committee Committee with the applicable national and European regulations in The Control and Risk Committee, whose members The Human Resources and Remuneration the matter. have suitable experience in accounting and ﬁnance, Committee serves in a due diligence, advisory and/or has the following main tasks: recommendation-making capacity in support of the Sustainability Committee • to assist the Board of Directors in defining the Board of Directors and in particular: The Sustainability Committee – set up by Board guidelines of the internal controls and in determining • it submits proposals on the overall remuneration of Directors in 2015 – deﬁnes and oversees Benetton the criteria for deciding whether the risks faced by of the Chairman, directors and senior managers Group’s sustainability strategy. The establishment the Company and its subsidiaries are compatible of the Company and the Group; of this Committee is further evidence of the with good and sound management practices. At • it examines performance targets and incentive plans Company’s commitment, at all levels, to becoming the request of the Executive Chairman, it expresses for employees of the Company and the Group; an agent of social change through its initiatives. opinions on specific issues concerning the • it evaluates proposals regarding: composition criteria The objectives of Benetton Group’s Sustainability identification of the principal business risks; and skills profiles of the managers identified Committee include: • to assist the Board of Directors in evaluating the a s components of management and control bodies • promoting the effective and continuous integration adequacy, efficacy and effective functioning of the in strategically important subsidiaries; policies for the of sustainability initiatives into business activities and Benetton Group companies in the world Benetton Group S.r.l. Ponzano Veneto (Treviso Italy) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% IT RETAIL ITALIA NETWORK S.r.l. CH BEN-MODE A.G. PT BENETTON 2 RETAIL COMÉRCIO TN BENETTON DE COMMERCE TW BENETTON TRADING TAIWAN Ltd. US BENETTON TRADING USA Inc. Milan (Italy) Zurich (Switzerland) DE PRODUTOS TÊXTEIS S.A. INTERNATIONAL TUNISIE S.à r.l. Taipei (Taiwan) Somerset (USA) Porto (Portugal) Sahline (Tunisia) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% IT BENETTON SERVIZI S.r.l. DE BENETTON RETAIL PL BENETTON RETAIL POLAND Sp. z o.o. TN BENETTON COMMERCIALE JP BENETTON JAPAN Co. Ltd. MX BENETTON MEXICANA S.A. de C.V. Ponzano Veneto (Italy) DEUTSCHLAND GmbH Warsaw (Poland) TUNISIE S.à r.l. Tokyo (Japan) Mexico City (Mexico) Frankfurt am Main (Germany) Sousse (Tunisia) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% IT FABRICA S.r.l. DK BENETTON DENMARK A.p.S. GR BENETTON HELLAS AGENCY IN BENETTON INDIA Pvt. Ltd. KR BENETTON KOREA Inc. MX BENETTON SERVICES S.A. de C.V. Ponzano Veneto (Italy) Copenhagen (Denmark) OF CLOTHING E.P.E. Gurgaon (India) Seoul (South Korea) Mexico City (Mexico) Tavros (Greece) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% IT PONZANO CHILDREN S.r.l. IE BENETTON AGENCY IRELAND Ltd. TR BENETTON GIYIM SANAYI CN BENETTON ASIA PACIFIC Ltd. RU BENETTON RUSSIA O.O.O. MX BENETTON SERVICES II S.A. de C.V. Ponzano Veneto (Italy) Dublin (Ireland) VE TICARET A.S. Hong Kong (China) Moscow (Russia) Mexico City (Mexico) Istanbul (Turkey) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% IT VILLA MINELLI FR BENETTON FRANCE IR BENETTON PARS P.J.S.C. CN SHANGHAI BENETTON TRADING RU KAZAN REAL ESTATE O.O.O. SOCIETÀ AGRICOLA a r.l. COMMERCIAL S.A.S. Tehran (Iran) COMPANY Ltd. Moscow (Russia) Ponzano Veneto (Italy) Paris (France) Shanghai (China) SUBSIDIARIES UK BENETTON RETAIL UK BE BENETTON GROUP S.R.L. ES BENETTON RETAIL AT BENETTON GROUP S.R.L. SI BENETTON GROUP S.R.L. London (United Kingdom) BELGIUM BRANCH SUCURSAL EN ESPAÑA ZWEIGNIEDERLASSUNG ÖSTERREICH PODRUZNICA LJUBLJANA 26 | Benetton Group profile 27 | Benetton Group profile Brussels (Belgium) Barcelona (Spain) Vienna (Austria) Ljubljana (Slovenia) FI BENETTON GROUP S.R.L. IE BENETTON GROUP S.R.L. FR BENETTON GROUP S.R.L. PT BENETTON GROUP S.R.L. CZ BENETTON GROUP S.R.L. HR BENETTON GROUP S.R.L. FINNISH BRANCH IRISH BRANCH SUCCURSALE EN FRANCE SUCURSAL EM PORTUGAL CZECH BRANCH ODŠTĚPNÝ ZÁVOD PODRUŽNICA ZAGREB Azets (Finland) Dublin (Ireland) Paris (France) Porto (Portugal) Praha (Czech Republic) Zagreb (Croatia) SE BENETTON GROUP S.R.L. ITALY NL BENETTON GROUP S.R.L. MC BENETTON GROUP S.R.L. DE BENETTON GROUP S.R.L. HU BENETTON GROUP S.R.L. HUNGARIAN IR BENETTON GROUP S.R.L. SWEDISH FILIAL DUTCH BRANCH SUCCURSALE A MONACO GERMAN BRANCH BRANCH MAGYARORSZÁGI FIÓKTELEPE FOREIGN BRANCH OFFICE Malmö (Sweden) Breda (The Netherlands) Principauté de Monaco Frankfurt am Main (Germany) Budapest (Hungary) Tehran (Iran) SE FI IE IE UK DK RU BE NL PL DE DE CZ FR HU PT PT FR MC CHAT SI HR KR ES IT US MC GR TR CN JP TN IR IR TW IN Italy MX Rest of Europe Rest of the world Business Model Product » Research & development » Design » Sourcing » Production We consolidated efforts in research and development of new materials and treatments, making a decisive impact on the United Colors of Benetton collections with the involvement of a new artistic director. Brand » United Colors of Benetton » Sisley We continued strengthening the positioning of our brands. United Colors of Benetton further focused on innovation, quality and sustainability, while Sisley consolidated its strong and contemporary identity to move into the Bridge Premium segment of the market. Store » Research & development » Design » Implementation We continued the implementation of Sisley’s Rich&Raw store model. In 2018, we implemented a new store concept for United Colors of Benetton focused on knitwear and brand experience fostering integration between the online and offline channels. 29 | Benetton Group profile Logistics » Inbound/Outbound model 28 | Chi siamo We continued our commitment to ensuring logistic services with a lower environmental impact and almost personalized on sales needs through the implementation of solutions such as intermodal transportation, automatic re-sorting, prompt product-to-store allocation and reverse logistics. Distribution » Indirect channel (IOS+FOS) » Direct channel (DOS) » e-commerce @ We implemented an omnichannel approach that will be further developed in the upcoming years, involving end consumers in a global experience, which will eliminate the boundaries between offline and online distribution channels. Purchases » Experience We focused on omnichannel distribution and on the reputation of our brands to create increasingly engaging and comprehensive purchase experiences for our customers. Customers We consolidated our existing target and we developed communication lines and campaigns for United Colors of Benetton to reach out to the millennials target. IlValue valore generato generated To carry out its business activities, Benetton Group transforms a series of tangible and intangible resources da Benetton Group (capital), which it accesses directly (through ownership) or indirectly (through trade relations, partnerships by Benetton Group purchases), into outputs. The result of transforming resources into outputs is the generation of positive and negative outcomes that can create and/or consume value. Input Guidelines Business Model Output 2018 Outcome Social and relational Social and relational Capital Capital (Brand value) (Brand value) • Long-term relationships with • Two awards received at ET NOW CSR Leadership the main stakeholders Awards for the AAROHI project (February 2018) • Collaborating with the main local and global • United by Light project: 2 000 free eyesight institutions and organizations Innovation checks and 200 free cataract surgery for elderly (UN, ILO, Accord, etc.) women living in Indian rural areas • Strong identity values + Company reputation Human Human Capital Capital • Creation of Banca Ore Etica • Promoting and developing people • Consolidating and expanding strong skills uct • Mittelmoda fashion show at Castrette Studios for the creation of quality and innovative • Act-In Class project in collaboration with Padua clothing Prod Università degli Studi • Commercial partnerships for production d and distribution an + Attention to people Br and opening to new generations Sustainable business operations 30 | Benetton Group profile 31 | Benetton Group profile e Production r Sto Customer centricity Capital Production • Global sourcing experience integrating Capital Our people physical sales points and online channels • Widespread network of direct and • +36% of restructured sales points indirect stores • Integrated management of all phases Logistics + Value of Company assets of the production cycle Financial Dis Capital trib • Economic value generated: Euro 1 305 million Financial uti • Economic value distributed: Euro 1 335 million Capital on • Constantly investing financial resources + Distribution of economic value to stakeholders to expand the Company’s assets Pu r Cust ch Natural ase Capital ome • Greenpeace confirmed Benetton Group Natural among detox leaders for clothing industry • 23% of BCI cotton Capital rs • New concept store in London with natural • Using natural resources in a responsible way materials furnitures and ecological linings • B-care: guide to garment maintenance Negative environment impacts Digital Intellectual transformation Capital Intellectual • Designing attractive and recognizable Capital collections • Hygroscopic fleece • Effective Company processes through • Fabrica Circus continued focus on innovation and results • Benetton archive opening to public • Research projects supporting the Company in updating its tools and anticipating + Product innovation and consumer changes state-of-the-art in communication External environment External environment The Group’s initiatives Benetton and the Sustainable Development Goals In September 2015, the United Nations approved the 2030 Global Agenda for Sustainable Development and Benetton Group has decided to do its part to achieve these goals. In setting out its charter of commitments its 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The implementation of this agenda requires nations, industries, for the coming years, the Group chose to associate its actions with the SDGs closest to its core business and businesses, ﬁnancial institutions, NGOs and civil society to redirect their programs and plans towards these goals. strategic action area. SDG 5 – Gender equality Gender equality is a necessary step for creating a peaceful, prosperous and more sustainable world for everyone. For this reason, Benetton Group has launched projects and initiatives designed to support the emancipation and legitimization of women around the world. SDG 8 – Decent work and economic growth Benetton Group aims to reach higher economic productivity standards through diversification and technological progress, relying on development policies that support production activities, creativity and innovation by promoting a healthy and safe working environment for all workers. 32 | Benetton Group profile 33 | Benetton Group profile SDG 12 – Responsible consumption and production Benetton Group leads the way in the global commitment to the elimination of the use of dangerous chemicals throughout the textile sector by 2020. The Company also implements policies for the sustainable management and the efﬁcient use of resources and energy, as well as for the reduction of waste, also through recycling and reuse, where possible. SDG 13 – Climate action The Group’s contribution to combating climate change involves the implementation of initiatives to reduce energy consumption and climate-altering gas emissions, as well as reducing the environmental impact connected with its logistics activities and the distribution of its products. SDG 17 – Partnership for the goals A successful Sustainable Development Agenda requires partnerships built upon principles and values, a shared vision, and shared goals that put people and the planet first. Benetton Group also works towards this goal, developing partnerships that can contribute to the achievement of the sustainable development goals. The Group’s Capitale Naturale projects Capitale Intelletuale Capitale Produttivo Capitale Umano Capitale Sociale A design A people A green company 1 2 company Capitale Finanziario company Sustainable materials Product Research Benetton for You 37. Sustainable cotton 1. Dress Safe 7. Banca Ore Etica 38. Responsible Down Standard 7 2. Product safety tests 8. Stretch your Time 39. Ban on fur 9. Stretch your Space 3 8 52 Digital Innovation 10. Nice to Meet You Management of environmental 47 3. Benetton.com 11. English for You impacts 49 4. Omnichannel 12. Welcome Back, Mom 10 40. Participation in Detox Program 48 53 5. Content Factory 41. Participation in Sustainable 4 9 Training and professional growth 51 5 50 6 11 6. RFID technology Apparel Coalition 46 13. People Management in Colors 42. CO2 emission reduction in logistics 44 12 14. Self Efficacy in Colors 45 43. Saturation of transportation means 15. Ad hoc specialist training 44. Reduction of packaging 43 16. Office training 45. CO2 emission reduction in the 13 17. Language training stores and HQ 14 18. Benetton on Boarding (BOB) 46. Reduction in energy consumption 42 19. Green Camp 47. Use of Green Energy 41 15 20. Benetton Engagement 48. Improvement in Data Center 34 | Benetton Group profile 35 | Benetton Group profile 16 and Store Training (BEST) energy efficiency 40 21. UP Strategy 49. Waste management 22. Omnichannel training 39 17 23. Selling in Colors Towards circular economy 37 19 24. We Love Sisley Journey 50. Rationalization of collections 38 18 25. Kick FOS 51. B Long 52. Mineral Dye 34 22 Reward 53. Denim treatment 36 23 20 26. Incentive plan 24 35 21 29 Zero Injury Target 27. Zero Injury Target Plan 33 32 Human Rights 31 25 30 27 26 28. CSR Audit Plan 28 29. E xtension of the CSR Audit Plan to Korea 30. Accord on Fire and Building Safety fully implemented 31. Aarohi Social and relational Financial implemented 32. Nanhi Kali capital (Brand value) capital started 33. Sakhi a regime 34. United by Light Human Natural in corso 35. Clothes for a Cause capital avviata capital 36. India POSH: Policy on Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Workplace Production Intellectual capital capital Risk management Benetton Group focuses the utmost attention on risk control and believes it is fundamental to assess, both risks connected with exchange rates, interest rates, means it is exposed to various tax obligations. The beforehand and on an ongoing basis, the level of risk associated with strategic objectives for the creation of counterparties and liquidity risk. The most keenly felt evolution of related regulations may expose the Group sustainable value. risk is that relative to foreign exchange transactions to the risk of default. as the Group presents significant sales volumes In 2016, a new Risk Assessment process was carried out to identify and manage internal and external risks, as well denominated in Euro and considerable purchase Control model as to identify corrective actions in order to lower the residual risk level to values regarded as acceptable. volumes denominated in US dollars. Delays in the development and roll-out of the new Control Model in the Group’s subsidiaries could result Strategic risks fraudulent conduct; legal risks; inappropriate conduct Legal/compliance risks in the inconsistency and/or unavailability of data to These are risks that could threaten the Company’s with customers and suppliers that could compromise Compliance risk is the risk deriving from the failure to support decision-making processes. current competitive position and the pursuit of its the ability to meet strategic objectives. comply with laws, regulations and internal rules. This strategic objectives. can result in negative effects connected with ﬁnes, External risks Business organization penalties, economic losses and, in more serious cases, These risks concern the effects of external events that Brand strategy The staff’s resistance to change could limit or slow damage to the Company reputation with subsequent may impact negatively on the Group’s activities. Risks connected with the United Colors of Benetton down the business transformation process taking place losses, requests for compensation, damage to the brand repositioning strategy. Incorrect timing and in the Company. Other risks include the development Company image, etc. Social and political instability of some nations development could result in losing current consumers of inadequate organizational structures and the inability Delays in the regular delivery of ﬁnished goods due prior to acquiring new customers. to attract and retain key, talented people. Company procedures to political instability in some of the countries where The possible inadequacy of Company procedures the Company’s suppliers are located. 36 | Benetton Group profile 37 | Benetton Group profile Distribution channels Product and product quality designed to guarantee respect for the main Italian and Risks deriving from the failure to meet new store The Group’s inability to identify the tastes of international regulations to which the Group is subject. Climate variations opening goals as well as the uncontrolled growth of consumers and offer them products that satisfy Also of particular relevance are problems connected The Group’s business is to some extent sensitive to the online market (e-tailers in particular), which may their needs in terms of quality (considering the with security, antitrust and privacy regulations. the weather. For example, an excessively mild winter create conﬂicts with the Company’s other strategic characteristics of the fabrics and materials used may lead to lower sales of higher-margin products, objectives, with potential negative effects also on and the fit). Fiscal compliance with a negative effect on the Company’s economic brand positioning. The Group’s presence on the international panorama results and ﬁnancial position. Time-to-market Supply chain An overly long time-to-market may prevent the The ability of the supply chain to respect the delivery Company from quickly following market trends with times of ﬁnished products established by the business subsequent loss of sales opportunities. calendar (included in the broader concept-to-shelf program) can impact global margins. Business interruption of the logistic platform Natural disasters may result in business interruption Country strategy and market presence of the logistic platform of Castrette, the hub handling in India and Korea most of the distribution flows. The entry of international brands in the Indian and Korean markets, which are very important to Benetton, Corporate Social Responsibility requires the delicate transition of the content of the The inappropriate management of Corporate Social United Colors of Benetton brand collection towards Responsibility issues could cause serious reputational more global styles compared with the current ones, damage. which have a strong local inﬂuence. Financial risks Executive risks This is the risk category most immediately perceived The risks of losses inherent in the Company’s by businesses, also thanks to the implementation of operations, deriving from: human error; the incorrect the International Accounting Standard (IAS) and the functioning of the organization; internal processes and requests for additional disclosures in ﬁnancial reports the use of systems; unlawful behavior connected with deriving from national civil law. Financial risks include Our brands United Colors of Benetton and Sisley are the two brands of the Benetton Group. United Colors of Benetton is the brand of color and knitwear. A perfect combination of Italian creativity and global research, it offers quality garments for the whole family. Sisley is a brand with a strong contemporary aesthetics that makes it immediately recognizable and appreciated. Together, United Colors of Benetton and Sisley contribute to consolidating an idea of style, passion and quality that is perfectly integrated and includes the definition of strategies, the management of the entire design cycle, product production and distribution, sales network coordination and external relations. 38 | Chi siamo United Colors of Benetton • Collections • Stores • Experience • Undercolors • Focus: The store in Oxford Street 40 | Our brands 41 | Our brands Sisley • Collections • Stores • Experience United Colors of Benetton United Colors of Benetton is the lifestyle brand that celebrates freedom of expression, bringing joy Stores and happiness to people. True to its DNA composed of knits and colors, United Colors of Benetton The majority of the United Colors of Benetton stores In 2019 the London concept designs and renews Italian casualwear. follow the On Canvas concept. Welcoming, functional store will also be opened in and dynamic, On Canvas is inspired by the knitting Düsseldorf, Zagreb, Barcelona Today, its target consumers are adult men and women, and boys and girls aged from 0 to 12, yet the colorful loom and features a solid, yet invisible structure upon and New Delhi. United Colors of Benetton knits are a synonym of optimism, diversity and creativity for consumers of every which seasons, collections, colors and materials are In the meantime, the concept age bracket as demonstrated by the level of popularity of the brand all over the world. developed. will be further developed to make it more sustainable, with The kids’ collections make for over 40% of United Colors of Benetton total sales. They are designed by In 2018, the Group presented a new store concept in advanced systems, fabrics a dedicated creative team and presented to the commercial network through specific events. London and replicated it also in Padua and Turin later with innovative features and on. Developed to be a true temple of knitwear, the materials that make end-of-life The objective for the future years is to regain our leadership in Italian-style knitwear and casualwear, retaining London concept store combines Italian-style interior recycling possible. our consumer targets while trying to attract new consumers, namely men and women in the 25-35 age bracket. design, high-tech content, attention to sustainable materials and a focus on the consumer’s shopping Collections trousers, jackets and outerwear. In addition, a broad experience. United Colors of Benetton collections feature range of accessories are offered: handbags, shoes, In September 2018, we also presented a capsule In 2019 we will develop colorful, comfortable, informal, high quality and sunglasses, watches, fragrances and luggage. collection in a retail corner at Selfridges in London, a new store concept – called timeless garments for everyday use, suitable for work, the most famous fashion and luxury department store Light – that will facilitate school and leisure time. In 2018, the structure of the collections was updated in the UK. This step is part of a distribution strategy the development of the indirect by adding a premium level composed of highly that will bring the premium level of the United Colors network. The first Light store United Colors of Benetton key items are knits, polo experimental garments and higher price pieces to of Benetton collections to the world’s most renowned will open in Tirana, Albania. 42 | Our brands 43 | Our brands shirts, t-shirts and sweaters, but the collections also the traditional range of basic and fashion items. department stores, starting with Tokyo, Hong Kong, include shirts, jeans, dresses, knit accessories, skirts, Paris and Los Angeles. Undercolors Experience Undercolors of Benetton is Benetton Group’s brand Celebrating diversity, eliminating barriers, fighting translating the colorful, positive and casual personality Structure of 2019 autumn | winter collection against stereotypes, promoting tolerance and of United Colors of Benetton on all product freedom of thought and expression. Those entering categories that are worn in direct contact with the skin. the universe of United Colors of Benetton do it not only for the colors and the quality of the garments, Developed in 1995 to penetrate the Italian market Premium collection but also to share an entire set of recognized values, of underwear, pyjamas, beachwear and coordinated Fashion communicated by a consistent and immediately accessories, Undercolors products are today recognizable brand. characterized by comfort and the quality of the Collection Fashion materials and finish treatments. In 2018, we also launched a series of initiatives and projects designed to establish strong and long lasting Today, 60% of the total sales generated by Benetton relations with hundreds of millions of consumers the Undercolors are made up by the over 300 specialist world over. These were communication campaigns, monobrand stores and 40% by the retail corners in-store initiatives and ongoing dialogue on our inside the main United Colors of Benetton stores in Fashion social media, the preferred channel of today’s and Italy and in Europe. tomorrow’s consumer experience. In 2019 the retail distribution Basic channel will exceed 50% of total turnover for the first time. The store in Oxford Street On March 15, 2018, the Group opened a new Benetton store in London. Located on the east side of Oxford Street, close to the new Elizabeth Line underground station on Tottenham Court Road, the store is part of an evolving area that is set to become a key commercial hub in the city. On the street, a twelve-meter-high counter-façade of arches recalls classical architecture, while the innovative lining of LED screens projects interactive contents designed by Fabrica. Once inside, people are free to explore a total area of 1 500 square meters – furnished 44 | Focus Chi siamo 45 | Chi siamo with natural materials such as wood, iron and stone – that goes beyond the traditional store concept to offer a total brand experience. There is a knitwear lab, where dedicated staff presents the universe of Benetton knitwear. A lounge, where customers can relax and read books and design magazines. A series of touch tables that customers can use to interact with the entire collection and view the most significant content of the brand. Consumers can walk freely through the three floors – dedicated to menswear, womenswear and kidswear – connected by a flight of stairs that unfolds like a ribbon through the floors of the store ending up with a series of cash counters, replacing the traditional ones. The new Oxford Street store is Benetton’s outpost in the UK – a market where the brand already has 55 stores and plans to expand its reach – and an important step in the implementation of the omnichannel strategy, which integrates physical store and online shopping. Sisley Sisley is a sexy and contemporary clothing brand that creatively interprets the latest fashion trends. Founded in the ‘60s as a denim brand for women, Sisley was acquired by Benetton Group in 1974 and evolved further over the years. Since 2014, the brand repositioned as an urban lifestyle brand in the bridge market segment. Today, the brand’s target of reference is characterized by urban and dynamic lifestyles. The woman is modern and sensual, the man ambitious and hedonist. Both like to explore contemporary styles. The objective is to increase the perceived quality of the product and continue the repositioning of the brand in the bridge market segment, which proved positive in the last years thanks to a growing niche of more demanding consumers searching for fashion products at affordable prices. Collections Today, Sisley has approximately 700 stores distributed Sisley’s men and women’s collections reflect the latest in the main global markets. In 2018, 15 Rich&Raw stores trends and contents of global fashion and represent were opened in Italy, five in Korea, eight in France, six in not only a look, but also a search for a strong and Turkey and two in Russia. recognizable identity. Experience Sensitive to the phenomena that attract younger From the very start, Sisley – an unconventional brand generations, Sisley expresses its avant-garde approach par excellence – has established relations with its in the style of its accessories, colors and fabrics. consumer targets in an original and irreverent way, Sisley is refined style with no frills and with an excellent launching collaborations with world famous artists, 46 | Our brands 47 | Our brands price-quality ratio, guaranteed by ongoing research participating in music events and exploiting modern and development in the textile sector and in the new tools and codes. Consumers receive a fully engaging, technologies applied to it. ongoing brand experience through the stores, the digital channels, traditional media and the social media. Sisley’s key items are denim and outerwear for men and women, women’s dresses and men’s jackets. The In Sisley’s newly adopted strategy, advertising reflects collections also include shirts, trousers, knits, t-shirts, the brand’s universe with a captivating mix of seduction, sweaters, accessories and footwear. contemporaneity and coolness. In this light, the recent ad campaigns succeeded in capturing the rhythmic, Consistently with the Stores urban, irreverent style that is synonymous with Sisley repositioning process in the Inspired by Bernardo Bertolucci’s movie, The and is integrated with the online activities and the social bridge market segment, in Dreamers, Sisley’s Rich&Raw store concept juxtaposes interactions with the growing fan community. 2019 the brand will increase rich elements – like brass, marble, mirrors, wainscoting, the offering of accessories, In 2019, the Group intends to glossy and lacquered surfaces – with raw elements, In 2018, the brand organized dozens of events and handbags and shoes, which will organize events and commercial like exposed brick walls, metal components and vintage commercial activities in its stores with dedicated shop be distributed also in dedicated activities in Sisley stores wooden flooring. windows. In April, for the Milan Design Week, the retail corners in specialist located in different countries, shop windows of the Sisley stores of Piazza San Babila multibrand stores. collaborating with artists like The first Rich&Raw store was opened in 2014 in displayed the work of designer Gala Carlota Fernández designer Gala Carlota Fernández Berlin, the city symbol of cultural, artistic and creative and artist Giorgia Ricci together with the work of the or the Argentine illustrator rebirth, to reflect the brand’s repositioning efforts. members of the San Patrignano community. Guillermo Tragant. Subsequently, the format was extended to the majority of the brand’s commercial network. A design company Even more than a synonym of style, the word design indicates an approach to project planning that combines creative research and functionality with a view to creating innovation. This is why design has always been one of Benetton Group’s core values since the very beginning. From the intuition of developing a yellow sweater, an unprecedented product, to experimentation in the digital field and interactivity, every activity implemented by the Benetton Group has always been and remains a step ahead of the market and society at large. Today, this approach translates into a series of projects and initiatives revolving around our products, our communication and our business model. Product research • Jean-Charles de Castelbajac • Garment dyed • Long Cotton • Hygroscopic fleece • Benetton archive • Focus: Dress Safe Digital innovation • E-commerce 50 | A design company 51 | A design company • Omnichannel • Content Factory • Digital marketing • RFID technology Priority to ideas • The campaigns • Fabrica • Focus: Fabrica Circus Product research Dress Benetton Group is a universal synonymous for innovation. It all began in 1965, when Luciano and Giuliana Benetton had the intuition of producing brightly colored sweaters, overturning the grey or brown color trend of those years. The Group then went on, over the years, to propose a series of innovations that contributed to the evolution of the fashion industry. Today, innovation continues with a series of projects and initiatives that begin with researching new materials and finish treatments, the analysis of more efficient and sustainable processes and the intuition of new aesthetics, capable of interpreting fashion trends while remaining loyal to our brands’ DNA. Safe Jean-Charles de Castelbajac Hygroscopic fleece “Dress Safe” is Benetton Group’s project designed In October 2018, Luciano Benetton appointed In 2018 we added an exceptionally comfortable to raise awareness and reassure consumers about Jean-Charles de Castelbajac as Artistic Director sweatshirt to our men’s and women’s collections. garment quality and safety, especially with regard to of the menswear and womenswear collections Developed exclusively by Benetton, the sweatshirt kidswear. for the United Colors of Benetton brand. Castelbajac is made of a yarn with outstanding hygroscopic has had a long career, ranging from design to painting, characteristics, i.e. the ability to absorb water Attached to all children’s products of United Colors from advertising to street art. He has inspired fashion and moisture, and thermal insulation, i.e. the ability of Benetton, and all the Sisley Young and Undercolors trends such as the “anti-fashion” movement and to protect from both heat and cold. of Benetton collections, the Dress Safe tag certifies that the garments have been tested the alternative use of objects to decorate garments. and controlled according to the materials they are made of and their characteristics. Developing at a crossroads between punk and pop, Benetton archive his style is characterized by the use of bold colors Benetton Group’s history of innovation is stored Entrusted to independent laboratories, selected from among the most prestigious 52 | A design company and pop icons, combining the mix of old and new with in its archives. Developed in 2009, it contains a in the world, the tests verify that the products meet the most stringent safety an irreverent and extravagant touch. Castelbajac’s selection of iconic knitwear items – taken from the parameters in the field of textile sustainability. project for Benetton is to create the wardrobe of product archive which including 12 000 historical 53 | Focus tomorrow, bringing beauty and style to everyday life garments – as well as sketches, paper patterns from Another series of tests carried out during the design stage ensures that garment at affordable prices. the late seventies to the present day, technical cards, accessories – especially the small accessories such as buttons, sequins, buttonholes, color and material charts – catalogues, advertising trim and lace – do not present any danger of suffocation or entrapment for children. Garment dyed materials, periodicals, press reviews – from the origins In the 1960s, Benetton was a worldwide pioneer to the present day. Dress Safe evolves over time thanks to an open and transparent dialogue with in garment dyeing: the idea of producing raw yarn consumers and the ambition not only to comply with international standards, but, knitwear and then dyeing it based on order quantity The Benetton archive is not a museum, but where possible, to achieve even more challenging goals. was a huge commercial success. a workshop from which designers and colleagues A guarantee for long-lasting and soft-touch items, draw inspiration, day after day, for new projects. garment dyeing is still used in 40% of our collections. In November 2018, the archive opened its doors to the public during the 17th Week of Business Culture Long Cotton promoted by Confindustria. The Undercolors collections for 2018 confirmed the use of long fiber cotton. Its filaments exceed 28 mm in length and thus result in a more resistant, softer and refined fabric than normal. Along with Tests 2018 43 891 on products our know-how in the field of materials, long fiber cotton in combination with an elastomer fiber enabled us to manufacture one size fits all underwear items 2017 40 873 for women and other products in different sizes for men and children. 2016 41 115 Digital Priority innovation to ideas Today, all links in the supply chain of a large company like the Benetton Group involve the use of digital channels. Ideas are a key ingredient in the business plans of the world’s largest companies. In this regard, the Benetton Group was a pioneer with the development of Fabrica in 1994, a non-conventional research center, established to Benetton Group has always paid close attention to the communication potential of its digital channels and study different subjects with a multidisciplinary and global approach. in recent years it has invested massively in the optimization of its e-commerce platform in the framework of a multi-channel strategy that aims to offer consumers a global purchasing experience that starts with the Today, Benetton Group continues to experiment with new ideas. Some provide key support to our brands in terms smartphone and continues in the web site and in the stores. of communication, product and store design. Others reflect free and fundamental research activity to anticipate the inputs that will drive tomorrow’s world. E-commerce Digital marketing Back in 2017, United Colors of Benetton had already Over the past year, we have implemented storytelling The campaigns Non fate i bravi implemented an e-commerce system inside its website initiatives to communicate our brands and attract new A priest kissing a nun. A newborn baby with the From January 18 to 21, 2018, Benetton organized an benetton.com. At the beginning of 2019, average data customers through all digital touchpoints by leveraging umbilical cord attached. A giant condom on the obelisk exhibition in the setting of Pitti Bimbo in Florence with showed positive double-digit growth on a year-on-year on marketing campaigns and activities dedicated to of Place de la Concorde in Paris. The campaigns of the images of children taken by Oliviero Toscani for basis. In 2018, dedicated UCB and Sisley e-commerce increasingly specific and defined consumer targets. United Colors of Benetton developed by Fabrica have Benetton, from the ‘80s to date. On display on a three platforms were launched in the United States. become part of collective memory and of the history meter long rack in the courtyard of Palazzo Strozzi, the RFID technology of advertising globally. photographs also included the latest images taken by Omnichannel We have equipped our products with RFID technology, Toscani for the Benetton kids Spring Summer 2018 In line with the previous year, also in 2018 the Group i.e. electronic tags that identify them and store the most In 2018, our brand communication reached and collection. continued to focus on digital activities and, specifically, relevant information. RFID technology has obvious captured the attention of billions of people all over the on the development of the omnichannel strategy, applications in the field of warehouse management world. Here are some of our communication activities. Benetton Race Wanted Creativity designed to increase sales and reduce stock by and anti-shoplifting and its application will expand in the From November 9 to 11, 2018 in Paris and from 54 | A design company 55 | A design company increasing the offering of customer-oriented services. future to provide customers with additional information Naked, Just Like December 14 to 21 in Milan, the shop windows The omnichannel strategy favors integration between on product origin, fit and communication. In August 2018 United Colors of Benetton launched of the United Colors of Benetton stores were offline and online stores through the following the campaign “Naked, Just Like”, with a photograph turned into photoshooting sets, with passers-by functions: product locator, which enables customers by Toscani showing nine naked bodies united in a hug, and city residents as models. Oliviero Toscani, to know in which store they can find a specific product; a symbolic antidote to barriers, hatred and racism. Settimio Benedusi and a team of photographers The Group will develop a click&collect, which allows customers to order a The image, together with a video, was accompanied by from Fabrica invited passers-by to join the dedicated expertise center product online and pick it up in the store; endless aisle, a text inspired by St. Francis’s Canticle of the Creatures. photoshooting. The photos were then projected to optimize and concentrate which enables customers in the store to buy a specific the management of on the large screens of the shop window. The initiative product which is not momentarily available and then currently open markets at The Sisley Way also included a side activity that made it possible pick it up at a later time; product return, which allows its headquarters along with In 2018 Sisley launched The Sisley Way, a new campaign for young creative talents in the two cities to present customers to go to the store to return or change the definition of a global format in which the brand presents its collections their work and apply to join the Fabrica team. a product bought online. expansion strategy for the through a series of travel diaries inspired by the Sisley two brands, United Colors Diaries of the 1980s but designed to communicate with Content Factory of Benetton and Sisley. the social feeds of millennials. Ryan McGinley is the In 2018 we laid the foundations for the development photographer called on to interpret this concept, an of the content factory, a platform for producing internationally renowned photographer famous for his and sharing product and collection content, such portraits of NYC Lower East Side’s young skaters and as technical descriptions, images and videos. The artists. The Spring Summer 2018 campaign was shot in In 2019, the United Colors of content factory is designed to facilitate communication Benetton website will undergo Los Angeles, while the Fall Winter 2018 campaign was in a unique and consistent manner across multiple a complete restyling to improve shot in New York. channels and different markets. user experience and navigation. A new website is expected to be launched in 2020. Fabrica Wanted Creativity per Kartell degree, through training projects recognized by the Fabrica is Benetton Group’s communication research On the occasion of Milan Design Week, Fabrica Veneto region and the Italian government. Fabrica center. It is located in the 17th century Venetian villa, accepted Kartell’s invitation to participate in “Crossing also offers training courses financed by European restyled by architect Tadao Ando in the ‘90s. Since Generation”. Inside the Kartell flagship store in Milan, funds to young graduates residing or domiciled in the its establishment in 1994, it has welcomed over 700 the Papyrus chair became the stage from which to Veneto region, holding at least a secondary high school creative talents under 25 from more than 65 countries broadcast “Wanted Creativity”, Fabrica’s call for young diploma. The Educational Center’s status was confirmed in five continents, including photographers, illustrators, creative talents. Fabrica, “enveloped in the hug” in 2018 after completion of the audit performed in artists, writers, copywriters, directors, musicians, of the Kartell chair, was projected through a screen February, with updates in December. videomakers, journalists, graphic designers, developers, broadcasting the call for the search for new Generation hackers and designers. X talents. Training The collaboration between the Municipality of Villorba In 2018, Fabrica also launched a series of research Agile work week and Fabrica continues with the training project financed projects with the objective of analyzing, investigating Among the various events hosted during the year, by the Veneto Region, i.e. Regional Decree No. and interpreting the forces that are making up the on May 21 Fabrica hosted the conference “Working 1904/2011 “Fotogrammi veneti, i giovani raccontano present with a view to the future. Here below are the time and quality of life: the future of organizations”, an G.I.F.T. Giovani, Innovazione, Futuro e Tecnologia” most important ones. initiative promoted by the Veneto Region that was part (Venetian images, the young tell their stories; Youth, of the Agile Work Week, developed to raise awareness Innovation, Future and Technology), which provides Paradigm and Confessions and involve an increasing number of companies and free training and hands-on courses for young people During “Reciprocity Design. Liège”, an international male and female workers on the work-life balance issue. aged 16 to 29 helping them acquire multimedia skills Fabrica will continue its series triennial exhibition that promotes debate on the through the development of an audiovisual product. of meetings, conferences 56 | A design company 57 | A design company economic and cultural role of design, Fabrica presented Library The new orientation, revolving around the sounds of and workshops. Among the two exhibitions: Paradigm, a visual exploration of The Fabrica library comprises over 7 000 books technology, was presented at Fabrica and will be carried guests scheduled for 2019 essential human needs, presented during the design on photography, industrial design, arts, graphic design out in 2019. are British photographer week, and Confessions, a series of self-portraits and subjects connected to visual communication, Martin Parr, Spanish designer of the Fabrica team members and their vision a collection of reference texts and a broad variety Patricia Urquiola, French street of themselves, presented from October 5 to of international magazines, as well as more than 400 artist JR and Italian artist November 25 in Liège, Belgium. music CDs from all over the world and over 600 In 2019 Fabrica will launch Maurizio Cattelan. On April 6 videocassettes and DVDs. It is open to the public Camera Oscura, a video format and 7, Fabrica will host ConDocumentaries by appointment and the catalogue is available on of visual and critical analysis fusion, a festival dedicated to In 2018, projections of Fabrica’s documentaries the Fabrica website. of images. Stimulated by integration. continued, including Devil comes to Koko by the Oliviero Toscani and his team, Italian-Nigerian director Alfie Nze; Beatrice, a short film Educational Center people born after 2000 (and by Venezuelan filmmaker Lorena Alvarado regarding the Fabrica is an Educational Center recognized in not only) will be invited to Paralympic champion Bebe Vio; Notes from Anywhere accordance with Regional Resolution No. 359/2004. describe themselves through by Drew Nikonowicz with Mattia Mura and Floating It is therefore a structure suitable for providing training their imagination. Islands, an animated work on the theme of migration by to young unemployed and non-employed students Dominican illustrator Tómas Pichardo-Espaillat. with secondary high school diplomas and/or university Starting from March 2019, Radio Capital will broadcast “Fabrica” on Sundays, a new radio program featuring Oliviero Toscani and Nicolas Ballario, dealing with topics like moms, fear, beauty and ugliness, God, the future and much more. Fabrica Circus Launched in 2018, Fabrica Circus is a continuous cycle of conferences, workshops, performances, meetings and discussions with international artists and professionals on humanistic culture, communication, gastronomy, cinema, art, poetry, journalism, design, spirituality, nature, music, politics, economics, neurosciences, psychology, writing and editing and theatre. In 2018, Fabrica invited 120 international guests, including architect Michele De Lucchi, musician Michael Nyman, illustrator Javier Mariscal, astronaut Samantha Cristoforetti, photographer Franco Fontana, Eike Schmidt, director of the Uffizi Galleries and journalist Gad Lerner. These professionals and intellectuals were key speakers at conferences and workshops that attracted a heterogeneous public both in terms of geographical origin, professional profile and age. 58 | Focus “High on subversion” (March 23-25) was one of the events organized, three days of non-stop creativity to discover the meaning of subversion in art, design, cinema, advertising, politics, economics, architecture and contemporary media. Another event was “Space and Earth DNA” (October 24-25), two days in which international experts discussed topics such as our relationship with machines, Space and planet Earth, managing sustainable cities, intelligent clothing and exploration of the universe. Speakers included Dava Newman, professor of astronautics for the Apollo program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and Paolo Nespoli, astronaut for the European Space Agency (ESA). A people company Benetton Group believes in a society centered on the individual and acts in full respect of diversity, free of prejudice about skin color, gender, sexual orientation and political or religious beliefs. Aside from being the key concept of the Group’s globally renowned advertising campaigns, this idea has always inspired the work we do every day. We look after our employees, because the wellbeing and growth of the men and women who work for us is a key element of the Company’s success. Furthermore, we are also active in developing initiatives to protect human rights, concentrating on the most vulnerable members of our society, like children, women and migrants. Human resources • Benetton for You • Ponzano Children • Training • Employer Branding • Reward 62 | A people company 63 | A people company • Industrial relations • Zero Injury Objective Human • Focus: Mittelmoda International Lab rights • Supply chain management • Social communication • Women’s empowerment in India • Focus: The new faces of an Italy that studies and works 14.3% 47.4% Human 21.6% 48.1% resources Italy Europe Rest of the world A global company like Benetton Group, with over 7 500 employees and 4 700 stores in more than 70 countries For this reason, also in 2018 we developed and the dates with more than 250 participants, was very worldwide, knows that human resources are key to building success. increased the number of initiatives addressed to our successful and will be repeated in 2019. employees’ wellbeing and requests in order to attract 2018 2018 new talents and reward those who already work with us. Stretch Stretch is a flexibility project that offers employees 31.0% 37.6% Benetton for You more flexibility in organizing their working hours 73.8% Benetton for You is the People Care program that (Stretch your Time) and the possibility of working from the Group launched in 2015 to promote employee home one day a week (Stretch your Space) for all 14.3% wellbeing in the central offices of Ponzano and compatible positions. The initiative, introduced in 2016 90.4% Castrette, extending its benefits also to employees’ and further extended during 2018, aims to promote a 47.4% family members. The program is extended to all culture of results through a more agile way of working, employees of the Italian offices, regardless of their based on delegation and mutual trust. 48.1% seniority and employment contract, while abroad the Group launched local People Care initiatives Nice to Meet You 21.6% 26.2% 9.6% to respond to country-specific needs. Nice to Meet You is a day dedicated to our The program covers four areas: work/life balance, employees’ children. Now in its third edition in Italy Permanent health, family and savings, with each area including 2018, the initiative involved 25 young graduates, Europe Temporary several annual and multiannual projects. undergraduates and recent graduates, who were Rest of the world given a chance to visit the Company’s key locations 64 | A people company 65 | A people company Banca Ore Etica and receive information and guidance from Benetton’s In 2018, the Benetton for You program was enriched Recruiting & Talent Acquisition office regarding how Employees by geographic area by an important solidarity initiative: Banca Ore to face the world of work and perform well in job 2018 Etica. Introduced in September 2018 in application interviews. 2016 799 1 779 199 2 004 1 107 1 387 7 275 of the supplementary Company agreement, Banca 2017 797 1 918 274 2 414 911 1 191 7 505 Ore Etica is a tool consisting of holidays and leave English for You 73.8% 2018 733 1 722 278 2 640 937 1 200 7 510 permits donated by employees, on a voluntary basis, English for You offers a series of English language in favor of colleagues who are in particular situations courses at different levels for employees and their Italy 90.4% Europe Rest of the world of need. The Company participates in the collection family members at discounted prices. by contributing an equal number of hours for each Men Women donation. Employees who have special health care needs or whose family members do and who have already exhausted all their hours of paid leave and GRI 102-8 Employees 26.2% by:9.6% leave accrued, may benefit from these hours of 2016 2017 2018 solidarity. Each request is examined by a dedicated Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total committee and treated strictly confidentially. Permanent Employment contract Temporary Permanent 1 660 3 882 5 542 1 728 3 898 5 626 1 761 4 105 5 866 Open Day Archive Temporary 256 1 277 1 533 254 1 625 1 879 1 87 1 457 1 644 The Benetton Studios and archive were opened on Other 189 11 200 0 0 Total 2 105 5 170 7 275 1 982 5 523 7 505 1 948 5 562 7 510 for four evenings to Benetton Group employees, their families and friends. This was an opportunity to take Employment type part in a special guided tour of the Benetton archive, Full Time 1 770 3 042 4 812 1 709 3 149 4 858 1 688 3 164 4 852 which preserves the Company’s historical heritage, Part Time 334 2 126 2 460 273 2 374 2 647 260 2 398 2 658 and of the exhibition area, which hosts a selection Other 1 2 3 0 0 of images of the Group’s advertising campaigns and Total 2 105 5 170 7 275 1 982 5 523 7 505 1 948 5 562 7 510 Formula 1 cars. The event, which was sold out on all nero: < 30 anni nero: < 30 anni nero: manager nero: manager grigio chiaro: 30-50 grigio anni chiaro: 30-50 anni grigio chiaro: white grigio collar chiaro: white collar grigio scuro: > 50 anni grigio scuro: > 50 anni grigio scuro: blue collar grigio scuro: blue collar Benetton Group: 2018 ripartizione dei dipendenti Benetton Group: 2018 ripartizione dei dipendenti • per età • per età • per categoria • per categoria Benetton Group: 2018 Employee breakdown Welcome Back, Mom maternity leave, with a dedicated coaching path to help • by age • by Also in 2018, the Welcome Back, Mom project them find a new work/life balance. The path includes + + + qualification + continued, focusing on the value of the Company’s four two-hour meetings and two group workshops. In 792 792 251 45 251 45 female employees. Launched in 2015, this project 2018, 31 mothers participated in the project for a total assists moms when they come back to work after of 177 training hours. 0.1% 2.1% 0.1% 2.1% 41.3% 30.2% 41.3% 30.2% GRI 401-3 Return to work and retention rates of employees who took parental leave 2 884 2 884 7 214 7 214 Italy Europe Rest of the world Total Employees entitled to: 51.2% 50.6% 51.2% 50.6% 98.8% 88.2% 98.8% 88.2% 3 834 3 834 Maternity 76 925 123 1 124 Paternity 20 128 30 178 7.5% 19.2% 7.5% 19.2% 1.1% 9.7% 1.1% 9.7% Total 96 1 053 153 1 302 Employees who took a parental leave Maternity 76 168 36 280 < 30 years < 30 years Manager Manager Paternity 20 1 11 32 31-50 years 31-50 years White collar White collar > 50 years > 50 years Blue collar Blue collar Total 96 169 47 312 Return to work after parental leave ended GRI 405-1 Employee breakdown by qualification, gender and age Maternity 50 96 19 165 Age Italy Europe Rest of the world Total Paternity 20 1 11 32 Manager Total 70 97 30 197 66 | A people company 67 | A people company Men < 30 years Maternity 66% 57% 53% 59% 31-50 years 9 1 6 16 Paternity 100% 100% 100% 100% > 50 years 20 2 3 25 Total 73% 57% 64% 63% Total Men 29 3 9 41 Retention rate – employees who returned to work after parental leave ended and still working 12 months after their return Women < 30 years Maternity 15 95 29 139 31-50 years 2 2 Paternity 11 1 9 21 > 50 years 2 2 Total 26 96 38 160 Total Women 4 4 Maternity 88% 57% 81% 75% Total 33 3 9 45 Paternity 100% 100% 82% 94% White Collar Total retention rate 93% 57% 81% 77% Men < 30 years 56 136 395 587 31-50 years 320 105 453 878 La Ghirada area. An educational service that hinges on building > 50 years 200 26 28 254 Also in 2018, Group employees and their families relationships, research, the wellbeing of children and the Total Men 576 267 876 1 719 had access to advantageous rates for the summer community, following the guidelines set by the nurseries Women < 30 years 401 1 228 663 2 292 camps organized by La Ghirada Città dello Sport, and kindergartens of Reggio Emilia. Ponzano Children 31-50 years 1 025 1 301 499 2 825 the 22-hectare sports complex built in Treviso by the is located in a building designed by the Spanish architect > 50 years 240 103 35 378 Benetton family. Alberto Campo Baeza. Today, it includes five sections Total Women 1 666 2 632 1 197 5 495 Total 2 242 2 899 2 073 7 214 for different ages, of which two for infant day care, Blue collar Ponzano Children one nursery school and two kindergartens, with a total Men < 30 years 2 2 Founded in 2008, Ponzano Children is a children’s capacity of approximately 100 children aged from nine 31-50 years 48 5 38 91 center to host both the children of employees and months to six years. > 50 years 80 1 14 95 children of Ponzano and other municipalities in the Total Men 128 8 52 188 Women < 30 years 3 3 31-50 years 15 4 3 22 > 50 years 37 1 38 Total Women 52 8 3 63 Total 180 16 55 251 TOTAL 2 455 2 918 2 137 7 510 Training Office training to increase the efficacy of the selling process through offered by our In-Store Training Academy. The 40 In 2018, more than half of our Company’s population Office training included Excel and PowerPoint courses, interaction with customers based on simple and colleagues from the London Store were involved was involved in training and development initiatives. This divided into basic, intermediate and advanced levels, for immediate criteria. In 2018, 31 editions of Selling in in two days of training and discussions in order to percentage increases to 70% if we also consider the a total of ten editions. Office training courses involved Colors were organized in Italy, involving a total of 367 deepen their knowledge of our target consumers staff of the directly operated stores. Benetton Group’s 91 colleagues for a total of 1 280 hours of training. people, including store personnel and FOS partners, and thus increase sales performance. The Green Camp main projects dedicated to staff training include a and a total of 137 resources from directly operated was in fact dedicated to store managers and analyzed portfolio of courses that range from leadership Language courses stores (DOS). issues including product, selling techniques, visual to language courses and from the development of In 2018, the Core English training program (individual merchandising and people management. soft skills to technical-specialist training. The training and group English courses) continued. In addition, We Love Sisley Journey activities catalog is designed by our Education, Growth a new course “ESP_English for specific purposes” The focus of this journey is the Sisley consumer BEST & Engagement department and includes training, was introduced, focusing on public speaking skills. target. This course evolves from the proposal of the Launched in September 2017, BEST (Benetton development and engagement initiatives. The training courses involved 183 colleagues for ten golden rules to support store personnel in the Engagement and Store Training) is the interactive digital Most of the initiatives are shared with foreign a total of 1 663 hours of training. development of customer relationships on a daily basis, platform dedicated to DOS and FOS store personnel. subsidiaries, which take action to customize the while conveying to final consumers the brand’s soul and In 2018, the platform supported the main training programs and engage employees locally. BOB identity. In 2018, two editions were organized involving and business projects, such as Ominichannel, with a Benetton on Boarding (BOB) is a welcome program colleagues from the head office and the DOS and dedicated section, and Selling in Colors, with a schedule People in Colors dedicated to newly hired employees and includes FOS stores; a special edition was also dedicated to the of content and exercises designed to involve the entire In 2018, colors represented one of the main drivers a series of eight digital books, developed to provide Store Managers of the TOP DOS stores for a total of sales network. In addition, the platform was enriched in the Group’s projects dedicated to mindfulness and all the basic information and instructions regarding 41 people and 436 hours of training. with a glossary of fashion terms that currently includes 68 | A people company 69 | A people company relationship development. In particular, we introduced the organization. 80 entries. A total of 115 contents, 1 113 comments, People in Colors, a model that identifies in each person Omnichannel 16 videos and 124 photos were published. four cognitive styles or ways of thinking and acting, each In addition to on campus training, training is also The training plan represents a key step in the of which corresponds to a color: blue, yellow, green and provided to store personnel through our Retail implementation of the Omnichannel strategy. In red. Nine editions of People Management in Colors Academy, which involves personnel from both the particular, between June and November, training was In 2019, we will launch an and Self-Efficacy in Colors were developed, involving Directly Operated Stores (DOS) and the Franchising provided to all pilot stores – located in the Lombardy important sales support plan 144 colleagues for a total of 1 268 hours of training. Operated Stores (FOS). In 2018, store-specific region, Padua and London – with regard to the dedicated to the Fall/Winter training initiatives focused on the restyling of the Sales product locator and endless aisle services, launched 2019 collection. A series of Ad hoc specialist training Training program through the implementation of the in correspondence with the training. In December, training stores will be selected Dedicated technical and specialist training initiatives “Selling in Colors” projects for the United Colors of click&collect and return in store services were rolled to provide numerous training were developed for some corporate functions, in Benetton and “We Love Sisley Journey” for Sisley. The out for just two stores. In 2018, 95 resources were sessions. particular in the AFC, Logistics, Retail Design and Visual consolidation of BEST and the dedicated Omnichannel involved in the Omnichannel strategy training, including Merchandising areas. These training courses involved project were important innovations in the Group’s store personnel and partners (DOS, FOS, IOS) for a 53 colleagues for a total of 612 hours of training. Store 2018 training program. total of 676 hours of training. Selling in Colors Green Camp London In 2019, the People in Colors Selling in Colors is a training course designed to On the occasion of the reopening of the London project will be extended to all provide support to store personnel in their daily Store in Oxford Street, we developed a Green Camp the colleagues of our offices, relationship with customers. Based on the People focused on the distinctive elements of our Company with a specific focus on the in Colors model, its objective is to facilitate the and our brand. The Green Camp combines the essence of our Brands. recognition of the different types of customers presentation of the collection at the stores, from entering the stores by offering an additional tool a sell-out perspective, with training on other topics UP Strategy Act-In Class – University of Padua excellence at international level. In 2018, the Recruiting In 2018, the UP talent management strategy of our In September 2018, we launched the Act-In Class & Talent Acquisition Team held a conference for In 2019, we will launch directly operated stores was further consolidated, Project in collaboration with a group of students Master’s students dedicated to job orientation and first “Undercolors Of Creativity” a combining moments of assessment of one’s potential from the Faculty of Management Engineering of job search. project in collaboration with IED (Growing UP), and one’s performance (Performing the University of Padua. The group, made up of in Rome, in which five students UP) as well as training activities by role (In Store UP). seven students, worked on aspects regarding the Master Creative Knitwear Design of the second year of the Fashion In particular, in 2018 the strategy involved a total of development and planning of collections, analyzing Also in 2018 we hosted the students of the Master in Design course will work for 36 resources in three paths divided by role: My Store them directly with the people of reference of the Creative Knitwear Design of the Academy of Costume two months on the design of a for 12 UCB Store Managers; My Floor for 14 Store Company departments involved: Supply Chain Planning, and Fashion in Rome at the Studios and the Seamless Capsule Womenswear Collection Department Managers; and Visual Paths for 10 In-Store Merchandising, Sales Planning, Master Calendar, Knitwear Area. After receiving a creative briefing from by United Colors of Benetton, Visuals. In almost all cases, these initiatives referred Sourcing. The project and the presentation of the ideas our knitwear design team, the students designed with a focus on the Homewear to internal upgrades, thus enhancing the Company’s by the students were useful both to meet new talents a capsule collection inspired by United Colors of and Loungewear product know-how. and to bring new insights and ideas to the Company. Benetton. Giuliana Benetton selected the two best categories. projects, which will be produced and sold in our stores. Employer Branding Master MFI – Milano Fashion Institute The two winners, Dario Tubiana and Lisette Estefania In 2018, Benetton Group participated in numerous Founded in 2007 by three Milanese universities Bazan, will also have an opportunity to spend a month employer branding initiatives in close collaboration with – Bocconi, Cattolica and Politecnico – the Milan at the Company during the design of the collections leading schools and universities. The aim is to attract Fashion Institute is an inter-university consortium for that will be presented at Pitti Filati in January 2019 and As part of the Mittelmoda new talent with a view to renewing and diversifying higher education in the field of fashion, whose goal participate in an internship in the knitwear design office. District project – an event dedicated to professional fashion 70 | A people company 71 | A people company human resources. is the creation of a multidisciplinary training center of Digital Recruiting institutes – in 2019 we will GRI 404-1 Average year training hours by employee and gender We received more than 66 000 visits on our Work welcome 300 students from six Training hours 2016 2017 2018 schools in Friuli, who will visit with Us web page and on our LinkedIn page, and Men Women Men Women Men Women Italy over 40 000 resumes. Today, candidates can send our Company headquarters. Total training hours provided 16 659 9 735 12 490 their curriculum vitae directly from any store thanks Training hours by employee 7 4 5 to the QR code technology. of which provided to: 5 9 5 3 6 5 Europe Total training hours provided 20 919 6 977 6 448 Training hours by employee 9 3 2 The close collaboration with of which provided to: 10 7 3 3 2 2 the Milan Fashion Institute Rest of the world will continue also in 2019: the Total training hours provided 18 069 13 299 10 906 Training hours by employee 8 6 5 Recruiting & Talent Acquisition of which provided to: 10 8 7 5 4 3 team will meet the students Benetton Group of the different Master courses Total training hours provided 55 647 30 029 29 844 in a lecture dedicated to jobTraining hours by employee 8 4 4 related issues. of which provided to: 9 7 7 3 6 3 Reward employees and key resources and a view to rewarding applicable for the 2018-2020 three-year period, we aspects that pertain to employee health and safety. In 2018, the Group’s remuneration policy was team results. The objective is motivating and retaining re-confirmed the criteria already applied in the previous Risk assessment, supplemented by the improvement focused on the implementation of a series of fixed the best resources already present in the Company year, for the determination of efficiency to define plan, is constantly updated by the Prevention and and variable components for the Group’s Italian and and in the stores, with a view to ensuring continuity performance bonuses. Protection Service, present in all Benetton Group foreign operations, with particular attention to young and medium-long term planning. companies, also in relation to organizational changes. As to notice periods relative to significant organizational Particular attention is paid to the management of Salary Gender Gap Index 2016-2018 Italy changes, the Company recognizes the value of interferences with external companies engaged in Headquarter Salary ratio Remuneration ratio collective bargaining as a privileged tool for determining setting up, providing services or maintenance activities, 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 contractual conditions and for regulating relations with the concurrent optimization of the relevant Managers * between Company management and trade unions and documentation and the request made to such external 91% 100% 88% 85% 97% 85% Executives confirms its full compliance with all national collective companies to comply with specific requirements 95% 95% 96% 91% 93% 95% labor agreements (SMI Textile, Trade, Executives, regarding equipment, personal protection devices, White collars 90% 89% 90% 90% 89% 90% etc.). In the absence of National Collective Bargaining training and emergency management. Blue collars 98% 99% 98% 96% 98% 97% Agreements at the foreign subsidiaries, employment The dissemination of the culture of prevention takes Store Salary ratio Remuneration ratio relations are managed in compliance with national laws, place through basic training and advanced courses at all Executives 81% 83% 71% 78% 80% 66% with the expection of derogations that might be more levels, coordinated by the Prevention and Protection White collars 92% 93% 90% 91% 92% 88% favorable to workers. Service, taking opportunities for moments of dialog, * The manager category is referred to senior managers only. listening, evaluation of possible improvements both Zero Injury Objective during normal activities and in emergency situations 72 | A people company Management by Objectives (DOS), the plan dedicated to the Group’s directly Benetton Group has always been committed to and with the analysis of accidents and “near misses”. 73 | A people company In 2018, we formalized the Management by Objectives operated stores was revised with a view to effectively ensuring suitable workplaces for the performance Awareness raising activities are also organized to Plan (MBO), which includes the assignment of economic driving an approach focused on further improving of its business activities and implementing ongoing manage the residual risk of certain activities with the benefits to managers who reach specific corporate the sales performance of the points of sale by improvements and preventive actions to manage all delivery of specific safety instructions. targets, consistently with the Group’s strategy. Today, rewarding the best performers of the network with the plan is operating in 17 Countries and involves additional benefits. To date, over 2 300 people from Injury ratios over 120 managers, of whom 30% are abroad. The approximately 300 directly operated stores in Italy and plan’s structure and operation differentiates among Europe have received the benefits. GRI 403-2 R ates of injury at work, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism and number of work-related fatalities, broken down Corporate roles, linked to Group economic-financial by geographic area targets, and Country/Business roles, linked to Industrial relations Unit Italy Europe Rest of the world Total economic-financial perimeter targets. A three-year Another key element to ensure growth and the success 2016 Injury rate No. of injuries/Hours Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) was also formalized, of Benetton Group’s human resources is the ongoing worked x 1 000 000 10 14.93 20.16 15.05 with the objective of focusing Top Management in Italy and productive dialogue with trade unions. In 2018, we Lost day rate Lost days/Hours and abroad on the medium-long term business KPIs consolidated, in a very innovative manner, the content worked x 1 000 0.3 0.2 0.06 0.18 included in the 2018-2020 Business Plan. of our supplementary agreement for the 2018-2020 2017 period and of the relevant performance bonuses at the Injury rate No. of injuries/Hours worked x 1 000 000 10.3 18.07 2.7 10.16 Sales Incentive Plan national level. Lost day rate Lost days/Hours In 2018, the Group continued its efforts to standardize worked x 1 000 0.26 0.42 0.02 0.27 sales incentives for the Group companies’ commercial Organizational turnaround 2018 staff, differentiated by sales channel (DOS IOS In line with the previous year, in 2018 additional targeted Injury rate No. of injuries/Hours FOS), with an increasingly “glocal” (global and local) organizational turnaround actions were implemented worked x 1 000 000 12.23 18.53 2.27 11.3 approach in order to orient behaviors towards the in some areas of the Company, already started in the Lost day rate Lost days/Hours worked x 1 000 0.49 0.86 0.22 0.29 ongoing improvement of business performance. previous year, with extremely positive results in terms In particular, for the Franchising (FOS) channel we of productivity and rationalization of activities. consolidated a specific sales incentive plan for the channel-specific management and development roles Performance bonus for both UCB and Sisley. For the direct channel For the new second level supplementary agreement, Human rights Mittelmoda Peace, work, freedom of expression and equal opportunity: Benetton Group has always believed in a world where basic human rights are always guaranteed, without exception. For over thirty years, our social communication campaigns have unfailingly reiterated this message. Today, the International Lab effect of our communication echoes a series of concrete initiatives that we implement, covering our corporate headquarters and our suppliers, on a range of topics ranging from health to women’s empowerment and the fight against violence to respect for any sexual, political or religious orientation. Supply chain management regions where respect for human rights and workers In the summer of 2018 we hosted the Our first commitment in the field of human rights is is considered more at risk. Suppliers to be audited final event of the twenty-fifth edition to the people who work in the Group all around the are identified jointly by the CSR Management of Mittelmoda International Lab at the world. Over the years, we have implemented a series and the Operations & Sourcing functions, while the Benetton Studios of Castrette. of procedures and initiatives designed to ensure that operating organization for the performance of the all those involved in our supply chain are treated fairly audits is entrusted to the CSR Management function. Launched in the early ’90s, Mittelmoda and correctly. is an international competition for young Audits are carried out by globally recognized designers supported by some of the main fashion bodies, such as the Supplier selection independent auditing firms and based on a checklist Italian National Chamber of Fashion, Fondazione Industrie Cotone Lino We select our suppliers not only based on product developed internally according to the principles and Confindustria Moda, in collaboration with several companies, including quality, competitive prices and transparency, but also on contained in the Code of Conduct for Manufacturers. the Benetton Group. 75 | A people company their compliance with social, ethical and environmental The checklist includes SA8000 Standard provisions and principles. A list of our active suppliers located all over is designed to verify working conditions, environmental The objective of Mittelmoda International Lab is to develop an international the world is available on our web site. protection, transparency and compliance with network of Art & Design schools and colleges to promote and foster the applicable local and international regulations. 74 | Focus international creativity. Mittelmoda International Lab is a valuable opportunity www.benettongroup.com/sustainability/supply-chain/ In particular, Benetton Group is very sensitive to for meetings and aggregation, which is increasingly necessary to facilitate the the protection of human rights and has carried professional and personal growth of young people. Code of Conduct out an internal analysis of potential risks relating Any individual or company that establishes a business to issues such as child and forced labor. On Friday, July 20, 23 finalist proposals from 17 countries around the world relationship with us undertakes to comply with the were presented in the Benetton Studios and evaluated by an international Benetton Group’s Code of Conduct, founded on No significant risks have been identified in the European jury, chaired by Matteo Marzotto, Mittelmoda president, and composed compliance with human rights and protection of Union, because the legislation adequately protects of experts and representatives of high standing fashion companies. the environment. The Group’s Code of Conduct workers’ rights and the compliance controls of the implements the most relevant international regulations, various bodies in charge are considered effective; as During the day, two Absolute Prizes were awarded to the most creative with particular reference to the UN Business and a preventive measure, Benetton Group is supporting and experimental collection, the Lectra Prize by the main sponsor of the Human Rights of June 2011 and the Communication its suppliers in formalizing procedures and sharing event, four Origin Prizes dedicated to the use of leather, stone, fabrics and from the European Commission on the Renewed some best practices. All suppliers located outside technology and, last but not least, two Special Prizes dedicated to the use Strategy on Corporate Social Responsibility of the European Union, on the other hand, present a of denim and cuprum. October 2011. For the benefit of active business significant risk in terms of respect for fundamental partners worldwide, the Code of Conduct is available human rights and are therefore subject to precise on our website in several languages. controls by means of audits. CSR Audit The CSR Audit function carries out audits on all Benetton has implemented an audit program to producers of finished products regularly, repeated monitor adherence with the Code of Conduct for every six months as a maximum and every two years Manufacturers, which applies to all finished garment as a minimum, according to the results achieved and producers, with particular attention to those located in the need to correct procedures identified as critical in previous audits. In 2018, Benetton expanded controls management of their sites. More than 300 suppliers The non-conformities identified refer to procedural The main points of the agreement include: on these issues and mostly carried out unannounced were assessed for social impacts during the year. Of aspects, all of which were corrected during the year. • an independent inspection program supported by the audits, while also updating the main tools used for the these, about 60% undertook a process of correcting signatory companies, involving employees and trade management of the audit process. In addition, non-conformities, while 24 business relationships were Accord on Fire and Building Safety union associations; a periodic monitoring activity was introduced, which interrupted. in Bangladesh • transparent communication of the list of production provides for the forwarding of updated corrective plans In December 2017, Benetton Group confirmed its facilities, inspection reports and corrective action and evidence of the resolution of non-conformities on Non-discrimination adherence to the Accord on Fire and Building Safety in plans; a periodic basis in order to supervise the remediation While respecting the tradition and culture of the Bangladesh, launched in May 2013 following the event • the commitment of the signatory companies to process with a view to continuous improvement. Finally, countries in which our suppliers operate, Benetton that is universally remembered as “the tragedy of Rana ensure the effective implementation of the corrective to support suppliers in the operational implementation Group believes that every company must commit Plaza”. The Accord, of which Benetton was one of the action plans and to maintain ongoing business of the requirements of the Code of Conduct, the to rejecting any form of discrimination, ensuring first signatories, is an independent initiative involving relations; Guidelines for Benetton Group Code of Conduct for fair and respectful treatment of its people in all more than 200 clothing companies worldwide and • the establishment of democratically elected health and Manufactures were drafted, which sets out Benetton’s circumstances. In particular, in 2018, no employee also engaging trade unions, the International Labor safety committees in all factories to identify the main expectations for safe working conditions, while reports of discrimination were received through Organization (ILO) and various non-governmental risks related to workers’ health and safety; respecting workers’ rights and the environment. The aim the Whistleblower service. organizations. The Accord, developed to secure all • the development of workers through a broad-based is to make the Code of Conduct more understandable apparel manufacturing facilities in Bangladesh, also training program; and easy to apply, providing operational solutions and In addition, 93% of our suppliers meet the provides for independent inspections and transparency • the implementation of complaint mechanisms and the practical examples that can help suppliers in the proper requirements of our Code of Conduct in the matter. of the local textile supply chain. right to refuse to work in unsafe conditions. 76 | A people company 77 | A people company Bosnia Croatia Hungary Albania Serbia Romania 2 suppliers 14 suppliers 2 suppliers 10 suppliers 7 suppliers 50 suppliers 50% assessed 100% assessed 50% assessed 40% assessed 100% assessed 82% assessed Italy 126 suppliers 13% assessed Korea 27 suppliers 63% assessed Spain 10 suppliers 10% assessed Portugal 12 suppliers 42% assessed China 103 suppliers Morocco 83% assessed Occasionally, Benetton 6 suppliers 83% assessed Laos Vietnam collaborated with a few suppliers India 2 suppliers 1 supplier located in France, Moldavia, Ukraine, 114 suppliers Tunisia 97% assessed 100% assessed 100% assessed Bulgaria and Brazil for the performance 113 suppliers of minor production processes. Given 88% assessed Bangladesh 17 suppliers the occasional nature of the relationship Turkey 100% assessed 62 suppliers Cambodia and the low level of risk associated with 55% assessed 6 suppliers these activities, no assessment was Myanmar 100% assessed 5 suppliers carried out locally with regard to Egypt 80% assessed the compliance of these plants with 11 suppliers the respect of human rights. 91% assessed 2016 2017 2018 Sakhi United by Light GRI 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Sakhi means “friend” in Hindi and is a program that United by Light is a project carried out in collaboration No. of new suppliers 68 59 128 of which: Benetton India launched in 2016 in favor of a group with HelpAge India, aimed at restoring independence New suppliers screened based of its female employees with a low level of education of elderly women through the treatment of cataracts, on their social impact 46 37 82 and coming from disadvantaged classes in the a disease particularly widespread in India, where there Percentage of new suppliers screened based Guargaon area. Through the program, these women is only one ophthalmologist per 100 000 inhabitants. on their social impact 67.6% 62.7% 64.1% have access to health checkups, foreign language In 2018, Benetton India organized more than 2 000 GRI 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken courses on a weekly basis and craftsmanship labs, thus free eyesight checks and around 200 free cataract Total no. of suppliers 622 677 707 of which: increasing their skills and promoting their economic operations for elderly women living in rural areas Suppliers screened based independence. In 2018, the craftsmanship labs or without the means to afford them. on their social impact 315 314 325 concentrated on the upcycling of production scraps Suppliers identified as having significant to be used for the creation of daily use objects like Clothes for a Cause negative social, real and potential impacts handbags, vases, carpets and beauty cases. Working in partnership with a network of local nonin relation to the community 62 60 59 Suppliers identified as having significant governmental organizations such as Samarapan negative social, real and potential impacts Aarohi Homes, CanKids and the Uday Foundation, Benetton in relation to the community with which “Aarohi. Wings of Empowerment” is a project developed India donates defective or returned garments to improvement actions were agreed in order in 2017 to improve the health of Indian women and the needy through the Clothes for a Cause charity to mitigate the social impacts 40 46 35 Percentage of suppliers identified as having girls during the menstrual phase, while decreasing the initiative. significant negative social, real and potential ecological footprint of Benetton India. Aarohi relies on 78 | A people company 79 | A people company impacts in relation to the community with the use of production scraps deriving from Benetton POSH which improvement actions were agreed in garments to create high quality cotton sanitary napkins. Since March 2015, Benetton India has translated order to mitigate the social impacts 64.5% 76.7% 59.3% Suppliers identified as having significant The pads, produced by a group of 100 dressmakers in the Indian law that provides protection to women negative social, real and potential impacts Bangalore, are soft, easily washed with soap and water from sexual harassment in the workplace within the in relation to the community with which and can be reused up to 72 times. More than 40 000 context of the POSH (Policy on Prevention of Sexual relations were terminated after assessment 28 16 24 pads were distributed in 2018, with the help of the Harassment at Workplace) project. Through POSH, Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant negative social, real and potential partner organizations – HelpAge India, Child Rights & Benetton India ensures that the work environment impacts in relation to the community with which You (CRY), Wockhardt Foundation and NAARI Wellness promotes equal opportunities and professional relations were terminated after assessment 45.2% 26.7% 40.7% – active in different regions of the country, which also growth and that every woman working in the company provide concrete help involving educational support receives equal treatment, is treated with dignity and to combat the taboos still widespread in India about respect and is protected against sexual harassment Social communication World AIDS Day menstruations. The Aarohi project received two prizes in the workplace. The choice of social themes, the collaboration with On the occasion of December 1, 2018, the World at the ET NOW CSR Leadership Awards, a contest held bodies concretely committed to solidarity and the AIDS Day, the ASA AIDS Solidarity Association invited in Mumbai in February 2018. support to causes that otherwise could not have been Oliviero Toscani and Fabrica to participate in an communicated on a global scale have given meaning exhibition-show at 10 Corso Como Tazzoli, in Milan, Nanhi Kali and value to Benetton communication, helping to build designed to change our way of thinking about people Through the Nanhi Kali project, Benetton Group a serious and ongoing dialog with different actors who live with HIV. supports the extra-curricular education of 600 around the world. students from disadvantaged families in the Indian cities Women’s empowerment in India of Gurgaon and Noida, providing them with a complete Universal Declaration of Human Rights One of the most deeply felt social ills in India, the study kit, shoes for the school uniforms, stationery For the United Nations High Commissioner for Human main market for Benetton Group outside Italy, is products and after-school support. Nanhi Kali was Rights, Fabrica designed a series of creative proposals gender inequality. For this reason, some years ago launched in 1996 by K. C. Mahindra Education Trust, to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the Universal Benetton India launched a series of initiatives designed a long-standing Indian humanitarian organization, which Declaration of Human Rights. to promote women’s empowerment and equality has provided access to education for more than between men and women. 200 000 girls and young women. The new faces of an Italy that studies and works In 2018, United Colors of Benetton and Fabrica published two new images on integration by Oliviero Toscani. The subjects photographed are first and second generation immigrants who carry out or will carry out fundamental tasks in Italian civil society. The first photo represents a group of university medical students. Among them are a Nigerian, an Indian, a Chadian, an Anglo-Sri Lankan and an Italian-Nigerian, who are studying to make their contribution to the Italian national health 81 | Chi siamo system. 80 | Focus The second photograph shows a group of professionals: a police officer from the Enna police headquarters, a councilor in charge of public education from the municipality of Scandicci, a priest from the province of Pavia, an imam from Rome, a doctor and a lawyer from Milan. They originally came from Cameroon, Senegal, Indonesia, Togo and the Democratic Republic of Congo, but they are all working to build a better Italy. Accompanied by a series of video interviews, the two photographs of The new faces of an Italy that studies and works are part of a larger project on integration, which Toscani and Fabrica began in autumn 2017 by taking pictures at a multi-ethnic school in Milan, and fit into the long history of fighting all forms of discrimination pursued by Benetton Group. A green company Understanding and respecting the environment are essential requirements for a large company, especially today with global warming and its consequences becoming increasingly visible every day. Benetton Group’s commitment to sustainability is part of the Company’s DNA. Just think of the green on the United Colors of Benetton logo or the numerous environmental communication campaigns that the brand has launched since the 1990s. Our commitment continues today, with environmental protection initiatives involving various activities: from the selection of raw materials to improving the efficiency of processes along the entire supply chain. 82 | Chi siamo Sustainable materials Towards • Wool • Sustainable cotton a circular • Certified down • Bio-based fibers economy • Rationalization of collections • Wasatex Project • Experimental treatments • Focus: B-Care 84 | A green company 85 | A green company Management of environmental impact • Reduction in the use of chemical pollutants • Logistics • Focus: Detox Commitment • Headquarters and stores Sustainable materials Consumers demand Benetton Group increasingly sustainable and quality products. For this reason, we carefully Sustainable cotton select the raw materials, preferring those with a reduced environmental impact. Today, 91% of the fibers in our From polo shirts to sweaters, from t-shirt to the garments are of natural origin and can therefore be disposed of without causing damage to the environment. In addition, about half of our garments are made of monofiber material, making recycling easier. Undercolors branded items, cotton is another fundamental fiber in our collections. For this reason, BCI we are committed to continuously increasing our sustainable cotton supply to produce quality items cotton GRI 301-1 Raw materials Unit 2016 2017 2018 with a reduced carbon footprint. Total t 27 065 22 851 19 077 Renewable Cotton* t 18 875 16 649 15 539 Organic cotton Wool* t 1 300 851 1 196 In 2018, organic cotton, cultivated according to the Linen* t 197 181 334 principles of organic agriculture with no GMOs and 23% Mixed (natural fibers) t 154 169 234 with a lower carbon footprint, accounted for 4.7% of Non-renewable the overall production of all of our cotton products. Artificial fibers t 1 434 1 260 1 004 Mixed (natural/artificial/man-made fibers) t 5 105 3 741 769 BCI * Pure raw materials > 35% In 2017, we joined BCI (Better Cotton Initiative), Data refers to Benetton Group S.r.l., Benetton India Private Ltd. and Benetton Korea Inc. the world’s largest project dedicated to cotton sustainability. According to the prescriptions of the Bio-based fibers Wool updated on the latest news in the industry, we will program, in 2018 we started procurement processes In summer 2018, United Colors of Benetton launched Benetton Group’s core business is knitwear promote a dialogue with the other players, share costs for cotton cultivated and collected by farmers trained Bio Beachwear, a new line of women’s swimwear made 86 | A green company 87 | A green company and outstanding quality wool is a must. In 2018, and decisions, reduce risks, maximize resources and to minimize the use of fertilizers and pesticides, using from a bio-based yarn. we implemented and confirmed a series of initiatives influence the choices that shape the future of the wool water and the soil in a sustainable way and complying The Bio Beachwear line ensures the performance of to obtain certification of the quality of our wool, market at the global level. with the principles of equity in labor relationships. nylon – a man-made polymer used for the production a fiber that can be regenerated, and to consolidate In 2018, our BCI cotton share exceeded 23% of most of the swimsuits sold in the market – but our position as global stakeholder for all the decisions (calculated on the annual total cotton requirement), uses a next generation hi-tech yarn, obtained from that involve the queen of all of the fibers we use. a very promising indication which we intend to further castor seeds that grow in arid areas that are not improve in the next years. intended for agriculture. The yarn has no effect on Woolmark the human or animal food chain. Moreover, less water 94% of the wool garments (monofiber) produced by Certified down is used for its processing and approximately 25% of the Benetton Group are made of 100% pure wool, In April 2019, a day of the In May 2017, United Colors of Benetton was certified CO2 emissions are saved compared to polyamide. The with no regenerated fibers or other fibers added. In annual congress of the according to the Responsible Down Standard (RDS), patent is owned by Fulgar, an international leader in the 2017, we obtained the Woolmark certification, a global International Wool Textile a certification that guarantees that the feathers and yarn production market. authority for wool. Its brand on our products provides Organization will take place down used in the Benetton and Sisley collections assurance to consumers on the fact that our products at the Benetton Studios come from geese and ducks reared for alimentary have been rigorously tested and stand out for their in Castrette. The theme purposes and in accordance with the principles and of this edition is “Wool in In the Undercolors 2020 absolute quality. criteria of animal wellbeing. excellence”: sustainability, Spring Summer menswear traceability, as well as animal collection we will exclusively IWTO RDS verifies – independently, through the evaluation health and welfare, will be use organic cotton. In 2017, we were the first fashion company in Europe of neutral and specialist bodies – all aspects that refer to join the IWTO, the International Wool Textile discussed. to animal farming and care, including down feather Organization. As members, we will be constantly traceability from its origin to the final product. The objective is to reassure consumers on the fact Our objective is to reach 100% that their purchase contributes to improving the living of sustainable cotton used in our conditions of the geese and ducks involved in the collections by 2025. production process. Management of environmental impact Detox Benetton Group’s contribution to the fight against climate change is extended to the Group’s entire supply chain – from manufacturing to logistics and the stores – and translates into a series of initiatives designed to reduce energy consumption, the use of chemical pollutants and CO2 emissions in our processes. Commitment Reduction in the use by its suppliers; consequently, no action was undertaken of chemical pollutants in relation to the least performing wet processes. In 2018, Benetton Group continued to concentrate Finally, the FEM module enabled the Group to quantify efforts to eliminate the most harmful chemicals from the impact of water uptake along the value chain: in 2017, its production processes. the Ponzano and Soave plants of Olimpias, a strategic supplier to Benetton Group, discharged 398 670 m3 ZDHC Wastewater Guidelines of water. Of these, about 48% were directed to water In 2018, Benetton Group confirmed its position as one of the most committed fashion In 2018, the wet process water testing programs that treatment plants and the remaining 52% to the sewerage companies in terms of sustainability, as demonstrated by the Greenpeace report Benetton Group started in 2013 were supported by system. The Group used the “ZDHC Wastewater “Destination Zero – Seven Years of Detoxing the Clothing Industry”. the adoption of the “ZDHC Waste Water Guidelines”, Guideline” standard to measure and monitor the quality a protocol shared and developed by the ZDHC (Zero of water sent to the treatment plants and in 2017 no Benetton is listed among the companies that have joined the Detox Commitment, Discharge of Hazardous Chemical) working group thresholds were exceeded with regard to all water quality a commitment launched by Greenpeace in 2011 that provides for the total elimination of which Benetton Group is a founding member. parameters. of 11 groups of chemicals by 2020, the adoption and publication of a “Restricted Recognized as the industry’s best practice, the protocol Substances List” (RSL) and the publication of the wastewater test outcomes relating facilitated the dialogue between the brands and the Logistics to suppliers involved in the “wet processes” (dyeworks and laundries). suppliers. The Benetton Group’s business model puts the 88 | A green company consumer at the center of all company processes. In addition to transparency in the publication of results and progress achieved, the report SAC and Higg Index This approach contributed to the development of our indicates that Benetton Group distinguished itself in the process of replacing chemicals In 2017, we joined SAC (Sustainable Apparel Coalition), logistic strategy, which hinges on service customization with other less impacting substances as well as in its ability to monitor its suppliers. By the 89 | Focus the largest alliance promoting sustainable production, based on the needs of the points of sale, a reduced end of 2017, the Company published already 80% of the test results carried out on the including fashion, footwear and textile brands. As SAC environmental impact and the attainment of a higher wastewater of suppliers involved in the so-called wet processes. members, starting from 2018 we began to use the Higg level of traceability for its garments through the “EndIndex, i.e. a series of tools that enable brands and retailers to-End Visibility Control Tower”, which allows to manage Since 2013, the year in which the Group joined the Detox Commitment, United Colors to measure their sustainability performances. Thanks to the supply chain from one single observation point and of Benetton has taken important steps towards eliminating harmful chemicals from its the Higg Index, we evaluated a significant percentage identify at any time any Benetton product aggregation processes and products, as demonstrated by its success in 2016, when it was nominated (approximately 70% by volume) of wet processes with a level of detail that reaches single SKUs. one of the three leading brands worldwide according to Greenpeace’s Detox Catwalk using the FEM module (i.e., the Facility Environmental index. Module), which monitors the adoption of environmental Intermodal transportation management systems, the use of water and energy, the In 2018, we confirmed our commitment to intermodal emissions into the atmosphere and the use of chemicals. transportation and, in general, to the use of the least The Higg FEM includes about 80 questions based on environmentally impacting transportation means with a an application-oriented principle and is organized as view to reducing CO2 emissions linked to our logistical a supplier self-assessment. It can also be verified by and distribution activities. As to imports of goods from a third party entity approved by SAC. There are no China, we have consolidated the use of the train service monitoring visits or follow-up audits, but the supplier is from Shanghai/Dalian to Warsaw (Poland), continuing engaged in an ongoing improvement and transparency with road transport to reach the Castrette factories. process subject to assessment at year end. Overcoming In 2018, a combined cargo ship and flight system was the traditional “pass or fail” logic, Higg FEM provides also implemented for goods that would have been benchmarks that allow companies to identify weaknesses shipped entirely by air transport due to a maritime transit and possible actions to be taken. Benetton, at least for time which was considered inadequate based on the the first year, has decided to avoid setting any minimum envisaged delivery dates; this mode allows goods to be value threshold in the evaluation of the ratings obtained transported first by cargo ships – and thus resulting in Photo: Alessandro Vona/Greenpeace In 2019, the French company In 2019, we will convert part TK Blue will implement for of the air transport in rail Benetton Group a new procedure transport for the orders of goods for calculating the annual with destination Mongolia environmental impact of inbound and the eastern regions of Russia. and outbound transport, which will not be limited to the Headquarters and stores redistribution of workspaces and plant management calculation of emissions, but will Since 2015, Benetton Group has carried out energy and revamping, also in 2018 the Benetton Group was reduced emissions compared to cargo flight transport analyze it by mode of transport diagnosis tests on a representative sample of stores again successful in optimizing and reducing energy – and then continue with air transport for the final and geographical area of and in the headquarters of Ponzano and Castrette. consumption in its headquarters. Similar efforts were portion of the journey. Finally, since 2018, dedicated destination, thus allowing concrete These valuations provided a snapshot of the energy made to improve energy efficiency in the stores orders have been produced for clothing destined for actions to be taken, targeting consumption structure of the areas analyzed, enabling with the installation of highly efficient air conditioning Mexico, one of our main foreign markets, to anticipate the reduction of environmental the Company to identify the major criticalities and systems, the use of LED lamps and the installation delivery in Castrette and convert a percentage of air impact in relation to transport. consequently define and develop a structured energy of self-reading energy meters. transport into a fast maritime service, with 97% CO2 efficiency plan. Thanks to a project including the emissions expected to be saved. Saturation of transportation GRI 302-1 Energy consumption Unit 2016 2017 2018 Methane Thanks to the elimination of pallets, we have optimized Energy consumption in the headquarters kWh 18 196 465 18 124 756 18 690 493 In 2018, we consolidated the use of methane-fueled packaging storage on our vehicles, eliminating one truck GJ 65 507 65 249 67 286 vehicles in inbound flow of merchandise from the in five for the transportation of our merchandise in Energy consumption in the stores kWh 30 096 006 36 146 392 38 855 632 ports of Genoa/La Spezia/Trieste/Venice to Castrette, Italy and Europe. GJ 129 946 130 127 139 880 Total energy consumption kWh 48 292 471 54 271 148 57 546 125 reaching 10% of the total volume. Transport on This and other measures enabled us to reduce CO2 GJ 195 453 195 376 207 166 methane-fueled vehicles resulted in 10-15% CO2 emissions linked to the transportation of merchandise Total gas* m3 1 122 963 1 331 664 1 210 994 emissions saved compared to the use of diesel-fueled on the road by 25%, resulting in 511 tons of CO2 saved GJ 39 326 46 787 42 691 vehicles. every year. Diesel oil** l 54 104 57 351 441 914 GJ 1 945 2 062 15 856 90 | A green company 91 | A green company Reverse logistics Packaging Gasoline** l 91 002 114 097 168 369 All the unsold items are collected in a single warehouse, Thanks to the use of reusable metal baskets, Benetton GJ 2 978 3 733 5 514 in Biancade, Treviso, and from there routed to outlets Group saves over 1 300 tons of cardboard every year, District heating kWh 131 929 131 000 121 825 GJ 475 472 439 and wholesalers. corresponding to approximately 20 000 trees. Total energy consumption GJ 240 177 248 430 271 666 CO2 emissions reductions Unit 2016 2017 2018 * The breakdown of natural gas consumption between headquarters and stores is not available. Logistics t CO2 20 821 25 744 24 580 Data relative to the consumption of natural gas in 2016 include only a certain number of stores in Italy. ** 2016-2017 the consumption is limited to heating. 2018 the consumption includes also vehicle fleet. Intensity index g Co2/item x km 0.068 0.087 0.027 FSC certified paper water-based inks. FSC is the global trademark that Data Center Today, catalogues, brochures and other paper-based identifies products deriving from controlled forests Work began in 2012 and continued through 2018 to Renewable energy communication materials used by the Benetton Group managed according to social and environmental improve the efficiency of the Ponzano Data Center, Since 2017, the energy feeding the entire Benetton are developed in FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) sustainability criteria. absorbing about 7% of the total energy of the campus. campus and 65% of the stores in Italy is generated paper, also used for the store shoppers, treated with These interventions mainly concerned the power supply by certified renewable sources (water and ocean). and air conditioning system of the Data Center and GRI 301-1 Packaging Unit 2016 2017 2018 resulted in a reduced consumption of approximately Non-commercial investments Total t 5 911 5 553 5 010 750 000 kWh/year. Over one-half of the non-commercial investments Renewable Further projects targeted to the improvement of made in 2018 targeted plant safety improvement. Paper and cardboard t 4 825 4 563 4 127 the Data Center power supply efficiency (UPS) are Moreover, we continued the replacement of the lighting Non-renewable scheduled for 2019, with a projected reduction to be with energy efficient, long lasting LED bulbs in some of Polyethylene (PE) t 1 084 989 881 achieved by December of about 50 000 kWh/year and the areas of the factories of Ponzano and Castrette. Iron t 2 1 2 2020-year projections of about 120 000 kWh. Data refers to Benetton Group S.r.l., Benetton India Private Ltd. and Benetton Korea Inc. GRI 305-1 / 305-2 Emissions Unit 2016 2017 2018 Scope 1 Emissions (GRI 305-1) The relamping activity and the In 2019, we will launch an internal Consumption of natural gas in the headquarters t CO2 2 195 2 615 2 388 and in the directly operated stores* consequent increase in efficiency communication campaign aimed Diesel oil t CO2 143 152 1 167 will be continued in a massive at stimulating more sustainable Gasoline t CO2 218 274 404 manner also in 2019 according behavior among our employees Total t CO2 2 557 3 040 3 959 to the relevant investment plan. during their daily life in the Scope 2 Emissions (GRI 305-1) – Location Based Company. The campaign will District heating t CO2 74 77 23 encourage water, electricity, paper Energy consumption in the headquarters t CO2 6 503 6 479 6 158 and ink savings and is the first Energy consumption in the directly operated stores t CO2 10 959 11 350 14 326 In 2019, we will launch the of a series of initiatives aimed at Total t CO2 17 462 17 829 20 507 “B-Green” project, a new making our factories in Castrette, Scope 2 Emissions (GRI 305-1) – Market Based sustainability-based store format Ponzano and Fabrica more District heating t CO2 74 77 23 Energy consumption in the headquarters** t CO2 8 507 426 1 472 characterized by the use of digital efficient and sustainable. Energy consumption in the directly operated stores t CO2 17 513 12 340 14 106 mannequins and decorative Total t CO2 26 020 12 766 15 601 materials derived from production * The breakdown of CO2 linked to the consumption of natural gas between headquarters and stores is not available. residues and waste of the textile ** The reduction of CO2 emissions in 2017 is due to the purchasing of green energy. In 2018 the consumptions of Benetton India Pvt. Ltd. industry, along with increased and Benetton Korea Inc. – not reported in 2016-2017 – are also included. energy efficiency through an automated management of all plants through the analysis of Big 92 | A green company 93 | A green company Data and artificial intelligence. Store effort integrates recent activities targeted to energy In 2018, we presented “London”, a new store concept, efficiency and implemented in the On Canvas store also replicated in Turin and Padua, where we have concept, which features LED lamps, high efficiency air used furniture in natural materials and environmentally conditioning systems, FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) sustainable linings, limiting the use of plasterboard. This certified wood furniture and Leed certified ceramic. Waste management regard to waste management and its ethical and Benetton Group operates in compliance with the environmental consequences. Europe average API industry’s regulations and behaves responsibly with The API (Area Performance Index) index measures API 2016 0.0712 annual energy consumption rates of a store in relation Total waste production 2016 2017 2018 to its sale surface and the total of opening hours in API 2017 0.0680 one year. The index is used by the Group to monitor Unit Total % Total % Total % and compare energy consumption rates of the directly Total t 1 956 100 1 754 100 2 202 100 API 2018 0.0563 managed stores. of which: Recurring waste t 1 781 91 1 679 96 2 152 98 of which segregated t 1 593 81 1 492 85 1 916 87 In 2018, energy consumption monitoring in the the replacement of traditional light bulbs with LED ones of which non segregated t 188 10 187 11 236 11 stores improved, enabling the Group to collect more and the implementation of specific metering devices Occasional waste t 175 9 75 4 50 2 representative data regarding store performance in for the main consumption centers. The Group’s future Europe. objective is the development of a system that collects, Waste production (t) In 2018, the API index, already down in the previous analyzes and quantifies store data with a view to further period, reduced further (-17%) thanks to store improving the monitoring and implementation of an 81% 10% 9% 2016 1 956 refurbishment and restyling, the continued installation automated management system that optimizes energy 85% 11% 4% of innovative high-efficiency air conditioning systems, consumption. 2017 1 754 87% 11% 2% 2018 2 202 Segregated Non segregated Occasional Recurring Towards a circular economy B-Care In 2018, Benetton Group continued and launched a series of initiatives intended to improve the circular supply chain, from design to production to consumption and product end-cycle. The aim is to develop a medium-term strategy of circular economy, designed to improve the sustainability of our production processes, by gradually limiting the quantity of inbound materials and energy, while concurrently reducing waste and outbound losses. In a society hinged on disposable fashion, Benetton Rationalization of collections Experimental treatments Group is committed to producing garments that last During the year, we have reduced the volume of In the year, we have experimented alternative over time. However, their duration also depends on how production and increased the quality of our garments treatments for our collections, with the objective of consumers treat them. That is why in 2018 we published and materials. This strategic decision – which has a clear reducing waste of resources and the use of chemicals B-Care, an online garment maintenance guide for our impact on the Benetton Group’s carbon footprint – is harmful to the environment. consumers. a response to the need to make consumers buy fewer Under the slogan “Wear. Care. Repair”, the guide garments, which will last for a longer time. Mineral-based dyes includes a series of video tutorials and written instructions that explain how to simply take In 2018, we continued the project regarding the care of one’s garments at home in order to make them last longer. B Long garment-dyed process using mineral-based dyes on an B Long is a comprehensive strategic project designed organic cotton men’s t-shirt line. This project follows In addition, the guide also explains how to read garment labels and how to wash garments to ensure the quality and duration of our garments the experimentations of the past years in the field of by hand and in the washing machine in order to prevent color fading or product shrinking; through the selection of raw materials, a series of more sustainable, mineral-based dyes. how to remove pilling, i.e. the small balls of fiber that form on the weave, as a result of functional and mechanical tests designed to assess use; how to mend garments, sew buttons, patch a cotton jersey or repair an item by using 94 | A green company the technical-quality characteristics, an in-depth Denim needle and thread. analysis of consumers’ real needs and communication In the year, we developed a laser-treated “denim color” campaigns to provide our customers with detailed for men’s and women’s denim items. These actions, if carried out frequently and with care, considerably increase the life cycle 95 | Focus instructions on garment care and repair. of a garment, thus helping to reduce the carbon footprint of the fashion industry. Wasatex Project Developed in 2014-2016 thanks to EU funding, the Over the next few years, we Wasatex project allowed the textile factory of the will be working on a series Olimpias Tekstil Group in Osijek, Croatia, to reuse of garments featuring strong purified wastewater in its industrial production cycle. sustainability and recyclability The aim of the project is to recycle up to 90% of characteristics, i.e. combining the process water when the plant is fully operational. characteristics such as Olimpias Tekstil is a long-standing partner of Benetton monofiber, organic cotton, Group. natural fibers, cellulose-based labels, mineral-based dyes and laser and ozone-based treatments. A numbers company In 2018 a new wave of optimism swept over the clothing market, despite the uncertainties and the still unresolved challenges: the volatility of the macroeconomic context, the instability of some emerging markets, the drive towards digitalization, new consumer purchasing habits and the need to revise traditional retail mechanisms made a total recovery of the industry difficult, but still a few stimulating innovation opportunities were offered. For Benetton Group, the year just ended was a period of transition, during which action was taken on the product, by enhancing innovation and improving the attractiveness of the collections; on communication, by investing in storytelling and on the integration between online and offline stores to offer customers a new, informal and digital shopping experience. Despite innovation and investments, the recovery of the Group’s profitability is still uncertain: sales in the intermediate seasons were affected by adverse weather conditions and the worsening of the geopolitical situation in some countries, and especially in the Middle East, constituted a further element of difficulty. For Benetton Group, 2018 represents the beginning of a new course, thanks to its rediscovered identity of quality and color, which we expect to be seen translated into an improvement in overall profitability, thanks to sales uptrend, improved margins and cost containment measures. 98 | A numbers company Financial capital Production capital 99 | A numbers company Sisley 143 (12%) Financial UCB 1 080 (88%) capital 2018 net sales by brand 2018 net sales by geographical area In 2018, product transformation and evolution, distribution and brand repositioning had a negative impact on the Vendite nette per marchio (million Euro) (milioni di euro) Euro)nette per area geografica Vendite (million Group’s economic results. (milioni di euro) GRI 201-1 Value generated and distributed by Benetton (thousand Euro) Rest of the world Sisley 306 (25%) 2016 2017 2018 Economic value generated 1 489 759 1 341 314 1 304 758 143 (12%) Italy Economic value distributed 1 461 274 1 397 451 1 334 651 418 (34%) Operating costs 1 187 930 1 126 330 1 082 198 Value distributed to employees 224 017 232 263 223 820 Value distributed to investors 12 807 15 720 13 918 Value distributed to P.A. 33 548 20 751 13 223 UCB 1 080 (88%) Value distributed to the community 2 970 2 384 1 493 Total retained economic value 28 485 (56 137) (29 893) Rest of Europe The economic value generated by Benetton amounts on improving product quality and increasing margins; 506 (41%) Vendite nette per area geografica to Euro 1 304 million, the economic value distributed • fewer promotions along with expected short-term (milioni di euro) totals Euro 1 334 million and the economic value sales reduction, but with the commitment to increase retained is negative for about Euro 29 million. brand attractiveness in the long term. Rest of the world 306 (25%) The reduction in the economic value generated is 100 | A numbers company 101 | A numbers company attributable to a reduction in sales by the directly Despite the overall decreased economic value 66% of sales Italy operated stores, which were affected by the general generated, the Group maintained the commitments to 418 (34%) context of weakness, with similar declines also in its stakeholders: the largest portion of the economic comparable stores. The reduced economic value value distributed (around 81%) is allocated to supplier overseas distributed is essentially due to: remuneration, in particular to the management of • targeted control of operating costs, receivables and operating services and the purchase of raw materials. inventories in order to limit operating loss, consistently 17% is allocated to employee remuneration, including with the provisions of the Three-Year Plan; all that is provided for in the relevant contract as well as • progressive rationalization of the collections, focused the welfare system guaranteed to employees. Rest of Europe 506 (41%) 1 334 651 Economic value generated and distribuited (thousand Euro) (thousand Euro) economic value 2016 1 489 759 2017 1 341 314 2018 1 304 758 distributed Economic value generated Total economic value retained Economic value distributed: Operating costs To employees To capital providers To Public Administration To the community Production capital GRI 204-1 Value of procured products (Euro) Rete distributiva Benetton Group dell’azienda distribution network in 2018 In a broader perspective, production capital also 2016 2017 2018 (numero di negozi) (no. of stores) includes the Group’s distribution network, currently EMEA 353 312 938 51.0% 287 045 960 46.6% 265 281 050 45.6% involved in a complex process of development, Asia 336 053 624 48.5% 324 998 313 52.8% 313 659 457 54.0% UCB rationalization and significant restyling. The main Rest of the world 3 345 159 0.5% 3 418 931 0.6% 2 187 476 0.4% 4 034 (86%) investments in the period targeted the provision Total 692 711 720 615 463 204 581 127 983 of support to the direct sales network and the refurbishment of existing stores as well as the Most of the suppliers used by Benetton Group for the countries. The greater proximity of suppliers to the development of the omnichannel project. Sisley production of clothing, footwear and accessories (54%) Group’s headquarters, where the main operational In the near future, after the consolidation of the 684 (14%) are currently located in Asia, particularly in China, India activities are concentrated, allows faster response to objective of balancing directly operated stores and and Bangladesh. Confirming the new course started creative needs, increased control of the supply chain franchisees, Benetton Group intends to continue the last year, the Group is re-evaluating its procurement and improved efficiency of logistics. restyling of the stores, the roll-out of the omnichannel strategy by choosing suppliers located in the EMEA* project on the entire distribution network in Italy and the growth of e-commerce. * The reference excludes the collections of Korea, India and Japan, Italy which are produced by local suppliers. FOS + IOS DOS 1 289 132 2017 1 421 102 | A numbers company 103 | A numbers company 2018 1 256 FOS + IOS DOS 1 142 114 Rest of Europe FOS + IOS DOS 1 164 360 2017 1 524 2018 1 350 FOS + IOS DOS 988 362 Rest of the world FOS + IOS DOS 1 468 700 2017 2 168 2018 2 112 FOS + IOS DOS 1 383 729 Appendix Methodological notes Benetton Group’s Integrated Report illustrates how value is created over time through the connections between The main aspects subject to monitoring in 2018 and influential non-governmental organizations and financial and non-financial factors, and the business’s primary sustainability performance indicators. regarded the following areas: policy makers, and the main global stock exchanges • human rights in order to identify the main sustainability trends; The principles and content of the “International <IR> Framework” issued in December 2013 by the International • freedom of association • mapping of priorities and strategic business objectives. Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) were taken into account for the drafting of the Integrated Report. The • environment and product life cycle report was also prepared in accordance with the “GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards” defined in 2016 by the • product-related policies (toxic substances, The identified issues were then prioritized through the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), in accordance with the Core Option. consumer health) direct involvement of the management, with a view to • animal welfare giving greater importance to aspects that can positively Our stakeholders In particular, the “Internal Communication” project, • supply chain and stakeholder engagement or negatively affect the ability of the organization Taking the areas of Company activity into account, designed to reinforce the Group’s communication • ethics in business to provide a vision and create value. As regards the Benetton Group has mapped its stakeholders, dividing and increase the level of knowledge of all Benetton • communication relevance for Benetton Group the following factors them into: employees, was further pursued with the implementation • consumer rights were considered: • internal: people that are part of the Company; of 20 KNIT points, i.e. monitors installed in the • Company commitment and policies concerning • external: people that work along the Group’s value headquarters of Ponzano and Castrette, displaying key Materiality assessment each topic; creation chain or that are indirectly influenced/affected content regarding the life of the Company. The degree of detail with which the different topics • the impact of each topic on the Company’s capital 106 | Appendix Methodological notes 107 | Appendix Methodological notes by the Company’s activities. Benetton Group’s commitment to building solid within the Report are treated reflects the results of the as identified by the framework <IR> (financial, This exercise allowed to identify 30 relevant categories relations with its stakeholders also takes the form of materiality assessment. manufactured, intellectual, human, natural, social and of stakeholders were identified, which, through dedicated targeted “Public Affairs” activities, which in the period relationship capital). interviews and workshops with the main Company concentrated on the Company’s participation in several The materiality assessment is a process aimed at functions, were subsequently prioritized on the basis of: workshops focusing on social and environmental identifying, assessing and prioritizing the most significant The identified topics were then submitted to the • their dependence on Benetton; sustainability. issues from both the Company’s point of view and stakeholders for their evaluation through a questionnaire • their influence on Benetton. In October 2018, Benetton Group participated in the that of its stakeholders. As envisaged by the GRI administered to employees and end consumers “Social Corporate Responsibility and Social Innovation Standards, material topics are identified by considering and each item was analyzed based on the relevant Benetton Group stakeholders Roadshow”, which was held in Milan, testifying to its the importance of the impacts of business activities importance for the stakeholder category considered. commitment to the reduction of water consumption both within and outside the reporting perimeter, With regard to the importance for stakeholders, it has Consumers through the Wasatex project. The project aims at meaning throughout the entire value chain of Benetton been considered the specific relevance of the different Exte rna purifying water allowing its industrial re-use in an Group. The process of identification of the material topics for the sector in which Benetton Group operates. Suppliers lS environmentally friendly and efficient way from a items was updated in 2018 with a view to reflecting the Once the issues had been prioritized for stakeholders ers production perspective. The event was an opportunity changes applied to the Group’s new governance, the and the company management, data were consolidated, rs old Unions lde eh tak for Benetton Group to share relevant business and priorities, the strategic orientations and the changes so as to obtain the materiality matrix which led to the Internal Stak light industrial experiences with a common vision on of the external context. The necessary inputs were definition of the contents for the 2018 Integrated eh Colleagues sustainable development, oriented towards green and then collected on the most relevant issues on which Report. o Communities Shareholders Associations circular economy. to confirm/promote data collection and sustainability Other Workers’ In 2018, Benetton Group took part in the SDGs reporting in the Report. clothing brands unions Media collective action dedicated to circular economy, In particular, the first phase of the process of definition organized by the Global Compact Network Italy of the materiality perimeter included the identification of Regulatory bodies NGOs testifying its concrete contribution to the Sustainable the relevant issues based on the following elements: Universities Development Goals. • media analysis aimed at mapping media coverage and Business Partners In addition, during the year Benetton Group carried out public interest in each topic; an ongoing legislation monitoring activity with the aim • benchmark analysis of the topics covered by major of identifying issues potentially subject to regulation, companies operating in the same sector as Benetton In 2018, Benetton Group confirmed a number of institutional dynamics and movements of opinion, thus Group; stakeholder engagement activities launched in the enabling it to interpret the political, institutional and • analysis of the main sector documents, sustainability previous year. social context in which the Company operates. indexes, documents and reports of the most relevant High Consumer experience Perimeter by aspect Disclosure limitations on perimeter by aspect and product quality GRI standard material aspects Internal External Internal External Economic performance Group Respect of human rights of workers Procurement practices Group Materials Group Suppliers Disclosure partially extended to suppliers Product safety Effluents and waste Suppliers Disclosure partially extended to suppliers Environmental compliance Health and safety in the workplace Emissions Group Suppliers; Logistics; Disclosure partially Disclosure not extended Relevance for stakeholders Indirect points of sale extended to directly to the indirect points of Responsible raw material (IOS/FOS) operated stores and sale and suppliers; partially Responsible supply procurement chain management Polluting chemicals Italian offices extended to logistics Management and development of human Environmental compliance Group Relations with Innovation resources Supplier environmental assessment Group local communities Employment Group Diversity and equal Labor/management relations Group 108 | Appendix Methodological notes 109 | Appendix Methodological notes opportunity Occupational Health and Safety Group Suppliers Disclosure not extended Climate change to suppliers and energy efficiency Training and education Group Indirect points of sale Disclosure partially Brand protection (IOS/FOS) extended to indirect Leadership continuity and Company’s points of sale governance stability Fight against Diversity and equal opportunity Group Suppliers Responsible and transparent corruption communication Non-discrimination Group Suppliers Water consumption Consolidation Freedom of association Group Suppliers Disclosure not extended of the business model and collective bargaining to suppliers Digital transformation and profitability Packaging Circular economy Child labor Group Suppliers Multi-channel strategy and focus Forced or compulsory labor Group Suppliers Low Consumer privacy on strategic markets Human rights assessment Group Suppliers Local communities Group Suppliers Disclosure not extended to suppliers Low Relevance for Benetton High Supplier social assessment Group Customer health and safety Group Marketing and product labelling Group Socioeconomic compliance Group The material topics were then cross-checked against As for the material aspects outside of Benetton the aspects defined by the GRI Standards, as set out Group, but currently not reported, the Company will in the following table. The table also indicates the focus its attention in coming years on implementing perimeter of each aspect and any possible limitation specific activities designed to gradually extend the involving failure to extend reporting to the perimeter scope of disclosure. outside the organization. Reporting perimeter and sustainability context actions and characteristics. The process of reporting rate, the lost days by injury were calculated as calendar energy consumption derive from Terna previous table This document is the third edition of Benetton Group’s the information and quantitative data was improved days from the day the incident occurred (unless the (2015), as it was the most updated version at the time Integrated Report and contains a description of through the implementation of a software tool and latter was worked in part) and include the days lost for in which the calculation was made (2017 reporting initiatives and activities carried out during calendar year structured so as to ensure data comparability over commuting injuries. cycle). For the calculation of market-based emissions, 2018 and performance trends during the three years time, where possible, in order to provide an accurate the residual mixes reported in the “European Residual from 2016 to 2018, if available. interpretation of the information and a complete view Greenhouse gas emissions Mixes” document, published by ABI and available for to all stakeholders interested in trends of Benetton’s Greenhouse gas emissions were calculated using the the years 2016-2017, were used, where available. The Performance indicators are gathered and reported on performance. principles indicated in the ISO 14064-1 international emissions linked to district heating were calculated an annual basis. standard. In particular, the only gas considered was using the emission factors reported in the Defra The information reported refers to Benetton Group Calculation methods carbon dioxide (CO2). The emission factors used to tables available for the 2016-2017-2018 three-year S.r.l. and its subsidiaries in Italy and abroad. Details of the methods used to calculate certain calculate the CO2 emissions disclosed in the Report period. The reporting perimeter coincides with the above, indicators reported in this document are provided were determined in the following way: except for some data relative to the following below. The data referred to 2018 are the best possible Scope 3 indirect emissions: for the calculation indicators: GRI 108-1, 102-41, 401-1, 404-1, 403-1, estimate with the information available at the time Scope 1 direct emissions: the emissions related to the of CO2 emissions connected with logistics transport, which for the 2016 period were limited to Retail Italia of the drafting of this Report. total consumption of natural gas and diesel oil for the a methodology developed by TK Blue, an international 110 | Appendix Methodological notes 111 | Appendix Methodological notes Network S.r.l., Fabrica S.p.A., Ponzano Children S.r.l., heating of the head offices and global direct stores and non-financial agency specialized in transport, was used. Benetton Servizi S.r.l., Benetton India Pvt Ltd, Benetton Retention after parental leave gasoline and diesel oil for the company vehicles were Korea Inc., Benetton Asia Pacific Ltd, Benetton Retail The retention rate after parental leave is calculated determined using the emission factor reported in the Sucursal en España, New Ben GmbH, Benetton Russia as the number of workers employed 12 months after table of national standard parameters published by the o.o.o., Benetton Mexicana S.A. de C.V., Kazan Real returning from maternity/paternity leave compared Italian Ministry for the Environment for 2016, 2017 and Estate o.o.o., Benetton Giyim Sanayi A.S., Benetton to the number of employees who took parental leave 2018. Group S.r.l. Sucursal em Portugal, Benetton Japan during the year. CO. Ltd. Benetton Retail Poland Sp. Z.O.O., and Scope 2 indirect emissions: indirect emissions Benetton Group S.r.l. Succursale en France due to a Injury rates relate to energy and district heating; the emissions change in the data collection process which does not Details of the methods of calculation used for injury connected with the consumption of electricity are ensure full data comparability. rates are provided below: calculated according to the location-based and Benetton Group S.r.l. has its headquarters in via Villa • Lost day rate: number of working days lost due market-based approach. For the calculation of the Minelli, in Ponzano Veneto (Treviso), while its industrial to injury/hours worked x 1 000 location-based emissions the emission factors complex is located in via della Cartiera 1, in Castrette di • Injury rate: number of injuries/hours worked reported in the tables published by Terna were used Villorba (Treviso). x 1 000 000 regarding the international comparisons available for 2016 (the most recent version) based on Enerdata Principles for ensuring report quality The rates for all three years have been calculated for statistics, used for the calculation of the indirect The information reported was gathered with the aim of permanent employees only and exclude interns and emissions in 2018. Conversely, the factors used to providing a balanced and clear picture of the Company’s other staff on temporary contracts. For the lost day calculate indirect emissions regarding 2017-2016 GRI content index GRI Disclosure Page number Omission GRI Disclosure Page number Omission Standard Standard GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2018 102-47 List of material topics 106-109 102-48 Restatement of information 110-111 Organizational profile 102-49 Changes in reporting 106-111 102-1 Name of the organization 110 102-50 Reporting period to which the social responsibility report refers 110-111 102-2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 15; 39-47 102-51 Date of most recent previous social responsibility report 110 102-3 Location of the organization’s headquarters 110 102-52 Reporting cycle 110 102-4 Countries in which the organization operates 15; 26-27 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the social responsibility report 124 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form 26-27; 110 and its contents 102-6 Markets served 54; 102-103 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 106 102-7 Scale of the organization 10-11; 64; 100-103 102-55 GRI content index 112-119 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 64-66 102-56 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance 121-123 102-9 Description of the supply chain (number of suppliers, volumes and sourcing 75-78; 88-90 for the social responsibility report markets) 102-10 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s 20-21 size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain 102-11 Explanation of how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed The Company 112 | Appendix GRI content index 113 | Appendix GRI content index by the organization adopts a prudential approach in managing environmental, social and governance risks as illustrated on page 36-37 102-12 External initiatives 32-33; 75-79; 88-89 102-13 Memberships of national and/or international advocacy organizations 73 Strategy 102-14 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about 7 the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability Ethics and integrity 102-16 Mission, values, codes of conduct, principles relevant to economic, 18-19; 30-31; 34-35; environmental and social performance, developed internally and state 75-78; 88-90 of progress in their implementation Governance 102-18 Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the 22-25 highest governance body. Committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups with which the organization engages 106-107 102-41 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 72 102-42 Basis for identification and selection of primary stakeholders with whom to 106-107 engage 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 106-107 102-44 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder 106-108 engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 110 102-46 Defining Report content and topic boundaries 106-109 GRI Disclosure Page number Omission GRI Disclosure Page number Omission Standard Standard MATERIAL TOPICS Effluents and waste GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 106-109 103-2 The management approach and its components 36-37; 88-92 Economic performance 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 88-92 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 306 Effluents and Waste 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 106-109 306-1 Quantity of water discharged by volume and quality 88; 94 103-2 The management approach and its components 29-31; 36-37 Environmental compliance 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 29-31 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 201: Economic performance 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 106-109 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 100-103 103-2 The management approach and its components 36-37; 88-93 Procurement practices 103-3 Evaluation of the management approacht 88-93 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 307: Environmental compliance 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 106-109 307-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the environmental area In 2018 the Group 103-2 The management approach and its components 36-37; 75; 102 has not received significant 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 75; 102 fees for non-compliance 114 | Appendix GRI content index 115 | Appendix GRI content index GRI 204: Procurement practices 2016 with laws and regulations concerning the 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations 102 environmental issue of operation Supplier environmental assessment GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 106-109 103-2 The management approach and its components 36-37; 88-89 Raw materials GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 88-89 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 106-109 GRI 308: Supplier environmental assessment 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 36-37; 86-87 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 88-89 Some information 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 86-87 regarding this indicator is not currently GRI 301: Raw materials 2016 available. Benetton 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 86-87 undertakes, Emissions in the coming years, GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 to gather the data 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 106-109 needed to disclose 103-2 The management approach and its components 36-37; 90-92 this indicator 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 90-92 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 305-1 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) 92 Some information regarding this indicator Employment is not currently GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 available. Benetton 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 106-109 undertakes, 103-2 The management approach and its components 36-37; 65-72 in the coming years, 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 65-72 to gather the data needed to disclose GRI 401: Employment 2016 this indicator 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided 65-72 305-2 Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) 92 to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation 305-3 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3) 90 401-3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave (by gender) 67 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 90 GRI Disclosure Page number Omission GRI Disclosure Page number Omission Standard Standard Labor/management relations GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 406-1 Number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 76-77 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 106-109 Freedom of association 103-2 The management approach and its components 36-37; 72-73 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 72-73 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 106-109 GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 75-79 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding organizational changes 73 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 75-79 Occupational health and safety GRI 407: Freedom of association 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 407-1 Identification of operations and main suppliers in which the right to The information 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 106-109 exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at regarding this indicator 103-2 The management approach and its components 36-37; 73 significant risk and measures taken to support these rights is not currently available. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 73 Benetton undertakes, in the coming years, GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 to gather the data GRI 403-2 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism 73 Some information needed to disclose and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender regarding this indicator this indicator is not currently Child labor 116 | Appendix GRI content index 117 | Appendix GRI content index available. Benetton undertakes, GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 in the coming years, 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 106-109 to gather the data 103-2 The management approach and its components 36-37; 75-79 needed to disclose 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 75-79 this indicator GRI 408: Child labor 2016 Training and education 408-1 Identification of operations and main suppliers having significant risk 76-77 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to its 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 106-109 elimination 103-2 The management approach and its components 36-37; 68-70 Forced or compulsory labor 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 68-70 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 106-109 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee, by gender 70 103-2 The management approach and its components 36-37; 75-79 and by employee category 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 75-79 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance 68-70 GRI 409: Forced or compulsory labor 2016 programs 409-1 Operations having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory 76-77 Diversity and equal opportunity labor, and measures taken to contribute to its elimination GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Human rights assessment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 106-109 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 22-25; 36-37; 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 106-109 64-67; 79-80 103-2 The management approach and its components 36-37; 75-79 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 22-25; 64-67; 79-80 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 75-79 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 GRI 412: Human rights assessment 2016 405-1 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees 22-25; 66 412-1 Total number and percentage of suppliers subject to human rights 76-77 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and reviews or impact assessment other indicators of diversity Local communities 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 72 Limitated to Italy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Non-discrimination 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 106-109 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 36-37; 75-79 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 106-109 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 75-79 103-2 The management approach and its components 36-37; 64-67; GRI 413: Local communities 2016 76-77; 79 413-1 Percentage of sites of operations in which local community 76-77; 78 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 64-67; 76-77; 79 engagement, impact assessments, and development programs have been implemented GRI Disclosure Page number Omission GRI Disclosure Page number Omission Standard Standard Supplier assessment for impacts on society 417-3 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations There have been no GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including significant incidents of 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 106-109 advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes non-compliance regarding 103-2 The management approach and its components 36-37; 75-78 consumer protection that determined the payment 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 75-78 of monetary fines by the GRI 414: Supplier assessment for impacts on society 2016 Group in the three-year 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 78 period 2016-2018 414-2 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society 75-78 Socioeconomic compliance and actions taken GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Customer health and safety 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 106-109 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 36-37; 52-57 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 106-109 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 36-37; 52-57 103-2 The management approach and its components 36-37; 52-53 GRI 419: Socioeconomic compliance 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 52-53 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social In 2018 the Group has not GRI 416: Customer health and safety 2016 and economic area received significant fees or 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product 52-53 118 | Appendix GRI content index 119 | Appendix GRI content index fines for non-compliance and service categories with laws and regulations 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes There have been no concerning the provision concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services significant incidents of nonand use of products and during their life cycle, by type of outcomes compliance with regulations services and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products in the three-year period 2016-2018 Marketing and labeling GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 106-109 103-2 The management approach and its components 36-37; 55-57 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 55-57 GRI 417: Marketing and labeling 2016 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling All products marketed by the Group, regardless of product sector, report the information required by law in the country in which they are marketed on their labels. More specifically, information is provided on: country of origin, presence of toxic substances, methods of disposal 417-2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations There have been no and voluntary codes concerning product and service information significant incidents of nonand labeling, by type of outcomes compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the labelling of products during their life cycle in the three-year period 2016-2018 EY S.p.A. Tel: +39 0422 358811 Viale Appiani, 20/b Fax: +39 0422 433026 31100 Treviso ey.com Independent auditors’ repor t on dat a and informat ion included in t he “ Integrat ed Repor t 2018” and referenced in t he “ GRI Content index” (Translat ion from t he original It alian t ext ) To the Board of Directors of Benetton Group S.r.l. We have been appointed to perform a limited assurance engagement on the data and information included into the “ Integrated Report 2018” of Benetton Group S.r.l. and its subsidiaries (hereinafter also “ Benetton Group” or the “ Group” ) referenced in the “ GRI Content index” for the year ended on December 31, 2018 (hereinafter also “ GRI disclosure of the Integrated Report” ). Direct ors’ responsibility on t he GRI disclosure of t he Integrated Report The Directors of Benetton Group S.r.l. are responsible for the preparation of the GRI disclosure of the 121 | Appendix Independent Auditors’ report Integrated Report in accordance with the “ Global Reporting Initiative Sustainabilit y Reporting Standards” issued in 2016 by GRI Global Reporting Initiative (“ GRI Standards” ), as described in the paragraph “ Met hodological notes” of the Integrated Report 2018. The Directors are also responsible for that part of internal control that they consider necessary in order to allow the preparation of a GRI disclosure of the Integrated Report that is free from material misstatements caused by fraud or not intentional behaviors or events. The Directors are also responsible for the identification of the stakeholders and of the significant matters to report. 120 | Chi siamo Audit ors’ independence and qualit y cont rol We are independent in accordance wit h the ethics and independence principles of the Code of Et hics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, based on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and diligence, confidentiality and professional behavior. Our audit firm applies the International Standard on Quality Control 1 (ISQC Italia 1) and, as a result, maintains a quality control system that includes documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable laws and regulations. Audit ors’ responsibility It is our responsibilit y to express, on the basis of the procedures performed, a conclusion about the compliance of the GRI disclosure of the Integrated Report with the requirements of the GRI Standards. Our work has been performed in accordance with the the principle of International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 (Revised) Assurance Engagements Other than Audit s or Reviews of Hist orical Financial Information (hereinafter ISAE 3000 Revised ), issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB) for limited assurance engagements. This principle requires the planning and execution of procedures in order to obtain a EY S.p.A. Sede Legale: Via Po, 32 00198 Roma Capitale Sociale Euro 2.525.000,00 i.v. Iscritta alla S.O. del Registro delle Imprese presso la C.C.I.A.A. di Roma Codice fiscale e numero di iscrizione 00434000584 numero R.E.A. 250904 P.IVA 00891231003 Iscritta al Registro Revisori Legali al n. 70945 Pubblicato sulla G.U. Suppl. 13 IV Serie Speciale del 17/2/1998 Iscritta all’Albo Speciale delle società di revisione Consob al progressivo n. 2 delibera n.10831 del 16/7/1997 A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited limited assurance that the GRI disclosure of the Integrated Report is free from material Conclusion misstatements. Based on the procedures performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the GRI disclosure of the Integrated Report of Benetton Group S.r.l. for the year ended on December Therefore, the extent of work performed in our examination was lower than that required for a full 31, 2018 has not been prepared, in all material aspects, in accordance with the requirements of the examination according to the ISAE 3000 Revised ( reasonable assurance engagement ) and, hence, it GRI Standards, as described in the paragraph “ Methodological notes” of the Integrated Report 2018. does not provide assurance that we have become aware of all significant matters and events that would be identified during a reasonable assurance engagement. Treviso, April 23, 2019 The procedures performed on the GRI disclosure of the Integrated Report were based on our professional judgment and included inquiries, primarily with Company’s personnel responsible for the preparation of the information included in the GRI disclosure of the Integrated Report, documents EY S.p.A. analysis, recalculations and other procedures in order to obtain evidences considered appropriate. Signed by: Maurizio Rubinato, Partner In part icular, we have performed the following procedures: This report has been translated into the English language solely for the convenience of international · analysis of the process relating to the definition of material aspects included in the GRI disclosure readers of the Integrated Report, with reference to the criteria applied to identify priorities for the 122 | Appendix Independent Auditors’ report 123 | Appendix Independent Auditors’ report different stakeholders categories and to the internal validation of the process outcomes; · comparison of economic and financial data and information included in the GRI disclosure of the Integrated Report wit h those included in the Group’s consolidated financial statement; · understanding of the processes that lead to the generation, detection and management of significant qualitative and quantitative information included in the GRI disclosure of the Integrated Report. In part icular, we have conducted interviews and discussions with the management of Benetton Group S.r.l. and we have performed limited documentary evidence procedures, in order to collect information about the processes and procedures that support the collection, aggregation, processing and transmission of data and information to the department responsible for the preparation of the GRI disclosure of the Integrated Report. Furthermore, for significant information, considering the Group’s activities and characteristics: at Group level, a) with reference to the qualitative information included in the GRI disclosure of the Integrated Report, we carried out inquiries and acquired supporting documentation to verify its consistency with the available evidence; b) with reference to quantitative information, we have performed both analytical procedures and limited assurance procedures to ascertain on a sample basis the correct aggregation of data. for Benetton Retail Poland Sp. z o.o. (Poland) and Benetton India Pvt. Ltd. (India), that we have selected based on their activities, relevance to the consolidated performance indicators and locations, we have carried out site visits during which we have had discussions with management and have obtained evidence about the appropriate application of the procedures and the calculation methods used to determine the indicators. Acknowledgements Thank you to all the colleagues who give their collaboration for the success of this project. Registered office Benetton Group S.r.l. Single shareholder company Villa Minelli 31050 Ponzano Veneto (Treviso) Italy Corporate information Share capital: Euro 200 000 000 fully paid-in Fiscal code/ Treviso company registrar no. 03490770264 For information Roberto Taiariol Tel. +39 0422 519270 Nicoletta Sartori Tel. +39 0422 519269 csr@benetton.it
