Integrated Annual Report 2018 Financial, economic, social & environmental performance. $ Integrated Annual Report 2018 Financial, economic, social & environmental performance. Table of Contents 17 21 Annual Report Macroeconomic Context 35 41 Monetary Market The Bank & Financial System 42 57 73 Corporate Business Financial Governance Model Capital 4 Chairman’s Letter 7 Board of Directors 7 To the Shareholders 8 Banco Macro S.A. Notice of Shareholders’ Meeting 10 Branch Network 13 Correspondent Banks 119 Intellectual 81 Capital Industrial Capital 135 147 Human Social & Relational Capital Capital 163 Natural Capital 169 Dividend Distribution & Reserve Fund Creation Proposal 169 Acknowledgments 171 Exhibit I – Scope & Guidelines Used 179 Exhibit II – 2018 Corporate Governance Explanatory Report 202 GRI Content Index & 2018 Communication on Progress 213 Financial Statements 423 Minutes of the Meeting of the Supervisory Committee 424 Supervisory Committee’s Report 4 Annual Report | Banco Macro The total integral consolidated result of 16,115.4 million is 57% higher than the result of the previous year, which reflects the robustness of Banco Macro’s business, and the ability to adjust its development in a highly volatile market. Net Stockholders’ Equity grew by 16.9% reaching ARS 54,637.9 million, which evidences a clear comfortable situation. On the same level, the indicators that are usually used to measure performance in the activity also show a satisfactory evolution in the period. The Bank has broadly maintained its participation in the loan, deposit and service market, with such risk and finance management that places it among the entities with the best credit quality and liquidity ratios. The presentation of the Annual Report and Balance Sheet of Banco Macro S.A. is an excellent opportunity On the other hand, the Bank has taken significant to address those who, in one way or another, form steps in the consolidation of its business. In addition part of the Institution, in order to communicate to to progressing in the incorporation of technology to them our vision of what has been done throughout facilitate customer access to the services it provides 2018, and our expectations about the context within and improve the efficiency of the operation, especially which the business of the Entity is to develop. in the personal banking segment, it has managed to extend the financial agency agreements made with The Annual Report for the Fiscal Year 2018 abounds four provincial states, which expired in the short term. with all those aspects that are significant for an integral evaluation of management, both those The agreement with the Province of Misiones was related to economic and financial results, and other extended for ten years until the end of 2029, while the aspects also essential for the Institution, such as agreements made with the Governments of the those connected with its sustainability in the medium provinces of Salta and Jujuy, whereby the Bank must and long term, the provision of more and better provide services as a financial agent, as agent for the services to its customers, and the projection of its collection of revenues, and must fulfill payment orders actions in the communities in which it operates. concerning obligations contracted by those provinces, were extended until February 2026 and September At the economic and financial level, 2018 has been 2024, respectively. satisfactory despite a very changing and uncertain market context affected by a number of factors that Within the same framework of seeking the consolidachallenged the gradualist strategy of the Government tion of this line of business, in August 2018, the Bank and forced the authorities to request financial acquired the equity interest of the Province of assistance from the International Monetary Fund. Tucumán in Banco del Tucumán S.A., an entity that These factors include the increase in interest rates in acts as the sole financial agent of the Government of the international market, the fall in the supply of the Province, the Municipality of San Miguel de foreign currency by the agricultural sector caused by Tucumán, and the Municipality of Yerba Buena, as the drought, and the deterioration of local and well as an agent for them for the collection of their international economic expectations in relation to our revenues, and the fulfillment of orders for the payment country prevailing at the beginning of the fiscal year, of their obligations. given the divergent evolution of economic indicators compared to what was expected at the beginning of The operation was carried out within the framework of the year, with the consequent negative impact on the provincial law that authorized the sale to Banco access to voluntary credit markets. Macro S.A. of the shares held by said province, as well as the continuity of Banco del Tucumán as a provincial financial agent for a further 10-year period as from the expiration of the agreement and, where appropriate, the possibility of merging both entities, a decision that the Board of Directors of Banco Macro S.A. adopted in October 2018. Chairman’s Letter 5 On another level, the Institution that I preside has We supported the already established smalland maintained and enhanced, during fiscal year 2018, the medium-sized companies, as well as those wishing to policies that have allowed it to grow as a nationwide start their activity, by offering them tools for the financial entity that provides banking services to its development of their business plans and new projects. customers, whether they are individuals, companies, In that regard, the 2018 edition of the Program or institutions. In this regard, the Bank increased the “Naves” allowed us to reach more than 700 entreprenationwide coverage of its services with the acquisineurs who submitted 281 projects. tion of 13 branch offices, from Banco de Servicios y Transacciones, including their loan portfolio and staff. 2019 will be a year dominated by the electoral Thus, at the end of the fiscal year, the Bank has 8,965 process, which will test the ability of economic policy employees and 471 branch offices distributed throughto stabilize the value of the currency, both regarding out the country. the prices of local goods and services and in relation to other currencies. In this regard, it should be noted In turn, during Fiscal Year 2018, most of the centralthat the Monetary Authority has, in my opinion, the ized services were concentrated in Torre Macro, a resources and economic policy instruments that this state-of-the-art building, already an icon of the city of transition requires, while the solvency and liquidity Buenos Aires, which will optimize management and conditions of the financial system ensure its stability, innovation, as indicated by the experience gained even if there are times of strong uncertainty. from other activities, the success of which is based on the integration of the multidisciplinary work teams After the elections, the next administration will have a that share the workplace. more balanced macroeconomic situation, as regards foreign transactions, debt service, the situation of the Innovation, and the incorporation of technologies Treasury, and the level of regulated prices. The world aimed at improving customer service and efficiency in economy should improve once the monetary harshconjunction with the permanent training of the Bank’s ness is reduced, and the commercial tensions, which resources, are key pillars in the management of the developed in the world in the last two years, ease. In Institution. this context, Argentina will have the opportunity to implement the reforms and policies that will allow it to The implementation of the digital strategies schedcapitalize, on behalf of its inhabitants, the natural and uled for 2018 allowed us to be ranked as the financial human resources that it possesses. Banco Macro S.A. institution with one of the best digital service offerings, will undoubtedly be the protagonist of that future. thus achieving recognition which has a high impact on customers. With the development of disruptive We thank our customers, correspondent banks, technologies, and the execution of our digital suppliers and colleague entities, shareholders, and transformation program, our goal is to anticipate the the authorities and officers of the controlling bodies for needs of our customers by providing them with the all the support received, and we want to acknowledge best experience. Over the past year, tools such as very specially the Bank’s staff, for the high degree of omnicanality, biometrics, digital onboarding or speech loyalty, cooperation and professionalism with which analytics have ceased to be projects to become they have performed their tasks. realities within the reach of those who daily operate with Banco Macro. Buenos Aires, March 8th, 2019. Worthy of special mention is the work done in the area of Social Capital. We were recognized inside and outside the country for the Bank’s operational work, and for our performance in CSR. The brand Banco Macro was highlighted as one of the two most important brands in the domestic market. We invested more than 108 million pesos in social work. One of our pillars was the financial education program “Cuentas Sanas” (Healthy Accounts), under which 329 face-to-face workshops were held throughout the Delfín Jorge Ezequiel Carballo country. As we do every year, Chairman 6 Annual Report | Banco Macro 7 Board of Directors Chairman Delfín Jorge Ezequiel Carballo Vice Chairman Jorge Pablo Brito Regular Directors Carlos Alberto Giovanelli Nelson Damián Pozzoli José Alfredo Sánchez Martín Estanislao Gorosito Constanza Brito Mario Luis Vicens Guillermo Eduardo Stanley Juan Martín Monge Varela Marcos Brito Delfín Federico Ezequiel Carballo Alejandro Eduardo Fargosi To the Shareholders In compliance with the legal and statutory provisions in force, the Board of Directors of Banco Macro S.A. (“Banco Macro” or the “Bank”) submits to the shareholders this Annual Report for the fiscal year No. 53 ended 31 December 2018. 8 Annual Report | Banco Macro Notice of Shareholders’ Meeting The Board of Directors of Banco Macro S.A. calls the Board of Directors the power to determine the for a General and Special Shareholders’ Meeting to date of the effective availability to the Shareholders be held on April 30th 2019, at 11:00 AM, at Avenida of the cash dividend. Eduardo Madero 1172, Autonomous City of Buenos Aires, to discuss the following Agenda: 6) Evaluate the remunerations of the members of the Board of Directors for the fiscal year ended AGENDA December 31st 2018 within the limits as to profits, pursuant to section 261 of Law No. 19550 and the 1) Appoint two shareholders to sign the Minutes of Rules of the Comisión Nacional de Valores (Argenthe Shareholders’ Meeting. tine Securities Exchange Commission). 2) Evaluate the documentation provided for in 7) Evaluate the remunerations of the members of section 234, subsection 1 of Law No. 19550, for the the Supervisory Committee for the fiscal year ended fiscal year ended December 31st 2018. December 31st 2018. 3) Evaluate the management of the Board and the 8) Evaluate the remuneration of the independent Supervisory Committee. auditor for the fiscal year ended December 31st 2018. 4) Evaluate the application of the retained earnings 9) Appoint five regular directors and three alternate for the fiscal year ended December 31st 2018. Total directors who shall hold office for three fiscal years. Retained Earnings: AR$ 19,204,911,966.83 which the Board proposes may be applied as follows: a) AR$ 10) Establish the number and designate the regular 3,145,848,599.32 to Legal Reserve Fund; b) AR$ and alternate members of the Supervisory Commit3,475,668,970.21 to the Statutory Reserve Fund tee who shall hold office for one fiscal year. Special for first-time application of IFRS, pursuant to Communication “A” 6618 issued by the Central 11) Appoint the independent auditor for the fiscal Bank of the Republic of Argentina and c) AR$ year to end on December 31st 2019. 12,583,394,397.30 to the optional reserve fund for future profit distributions, pursuant to Communica12) Determine the auditing committee’s budget. tion “A” 5273 issued by the Central Bank of the Republic of Argentina. 13) Evaluate the Preliminary Merger Agreement pursuant to which Banco del Tucumán S.A. shall be 5) Separate a portion of the optional reserve fund for merged with and into Banco Macro S.A., dated future profit distributions in order to allow the March 8th, 2019 and the special consolidated application of AR$ 6,393,977,460 to the payment of financial statements of merger prepared as of a cash dividend, within 10 business days of its December 31st, 2018 and based on the separate approval by the Shareholders’ Meeting. Delegate to financial statements prepared by each merging company as of the same date. Notice of Shareholders’ Meeting 9 14) Evaluate the exchange relationship between the THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS shares of Banco Macro S.A. and Banco del Tucumán S.A. NOTES: (i) When considering items 4, 5, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18 and 19 of the Agenda, the Shareholders’ 15) Capital increase from AR$ 669,663,021 to AR$ Meeting shall be held as a Special Meeting; (ii) In 669,678,683, as a result of the merger of Banco del order to attend the Shareholders’ Meeting, all Tucumán S.A. into Banco Macro S.A. through the Shareholders shall by April 24th 2019, at Avenida issuance of 15,662 Class B ordinary book-entry Eduardo Madero 1182, Ciudad Autónoma de Buenos shares of par value AR$ 1 each, entitled to one vote Aires, from 10 am to 3 pm: (a) deposit evidence or per share, which shall rank pari passu with the proof of their book-entry shares issued for such outstanding shares at the time of the issuance of purpose by Caja de Valores S.A. and provide the former, to be delivered to the minority shareholdsufficient evidence of identity and legal capacity, as ers of the absorbed company in exchange for their the case may be; (b) inform holder’s name and last shareholdings in the absorbed company. Apply for name or complete corporate name, identity card the incorporation of the new shares to the public type and number of individuals or, if the shareholder offering regime and listing in the stock exchange. is a legal entity, then they shall furnish all registration Delegate to the Board of Directors the preparation data expressly stating the registry with which such and fulfillment of all necessary documents to legal entity filed all its organizational documents evidence such exchange. and the jurisdiction and domicile thereof and the domicile thereof. All persons attending the Share16) Grant to the Board of Directors all necessary holders’ Meeting in the name and on behalf of any powers and authority for it to make all the amendshareholder shall provide identical information; and ments and changes eventually suggested by the (c) all shareholders being trusts, foundations or any competent authorities. Grant all necessary powers other similar legal entity, as well as all companies to execute and deliver the Final Agreement of incorporated abroad, who shall in turn be registered Merger and carry out any acts or proceedings that with the relevant Public Registry of Commerce under may be necessary for the approval of the merger sections 118 or 123 of Law No. 19550, as amended, as before the competent authorities, signing all public the case may be, shall submit the documents and private instruments that may be appropriate or required under section 26, Chapter II, Section II of convenient, being also authorized to accept and the Rules of the Argentine Securities Exchange appeal eventual resolutions issued by such compeCommission; (iii) In order to comply with the tent authorities. Recommendation included in item V.2.5 of Exhibit III, Section IV of the Rules of the Argentine Securities 17) Capital decrease due to the cancellation of AR$ Exchange Commission, attendants shall be 30,265,275 representative of 30,265,275 Class B requested to disclose, before putting the matter to a shares, with a par value of Ps. 1 (one Peso) each and vote, the decision of each of the candidates to be entitled to 1 (one) vote per share. elected as directors regarding the adoption or not of a Code of Corporate Governance and the reasons 18) Evaluate the amendment of sections 4, 9, 10, 19, for taking such stand; and (iv) No person subject to 20, 21 and 33 of the By-laws. the provisions regarding disqualification grounds provided for in section 10 of Act No. 21526 of Finan19) Adoption of the amended and restated by-laws. cial Entities and Communication “A” 6304 issued by the Central Bank of the Republic of Argentina may 20) Authorization to carry out all acts and filings that be nominated to be a member of the Board of are necessary to obtain the administrative approval Directors or the Supervisory Committee. and registration of the resolutions adopted at the Shareholders’ Meeting. The Board advises that the Shareholders’ Meeting shall not be held at the principal place of business located at Avenida Eduardo Madero 1182, Autonomous City of Buenos Aires. Delfín Jorge Ezequiel Carballo Chairman 10 Annual Report | Banco Macro Branch Network Buenos Aires Luján Merlo Centro Mercedes Martínez 9 de Julio San Isidro Pergamino Centenario Gral. San Martín Pergamino Olivos Junín San Fernando San Pedro (Buenos Aires) Morón San Andrés de Giles San Miguel Salto Pilar Centro San Antonio de Areco Caseros San Nicolás Centro Tigre Chascomús La Plata Sur Pigüé Lanús Este Coronel Suárez Estación Quilmes Coronel Pringles San Justo Peatonal Tres Arroyos Avellaneda Trenque Lauquen Quilmes Necochea Lomas de Zamora Olavarría Lanús Mar del Plata Independencia La Plata Santa Teresita La Plata Centro Pinamar Florencio Varela Bahía Blanca Monte Grande Mar del Plata Gerli Mar del Plata Puerto San Justo (AMBA) Correo Bahía Blanca Berazategui Bolívar Ciudad Madero Mar del Plata Av. Luro Temperley Punta Alta Adrogué Tandil Rafael Calzada Carhué Zárate Salliqueló Campana Alberti Catamarca Arrecifes Catamarca Capitán Sarmiento Carmen de Areco Chaco Chacabuco Resistencia Chivilcoy Resistencia Plaza Colón Branch Network 11 Chubut Recta Martinolli Río Cuarto Empresas Mendoza Trelew Quebrada de las Rosas Mercomax Rodríguez Peña Comodoro Rivadavia Alem Paseo de la Villa Mitre Barrio Industrial Sabattini Wenceslao Escalante Las Heras Puerto Madryn Beverina Devoto Guaymallén Esquel Richieri Las Varillas Godoy Cruz Rawson Fuerza Aérea San Francisco Empresas Maipú Patio Olmos San Rafael Ciudad Hospital Privado Corrientes Mendoza Parque de Buenos Aires La Cripta Ituzaingó Mendoza Centro Barrio Montserrat Nuevocentro Shopping Virasoro San Martín Balvanera Av. Colón Corrientes Luján de Cuyo Almagro La Merced Pedro Ferré Palmares Botánico Córdoba Centro Monte Caseros Malargüe Quintana Córdoba J. B. Justo San Rafael H. Yrigoyen Barrio Norte Río Tercero Entre Ríos Mendoza Alto Palermo Villa Carlos Paz Concordia Mendoza Microcentro Barracas La Falda Villa Elisa Palermo Villa Allende Crespo Misiones Plaza Lavalle Morteros Cinco Esquinas Posadas Av. Córdoba Río Primero Chajarí Posadas Rentas San Martín Catalinas Marull Concepción del Uruguay Oberá Retiro Tránsito Villaguay Eldorado Casa Central Alta Gracia San Salvador Montecarlo SMSV Oncativo Paraná Aristóbulo del Valle Congreso Jesús María Apóstoles Av. Santa Fe Villa Dolores Jujuy San José Colegiales Hernando San Martín Wanda Flores Este Oliva Jujuy Leandro N. Alem Av. de los Incas Villa del Rosario Susques Puerto Iguazú Caballito Villa Carlos Paz Del Lago Jujuy Rentas Jardín América Devoto Despeñaderos Libertador General San San Javier Boedo Río Segundo Martín Puerto Rico Barrio Belgrano Villa General Belgrano Perico San Pedro Chacarita Arroyito Córdoba San Pedro de Jujuy Belgrano Posadas Mataderos Brinkmann La Quiaca Candelaria Villa del Parque Freyre Palpalá Garupá Puerto Madero Porteña Humahuaca Concepción de la Sierra Liniers Ciudad de San Francisco Abra Pampa Bernardo de Irigoyen Villa María Monterrico Alba Posse Córdoba Río Cuarto San Pedrito Campo Viera Alvear Laboulaye Tribunales Cerro Azul Córdoba Marcos Juárez Éxodo Sur Posadas Campus UCA Córdoba Bell Ville El Carmen Campo Grande Los Granaderos Sobremonte Tilcara San Vicente Juan B. Justo Urquiza Jujuy Macro Selecta Capiovi Centro República Camilo Aldao Almirante Brown Nueva Córdoba Carnerillo La Pampa 2 de Mayo Cerro de las Rosas Cruz Alta Santa Rosa Posadas Villa Cabello Los Boulevares Dalmacio Vélez General Pico 25 de Mayo General Paz General Cabrera San Ignacio Shopping Villa Cabrera General Deheza La Rioja Mercado Central Los Surgentes Chilecito Monte Maíz La Rioja 12 Annual Report | Banco Macro Puerto Piray Pellegrini Rosario Tiro Suizo Rafaela Plaza El Soberbio Alto NOA Shopping Puerto Norte Zenón Pereyra Itaembé Miní Limache Capitán Bermúdez Venado Tuerto San Antonio Ciudad del Milagro San Lorenzo Acebal 9 de Julio General Mosconi Gálvez Alcorta Inmigrantes Terminal Salta Armstrong Álvarez Plaza Posadas El Carril Cañada de Gómez Arequito Ciudad Judicial Carcarañá Arroyo Seco Neuquén Ciudad Municipal Correa Arteaga Neuquén Alcorta Plaza Belgrano Fray Luis Beltrán Carreras Cutral Có San Ramón Funes Casilda Zapala Los Tártagos Las Parejas Chabás Neuquén Tribunales Salta Las Rosas Coronel Arnold Confluencia 20 De Febrero Maciel Firmat San Martín de los Andes María Susana Fuentes San Juan Montes de Oca Godoy Río Negro San Juan Oliveros Juan B. Molina General Roca General Acha Puerto General San Martín Los Molinos Choele Choel Roldán Máximo Paz Villa Regina San Luis Salto Grande Pavón Arriba Viedma San Luis San Jerónimo Sud Peyrano Cipolletti Villa Mercedes Serodino Pujato Bariloche Plaza San Luis Timbúes San José de la Esquina Totoras Santa Teresa Salta Santa Cruz Villa Eloísa Uranga Salta Río Gallegos Cañada Rosquín Villa Constitución Alvarado Caleta Olivia Carlos Pellegrini Wheelwright Grand Bourg Landeta Zavalla IPDUV Santa Fe San Jorge Municipalidad de Salta Monserrat Santa Fe Centro Santiago del Estero Rentas Salta CPCE Rosario Recoleta Santa Fe La Banda General Güemes Sur Peatonal San Martín Santiago del Estero Embarcación Av. Alberdi San Carlos Centro Orán Oeste San Jerónimo Norte Tierra del Fuego Rosario de la Frontera Parque Independencia Monte Vera Río Grande Tartagal Boulevard Rondeau Llambi Campbell Solnik Joaquín V. González Echesortu Gobernador Crespo Ushuaia Metán Oroño San Justo Pocitos Gobernador Gálvez Reconquista Tucumán España Rosario Esperanza Maipú Co.Pro.Tab Centro de Pagos Rosario Blas Parera Ciudadela Malvinas Argentinas Rosario Santiago Profesionales Monteros Cafayate Rosario Belgrano Catedral Concepción Norte Salta Rosario Mitre Rafaela Plazoleta Mitre Cachi Parque Industrial Alvear Barrio Candiotti Shopping Central Abasto Pichanal Rosario Paseo Del Siglo López y Planes Colonia Santa Rosa Rosario Alberdi Sunchales Batalla de Salta Rosario Bella Vista Felicia Cerrillos Rosario Bolsa de Comercio Moisés Ville Las Lajitas Rosario Ricardone Reconquista Plaza Rosario de Lerma Rosario Fisherton Ciudad de Santo Tomé Plaza Empresas Rosario Corrientes Clucellas Aguaray Rosario Ovidio Lagos Humboldt San Antonio de los Cobres Bicentenarios Pilar Correspondent Banks 13 Correspondent Banks Germany Bahamas Banco Safra S.A. Banco Santander Chile BHF Bank Aktiengesellschaft BSI Overseas Limited Banco Santander Brasil Banco de la Nación Commerzbank AG Banco Bradesco Argentina Deutsche Bank AG Bahrein Banco do Estado do Banco del Estado de Chile Standard Chartered Bank Woori Bank, Manama Rio Grande do Sul SA Banco Security GMBH Banco Votorantim Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Landesbank Hessen Bangladesh Banco Sumitomo Mitsui Argentaria Chile Thueringen Girozentrale Standard Chartered Bank Brasileiro Sparkasse Woori Bank, Dhaka HSBC Banco Multiplo China Westmuensterland Standard Bank Ltd Banco Nac. de Desenv. Standard Chartered Bank Landesbank Economico e Social (BNDES) China Construction Baden-Wuerttemberg Belgium Banco Fibra Bank Corp. Bremer Landesbank Euroclear Bank S.A. N.V. China Construction Bank SP Zhejiang Chouzhou KBC Bank Deutschland AG Belfius Bank Commercial Bank Banco Santander Byblos Bank Europe Bulgaria Woori Bank Oldenburgische Commerzbank AG Unicredit Bulbank Industrial Bank Co Landesbank AG ABN AMRO Bank NV Sumitomo Mitsui Bosnia Banking Corp Saudi Arabia Belarus and Herzegovina Mizuho Corporate Bank Al Rajhi Bank Bank Belveb OJSC Unicredit Bank Bank of Chengdu Al Inma Bank Nanyun Bank Bolivia Canada Ningbo Yuyao Rural Armenia Banco Bisa Canadian Imperial Bank Commercial Bank HSBC Bank Armenia Banco de Crédito de Bolivia Of Commerce Banco Unión S.A. Bank of America, Branch Cyprus Australia Banco de la Nación The Toronto Dominion Bank Hellenic Bank Public Australia And New Zealand Argentina Royal Bank of Canada Company LTD Banking Group Banco Mercantil Santa Cruz Caisse Centrale Desjardins St George Bank, Div Banco Nacional de Bolivia Colombia Westpac Banking Banco Ganadero Chile Bancolombia S.A. CorpBanca Banco Davivienda Austria Brazil Banco de Crédito Banco de Bogotá Raiffeisen Bank International Banco ABC Brasil e Inversiones Banco de Occidente Raiffeisenlandesbank Banco de la Nación Banco de Chile Niederoesterreich-Wien AG Argentina Banco BICE Costa Rica Erste Group Bank AG Banco Do Brasil S.A. Banco Internacional Banco Nacional Itau Unibanco S.A. Banco Itau Chile de Costa Rica Deutsche Bank AG Banco Lafise Banco Aleman 14 Annual Report | Banco Macro South Korea Kookmin Bank United States of America Standard Chartered Bank Hong Kong Standard Chartered Bank $ KEB Hana Bank Bank of America Na The Bank of New York Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp Bac Florida Bank Mellon Hong Kong The Bank of New York Mellon Banco de la Nación Argentina Deutsche Bank AG Standard Chartered Bank Banco Santander Internacional Citibank NA Industrial Bank of Korea Regions Bank Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. Mizuho Corporate Bank Inter-American Development Bank Cathay Bank The Export Import Bank of Korea Eastern National Bank East West Bank Hungary Cuba The Northern Trust Co Magyar Takarekszouetkeseti Bank Banco Financiero Internacional Deutsche Bank Trust Americas Kand H Bank ZRT Banco Nacional de Cuba Commerzbank AG MKB Bank ZRT Citibank N.A. Denmark Israel Discount Bank of New York India Danske Bank Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. Standard Chartered Bank Nordea Bank Denmark A.S. The Bank of New York Mellon YES Bank Skandinaviska Enskildan Banken UBS Bank Union Bank of India HSBC Bank USA Shinhan Bank Ecuador Fifth Third Bank Banco del Pichincha Keybank National Indonesia Banco Bolivariano CA Credit Suisse NY Standard Chartered Bank Banco de Guayaquil J.P. Morgan Chase Bank Bank Negara Indonesia PT Wells Fargo Bank Egypt Ireland Faisal Islamic Bank of Egypt Philippines Unicredit Bank Ireland PLC Standard Chartered Bank Citibank Europe PLC United Arab Emirates SMBC Dubai Finland Israel Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank Nordea Bank Finland PLC Bank Leumi le Israel Banque de Commerce Pohjola Pankki OYJ Union Bank of Israel et de Placement Danske Bank Italy Slovakia France INTESA San Paolo IMI Ceskoslovenska Obchodna Banka Société Générale Banca Popolare Commerzbank AG BNP Paribas SA Cassa di Risparmi in Bologna Crédit Mutuel CIC Banques Unicredit SPA Slovenia Banques Populaires BPCE Group UBI Banca SCPA Unicredit Banka Slovenija DD Caisses D´Epargne Banca de Milano Banque Internationale Banca di Sondrio Spain de Commerce Bred Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria Banque Palatine Japan Banco Popular Español The Bank of New York Mellon Banco de Sabadell Gibraltar Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi Banco Santander RBSI Trading Natwest International Standard Chartered Bank CecaBank Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Co Banco de la Nación Argentina Greece Mizuho Bank LTD Banco Pastor National Bank of Greece S.A. BANKIA SA Attika Bank Kenya CAIXABANK Paramount Universal Bank Banco Caixa General Holland Bankinter ABN Amro Bank Commerzbank AG Correspondent Banks 15 Latvia Portugal Bank Julius Baer Baltikums Bank Banco Santander Totta Banque Cantonale Vaudoise Nordea Bank BSI SA Puerto Rico Banca Cantonale de Geneve Lithuania Banco Popular de Puerto Rico Banque de Commerce et de AS Unicredit Bank Lietuvos Skyrius Placements Nordea Bank Finland United Kingdom HSBC Bank Thailand Luxembourg Standard Bank Plc Kasikorn Bank Public Co Ltd Clearstream Banking S.A. Standard Chartered Bank Na UBS Luxembourg Barclays Bank Plc Taiwan Caceis Bank Luxembourg The Bank of New York Mellon Czech Republic Standard Chartered Bank Malaysia Deskoslovenská Obchodní Banka As Wells Fargo Bank Taipei Citibank Berhad Commerzbank AG Citibank NA Bank of Panhsin Mexico Rumania Hwatai Bank Banco Nacional de México Unicredit Tiriac Bank Hua Nan Commercial Bank Banco del Bajío Nacional Financiera SNC Russia Tunisia Vnesheconombank North Africa Internacional Bank Mexico Nomos Bank Bank de L’Habitat DNB Nor Bank A.S.A. Nordea Bank Norge A.S.A. Serbia Turkey Unicredit Bank Serbia Turkiye Halk Bankasi New Zealand Bank of New Zealand Singapore Ukraine Citibank NA Credit Dnepr Bank Pakistan Mizuho Corporate Singapore First Ukranian International Standard Chartered Bank Askaribank Ltd Sri Lanka Uruguay Citibank Sri Lanka Banco de la Nación Argentina Panama Banco República Oriental del Uruguay Banco Latinoamericano South Africa Banco Heritage de Exportaciones Standard Bank of South Africa Ltd Bandes Uruguay Banco de la Nación Citibank South Africa Banco Santander Argentina Panamá Sweden Venezuela Paraguay Nordea Bank Banco de Venezuela Banco de la Nación Argentina Swedbank International Banco del Caribe Bancop SA Danske Bank Banesco Banco Universal Banco Continental Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken Banco Bicentenario Banco Universal Banco regional SAECA Switzerland Vietnam Peru Credit Suisse Woori Bank Banco de Crédito del Perú UBS Bank AG Citibank Vietnam HSBC Bank Peru Zurcher Kantonalbank Banco Internacional del Perú-Interbank Poland Bank BPH. (Unicredit Group) BRE Bank Annual Report 18 Annual Report | Banco Macro 19 The Annual Report presents the results of our management of the business, focusing on the creation of economic, social and environmental value for our different groups of interest, and the Bank’s contribution to the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) This Annual Report presents to our shareholders, investors, customers, vendors, employees, allied organizations, the Public Sector, communication media and local communities (“Groups of Interest”) the strategy, proceedings, actions and the performance of Banco Macro during the year 2018, as well as the prospects and challenges for the future within the framework of the national and international situation. For the last five consecutive years this Annual Report follows the reference framework provided by the International Integrated Reporting Council (“IIRC”), including information on the Bank’s sustainability management, meeting the requirements of increasingly more complete and integral information about campaign performance regarding this matter. In this sense, we describe programs, products and services that are material for the business, according the six capitals model: Financial, Industrial, Intellectual, Human, Relational and Social and Natural. In order to select its contents we carried out a materiality analysis(1), which allowed as to identify those matters related to our strategic pillars generating value for the business and to our key public. In addition, note that this Annual Report has been prepared in accordance with the standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”), Core option. Besides, this publication constitutes our Communication on 2018 Progress and serves to report our performance regarding the 10 principles on Human Rights, Labor Rights, Environment and Anticorruption of the United Nations Global Compact, to which we adhered in 2009(2). Besides, this year, after mapping the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) to which the Bank contributes most, we present in this publication those SDG that are relevant for our management, showing our commitment and impact on 2030 Global Agenda. This document is supplemented with other reports, such as Form 20-F of the US Securities Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and the sustainability actions summary (Annual Report – Simplified Version). (1) See Exhibit I for additional information. (2) www.pactoglobal.org.ar 20 Annual Report | Banco Macro 21 MacroEconomic Context The macroeconomic scenario in 2018 During 2018, the draught that affected chiefly the main crops campaign in the first quarter, and the exit of financial flows from emerging markets during a great part of the year, determined the course of the Argentine economy. Indeed, the local economy started year 2018 with a high current account deficit (close to 5% of GDP). Financing for this came, to a large extent, from investments of portfolios of external actors and public issue and private placement in foreign markets. However, at the end of the first quarter, this scenario was disrupted, as the appetite of foreign investors for the emerging markets was reduced. In addition to this international change, there was a decline in the harvest of main crops (soybean, corn, and sunflower) of the 2017/18 campaign due to the aforementioned drought. Given the weight of the primary sector on Argentine exports, and the continued and still significant need for financing of the Public Sector, the aforesaid phenomena markedly deteriorated the short-term sustainability of the country’s current account deficit. Consequently, the country risk (measured by the EMBI+ index) rose from 347 bps in January to 815 bps in December; the portfolio income for local investments was reduced to a minimum, and the exchange rate fell to ARS/USD 41.3 in August. External credit stringency, together with the direct impact of the drought, affected growth. It is estimated that during 2018, the Argentine GDP fell by at least -1.8%. The impact of the exchange rate on tradable prices also affected inflation. The Consumer Price Index showed a variation at the end of the year of + 47.6% year-on-year. This variation also reflects the impact of the adjustment of relative prices affecting the tariffs of regulated utilities, seeking to reach levels consistent with their operating and/or opportunity costs. 22 Annual Report | Banco Macro Tax policy was adjusted to this new context of greater scarcity, and the primary fiscal deficit target was reduced to 2.7% of GDP, with a view to eliminating it in 2019. Monetary policy, on the other hand, was tightened up over the year. The Central Bank’s reference rate went from 28.75% in January to 73.524% at its peak in October. Besides, the reserve requirement scheme became more stringent. The Central Bank intervened in the foreign exchange market between March and September. During this period, it sold international reserves for USD 15.968 billion. Finally, in terms of monetary regulation, the BCRA eliminated the stock of LEBACs held by banks and other investors to replace them with LELIQs in circulation exclusively in banks as a monetary policy tool. Thus, the banking system has once again become the exclusive channel for the monetary authority’s decisions. Finally, the authorities have chosen to abandon the inflation targeting regime to adopt a monetary base control scheme built on explicit objectives established in line with a significant reduction in inflation. Along with the action above described, the federal authorities requested and obtained financial support from the International Monetary Fund (IMF). In its final draft, support was translated into a three-year Stand-By Agreement (SBA) that involves the disbursement of approximately USD 57.00 billion by the entity. The SBA makes it possible to cover the financing needs of the Treasury, regardless of the issuance of instruments in foreign markets. Within the framework of the implementation of the program contained in the SBA, there was a strong reduction in both levels and volatility in the local foreign exchange and money market, especially since the last quarter of 2018. At the beginning of 2019, there was a reduction in financing needs, as a result of both a reversal in the current account deficit in line with the new level of the actual exchange rate, and the greater tax efforts aimed at achieving the primary balance in said year. On the other hand, the Treasury has sufficient funding for all its commitments with international debtors on a horizon of at least twelve months, reinforced by the continuous access to the local capital market through auctions of short-term financial instruments such as LETEs (in US dollars ), LECAPs and LECERs (in Argentine pesos) that have achieved interesting levels of acceptance. Finally, the monetary policy has fulfilled so far its monetary aggregates goals. Therefore, the set of economic policies currently underway leads to stronger macroeconomic grounds by reducing imbalances that require financing. Macroeconomic Context 23 However, we consider unavoidable the influence to be exerted on economic decisions by the expectations of economic agents as regards the outcome of the elections scheduled for 2019 culminating in the presidential election in October. Their necessarily uncertain nature, and their effect on possible economic policy alternatives will have as an immediate consequence the injection of an additional dose of caution in the decisions to be made by economic agents. Within this general framework, it is estimated that Argentina will maintain macroeconomic policies consistent with its possibilities of obtaining financing by implementing, on the one hand, a monetary policy with a contractionary bias that supports a drop in inflation and, on the other hand, a fiscal policy oriented towards a reduction in the (internal) debt-to-GDP ratio over time. It is also assumed that tax pressure will remain high, and that the business climate will be constructive, though with a Government that will be present with selective interventions, a stable regulatory framework, and limited opening of the economy. Under the conditions described, and once the political uncertainty has dissipated, the medium-term economic scenario indicates that Argentina can grow at a rate of 3% per year with a gradually decreasing inflation, in which fiscal and current account deficits converge on levels around 2% of the GDP, which allows the (internal and external) debt-to-GDP ratios to stabilize at reasonable levels. The international context Year 2018 was less favorable than predicted at its start. Global growth lost some of the strong impetus that it carried from the previous year, and expansion was less synchronized among the countries. Economic activity began to show signs of exhaustion, and slowed in some advanced economies, while in the group of economies of emerging and developing markets, expansion maintained the same pace as a year before. Factors that contributed to this weaker performance were the negative effects of the growing trade barriers between the United States and China, more restrictive financial conditions, geopolitical tensions, as well as less favorable prospects for some economies of emerging and developing markets due to specific factors of each country. With regard to the international flows of goods and services, a series of tariff measures applied by the United States, in addition to the retaliatory measures taken by its main trading partners, complicated global trade relations. The escalation of trade tensions, and the potential shift away from a rule-based multilateral trading system are critical risks for the global prospects within a context in which the growth of international trade slowed in 2018 to 4.2% year-on-year versus 5.2% in 2017. With regard to global financial conditions, there was a higher level of restriction and localized pressures during 2018. Although monetary policies remain flexible, significant differences have arisen between advanced and emerging market economies. The four increases in the year in the interest rate by the Federal Reserve of the United States contributed to the appreciation of the US dollar since April, which caused the price of raw materials to fall and caused a rise in the country risk levels as measured by J.P. Morgan EMBI index. In this context, focal points of pressure have arisen in countries with weaker macroeconomic foundations, and a higher level of political uncertainty, as was the case in Turkey and Argentina. 24 Annual Report | Banco Macro For this reason, the IMF projects an overall growth of 3.7% year-on-year for 2018, in line with the 2017 figure, though 0.2 percentage points lower than that expected in the middle of the year. The advanced economies grew only 0.1 percentage points above that of 2017, with a greater contribution from the United States, and a slowdown in the Euro zone, the United Kingdom and Japan. As regards emerging economies, the projection is 4.7% growth in 2018, a level similar to that registered in 2017. As in the case of advanced economies, performance is heterogeneous. Africa and India grew above the level of 2017, while in China and Latin America there was a deceleration despite the upturn in Brazil and Mexico. The US, which represents 25% of the global GDP, grew 2.9% and further added 0.7 pp, driven by the impact on consumption as a result of the improvement in the overall wage bill, and the fall in unemployment, which is at a minimum of 3.9%. The fiscal incentive derived from the tax reform also contributed to the very good economic performance, but this is about one-time effects that will not be repeated in subsequent years, and which will bring along as a cost an increase in the fiscal deficit. In addition to the aforementioned increases in the interest rate, the Federal Reserve has announced that it will continue with the normalization of its balance sheet, and will continue to reduce its holding of Treasury Bonds, which after scoring a maximum of USD 4.2 trillion in October 2017, reached USD 3.9 trillion at the end of 2018, and will fall at a pace of USD 50 billion per month during 2019, which already implies a sharp monetary contraction, and conditions the growth of the economy, especially in the sectors most dependent on credit. The participation of Europe in the global GDP also reaches 25% of the total. In 2018, the Euro zone grew at a 2.0% pace per year, 0.4 pp up the pace registered in 2017. The advances achieved in terms of austerity, and the transition to fiscal balance have increased the debt-to-GDP ratio to 90%, but trade tension, deceleration of international trade, uncertainty regarding the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union, and the recent political conflicts in Italy and France have generated a downward revision of the region activity projections by the IMF. The growth of the Eurozone during the last few years contributed to reducing unemployment, while inflation remained controlled, and according to the IMF, it reached 1.7% in 2018. The European Central Bank announced the interruption of purchases of bonds as from January 1, 2019, but it expects that monetary conditions will remain flexible, and no increases in interest rates are expected until the second half of 2019. Macroeconomic Context 25 The process of fiscal consolidation, fundamental for debt sustainability and monetary stability, will be under pressure given the deterioration of the social and political climate in significant countries of the European Union, such as Italy and France. In the first case, the government coalition objects to the cap on the fiscal deficit of 3 points of GDP, since it proposes a tax reduction and an increase in social spending. Similarly, social protests in France will have an uncertain fiscal cost. This issue is very important to project the macroeconomic evolution of the region. On a level more in connection with the foreign trade of our country, China, India and Brazil offer opportunities for the Argentine economy. China has tripled its pace of expansion in relation to global growth so far this century, and its global share went from 3.7% to 15.1% in 2017 (with its GDP measured in current US dollars). In 2017, the Chinese economy had grown 6.9%, although it is expected to slow down to 6.6% in 2018, and somewhat more in the next few years, as a result of the trade war waged with the United States. The Asian giant is in the transition from a being a net exporting low-wage country to becoming an economy based on domestic consumption of goods and services, with higher per capita income due to the higher productivity resulting from a vigorous process of external and internal private investment, the latter supported by local credit. In the event of a sustained trade war, the diversion of the raw materials trade from the United States to other countries, including Argentina, may be a very interesting opportunity for our country The expected slowdown in China of 0.3 pp during 2018 will be compensated by further expansion in the Indian economy. According to the IMF, this country grew by 7.3% in 2018 compared to 6.7% in 2017. The economy of India is quite complementary to that of Argentina, and the Argentine government is working on improving commercial relations with that country. Brazil, Argentina’s main trading partner, continues to leave behind the political crisis it went through during 2015 and 2016, whose consequences were an intense outflow of capital, and the severe depreciation of the real. In this context, the economy fell by 7 points in the biennium. The interim government of Michel Temer put into practice a tax reform that froze the level of public spending in real terms, and a labor reform that is expected to bring an improvement in the productivity and competitiveness of its economy in the coming years. The results of that transition were positive, and the Brazilian economy grew by 1.0% in 2017, while the IMF expects a 1.4% growth by 2018. In October 2018, Jair Bolsonaro took over the presidency of Brazil after a second round vote against Fernando Hadad. The new administration proposes a strong fiscal adjustment, to open the economy further, move forward with privatizations to reduce the stock of debt, and reform the social security system, a key area to reduce Brazil’s fiscal deficit which is high, around of 7% of GDP. The fiscal prospects towards 2020 are largely linked to the delayed approval of the pension reform, which is essential to rebalance public accounts and achieve gradual convergence towards the primary surpluses that are compatible with the stabilization of the public debt. Any setback in the approval of these reforms may exert additional pressure on credit risk and exchange rate, affecting both inflation expectations and their current development. Positive expectations have been created in the markets on account of Bolsonaro’s victory, and the IMF projections point to a growth of 2.4% for 2019, which is positive for the Argentine economy, especially for sectors related to the automotive industry. However, the new administration’s capacity to implement the proposed economic reforms without having parliamentary majorities must be confirmed. 26 Annual Report | Banco Macro With respect to the prices of agricultural commodities, whereas the international price of soybean fell by 7.3% in the year to 324 dollars per ton, the price of wheat and corn rose by 17.9% and 6.9%, respectively. The price of a barrel of WTI oil fell during 2018 by 25.3%. In summary, it can be seen that the immediate global panorama presents clear challenges, as well as opportunities for emerging economies in general, and especially for Argentina. Macroeconomic and financial performance will continue to be marked by this more challenging global environment, both commercially and financially, and also as regards liquidity and the risk appetite of international investors. Argentine economy The economic policy in the Republic of Argentina during 2018 continued to follow the course taken by the government at the start of its administration at the end of 2015. Specifically, significant progress was made in resolving some of the imbalances and problems existing at the beginning of the administration, such as the unification, liberalization and free floating of the exchange rate, exit from credit default, recovery of transparency in official statistics, removal of price controls, and the adjustment of relative prices, such as the rates of public utilities, substantial improvement of the rules of the game under which business is developed, and the return of Argentina to the international financial community. The decision to implement a gradualist strategy in reducing the fiscal deficit implied a great dependence on the international capital market for its financing, and a consequent exchange rate lag due to the inflow of US dollars to finance the fiscal gap. This combination of exchange rate lag and fiscal deficit led the country to face a significant deficit in the current account of the balance of payments that reached 5% of GDP at the end of 2017. This was how towards the end of 2017, and especially in 2018, the economy was vulnerable to a major shock, which reflected a substantial depreciation of the currency: after several abrupt jumps, the exchange rate went up from ARS/USD 18.8 in December to almost ARS /USD 41 at the end of September. The country went through a currency crisis of such magnitude that led the GDP to drop to around 1.8% and inflation to reach the record of 47.6% year-on-year. The causes of this crisis were multiple, with a combination of internal and external factors. Among the external factors, the most important was the rise in long-term interest rates in the US, as already discussed, which began at the start of the year, and caused the strengthening of the US dollar worldwide, and a lower appetite for the assets from emerging countries that affected Argentina to a greater extent than other countries in the region. As a result of this new international scenario, most currencies of emerging countries depreciated between 10 and 30 percent, with some exceptions, such as the Turkish lira, which was depreciated by 60%, and the Argentine Peso, the value of which varied more than 100%, from ARS/USD 18.8 at the beginning of 2018 to ARS/USD 37.8 in December 2018. Macroeconomic Context 27 As regards the country risk for all emerging countries as measured by the EMBI calculated by investment bank J.P. Morgan, there was a rise in the year of about 120 basic points. In this case, the most affected countries were Turkey, Russia and South Africa, where the country risk rose around 100 bps, and in the Republic of Argentina, it soared by 467 points to close the year at 817 basic points. Argentina was particularly affected by this external turbulence due to the pre-existing weakness evidenced by its current account deficit, aggravated by the loss of foreign currency caused by the drought that affected its primary exports in the first quarter of 2018. The Central Bank let the peso float from the end of 2017 until March, but then it began to intervene when the depreciation of the peso was starting to have negative effects on the price level. The intervention was not successful, international reserves were lost without controlling the outflow of funds, and exchange rate instability together with acceleration of inflation and the increase in country risk generated a climate of distrust that negatively affected consumer confidence, which together with the deterioration of real wages began to affect consumption. This adverse context of fear of exchange rate instability, and the lack of access to the capital market led Argentina to resort to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to restore confidence. With the agreement, the reserves were recomposed, and the country had access to a high amount of resources that secured external financing for the years 2018 and 2019, while an identical result is facilitated for 2020. As a counterpart, conditions were agreed on the disbursement of funds in terms of fiscal results and monetary and exchange rate policy. The agreement with the Fund consisted of two stages. Initially, in the month of June, it was for an amount of USD 50.00 billion, which did not stabilize the foreign exchange market. The exchange rate in August went down again (from ARS/USD 28 to ARS/USD 38), and the country risk rose again. This situation led to the revision of some points in the agreement with the IMF, including an increase in the amount of the program to dispel concerns regarding a potential default. The second program of September was based on a reduction in the primary deficit to bring it to equilibrium in 2019, and on the announcement that the expansion of the monetary base was going to be 0% until June 2019 with seasonal adjustments of 6% in December and 3 % in June. 28 Annual Report | Banco Macro The IMF supported these measures with an increase in the size of the program, bringing it to 57 billion dollars, and with an advance of disbursements to cover all the financial needs derived from the payment of debt services for 2018 and 2019. The program managed to bring calm to the foreign exchange market towards the end of 2018, restoring the equilibrium, though at a high level of interest rates that initially stood at around 70% per year, falling to 60% by the end of 2018, making more expensive and limiting the credit offer and the level of economic activity. With the stabilization of the exchange rate, there was a significant drop in the inflation rate towards the end of 2018, which after reaching a peak of 6.5% per month in September, began a downward trend towards 2.6% monthly in December. Based on these figures, inflation in 2018 amounted to 47.6%, but a deceleration is expected in 2019, at rates closer to 30% per annum. In this context, the Argentine economy fell by 1.8% in 2018, after having grown 2.9% in 2017. The deterioration of domestic conditions and a real depreciation of more than 50% in the year was reflected in a fall in real wages, consumption and investment, mainly in the construction sector, and in the importation of machinery and equipment. With regard to demand, investment fell by around 5%, with the shrinkage of public investment in a context of fiscal consolidation, and was affected to a large extent by the high interest rates that discouraged productive investment. On the other hand, consumption, which had grown 3.6% in 2017, fell by 1.5% in 2018, declining practically in all its categories. Concerning supply, the agricultural sector suffered the worst drought in recent years. The Monthly Estimator of Economic Activity (EMAE) calculated by the INDEC indicated for the sector year-over-year declines of around 30% during the second quarter of the year, when the soybean harvest takes place. In particular, at the end of 2017 it was expected that the soybean harvest would reach 57 million tons, but finally it ended up at 37.8 million tons. Construction, which had grown 13.4% in 2017, mainly due to the recovery of public works, grew around 2% in 2018 despite having registered double-digit growth rates during the first semester. On the other hand, industrial activity suffered eight consecutive year-on-year declines between May and December, amongst them, the largest ones since 2009. High interest rates discouraged production through a heavy liquidation of inventories and lower credit, and at the same the exchange rate depreciation raised the price of some consumables and machinery, while the weakening of economic activity in general fully affected domestic demand. Indeed, industrial activity fell around 3.5% throughout the year. This fall was led mainly by the textile and metallurgical sectors (strongly linked to the agricultural sector), while the automotive industry (benefited by the upturn in demand from Brazil), and the basic metal industrial sectors accumulated the highest increases. On the fiscal front, the government continued to focus its efforts on reducing the primary deficit by combining both measures: moderation in spending, and an increase in revenues. Throughout the year, there was a primary deficit of ARS 338.987 billion, equivalent to 2.4% of GDP. Thus, the primary result exhibited an improvement of 1.4 pp compared to the deficit recorded in 2017 (3.8% of GDP). It is the first time since 2003-2004 that resources grow for two consecutive years above primary expenses. Macroeconomic Context 29 In particular, total revenues accumulated a 30.2% increase, below the average inflation of the year (34.3%), and in addition to the high relative weight of VAT revenues, they were driven by taxes levied on foreign trade: taxes on imports during the first semester, and export duties as from September. Moreover, primary expenditure closed the year with a 22.4% rise, which implies an 8.9% reduction in real terms, adding its third consecutive real fall. Furthermore, primary expenditure decreased as a percentage of GDP for the third consecutive year (-1.9% of GDP). While social benefits grew 27.6% throughout the year, capital expenditure grew only 1.1% compared to 2017. If we add the deficit of 2.4% of GDP to the expenses derived from the Priority Investment Program, which are registered as financial application of funds, the primary deficit consistent with the definition included in the stand-by agreement with the IMF was just below the target of 2.7% of GDP. On the other hand, if payment of interest on the debt for ARS 338.94 billion is taken into account, the fiscal deficit was equivalent to 5.2% of GDP. This result implies an improvement of 0.8 pp compared to the 6% deficit registered in 2017. Consequently, the federal government had to cover in 2018 financial needs for USD 32.9 billion, of which USD 9 billion came from the international debt market and USD 24.1 billion from the IMF and other multilateral institutions, among other sources. In addition, during the first months of 2018, the Treasury received USD 2.4 billion as temporary advances from the Central Bank, which were stopped after the first agreement with the IMF in which it was established that the Central Bank would not provide more financial assistance. In this scenario, the net public debt closed the year at levels near 44% of GDP, thus increasing compared to a year ago (28.4%). The fiscal target for 2019 contemplates a primary balance in equilibrium, while the payment of interest is estimated to be equivalent to 3% of GDP, generating a fiscal deficit of the same magnitude. The Treasury will have to finance USD 24.9 billion, but it has already received USD 22.5 billion from the IMF and USD 4.6 billion from other multilateral organizations. 30 Annual Report | Banco Macro The currency crisis resulted in an increase in country risk, and a reduction in the sovereign rating of the Argentine debt. In November, S&P modified the sovereign rating of the Argentine debt, from B+ to B. As to Fitch Ratings, it maintained it throughout the year at B, just like Moody’s, which kept it at B2. Thus, the Argentine debt was 5 steps away from being Investment Grade according to the three credit rating agencies mentioned. It should be noted that Argentina was rated as an emerging market, ceasing to be exclusively a frontier market, and thus expanding the range of potential demanders for Argentine assets. The development of monetary policy during 2018 was affected by the currency crisis, and successive changes in the composition of the Central Bank’s board of directors. Once the currency crisis broke out, and in order to avoid the pass-through of the peso depreciation to inflation, the Central Bank intervened strongly in the foreign exchange market, but failed to control the outflow of funds, which meant a net fall of USD 15.968 billion of US dollars in reserves in the attempt to stabilize the foreign exchange market. Simultaneously, the monetary authority proceeded to significantly increase reserve requirements by reducing the availability of domestic credit. Within the framework of the second agreement with the IMF, it was decided to temporarily abandon the inflation targeting scheme to replace it with a temporary control scheme for monetary aggregates, specifically the monetary base, which, except for seasonal adjustments, will remain unchanged until June 2019. Conceptually, it is a much more robust stabilization program that seeks to anchor inflationary expectations and recover degrees of freedom while greater confidence in the local currency, and a higher real exchange rate contribute to balancing the external front. Macroeconomic Context 31 Prospects for 2019 After the currency crisis, and the government’s reaction, the macroeconomic grounds of Argentina are more solid. These new bases position the economy as a whole in a situation more in line with its real financing possibilities in the short term, and aim to recover the confidence of investors. The fiscal balance will bring double benefits. First, because it will impact on the financing needs and the issuance of new debt, and second because it will remove pressure from the external front by reducing the need for financing from foreign sources. While fiscal consolidation is achieved, financial assistance from the IMF and its support to the government’s economic program will be key to ensuring that the financial program is completed without the need to resort to international debt markets, while at the same time the Central Bank reserves are strengthened. On the other hand, as the bilateral exchange rate against the dollar depreciated in real terms close to 40%, the foreign exchange market has been balanced, and the Argentine peso seems to be slightly weak or close to equilibrium. Thus, the growth of net exports, the lower dollarization of portfolios, and a reduction in the gap between outbound and inbound tourism lead us to forecast a fall in the negative balance of external accounts to a level below 2% of GDP. This deficit can be financed with direct foreign investment, which is much more stable in nature than portfolio investments. Finally, the monetary plan of zero growth adjusted for monetary base seasonality is a very restrictive monetary initiative and is helping to stabilize the exchange rate at this competitive level and to control inflation. The sharp exchange rate depreciation, and its transfer to prices led the Central Bank to abandon temporarily the inflation targeting scheme and concentrate on the control of monetary aggregates. As a result of the success of this new scheme, there is less volatility of the exchange rate. Therefore, we project a slowdown in inflation, and a drop in inflation expectations. Based on the new Argentine macroeconomic grounds, we believe that the appropriate conditions exist for the economy to resume its growth path at a 3% pace per year in the second half of 2019. Alongside with this growth, we expect inflation to slow down. However, the influence to be exerted on economic decisions by the expectations of economic agents, as regards the outcome of the elections scheduled for 2019 culminating in the presidential election in October, is unavoidable. Their necessarily uncertain nature, and their effect on possible economic policy alternatives will have as an immediate consequence the injection of an additional dose of caution in the decisions to be made by economic agents. Within this general framework, it is estimated that Argentina will maintain macroeconomic policies consistent with its possibilities of obtaining financing by implementing, on the one hand, a monetary policy which supports a drop in inflation and, on the other hand, a fiscal policy ensuring a reduction in the (internal) debt-to-GDP ratio over time. It is also assumed that tax pressure will remain high, and that the business climate will be constructive, though with a Government that will be present with selective interventions, a stable regulatory framework and limited opening of the economy. 32 Annual Report | Banco Macro Activity and Inflation The results of monetary restrictions on inflation will be seen more clearly in 2019. It is expected that inflation will fall to 30% in December, and that in the following years its tendency to decrease will deepen. With reference to activity, the harshness of fiscal and monetary policies will keep domestic demand weak, with net exports being the component with the greatest impact on growth. As regards the supply, agriculture, livestock breeding, mining, and energy will be the most dynamic sectors. The industry will continue to be affected by less credit, and sectors with the best yields will be those linked to the energy and the agricultural industries, and those that manage to substitute imports. Regarding the demand, private consumption will continue to be affected by held down real wages, while investment will be concentrated in the niches that will benefit from a weaker peso in real terms. Government intentions to promote public-private partnership (PPPs) initiatives as a significant complement to public investment require that companies obtain financing. At the moment, there is no appetite for debt from this loan. Our projections consider that the expansive cycle of the activity will begin in the first quarter of 2019. However, given the 3% negative statistical carry-over effect, we expect a GDP contraction of around 1% for the year 2019 as measured on average. Fiscal and external balances The need to accelerate fiscal consolidation led the government to set a primary deficit target of 2.7% of GDP for 2018, and a primary balance target in 2019. The fiscal effort in 2019 will not only be aimed at moderating public spending, but will also include an increase in public revenues. As regards expenditures, for which a reduction equivalent to 1.5% of GDP is expected, the main cutbacks will be in capital expenditures, transfers to provinces and subsidies, while social security spending will be increased by 0, 3 pp of GDP. It is important to note that social spending will remain constant as a percentage of GDP, and that health programs will be maintained in terms of purchasing power against inflation. On the other hand, it is expected that the total revenues of the Federal Government will increase by 1.2 pp of GDP in 2019. This rise will be led by the reintroduction of export duties on all exports of goods, the increase in the ax rate for exports of soybeans and derivatives, and the new tax that will be levied on exports of services. With regard to the financial deficit, it is expected that the public debt interest burden will reach 3% of GDP in 2019. This increase is added to that of previous years, resulting from both an increase in the stock and the peso depreciation. Macroeconomic Context 33 External accounts are going through an accelerated process of correction to sustainable values, within a context in which the actual exchange rate has already weakened more than 50% in comparison with the average of 2017. We estimate that, if this new actual exchange rate level is maintained, the current account deficit should be close to 2% of GDP in a sustainable manner. The trade balance of goods is beginning to show surpluses, as the fall in the level of activity and the depreciation of the exchange rate have drastically reduced imports, while exports have picked up. We estimate that exports will improve considerably in 2019 as a result of the recovery of agricultural, livestock, mining and industrial sales to Brazil. The production start-up of unconventional oil fields in Vaca Muerta is progressing better than expected, and it is very likely that in a few years the country will be once again a net exporter of gas and oil. Public debt, solvency and liquidity The Republic of Argentina does not face solvency problems in its debt dynamic, but rather a liquidity event To the extent that the country meets the fiscal target agreed with the IMF, the maturities of the public intra-sector debt, and at least 50% of the maturities with the private sector are renewed, government’s financing needs will be covered until the beginning of 2020. Under these conditions, the net debt/GDP ratio will reach a peak of 50% in 2019, and will then stabilize at levels in line with international ratios. The average life of Argentina’s public debt is 7.5 years, which shows that there is no concentration of maturities in the short term. While IMF disbursements will reduce said average life, since they must be paid off after 3 years, the term structure will remain comfortable. In addition, private sector creditors will be replaced by assistance from the IMF, which is more stable and less subject to the ups and downs of the global market. 34 Annual Report | Banco Macro 35 Money Market and Financial System Financial system The money market in Argentina evolved in line with the currency crisis. The process of accumulation of reserves was interrupted, and the exit of portfolio investments that had entered the market to be exposed to placements in Argentine pesos implied a reversal in the financial flows that triggered a fall in Central Bank reserves plus the intervention by the Federal Treasury selling foreign currencies for about 25.00 billion dollars, and a considerable decrease in the stock of Lebacs. However, in the second half of 2018, with the program agreed with the IMF, and the expansion of a currency swap with the Central Bank of the People’s Republic of China, international reserves were able to recover from the fall sustained by the Central Bank’s interventions through foreign currency sales to the private sector. Thus, in the point-bypoint comparison, gross international reserves grew 10.751 billion dollars reaching, at the end of 2018, USD 65.806 billion. One of the conditions to receive credit assistance from the program with the IMF, was that the Central Bank should focus on a much more restrictive monetary stabilization program with nominal growth targets for the monetary base. Furthermore, in order to improve the monetary policy transmission mechanisms, and resume financial intermediation, a Lebac redemption program was carried out. Thus, at the end of 2018, the stock of this BCRA interest-earning liability reached zero, and was partially replaced by Leliqs (Liquidity Letters), 7-day BCRA interest-earning liabilities only accessible by banks. The stock of Leliqs at the end of the year totaled ARS 722 billion, 51% of the monetary base. 36 Annual Report | Banco Macro The quasi-fiscal deficit was reduced as a result of the considerable depreciation of the exchange rate in addition to the exchange of Lebacs for Leliqs. At the beginning of the year, Lebacs represented more than 100% of the monetary base. After the first agreement with the IMF, a plan was implemented in June to gradually reduce the stock of such instruments through the sale of international reserves, increase in reserve requirements, issuance of government securities and Leliqs. Thus, at the end of 2018 the stock of monetary liabilities of the Central Bank was around 5.2% of GDP, compared to 9.5% in 2017. During the year, the monetary base grew by ARS 407 billion due to the redemption of Lebacs, which expanded the base by ARS 1.296 billion, while as a contraction factor, there was an absorption of ARS 709 billion via Leliqs, and ARS 411 billion through the sale of foreign currency to the private sector during the intervention period. In 2018, the BCRA transferred ARS 30 billion to the Treasury as provisional advances, and there was no transfer of profits. In 2019, the BCRA will not provide assistance any longer to the Treasury in connection with any of those two items. On average, the monetary base grew at a rate of 33% per year, somewhat higher than 32% in 2017, although two different paces can be noticed, given that with the launch of the zero-growth plan of the base at the end of September, the average expansion in the last quarter was only 3%. In this regard, it should be noted that at the end of 2018, accumulated international reserves doubled the monetary base compared to last year, in which they accounted for 100%. Furthermore, as regards BCRA equity, it should be noted that the Net International Reserves/Interest-Earning Debt ratio that had begun to improve in 2017 continued going through that process during 2018, after falling continuously as from 2009 onwards. The monetary base expanded marginally from 9.5 to 9.7% of GDP, while private M2 fell 1.9 pp of GDP from 13.2 to 11.5% of GDP. In the case of M3, the PBI/M3 ratio dropped by 0.2 pp to 19.1% of GDP. The weakness of monetization in Argentina is not a new phenomenon. Therefore, and despite the improvement evidenced during 2017 and 2018, the Argentine financial system continues to be of the smallest relative size in Latin America, since bank credit in Argentine pesos and US dollars represent 15.8% of GDP compared to the 35% regional average. Money Market and Financial System 37 During 2018, Argentine peso-denominated deposits rose 54% yoy, while those US dollar-denominated deposits (measured in Argentine pesos) were up 131% yoy (29% measured in foreign currency + 102% devaluation). Thus, the total deposits in both currencies in relation to GDP increased 6.8 pp of GDP; this growth is mainly explained by larger time deposits in Argentine pesos, and larger deposits in US dollars, which reached record levels at the end of the year. This growth was well above the rise of just 0.7 pp of GDP for total credit in both currencies. During 2018, private deposits (Argentine pesos plus dollars) grew 66% yoy due to the combination of a 42% rise in Argentine pesos and 139% in US dollars (measured in ARS), with a notable recovery in the growth of term deposits in Argentine pesos that grew 65% after banks resumed financial intermediation when the stock of Lebacs was fully redeemed, to which depositors could previously have direct access. The evolution of private deposits in foreign currency shows the dollarization of deposits during the year, and the confidence of depositors in the local financial system. On average, they were up 225 million dollars per month. On the other hand, the increase in public sector deposits (Argentine pesos plus dollars) in the year reached 97% yoy. Deposits from the public and private sectors (Argentine pesos plus dollars) reached ARS 3.922 billion, 77% of which belonged to the private sector. As regards assets, in 2018 the financial system grew in total loans (private plus public) 36.4% yoy, totaling ARS 2.240 billion. Loans to the private sector rose 37.2% yoy, totaling ARS 2.151 billion, which represents 96% of total loans. Private credit denominated in Argentine pesos grew only 20% yoy, having reached a year-on-year growth peak of 51% in May. Private loans denominated in US dollars increased 125.5% yoy (23.5% yoy in foreign currencies plus 102% due to the Argentine peso devaluation). Within the Argentine peso category, trade loans fell 0.8% yoy, affected by recession and the rise in interest rates, and was the worst hit item. 38 Annual Report | Banco Macro On the other hand, the demand for consumer credit evolved below the inflation rate, increasing by 24.6%. In particular, the balance of credit cards showed a 28.9% growth, while personal loans grew by 21% year-on-year. Collateral loans granted grew 48.5% year-on-year. During the first months of 2018, the boost in mortgage loans adjusted by UVA (Purchasing Value Unit) continued, but then the origination of these loans slowed down rapidly. However, as balances are adjusted for the consumer price level, the stock of mortgages at the end of 2018 had grown 74% year-on-year until reaching ARS 210 billion. Automotive sales financed by collateral had a poor performance and fell 12.6% year-on-year, according to the data provided by AFIMA (Association of Financial Companies for Automotive Brands). The growth differential between deposits and loans of the financial system in Argentine pesos (54% yoy vs. 20% yoy) was reflected in an increase in the liquidity ratios of the financial system. In effect, the broad liquidity of the system, measured as cash, and cash equivalents in Argentine pesos, integration of liquidity requirements, and Central Bank instruments, reached 51% of deposits at the end of 2018. In the year-on-year comparison, broad liquidity increased by 8 pp. In this context, interest rates showed a growing trend influenced by the tightening of monetary policy and the dollarization of deposits. As of December 2017, the monetary policy rate was in the middle of the 7-day repo corridor, set at 27.40%. At the end of 2018, the monetary policy rate was the average of Leliqs rates, which was 59.25%, after having hit highs in the month of October of 74%. Thus, the rest of the rates showed a similar evolution: private Badlar rose from 23.3% to 48.6%. The 30-day time deposit rate in Argentine pesos averaged 21.7% at the beginning of the year and ended at 45.6%. As regards the TM20 rate (private banks), applicable to deposits in amounts above ARS 20 million, it started the year at 24.3% and ended at 51.5%. On the other hand, the rate of advances to companies (at 7 days and more than ARS 10 million) was 31.2% at the beginning of the year, and ended at 65.0%. The Interbank Call Money rate (between private banks) at the end of 2018 was 55.5% compared to 28.0% the previous year. Money Market and Financial System 39 Furthermore, in 2018 the available data up to October indicates that there was an increase in the profitability of the financial system in general. In particular, private banks made a profit of ARS 376.374 billion in the first 10 months of the year, 56.3% above ARS 240.863 billion for the same period of 2017, and above inflation, which translated in a return on assets (ROA) of 3.9% on average, above the 3.1% averaged for the same period in 2017. This increase in profitability was mainly explained by the higher income from received (collected) interest, which averaged 11.0% of assets versus 10.4% in 2017, and higher income from securities, which averaged 6.0% of assets versus 4.1% a year ago. Thus, the financial margin rose by 0.2 pp up to 10.6% of assets compared to 10.4% in 2017. Likewise, there was an increase in interest expense that averaged 8.7% of assets in 2018 versus 5.6% a year ago. On the other hand, administrative expenses grew by 35.5% in the annual aggregate, below domestic inflation, and averaged 6.3% of assets, less than 7.1% in 2017. On the other hand, income from services represented 2.2% of the asset versus 2.9% in 2017, and grew by 18.0% in the year. Meanwhile, uncollectability expenses rose to 1.3% of assets from 1.0%, which means low levels, given that the irregular portfolio averaged 2.2% of financing. Finally, tax charges in 2018 amounted to 1.2% of assets, compared to 1.4% the previous year. As regards capitalization, the capital payment ratio stood at 15.5% of risk-weighted assets in November (similar to the level one year ago), with an excess of integration above the 88% requirement. Furthermore, exposure to the public sector averaged 12.8% of the assets (including loans to the public sector, securities, and Lebacs), below the 15.5% accumulated for the same period of 2017. 40 Annual Report | Banco Macro 41 The Bank In four decades we were able to stand as a leading bank in the Argentine private sector. Today we work to become the most sustainable Bank federally speaking and the first in customer service satisfaction. Below we present our 2018 results and the business strategy we follow to achieve this goal. Banco Macro and its subsidiaries We are the controlling company of the following entities (“Subsidiary Companies” or “Subsidiaries”): Banco Macro S.A. Banco del Macro Bank Macro Macro Macro Fondos Tucumán S.A. Limited Securities S.A. Fiducia S.A. S.G.F.C.I. S.A. 99,95% 99,99% 99,92% 98,61% 99,94% Note: % on the corporate capital – direct and indirect interest. Ownership Structure This is the ownership structure as of 31 December 2018: Participating Interest Voting Interest 27,49% 28,77% 25,77% 26,96% ANSES-F.G.S. Other Shareholders ANSES-F.G.S. Other Shareholders Act No.26425 (Foreign Stock Exchange) Act No.26425 (Foreign Stock Exchange) 6,15% 6,30% Other Shareholders Other Shareholders (Local Stock Exchange) (Local Stock Exchange) 16,68% 4,32% 4,05% Delfín Jorge Repurchased Shares 18,37% Repurchased Shares Ezequiel Carballo Delfín Jorge 16,59% 18,55% Jorge Horacio Brito Ezequiel Carballo Jorge Horacio Brito 42 Annual Report | Banco Macro Corporate Governance At Banco Macro, our Corporate Governance is composed of the Board of Directors and the Senior Management, formed by the first line reporting to the General Manager and the Board staff departments. It is a local, dynamic and autonomous structure that enables the management of regional teams, which in turn ensures our presence in different spots of our country. The Board of Directors The Board of Directors is the maximum administrative body and is responsible for establishing the commercial and risk management goals and policies, with a view towards the development and sustainability in the long term. Under the Argentine corporate law, its members are to be designated by the Shareholders’ Meeting, in this case, to hold office for three fiscal years. In turn, sometimes the nominated directors need the authorization of the Central Bank of the Republic of Argentina (BCRA for its acronym in Spanish) to act as directors and participate in the meetings of the Board. This same entity determines the evaluation criteria to be followed in order to grant the authorization to the directors appointed by the Shareholders’ Meeting. Financial entities must certify that the directors are legally capable, suitable and competent and that they have the appropriate experience in the financial activity and the possibility of functional dedication. In the case of Banco Macro, all its members –being Argentine citizensare designated by the General Shareholders’ Meeting, to hold office for three fiscal years. They have the appropriate training and solid experience in the banking business; most of them even perform technical and administrative functions. This has allowed the Bank to clearly transmit to its stakeholders the goals and guidelines of the business and maintain positive consistent and sustainable results in a changing scenario. The General and Special Shareholders’ Meeting held on April 26th 2016 decided the Board shall be composed of thirteen Regular Directors and three Alternate Directors. Six out of the thirteen regular members and two out of the three alternate members meet the requirements to act as independent directors, as provided for by the applicable rules and regulations of the Argentine Securities Exchange Commission. During 2018 the Board met 17 times. The Bank 43 Each year, the Shareholders’ Meeting evaluates the management and performance of the members of the Board. In addition, the Directors make a self-assessment which is then submitted to evaluation by Designations & Corporate Governance Committee. The Shareholders’ Meeting fixes the remunerations to be paid to the Directors. In 2018, the Bank has not changed its policy in this regard. Board Members Name Position Age Year first designated Designation Expiry Date – Shareholders’ Meeting evaluating the Financial Statements for the Year Delfín Jorge Ezequiel Carballo Chairman 66 2002 2020 Jorge Pablo Brito Vice Chairman 39 2002 2018 Marcos Brito Regular Director 36 2007 2019 Carlos Alberto Giovanelli Regular Director 61 2016 2018 Nelson Damián Pozzoli Regular Director 52 2016 2018 José Alfredo Sánchez (*) Regular Director 62 2016 2018 Martín Estanislao Gorosito (*)(**) Regular Director 34 2016 2018 Constanza Brito Regular Director 37 2007 2020 Mario Luis Vicens (*) Regular Director 67 2016 2020 Juan Martín Monge Varela (*) (**) Regular Director 43 2017 2020 Guillermo Eduardo Stanley (*) Regular Director 70 2018 2020 Alejandro Eduardo Fargosi (*)(**) Regular Director 64 2016 2019 Delfín Federico Ezequiel Carballo Regular Director 34 2015 2019 Santiago Horacio Seeber Alternate Director 41 2018 2018 Alejandro Guillermo Chiti (*)(**) Alternate Director 40 2018 2018 Fabián Alejandro De Paul (*) Alternate Director 55 2017 2018 (*) Independent Director. (**) Designated upon nomination by ANSES-FGS. 44 Annual Report | Banco Macro Supervisory Committee The supervision is the responsibility of the Supervisory Committee, which has the powers and duties as established by the Argentine laws. Composition of Supervisory Committee Name Position Designation Expiry Date – Shareholders’ Meeting evaluating the Financial Statements for the Year Alejandro Almarza Regular Syndic 2018 Carlos Javier Piazza Regular Syndic 2018 Silvana María Gentile Regular Syndic 2018 Alejandro Carlos Piazza Alternate Syndic 2018 Leonardo Pablo Cortigiani Alternate Syndic 2018 Jorge Roberto Pardo Alternate Syndic 2018 Committees We feature 14 committees formed by the members of the Board and Senior Management departments who contribute their experience and knowledge to the daily management of the business. In 2018 we created the Financial Services User Protection Committee and designated a Senior Management member as the person responsible for User Protection, pursuant to the rules of the Central Bank of the Republic of Argentina, ensuring our customers the Bank commercializes its products and services in accordance with such rules and becoming user’s representative within the Bank(3). The Bank 45 Committee Name of Members Position AUDIT Guillermo Eduardo Stanley Regular Director CNV(4) /SEC(5) José Alfredo Sánchez Regular Director Mario Luis Vicens Regular Director ASSETS & Jorge Pablo Brito Regular Director LIABILITIES José Alfredo Sánchez Regular Director Delfín Federico Ezequiel Carballo Regular Director Gustavo Alejandro Manríquez General Manager Martín Kaplan Commercial Banking Manager Brian Anthony Management Control & Strategic Planning Manager Jorge Francisco Scarinci Head of Finance/ CFO Juan Ignacio Perdomenico Head of Management Control CREDIT Delfín Jorge Ezequiel Carballo (1) Chairman of the Board Senior Jorge Pablo Brito (1) Vice Chairman of the Board Carlos Alberto Giovanelli (1) Regular Director Nelson Damián Pozzoli (1) Regular Director Jorge Pablo Brito (1) Regular Director Marcos Brito (1) Regular Director Gustavo Alejandro Manríquez General Manager Ana María Magdalena Marcet Credit Risk Manager Alejandro Becka Corporate Risk Manager Adrian Mariano Scosceria Head of Corporate Banking Martín Kaplan Head of Commercial Banking María José Perez Van Morlegan Head of Legal Department Relevant Managers Managers CREDIT Marcos Brito (2) Regular Director Junior Nelson Damián Pozzoli (2) Regular Director Ana María Magdalena Marcet Credit Risk Manager Alejandro Becka Corporate Risk Manager Francisco Muro Distribution & Sales Manager Head of Other Relevant Banking Head of Other Relevant Banking Businesses: PyME, Agro, Megra, Businesses: PyME, Agro, Megra, Investment, Corporate Investment, Corporate Head of Divisional Office Head of Divisional Office IT SYSTEMS Marcos Brito Regular Director Delfín Federico Ezequiel Carballo Regular Director Carlos Alberto Giovanelli Regular Director José Alfredo Sánchez (3) Regular Director Gustavo Alejandro Manríquez General Manager Ricardo Mendoza Albán Head of Operations & Technology Leonardo Maglia Head of Innovation & Technology Brian Anthony Management Control & Strategic Planning Manager Alberto Figueroa Head of Comprehensive Risk Management (3) See section on “Corporate Governance Guidelines” for addtional information. (4) Comisión Nacional de Valores (CNV). (5) US Securities and Exchange Commission. 46 Annual Report | Banco Macro Committee Name of Members Position ANTI-MONEY Nelson Damián Pozzoli (4) Regular Director LAUNDERING José Alfredo Sánchez Regular Director Mario Luis Vicens Regular Director Carlos Alberto Giovanelli Regular Director Alfredo Cobos Responsible of Anti-Money Laundering Office Alberto Figueroa Head of Comprehensive Risk Management María José Perez Van Morlegan Head of Legal Department INTERNAL José Alfredo Sánchez Regular Director AUDIT Guillermo Eduardo Stanley Regular Director Mario Luis Vicens Regular Director Nelson Damián Pozzoli (5) Regular Director Carmen Estévez Head of Internal Audit Department Gerentes Invitados Invited Managers RECOVERY Marcos Brito (6) Regular Director Senior Carlos Alberto Giovanelli (6) Regular Director Nelson Damián Pozzoli (6) Regular Director Ana María Magdalena Marcet Credit Risk Manager María José Perez Van Morlegan Head of Legal Department Máximo Luis Casal Responsible for Recovery RISK Mario Luis Vicens Regular Director MANAGEMENT Carlos Alberto Giovanelli Regular Director José Alfredo Sánchez Regular Director Gustavo Alejandro Manríquez General Manager Alberto Figueroa Head of Comprehensive Risk Management Pablo Siwaki Head of Risk Management Ana María Magdalena Marcet Credit Risk Manager Jorge Francisco Scarinci Head of Finance/ CFO Ricardo Mendoza Albán Head of Operations & Technology Ernesto Eduardo Medina Head of Human Resources ETHICS & Mario Luis Vicens Regular Director COMPLIANCE José Alfredo Sánchez Regular Director Carlos Alberto Giovanelli Regular Director Nelson Damián Pozzoli Regular Director Alberto Figueroa Head of Comprehensive Risk Management Ernesto Eduardo Medina Head of Human Resources María José Perez Van Morlegan Head of Legal Department The Bank 47 Committee Name of Members Position DESIGNATIONS & Mario Luis Vicens Regular Director CORPORATE José Alfredo Sánchez Regular Director GOVERNANCE Carlos Alberto Giovanelli Regular Director Alberto Figueroa Head of Comprehensive Risk Management Ernesto Eduardo Medina Head of Human Resources María José Perez Van Morlegan Head of Legal Department MPLOYEE Mario Luis Vicens Regular Director INCENTIVES José Alfredo Sánchez Regular Director Carlos Alberto Giovanelli Regular Director Alberto Figueroa Head of Comprehensive Risk Management Ernesto Eduardo Medina Head of Human Resources CRISIS Directors called by the General Directors Manager as needed Gustavo Alejandro Manríquez General Manager FINANCIAL Mario Luis Vinces Regular Director SERVICES USER María Milagro Medrano Head of Institutional Relations PROTECTION & Customer Service María José Perez Van Morlegan Head of Legal Department Alberto Figueroa Head of Comprehensive Risk Management (1) Two of the above mentioned directors. (4) FIU Compliance Officer. (2) One of the above mentioned directors (5) Alternate. (3) Alternate. (6) Two of the above mentioned directors. Senior Management Senior Management is responsible of the day to day management of our business, the alignment thereof with the Bank’s corporate strategy and compliance with the Bank’s goals. Senior Management Composition as of 31 December 2018 Name Position Gustavo Alejandro Manríquez General Manager Brian Anthony Management Control & Strategic Planning Manager Martín Kaplan Head of Commercial Banking Ernesto Eduardo Medina Head of Human Resources Jorge Francisco Scarinci Head of Finance/ CFO Francisco Muro Distribution & Sales Manager Ana María Magdalena Marcet Credit Risk Manager María Milagro Medrano Head of Institutional Relations & Customer Service Agustín Devoto Head of Investment Banking María José Perez Van Morlegan Head of Legal Department Alberto Figueroa Head of Comprehensive Risk Management Adrián Mariano Scosceria Head of Corporate Banking Ricardo Mendoza Albán Head of Operations & Technology Juan Domingo Mazzon Head of Government Banking Those who form part of the Senior Management are characterized by their capacity and commitment. The resume of each Senior Management member is available at https://www.macro. com.ar/relaciones-inversores, in the “Corporate Governance – directors and senior management officers”. 48 Annual Report | Banco Macro Remunerations We feature a Remuneration Policy –approved by the Incentives Committee and the Board of Directorsapplicable to the entire Bank’s staff and which defines the fixed and variable remuneration structure. Senior Management members and officers holding strategic positions within the Bank receive variable remunerations, allowing us to acknowledge their outstanding performance, measured on parameters related with a way of managing oriented to the entity’s mission and values, and to the compliance with the annual strategic plan and its individual goals. Corporate Governance Guidelines We keep a strong commitment to business transparency and integrity. We meet the rules and regulations and comply with the codes typical of the financial industry, we respect the corporate values of our entity, we bet on the suitability of our internal control system and of those who work at the Bank, and, in addition, we follow high dialogue standards with the interested parties. The bylaws and the Corporate Governance Policy define the Corporate Governance scheme applicable both to Banco Macro and its Subsidiaries. These guidelines incorporate the good practices on corporate governance. Each year we carry out an integral review of this Policy for Board approval in order to guarantee it is up to date and efficient. For this purpose, we feature a Designations & Corporate Governance Committee created by the Board responsible for the application of this Policy and its related proceedings. On March 2018, the Argentine Corporate Criminal Liability Act No. 27401 came into effect and we had to adjust the Corporate Governance Policy of Banco Macro and Banco del Tucumán. These guidelines are contained in the Code of Ethics for Directors and Senior Management Officers, the Code of Conduct for Employees, the Code of Conduct for Vendors and the Code of Conduct for Agents, as well as in the Anticorruption Policy, which contemplates the general framework adopted by the entity as to corruption risks. On November, the Designations & Corporate Governance Committee updated the Corporate Governance Policy again in order to incorporate the duties and powers of the Financial Services User Protection Committee. This Committee was created on February 2018 in compliance with the rules of the BCRA and in order to see to the application of corporate governance good practices. Furthermore, as a quality distinctive, we adhere to the Code of Bank Practices prepared by the different banking associations and financial entities of the Republic of Argentina. In this way, we commit to promoting the best bank practices in the country, in order to strengthen the rights of all users of financial services and products. We comply with national and international standards that regulate ethical and responsible businesses. The Bank 49 Transparency Our Information Transparency Policy is part of our Corporate Governance Policy. To that effect, the Board has adopted standards that ensure at all times access to clear, concrete and detailed information on the Bank’s situation, as to organizational, economic and financial aspects. The transparency standard applied to the disclosure of information is supplemented by our willingness to deal with the concerns of our stakeholders through our Investor Relations department. Transparency, compliance with the rules and codes, dialogue and implementation of the best governance practices are the axis to manage the business focused on the continuous improvement of its processes. 50 Annual Report | Banco Macro Code of Ethics and Code of Conduct We know that the trust generated by the different stakeholders depends mainly on our commitment to comply with the highest ethical standards we adhere to and that are materialized in our Code of Ethics and our Code of Conduct. Our Code of Ethics applicable to all the members of the Board and Senior Management officers, is aimed at ensuring the highest levels of personal and professional integrity in all aspects of their activities, as well as seeing to the compliance with the applicable law and discouraging the performance of any reprehensible acts. The Code of Ethics is available at https://www.macro.com.ar/relaciones-inversores, “Corporate Governance” section. The Code of Conduct applicable to all Bank’s staff supplements this document. We look forward to a work environment that allows the development of all activities with the highest ethical standards and that stimulates responsibility, efficiency, commitment, loyalty, honesty, good communication and team work. For that purpose, we promote mutual respect, trust and warm and simple treatment, both between colleagues and bosses and with vendors and customers. We feature the “Macro Group Ethical Line”, which is managed by an external third party, ensuring compliance with the three guiding principles of this kind of reporting channels: anonymity, confidentiality and transparency. All the reports received are managed by a work team reporting to the Ethics and Compliance Committee. During 2018 the Ethical Line received 35 reports, expanded its scope of application and is now available to Macro Fondos and Macro Fiducia as well. The Macro Group Ethical Line is operational 24X7 (365 days in a year) through the following channels: —— Telephone: 0800-122-5768 —— Fax: +54 (11) 4316-5800, to the attention of “Macro Group Ethical Line” —— E-mail: eticagrupomacro@kpmg.com.ar —— Web Site: https://eticagrupomacro.lineaseticas.com —— Mailing Address: Bouchard 710, 6° piso, Código Postal 1001, Buenos Aires, Argentina, to the attention of “KPMG-Macro Group Ethical Line”. During 2018 we received 35 reports through our Ethical Line, and we expanded its scope of application to Macro Fondos and Macro Fiducia. The Bank 51 Internal Control System Our internal control system allows us to provide reasonable certainty as to the achievement of business goals, the reliability of the financial reports and compliance with the applicable local and international laws, rules and regulations. Internal control relies on process management since it shows the company’s reality through planning, measuring, management and improvement activities. In this scenario, we have instrumented rules and policies that provide an appropriate framework to this control environment. The role of the Internal Audit Department is a key role since it develops an independent and objective activity ensuring the internal control system, contributing a systematic and disciplinary approach to evaluate and improve the efficiency of risk management, control and corporate governance processes. Operation of the Internal Audit Department depends directly of the Internal Audit Committee, which is in turn chiefly composed of independent directors. As provided by the U.S. Securities Exchange Commission (SEC), Banco Macro certifies compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (“SOX”) and in order to get such certification the Bank is subject to the internal control provisions issued by the 2013 Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadeway Comission (“COSO”). The adoption of international guidelines, internal audits and external certifications allow us to evaluate on a methodological and comparable manner the business management and strengthen the internal control system, the main aim of which is to protect the minority shareholder, ensure the reliability of our financial reports and strengthen the transparency in our management. Internal audits, external certifications and the adoption of international guidelines allow us to ensure the reliability of our financial reports, protect the minority shareholder and strengthen the transparency in our management. 52 Annual Report | Banco Macro Comprehensive Risk Management The risk management process implies planning, organizing, directing and executing the strategies, processes and activities aimed at identifying, assessing, following-up, controlling and mitigating the risks. It includes defining specific policies, practices and procedures for each different risk to which the entity is exposed, and also determining exposure limits, monitoring transactions based on such limits, preparing periodic reports to the Board and following up of tasks. In addition, it comprises the evaluation of the sufficiency of the economic capital in relation to the risk profile, the development of stress tests and the preparation of contingency plans based on the results. Macro’s Risk Management Policy establishes the environment for the risk management process and defines responsibilities of each organizational level regarding risk management. The Risk Management Committee and the Comprehensive Risk Management Department are an important part of this structure. The Committee is responsible for ensuring the creation of an independent risk management and coordinating the administration of the different types of risks and the action of those in charge of the management thereof. On the other hand, the Comprehensive Risk Management department is in charge of setting risk assessment policies, procedures and methodologies and information reporting systems regarding the risks under its charge, both on a separate and combined basis. Risk we take into account at Banco Macro: —— Financial —— Legal —— Credit —— Regulatory —— Market —— Counterparty —— Operation —— IT —— Reputation —— Social & Environmental Social and Environmental Risk Analysis in Credit Granting Within our credit policies we contemplate the social and environmental risk. On the one hand, we act this way to assess customer’s potential environmental behavior and risk and customer’s capacity to face any possible corporate responsibilities derived from its activities or business. On the other hand, we do it to promote more environmental commitment and the development, application and spreading of environment-friendly activities and technologies. We believe that, as financial entity, our role with sustainable development goes beyond the mere fact of delivering financing facilities or opportunities, it also gives us the responsibility of knowing our customer deeply when it comes to granting financing or renewing or extending customer’s credits, not only in connection with customer’s economic and financial situation and payment capacity, but also as regards labor, social and environmental aspects related to customer’s business, such as transparency in corporate management, health and safety of customer’s employees, company’s actions with the community, the alliances with non-governmental organizations and environmental protection, among other aspects. The Bank 53 Our Corporate Banking Credit Policy reflects the above by contemplating the social and environmental impact of our customers’ businesses. For this reason, we analyze the different aspects of their activities: —— geographic areas of influence —— their employees (composition by sex and age; inclusion of disabled employees) —— their private social investment —— NGOs with which they work and the impact on the community —— eventual actions with their customers and vendors having a positive social or environmental impact —— inclusive procurement from vulnerable areas —— customer service surveys —— complaint management —— supply chain environmental impact management —— responsible use of natural resources —— waste management —— eventual sustainable management-related certifications —— sustainability or corporate social responsibility reports —— code of ethics or business conduct This information is managed by the Business Banking Officers and those in charge of credit risk assessment tasks, who prudently decide the amounts involved in credit transactions, which amounts shall be consistent both with the assets and income of those who apply for credit facilities and the profitability and sustainability of their projects. Credit granting is based on a deep knowledge of the activity or business of applicant, of applicant’s repayment capacity, of applicant’s financial needs, and of other aspects related to the labor conditions of applicant’s employees and applicant’s management of the social and environmental impact of applicant’s operations. 54 Annual Report | Banco Macro Anti-Money Laundering & Counter-Terrorism Financing At Banco Macro we are strongly committed to contributing to the preservation of the financial system from fraudulent uses by criminal organizations and taking an active role in the fight against money laundering and terrorism financing. In order to achieve this goal, we comply with all laws and regulations and with the best local and international practices in this regard. We adopted the appropriate policies, methodologies and procedures aimed at identifying, assessing, mitigating and monitoring the risk that the Bank be used to hide illegal transactions. In line with the above, we worked in the implementation of the provisions set forth by Resolution 30/2017 issued by the Financial Information Unit (FIU), by applying a riskbased approach instead of a formal regulatory compliance approach as required before the official publication of the above-mentioned resolution. We performed a self-assessment of the entity’s risks and captured the results on a risk matrix that constitutes an essential tool to improve the efficiency of our prevention system. With our employees we set up “Know Your Employee” standards that ensure appropriate employee pre-selection and hiring systems. In addition, we adopted a formal and permanent training, education and updating program. We carried out several training activities regarding AML & CRF. An aggregate number of 865 employees of the Bank completed the e-learning course on AML & CRF, while other 6,019 employees validated their knowledge with a distant certification. In addition, we organized an on-site course for 2,374 employees, within which there are 41 instructors or coaches who then transmitted their knowledge to their work team. With our “Know Your Customer” policies and procedures we maximized the scope of the information to verify the identity and determine the legitimate source of the funds involved. In this respect, we verify the reasonability of the economic activity declared by customers with the transactions made and the financial services requested. We feature a risk matrix and a management and control system for detected cash diversions, which generate Alarms and Risk Segmentations that are analyzed to validate the legality and origin thereof. The Bank 55 During 2018 we carried out anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing training activities with the participation of 865 employees through e-learning courses, 2,374 employees attending on-site courses and other 6,019 employees who got distance certification. Besides, we analyzed at branches and banking segments an average of 5,000 monthly alerts; 3,853 cases were analyzed on a centralized manner and we re-defined the risks profiles of 14,695 customers. On the other hand, thanks to the application of controls regarding terrorism financing, we analyzed homonymous customers appearing on the terrorist lists provided by the controlling entities. Number of Employees who attended Anti-Money Laundering 2017 2018 and Counter-Terrorist Financing Courses E-learning 5,696 865 Distance Certification 6,074 6,019 On-site Courses 1,162 2,374 Contact with Investors, Employees and Shareholders Our Website features a section specially dedicated to Investor Relations (https://www. macro.com.ar/relaciones-inversores/home). This section provides information relevant to this group of interest, including among other information data on the ownership structure, the Directors and the Top Management, the composition of committees, the Corporate Governance Policy, financial information and other services targeted to this audience. Additionally, we carry out quarterly conferences at which we explain the results and changes in the economic and financial position of the Bank. The Bank’s Corporate Governance features permanent face-to-face and online communication channels to communicate with its employees. Among such channels, we can mention meetings, events and gatherings to listen and know about the employees’ queries and concerns and to address topics of interest and an intranet that informs about the Bank’s performance and its sustainability management actions. Through these communication channels we transmit the corporate values and culture. 56 Annual Report | Banco Macro 57 Business Model Our management model takes into account the corporate culture; our Vision, Mission and Values; the Bank’s policies and processes we manage every day to the benefit of all our stakeholders; the regulations and laws that have an impact on our business; and the local and international guidelines and standards to which we adhere and we accompany such as the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), the United Nations Global Compact, GRI Standards, among others. Besides, when we exercise the rendering of accounts, we present the Bank’s business management and its performance in a structure based on the six capitals of the Integrated Reporting Initiative model: Financial, Industrial, Intellectual, Human, Social and Reputation and Natural. We were the first entity in the country to present a publication integrating financial and non-financial information, following the guidelines established by the International Integrated Reporting Council (“IIRC”) in its document known as “The International <IR> Framework”. The above is aimed at being at the forefront of reporting, communicating the way in which we create financial and non-financial value within our entity to the benefit of the sustainable development of the nation, and making this document a reference for financial analysts and investors, and useful material for decision-making for all the Bank’s stakeholders. Corporate Principles Vision Mission Banco Macro wants to be recognized as the At Banco Macro every day we work to build up trust leading bank in customer satisfaction. relationships and to stand out for our unique culture focused on looking after our customers. Values Closeness Self-Demanding We differentiate for our personal and human ways. We focus on the permanent improvement of our Knowing our customers allows us to support them professional quality. We pursue excellence in our perforin their projects. mance (independence, autonomy and participation). Diligence Commitment to Development We are efficient: we look for rapid and efficient We support the progress of companies, entrepresolutions. We are flexible: we adapt to the needs of neurs and communities of the regions in which we each customer and market. operate. We re-invest a large part of our profits in the communities where we are present. 58 Annual Report | Banco Macro Value Creation Model Resources – Our Capitals Financial Industrial Intellectual Capital Capital Capital —— Income from previous years. —— Products and services —— Customer experience design —— Available and potential funds. adjusted to each segment. and measuring. —— Investments. —— Branch network across —— Market research. —— Corporate capital. the entire nation. —— Digital banking and IT —— Automatic customer platform development. service channels: self-service —— Customer service. terminals, ATMs and customer —— Data storing technology. service call center. —— Contract simplification project. —— Commercial campaigns for individuals and companies. —— New Headquarters building in the City of Buenos Aires. —— Physical safety and data protection. Business Model 59 Human Social and Natural Capital Relational Capital —— Employees’ remunerations. Capital —— Environmental —— Peer recognition Management System (EMS). and incentive program. —— Private social investment. —— Investment on positive —— Teleworking. —— Communication media environmental impact projects. —— Training and development. participation at a federal level. —— New Banco Macro Tower —— Employee and —— Financial education and in the City of Buenos Aires. family benefits. inclusion program. —— Development of —— Investment on employment —— Banco Macro Foundation, awareness campaigns. health and safety. which drives community —— Investment on —— Digital tools for relationship actions. renewable energy. management transparency. —— Procurement from —— Corporate voluntary local vendors. work program. —— Financial products and services with social value. —— Social impact events. 60 Annual Report | Banco Macro Value Creation Model Resources. Factors influencing our Performance Our capitals Business Management Internal factors: our Financial Capital management basis —— Capital strength. —— Our corporate DNA. —— One of the private entities Financial Capital —— Sustainability Policy. with greater deposit volume. —— Human Rights Policy. —— Growth in private sector loans. —— Employee training. —— Business Plan and Industrial Capital strategic goals. —— One of the private entities with greater presence in the country. Bank’s competitive strengths —— Opening of new branches and remodeling Industrial Capital —— Leading bank in the old branches at places where Banco Macro private sector in Argentina. is the only entity in town. —— Strong liquidity and —— Reclassification of present and potential capital indicators. customers to offer products according —— Presence in fast-growing to their particular needs. segments. —— Support to PyMEs and entrepreneurs —— Diversified loan portfolio through the granting of credits and products Intellectual Capital and prudent risk management. specially tailored to meet their needs. —— Strong return and profits. —— Financing of NAVES Competitions, organized by the Entrepreneurship Center External factors guiding at IAE Business School, for the promotion our business of production ventures. —— Local and international —— Loan granting through automatic standards, guidelines channels. Human Capital and certifications. —— Accompanying of public sector: 10-year —— Local and international extension of the financial agent agreement financial-sector rules with the province of Misiones. and regulations. —— Local and international laws. Intellectual Capital —— Local currency policy and —— Digital transformation Project focused main economic variables. on the best experience for our customers. Social & Relational —— Alliances with local and —— 100% renovation of the Bank’s websites. Capital international organizations. —— Financial Services Protection department to safeguard customer satisfaction. —— Incorporation of new tools as part of Customer Service Strategies focusing on digital channels. —— New practical guides on our products, under the Contract Simplification program. Natural Capital Business Model 61 Results Human Capital Financial Capital Human Capital —— Job generation throughout the country. —— 30.7% ROE – Average —— 8,965 employees of —— First labor environment measuring Return on Equity. Banco Macro and Banco del under the Great Place to Work model. —— 15,777 million pesos of Tucumán. —— Incorporation of a tool to ensure profit for the Fiscal Year. —— 23% women holding the definition of goals between bosses Senior Management and employees. Industrial Capital positions. —— Implementation of a social and —— 193 towns/cities where —— 40% women employees. collaborative network provided by SAP as Banco Macro is the only —— 68% of the employees main internal communication channel. bank present (including are from the provinces. —— Increase the number of teleworking branch offices and ATMs). —— 100% of the employees permits for 90 employees working —— 471 branches. return to work after materin central areas. —— 44% increase in the nity or paternity leave. number of Macro App —— 2,741 voluntary work Social and Relational Capital users (Mobile Banking). program enrollments. —— Decentralized and federal communication —— 10% share in financial strategy planning. sector. Social and Relational —— ALUMBRA, a financial inclusion program —— 11% PyME customers on Capital that grants loans for productive purposes to total corporate customers. —— 99% local vendors. small businesses and micro-entrepreneurs —— 1,896 active customers —— More than 108 million who have no access to banking services, under ALUMBRA financial pesos in social investment. through Banco Macro Foundation. inclusion program. —— 329 Healthy Accounts —— Scaling the Healthy Accounts financial —— 34.5% year-over-year financial education on-site education program to a national level. growth in loans to the workshops. —— Selecting local vendors in order to promote private sector, totaling the regional macro-economic development. $171,525 million. Natural Capital —— New vendors’ website to speed up —— 716,081 retirees —— 800 MWh of renewable processes. served/assisted. energy used, representing —— 97% of our ATMs are 8% of energy consumption. Natural Capital accessible for the blind or —— More than 10 million —— Implementation of an Environmental visually impaired customers. printouts avoided. Management System at Banco Macro Tower. —— We donated 4 times —— Renewable energy acquisition under Intellectual Capital more plastic to recycle an agreement executed with GENNEIA. —— 50% individual customer and 3 times more furniture —— Inclusion of social-environmental risk experience indicator. than we did in 2017. analysis within credit policies. —— 44% PyME customer service experience indicator. —— 8% customer complaint rate. —— 94% complaints settled. 62 Annual Report | Banco Macro Value generation for our stakeholders Shareholders and Investors We generate profitability. We provide transparent and clear information for decision-making, always respecting the rights and interests of minority shareholders. Individual Customers We work to offer financial products and services to each profile and need, with a focus on inclusion, so that people throughout the country may improve their quality of life and can act in the banking market. Corporate Customers We assist companies in their growth and in the development of their businesses, focused on the smalland medium-sized companies, and with a strong presence in the productive areas of the provinces. Employees We promote the professional and personal development of the people who work at the Bank so that they can carry out their activities in a safe and healthy environment. Vendors We manage responsibly the procurement process based on clear and transparent rules, open and amicable dialog, and with a particular interest in local purchases from small businesses, in order to boost regional development. Community We manage responsibly the procurement process based on clear and transparent rules, open and amicable dialog, and with a particular interest in local purchases from small businesses, in order to boost regional development. Public Sector and Regulatory Entities We build alliances to generate social and environmental value from our own actions, in cooperation with other entities and public and private organizations. Media We provide information for the market and society with clear and transparent data, just as we support the mass media in all the towns and cities in which we are present. Business Model 63 Our Corporate Sustainability Policy At Banco Macro we believe our contribution to society, as a financial entity, is essential for the development of a country. We commit to creating economic, social environmental value in the short, medium and long term, for the benefit of our entity and each of our Stakeholders, which is understood as Corporate Sustainability. True to our corporate values, our main goal is to be a sustainable company that respects human being and the environment, acting across the business building corporate reputation from a management based on ethics and transparency. Corporate Sustainability is part of the Bank’s culture whose focus is placed on vulnerable sectors, and in creating opportunities in each region of the country, by offering quality financial products and services and managing responsibly the impact and risks of the business for the benefit of the present generations and of the generations to come. The Board of Directors and Senior Management of the Bank, in addition to signing their adherence to these commitments, undertake to disseminate the Bank’s Corporate Sustainability Policy to the rest of the organization and the society as a whole, in order to promote a sustainable administration and be as well a reference company for the entire country. 64 Annual Report | Banco Macro Sustainability Strategy Our goal is to be the most sustainable bank federally speaking. In line with the above, we developed a strategy that frames our actions into five pillars and meets the benefit of our Stakeholders. In addition, in order to show our value as a business in sustainable development, we linked our strategic pillars to the capitals of the IIRC model and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) in which our management generates high impact. Table showing direct relationship between sustainability pillars of Banco Macro, Integrated Reporting capitals and Sustainable Development Goals. Sustainability Strategic Pillars IIRC Capitals Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Transparency in all our actions Financial Capital Industrial Capital Intellectual Capital Responsibility for Public Welfare and Inclusion Human Capital Financial Education and Inclusion Industrial Capital Social & Relational Capital Development of PyMEs and Ventures Industrial Capital Social & Relational Capital Direct and Indirect Environmental Impact Natural Capital Our goal, to the most sustainable bank federally speaking. Business Model 65 These are our five strategic pillars: 1. Inclusion and Financial Education: 4. Development of PyMEs and Ventures: We promote a healthy financial system. That’s why We accompany small companies and new we are constantly generating products and tools for ventures in the development of their busithe education of critical, prudent and economically nesses with products and services tailored responsible bankarized citizens contributing to the for them, training and tools for the growth economic growth of the country. thereof. Our commitment: Our commitment: —— Promote bankarization and accessibility —— Create products and services tailored through our wide network of branches, outbuildings to meet the needs of PYMES. and ATMs. —— Accompany their growth with training —— Include lower-income sectors in and advice. our commercial offering. —— Listen to our customers with —— Create innovative products and services an excellent customer service system. to include the different customer profiles. —— Develop financial education programs in all communities and to all kinds of industries 5. Transparency in all our actions: We operate and activities. with maximum transparency in order to create an environment of trust and credibility for all Groups of Interest. We practice active 2. Direct and Indirect Environmental Impact: listening and permanent accountability. We promote the care of our social environment and the environment, both internally Our commitment: and in our entire value chain. —— Give account on a transparent and detailed manner to all our audiences. Our commitment: —— Implement communication channels adjusted —— Use natural resources efficiently. to each profile. —— Raise awareness on our employees and —— Fight corruption, money laundering customers, seeking a multiplying effect in society. and terrorism financing. —— Measure our institutional carbon footprint. —— Adhere to and comply with the most important —— Manage in a responsible manner all standards and good practices, both locally and technological, plastic and paper waste. internationally, related with transparency and —— Develop an energy saving program. management accountability. —— Go deeper into the analysis of environmental —— Develop tools and codes to respect ethics and social risks when it comes to granting loans. and good business conduct in our transactions. 3. Responsibility for Public Welfare and Inclusion: We generate jobs and work opportunities federally; we accompany the professional development of our employees, boosting diversity and inclusion in the working environment. Our commitment: —— Promote the creation of local employment to be an engine for the development of regional economies. —— Empower talent by implementing an internal retention and professional development strategy. —— Incorporate new benefits for our employees and their families. 66 Annual Report | Banco Macro Banco Macro’s Human Rights Policy Launch At Banco Macro we place people in the center of our business. Our Sustainability Policy is aimed at being “the most sustainable Bank federally speaking”, and for that purpose with our products and services we bring development opportunities and welfare improvement to all Argentine people at a personal and professional level, respecting and strengthening their rights. So, during 2018, we created a specific Human Rights Policy aimed at laying the foundations of our actions, to ensure the Bank’s business develops according to fundamental standards and values such as: equality of opportunities, inclusion, fighting discrimination and reject abusive practices. In this scenario, this document contains obligations and duties affecting employees, customers, vendors and the society generally, and that guide our management and relationship with each of them, providing a formal support to each of our activities. In addition, the Policy features an evaluation process to guarantee the correct implementation and fulfillment thereof, as well as complaint mechanism including corrective procedures in case any deviation occurs. In this way, the Bank keeps on adding value to its corporate culture and standards for the benefit of the people, and the responsible and sustainable development of communities. The strategy and management of Banco Macro is governed by general human rights standards based on international rules and internal policies. These are as follows: —— Respect for equality of opportunities —— Foster inclusion —— Repudiate discrimination —— Reject abusive practices These standards characteristic of the Bank meet its business model, the corporate principles and the national and international rules and laws regarding human rights; and adjust to the different audiences in order to generate a positive impact on the environments in which it operates either directly related with the banking business or with the value chain. United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) (6) We are committed to the 2030 Global Agenda for Sustainable Development and, as part of our progress in this respect, we analyzed the SDG and their objectives in the light of the Bank’s Sustainability Strategy, in order to identify our main contribution in this aspect. For this purpose, we took into account the guidelines of the SDG Compass tool, as developed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and the Global Compact, who guide the business sector on their involvement in SDG. (6) For additional information visit www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment Business Model 67 Once more, this year we carried out the analysis in which we identified 11 SDGs to which we contribute directly, adding two to last year’s exercise: SDG # 5 “Gender Equality” as a consequence of the Bank’s Human Rights Policy launch; and SDG # 7 “Affordable and Clean Energy” due to our new Environmental Management System (EMS) for Macro Tower. Thus, the goals mapped are as follows: This way, the initiatives developed in respect of sustainability acquire an even more relevant role upon the generation of economic, social and environmental impact, and the contribution to meeting the goals set by the world for the year 2030 to cope with these huge challenges. 68 Annual Report | Banco Macro Sustainability Strategic Alliances —— United Nations Global Compact Argentine Network. —— Grupo de Fundaciones y Empresas (GDFE). —— Instituto Argentino de Responsabilidad Social Empresaria (IARSE). —— Norte Sustentable. —— Comisión Nacional para la Erradicación del Trabajo Infantil (CONAETI). —— IAE Business School Universidad Austral. —— Endeavor. Goals Aligned with the Business The goals and objectives defined in the Business Plan are applicable to the entire entity generally, taking into account the importance of each business unit at an aggregate level. The Business Plan is defined by the Senior Management and approved by the Board of Directors. For the year 2018 we proposed the following strategic objectives: —— To maintain the market share of consumer financing lines, with sustained leadership in the personal loan portfolio, and a constant growth of the credit card portfolio. —— To support the development of an atomized funding strategy. —— To continue to provide financing to the private sector to contribute to the economic development of the regions in which we operate, in operations and transactions with a good repayment capacity and proper guarantees. —— To enhance the use of all channels in attracting customers and selling products. —— To increase the volume of new individual customers, through focusing on those segments that allow for efficiency and better results from the cost/benefit equation. —— To serve all segments of Corporate Banking customers, especially micro businesses, small businesses, and agribusinesses, taking advantage of the benefits offered by our extensive network of branches nationwide. —— To increase financing to companies through a wide range of credit and transactional products that suit the profile and needs of each customer. —— To promote the sale of transactional products to companies, focusing on payment and collection services provided to mediumand large-sized companies, as well as to the agricultural sector. —— To maximize profitability, by taking advantage of new business opportunities with the existing and new customers, ensuring financial margins, increasing fee income, and continuing with actions aimed at preventing delays in payment. Business Model 69 To achieve such objectives, we set the following qualitative goals: —— To increase fee revenue generation, and improve in financial intermediation, with a healthy portfolio and maintaining the atomization of business. —— To increase operational efficiency, through the use of economies of scale, and by encouraging customers to use alternative channels. —— To continue to develop differential-value actions that position us as an innovative bank for customer acquisition and loyalty building. —— To improve the use of our customers’ information, so that it may serve as a tool to enhance the results of commercial and sales actions. —— To consolidate the branch network management model, and the development of the network of branches with new openings, by enhancing regional business opportunities, and segmenting service and sales centers according to the specific characteristics and needs of our customers. —— To continue to have the position obtained as Macro Credit Cards in the minds of our customers. —— Development of new skills that involve intensifying customized actions with customers, in order to achieve coexistence between more moderate promotions, and an increasing use of direct marketing campaigns addressed to each customer. —— To continue to improve our operational efficiency in the branches, and keep on providing more and better services to our customers. —— Increase the debit card market share, focusing on organic growth opportunities. —— To continue with the development of the different alternative channels, allowing customers to use different methods to carry out their financial transactions through expeditious, efficient, and 100-percent-digital processes. —— To consolidate the new Cash Management model, with differentiation between wholesale and retail banking to increase the value offer to our customers. —— Accompany the development of companies performing foreign trade transactions by offering import and export financing services. Finally, we also defined quantitative goals for our Individual Banking, PyME Banking, Megra Banking and Corporate Banking segments. 70 Annual Report | Banco Macro Main Business Results 2017 2018 Economic Performance Financial Indicators (million Argentine pesos) Shareholders’ Equity as of the end of the fiscal year 46,736 54,638 ROA – Return on Assets (average) 5.6% 5.8% ROE – Return on Equity (average) 31% 30.7% Leverage – Liabilities / Shareholders’ Equity (times) 3.8 5.3 Net Income before Income Tax 15,084 22,742 Income Tax 4,932 6,965 Profit of the fiscal year 10,152 15,777 Portfolio Total Deposits 144,129 237,954 Total Loans – Private Sector 127,536 175,525 Geographic Representation Number of jurisdictions 22 22 Total number of branch offices 445 471 Participation in financial sector 10% 10% Number of towns/cities where Banco Macro is the only bank present (including branch offices and ATMs) 186 193 Total number of ATMs 1,452 1,489 Total number of self-service terminals 900 938 Social Performance Individual Banking Customers Number of individual banking customers 3,473,097 3,645,766 Number of retirees served/assisted 684,642 716,081 Number of credit cards 2,650,272 2,650,641 Total amount of personal loans (million Argentine pesos)(1) 48,258 57,438 Total amount of mortgage loans (million Argentine pesos) 3,746 9,701 Number of automatic channel users 723,359 889,820 Number of calls to the Telephone Assistance Center 7,997,714 8,832,046 Number of ATMs for the visually impaired over the total number of the Bank’s ATMs 94% 97% Number of branch offices with ramps(2) 486 520 Number of branch offices with special restrooms(2) 186 240 Corporate Banking Customers Number of corporate banking customers 93,188 90,930 Number of packages for PyMEs 70,507 69,126 Business Model 71 2017 2018 Vendors Number of Vendors 6,599 6,906 % local vendors 99% 99% Number of visits to strategic vendors 18 21 % of active vendors who adhered to the Code of Conduct 100% 100% Employees Number of employees(3) 8,713 8,965 Female employees 3,373 3,558 Average age 43.43 43.80 Seniority –average 16.12 16.34 Turnover rate 9% 11% % positions filled by employees 18% 15% % trained/skilled employees 99% 99% Absenteeism rate 5.03% 5.32% Rates of return to work and of retention of employees who took paternity leave 100% 100% Rates of return to work and of retention of employees who took maternity leave 99% 100% Community Social investment (in Argentine pesos) 82,350,192 108,019,079 Social investment – Number of direct beneficiaries 67,276 77,871 Social investment – Number of allied organizations(4) 260 307 Number of participants in volunteering programs(5) 4,174 2,741 Investment in mass media throughout the country (in Argentine pesos) 115,377,097 148,817,592 Environmental Performance Customers subscribed to e-statement 929,965 1,102,645 Recycled paper (kg) 74,920 69,126 Recycled plastic (kg) 653 2,442 Scrap equipment (monitors, computers, printers, peripherals, etc.) (number of items) 1,078 1,188 (7) Scrap equipment (monitors, computers, printers, peripherals, etc.) (tons) s/d 12 (7) Donated furniture (number of items) 767 2,533 Energy consumption (KWh) 11,615,824 10,555,903 CO2 emissions (tCO2e) (6) 7,739.91 7,156.20 (1) Balance of Individual Banking Personal Loan Portfolio (principal + adjustment + interest + OCIF) (2) We report the “branch offices with ramps and special restrooms” indicator. (3) Number of employees working in Banco Macro and Banco del Tucumán. (4) Includes social organizations with which we work through Banco Macro Foundation, organizations and municipalities where we carried out workshops under the Healthy Accounts program of financial education, organizations with which we carried out Corporate Volunteering, Collections, Solidarity Projects and Equity Programs. (5) Number of participants in: Volunteering Work Days, Charity Collections and Professional Volunteering. (6) Includes Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. (7) We add this value in tons since from 2018 onwards the calculation method used was weight and number of items. These two indicators do not represent the same volume in different calculation units. 72 Annual Report | Banco Macro 73 Financial Capital Resources for Value Creation We present our results in connection with the financial capital. In this section we describe the economic and financial resources that Banco Macro has to carry out its business and we include the relevant variables and ratios that make our business solvent, profitable and efficient. Economic and Financial Situation During 2018 Banco Macro strengthened its policy of caring for its efficiency indicators keeping its focus on growth and market share. The Private Sector loan portfolio grows accompanying the average of the system as a whole, allowing us to maintain the Bank’s leadership and position. Volume growth was approximately 34% annually. NFPS Loans $171,525 $127,536 $85,092 12/31/2016 12/31/2017 12/31/2018 Figures in million AR$. 74 Annual Report | Banco Macro Loan Portfolio Evolution as compared to the Financial System Base 12/31/2017=100 160 Macro Sistema 150 Financial 140 32.6% 130 31.8% 120 110 100 90 2017-12 2018-01 2018-02 2018-03 2018-04 2018-05 2018-06 2018-07 2018-08 2018-09 2018-10 2018-11 2018-12 Figures in million AR$. As to liabilities, loan growth accompanied the boost required by the business, maintaining conservative liquidity and solvency ratios and above regulatory requirements. Total deposits climbed 65% yoy in line with system growth. Deposits $237,954 $144,129 $111,863 12/31/2016 12/31/2017 12/31/2018 Financial Capital 75 Solvency Banco Macro stands out among its competitors because of the strength of its capital. Indicators have progressed adequately throughout the fiscal year and positioned the Bank at the top of the ranking of private banks with the largest equity. Paid-up capital in excess of the established standards amounts to 223%, above the average of private banks(7). Solvency-Minimum Capitals (consolidated position) 2017 2018 (in million AR$) Minimum Capital requirements by credit risk 11.023 15.609 Minimum Capital requirements by market risk 185 212 Minimum Capital requirements by operating risk 3.219 4.616 Total Requirement 14.427 20.437 Computable Equity Liability (CEL) 49.542 66.113 Subordinated debt included in CEL 7.510 15.123 Margin (excess CEL vs. Requirement) 243% 223% Macro’s Shareholders Equity rose by 17% in nominal terms; it went from AR $ 46.736 billion to AR $ 54.638 billion. Deposits In 2018 deposits showed a 65% annual increase, where private sector demand deposits grew 43% and term deposits, in turn, grew 92%. In this scenario, Macro Group*, remains among the private entities with the highest deposit volume, and a market share of near 6% of the financial system as a whole or 7.2% if we only take into account the Private Sector deposits in Argentine pesos. The following table shows the changes in its components: Deposits 2017 2018 (in million AR$) Checking Accounts 20,779 24,375 Savings Accounts 44,532 68,695 Fixed Term Deposits 61,602 118,034 Other 4,244 7,349 Total Non-Financial Private Sector Deposits 131,157 218,452 Total Public Sector Deposits 12,891 19,354 Total Financial System Deposits 81 148 Total Deposits 144,129 237,954 In addition, increasing funding sources we highlight the issuance of negotiable obligations in Argentine pesos in April 2018 for a nominal value of AR$ 3.207 billion. (7) Capital position of private banks: 82.4%. Source: Report on Banks, BCRA, November 2018. * Includes Banco Macro and its Subsidiaries. 76 Annual Report | Banco Macro Loans Credit to the private sector ended the year 2018 with a growth of almost 35% yoy, reaching the amount of AR$ 171.525 billion. The main credit facilities, as to growth volume, included Personal Loans, credit cards, documents and other loans. US dollar denominated credit facilities were particularly favored due to the change of regime as from December 2015 and the extension of the alternatives for the use of foreign currency funds. As to consumer loan portfolio, Banco Macro maintained its leading position among private banks in personal loans reaching a total of 1.2 million loans, with a portfolio of AR$ 57.517 billion. This product’s market share is approximately 14% of the financial system. On the other hand, the “Credit Card” product reported growth levels above 18%, totaling 1.6 million cardholders. This table shows the composition of the non-financial Private Sector Loan category: NFPS Loans 2017 2018 (in million AR$) Advances 9,465 18,049 Documents 17,641 25,160 Mortgages 8,313 15,853 Pledges 4,154 4,367 Personal Loans 48,425 57,517 Credit Cards 24,781 29,430 Other 13,151 20,433 Total Loans 125,930 170,807 Financial Trusts 1,012 270 Leasing 594 448 Total Financing 127,536 171,525 Financial Capital 77 During 2018 we continued with our policy of keeping irregular portfolio high coverage levels by adding more provisions to those required by the BCRA. The coverage rate reached 118% by the end of the year, well above the financial system average. At the same time, default rates remained at historically low values, reaching a delinquency rate of 1.9%. Liquidity The liquidity reached AR$ 135,961 million at the year end, reporting an 88% increase compared to the values reported the previous year. As to deposits, this indicator shows 57.1% above the main market references. At the end of the year 2018 Lebacs stock reached cero and Leliqs (Liquidity Bills) took their place. Leliqs are 7-day liquidity notes or bills from the BCRA exclusive for banks. The table below shows the consolidated balances at the end of each fiscal year: Liquidity 2017 2018 (in million AR$) Cash & Banks 35.562 74.766 Guaranties granted in favor of Chambers 4.006 5.720 Granted Call 146 405 Lebacs 32.656 0 Leliqs 0 55.070 Total Liquid Assets 72.369 135.961 Hedge on Deposits 50,2% 57,1% 78 Annual Report | Banco Macro Results The economic situation strengthened the initiatives aimed at focusing on the growth of intermediation and payment services, but strongly caring for efficiency. The entire fiscal year (including comprehensive results) ends with a profit of AR$ 16.115 billion, 57% up compared to AR$ 10.290 billion reported the previous fiscal year. Income derived from loan interests amounted to AR$ 65.577 billion, thus growing by 90% compared to AR$ 34.595 billion in 2017. Income from fees grew 29% compared to the previous year. Combination of both market categories enabled the Bank to improve its net margin by 55%. Said profitability represented an average Return on Equity of 30.7%, and an average Return on Assets of 5.8%, being ranked among the first positions in the Argentine financial system. These results show stability and continuity in the generation of income, productivity and efficiency in the use of resources over the years. Results (in million AR$) 2017 2018 Variation Financial Income 34,595 65,577 90% Financial Expense -10,447 -25,932 148% Net Income from Loan Interest 24,148 39,645 64% Income from Fees 9,194 11,889 29% Fees Paid -683 -756 11% Net Income from Fees 8,511 11,133 31% Subtotal (Net Income from Loan Interest 32,659 50,779 55% + Net Income from Fees) Profit or loss from financial instruments 592 1,066 80% at fair value with changes in OCI Income from sale of assets at amortized cost 11 -4 -142% Difference in quoted prices of gold and foreign currency 1,380 -1,378 -200% Other operating income 1,600 2,846 78% Allowance for bad debts -1,595 -2,706 70% Net operating income 34,648 50,602 46% Employee benefits -7,695 -10,305 34% Administrative expenses -4,695 -6,833 46% Depreciation and asset devaluation -586 -737 26% Other operating expenses -6,784 -10,252 51% Operating income 14,887 22,475 51% Income from related companies and joint businesses 197 266 35% Income before tax of continuing operations 15,084 22,742 51% Income tax on continuing operations -4,932 -6,965 41% PROFIT FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 10,152 15,777 55% TOTAL OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 138 338 145% TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 10,290 16,115 57% Financial Capital 79 Main Indicators The following table presents the main indicators of Banco Macro and its Subsidiaries: Indicators Unit 2017 2018 Assets million AR$ 226,339 342,883 Loans to Private Sector million AR$ 127,536 171,525 Liabilities million AR$ 179,603 288,245 Deposits million AR$ 144,129 237,954 Shareholders’ Equity million AR$ 46,736 54,638 Profitability (Total Comprehensive Income) million AR$ 10,290 16,115 ROA – Return on Assets (average) % 5.6% 5.8% ROE – Return on Equity (average) % 31.0% 30.7% Hedging – Provisions/Irregular Portfolio % 182.2% 117.7% Irregularity – Irregular Portfolio/Portfolio % 1.1% 1.9% Minimum Capital Surplus % 243% 223% Leverage – Liabilities/Shareholders’ Equity Times 3.8 5.3 80 Annual Report | Banco Macro 81 Industrial Capital Banco Macro stands out within the financial industry in Argentina for its strong federal presence. Our sophisticated infrastructure and our assets (branches, offices, automated teller machines, self-service terminals, and other customer service channels) are a key factor for the development and operation of the business, and allow us to get closer to our customers and groups of Interest. Below we present our product and services offering by segment, as well as the infrastructure that supports such an offering. Portfolio share per Banking segment 2017 2018 Personal 55.2% 51.7% Business 30.3% 25.4% Corporate 12.3% 21.8% Government 1.3% 0.9% Treasury 0.8% 0.2% Personal Banking Personal Banking develops and implements financial products and services intended for the various segments of individuals who are the institution’s target, in accordance with the goals defined by the Board of Directors for the growth of the business, in a sustainable manner. This year we continued to have our market share in these segments and products. We maintained leadership in consumer loans, among private banks. Regarding longer-term loans, we accompanied the market with a greater mortgage loan offer, although in the last semester of the year, the demand was significantly reduced due to the contractionary policy carried out by the monetary authority. We worked on stabilizing systems and preparing the technological architecture and infrastructure, which allowed us to get even closer to the customer. 82 Annual Report | Banco Macro We did this in order to establish and enhance our successful model, based on a welldiversified and strong loan portfolio, supported by salary plan agreements in which we stand out as the financial agent of four provincial governments, with extremely low levels of uncollectibility. Our customers operate a wide range of products easily and quickly, and substantially improved their experience thanks to the significant improvements in access channels (home banking, App Macro, and portals). We have made strategic alliances with major operators of massive products. Thus, we enlarged our contact base and facilitated the analysis prior to the granting of loans. Among the challenges for 2019 we highlight the design of a strategy for customers who hardly use banking services, the updating of our benefits program “Macro Premia” with new awards, functionalities and campaigns, and to continue granting micro-loans. Market share Macro CC CC CC CC 39% 39% 35% 34% PL PL PL PL 61% 61% 65% 66% 2015-12 2016-12 2017-12 2018-06 MS 10.8% 11.0% 11.1% In two years, the share market (MS) of Credit Cards (CC) and Personal Loans (PL) rose from 10.8% to 11.1%, in spite of the decline in demand for loans in 2018. New segmentation by category and value proposal With the cooperation from the different areas, we worked on the construction of the following customer categories: Young People, Individuals, Retired, and Preferential and, subsequently, on the communication of the value proposal for those segments. The task was based on our perception of the customer as the center of attention. Therefore, the main challenge was to develop a new segmentation into categories in order to offer them a value proposal centered on their needs. On the one hand, this involved studying the profile of customers according to their income ranges, their activities and ages, which required a detailed analysis of consumption habits and ownership of products within a wide geographical area. On the other, this meant designing a differential service that would add value to the service offering, always prioritizing simplicity in the interaction with our customers. Industrial Capital 83 This segmentation helps us to understand our customers more deeply. Thus, we can accompany them and offer them, in each stage of their lives, products and services tailored to what they need. The new value proposal –suitable for the conveniently segmented demand– and its efficient communication through commercial campaigns generated a very satisfactory response from retirees and young people, and the general portfolio. Some of the initiatives proposed for 2019 are to achieve the recognition of the categories within Macro Premia, develop communication materials and crosscampaigns, carry out an analysis of the Salary Plan policy flexibilization, and improve the service models for each segment. We built a new segmentation of customers, making our offer of products according to their specific needs. * High Service Income Customer Model Selecta Selecta Selecta Executives Emprende XXI trained in Professionals and Businesses Medium/ Simple Boost your business High Solutions Professional and Income Customer Preferential* Professionals Businesses Executives Executives Valora Exclusivo and Businesses* Includes CA Emprende XXI Includes CA Medium/ Valora Superior Low w/o CA Income Valora Esencial Retired* Individuals w/o CA Low Young Valora Comercial Income Valora Inicial people* Includes CA / CC Optional w/o CA * Products Offered according to Customer’s needs. 84 Annual Report | Banco Macro Individual customers by segment 2017 2018 Retired workers 684,642 716,081 Salary Plan 859,330 870,678 Professionals and Businesses (Retailers) 265,008 266,880 Open Market 1,398,709 1,506,733 Special(1) 274,408 285,394 Total individual customers 3,482,097 3,645,766 (1) IIncludes: AUH1, Progresar2, SUAF3 and Garrafas4. Main segments of Personal Banking Retired workers The 716,081 persons who make up this segment require different standards of security, comfort, ease and assurance in their operations. For your experience as customers to be satisfactory, we have 18 specialized payment centers distributed throughout the country. With that aim, we offer the following benefits to the retired: —— Printing of provisional payment proof at the self-service terminals and automated teller machines, with no need to resort to the Bank’s employees. —— Life Certificate renewal at the teller window, ANSES self-service terminals inside the branches, or by using the debit or credit card in purchases made in person. —— A plan of differential benefits and promotions related to highly valued services, such as pharmacy and technology, with benefits in phones, tablets and computers with special friendly applications, and having large icons and a simplified menu. —— Infrastructure that provides easy access and transit around and across the customer service channels and payment centers, due to the installation of dedicated teller windows, ramps, non-slip floors, bathrooms and exclusive seats. During 2018, our management was oriented to the analysis of alternatives so that we could offer retired customers a differential proposal of products and the opening of new payment counters and stations in branches. Thus, we simplified the procedures and reduced the contingent risk by evaluating different methods and channels, which could serve to renew the life certificate. At the same time, we continued to promote the banking inclusion of the segment through the use of the debit card as a means of payment, and access to several products and services. Our main objective for 2019 is to expand the segment by offering customers different value proposals tailored to their needs. To achieve this, it will be essential to continue optimizing the customer service model and understand better the consumption behavior and transaction profile of these customers, and which channels they prefers to use. 1 Universal Child Allowance. 2 “Make Progress , a national program of assistance to students 3 Family Allowances Single System. 4 Gas supply for families without access to the natural gas network. Industrial Capital 85 Retired workers segment 2017 2018 Number of retired workers who received personal loans 265.257 265.544 Total amount of loans (1) 8.538 12.875 Total amount of paid pensions (1) (2) 89.972 102.329 Number of centers 18 18 Number of retired workers served monthly at teller windows 180.685 162.891 Number of benefits paid in the year (2) 8.901.257 9.352.457 (1) Amount in million Argentine pesos. (2) Accumulated from January through December. Salary Plan In order to make this portfolio grow, we focused on the inclusion of new customers from the private sector and from the provinces in which the Bank is not a financial agent, while we worked on strengthening relations with existing customers. As a result of this action, the number of accounts credited with salaries is currently 843,062. We can highlight the implementation of the following strategic actions: —— Commercial campaigns focused on attracting and encouraging customers to keep our products. —— Improvement of the value proposal through the addition of new benefits and incentives to attract customers and make them keep our products. —— Development of a new comprehensive communication plan, and implementation of new marketing pieces that allow a better approach to customers. —— Implementation of new boards for tracking the making and cancellation of salary plan agreements, focusing on active actions and value offers according to the needs of customers. —— Redefinition of the customer service and relationship model of Government Banking to enhance the value offer and presence in the public sector. The main goal for 2019 is to continue growing in the segment and enhance the new customer service model to gain greater knowledge of our customers and their employees. In this way, we can put to them value proposals with choices of benefits tailored to their needs, and thus favor both the recruitment of new customers and the retention of existing ones. 86 Annual Report | Banco Macro Social organizations We continued working to boost the growth of this portfolio and the profitability of existing customers. With that aim, we redefined the value proposal and added new benefits and incentives to attract new customers. Social organizations gather individuals, businesses or companies that make regular contributions or provide funds (such as regular payments, registrations fees, etc.), and have corporate-level business with the Bank. These social organizations include educational institutions, clubs, professional associations and pension funds. There must be a mediumor long-term affinity bond between the social organization, the entities or individuals gathered, and the Bank. We intend to broaden our knowledge of social organizations and their beneficiaries, and strengthen our relationship. In this way, we will be able to generate integral service proposals oriented to the requirements of this segment, assisting all the associated businesses, and increasing their volume. Professionals and Businesses With a focus on business development, and the on importance we attach to the entrepreneur or small businessperson in the regions and productive areas where Banco Macro is present, the Professionals and Businesses segment required special attention during 2018, therefore, we concentrated on new actions among which we highlight the following: —— The launch of “Rapifactura”, a software program at no cost for 12 months that allows the issue of electronic invoices instantly, thus simplifying the customer’s transactions and compliance with the AFIP5 Resolution No. 4290. —— The launch of “Increase”, a platform that allows businesses and stores to control credit and debit card payments received. This alliance allows us to provide customers with this service at no charge for one month. —— No monthly maintenance cost for 12 to 24 months for the purchase of the new LaPos terminals. This allowed us to get new customers, and help the existing ones to comply with the obligation to accept debit card payments as imposed by AFIP. —— Simplified ordering process by calling an exclusive 0810 number, which will speed up the purchase of a LaPos terminal. —— Implementation of a pilot test to provide the customer with the possibility of collecting the LaPos terminal at the Bank’s branch. —— Among the sales campaigns, we highlight the action taken with the municipalities of the province of Misiones, for whom we developed a new process that allows us to deliver the terminals immediately. For next year, we aim to bring together this segment and the microenterprise segment, focusing on a customer service model intended for businesses, micro entrepreneurs and professionals that need financing for their commercial activity. We will increase our participation in events and training courses to contribute to the development of our customers and detect needs to which we can respond. In addition, we will work on the creation of a community that allows us to understand further the demands of the segment. 5 Argentine Tax Authority. Industrial Capital 87 We are convinced that all these actions will help us to continue fulfilling our objectives in relation to these customers: in particular, to facilitate their transactions, get them to regard us as close and expeditious, and accompany them in their growth. Selecta, our high-income customers By applying the Selecta Customer Lifecycle strategy, we achieved growth in the use of services in this segment. We approached the customer as from the moment they were attracted –in a multichannel integral way– and we brought them a value offer tailored to their needs. Thus, we generated a long-term relationship, achieved greater profitability and developed customer loyalty. In general terms, we redefined and reinforced the strategic pillars on which the segment is based. In a year marked by the contraction of most indicators, we took special care of our customers’ investments by offering appropriate alternatives. Deposits grew around 80% and term deposits, in particular, 120% (October-December). Transactions related to investments in public and private securities rose around 80% (July-December). To this end, we also improved the training of our executives regarding investments, and steps were taken to register them as qualified with the CNV (National Securities Commission). As regards customer management, we worked on capturing preferences; we established banking access policies and, simultaneously, we purged and regularized the portfolio. Besides, with reference to differential service channels, we implemented WhatsApp as a formal service channel. In the specific case of Travel, we created a differential concept in this field, managing support to the customer throughout the process: not only during the trip, but also before and after. In 2019, we will develop a digital platform, and enable telephone service through strategic partners. In addition, we will offer point accumulation programs with a focus on Travel, and free passes to VIP lounges. Selecta Segment 2017 2018 Year-on-year growth of segment 61% 8% Year-on-year growth of number of packages 10% 11% Growth of average balances of lending portfolio 109% 40% Growth of average balances of borrowing portfolio 33% 99% In order to achieve greater customer loyalty, we defined and improved the strategic pillars of the segment: Service Model, Investments and Travel. 88 Annual Report | Banco Macro Underbanked customers We are working to provide a broad and complete offer, intended for people or enterprises that are not yet banked or are underbanked, through a simplified and user-friendly application with respect to widespread-use products and services –such as reloading of cell phones, refilling of public transportation cards, “nano loans”, cell phone insurance, wallet, and digital registration. These individuals constitute a potential mass of customers, on whom payroll growth can be based. They are individuals who develop their activity in a context of high informality, and are poorly motivated to use bank accounts and payment methods. These actions are carried out in line with the policies implemented by the BCRA, an institutions that promotes measures nationwide aimed at enhancing financial inclusion and digitalization (electronic management) of operations and transactions. Products and services for individuals Actions with social impact focused on financial inclusion True financial inclusion occurs when everyone can access financial products and services according to their needs and circumstances. That is why we highlight the broad geographical distribution of our services, financing, and credit assistance aimed at supporting the most varied regional activities. In addition, we highlight the implementation of alternative means of refinancing for Personal Banking customers. Thus, the customer can request the refinancing of their debit balance, under a monthly payment system, either by telephone, without going to the branch, or in person; the refinancing procedure is centralized which, in both cases, allows customers to regularize their arrears on payments and continue operating with your current products. We implemented the telephone channel as a means for commercial transactions, such as the refinancing of products for Personal Banking customers, and credit card refinancing through monthly payments. Industrial Capital 89 With the aim of expanding access to credit for vulnerable sectors, focusing on financial products for profiles not sufficiently served by tradition, we offer: —— Line of personal loans to AUH beneficiaries. —— Line of financing for beneficiaries of non-contributory pensions (Malvinas veterans, disabled people, etc.). —— Lines for retired workers and pensioners. —— Personal loans and access to a credit card for informal customers who do not have a verifiable occupation. —— Mortgage loans to finance the acquisition or construction of wooden houses. —— Program “Procrear” (mortgage loans) in all its stages, and program “Procrear Joven” (mortgage loans for young people). Investments Through the offering of preferential rates, we encouraged our customers to use automatic channels and, in this way, they can operate in a simple, comfortable and safe way. Moreover, in line with the program “Procrear Ahorro Joven” (mortgage loans for young people), we launched “UVA6 Procrear”. This term deposit allowed beneficiaries selected by ANSES to save money and therefore have access to a mortgage loan. Next year we will continue to expand the offer of term deposits under preferential conditions if digital channels are used (App, Internet Banking, Mobile Banking, Customer Service Call Center) both to activate the use of the various channels and retain the current portfolio, and to attract new customers. 6 Units of Purchasing Value. 90 Annual Report | Banco Macro Loans We continued to work on the promotion of an inclusive financial system, placing special emphasis on getting people with a low banking system inclusion level to have access to personal loans, under agreements with municipalities or low-amount loans. We provided our customers with different means to carry out their financial transactions at any time, comfortably, simply and safely, and without the need to go to a branch. Currently, customers can have access to the following products through these alternative channels: —— Line of loans through Internet Banking —— Line of loans through Automated Teller Machines —— Line of telephone loans —— Line of loans through the web Portal We continued to form part of the program “Procrear”, a line of UVA Mortgage Loans, and to support the program “Ahorro Joven” whose beneficiaries will be able to have access to a subsidized mortgage loan after having demonstrated repayment capacity for 12 months, through UVA term deposits. In 2019, promotion of tools such as low-amount micro-loans will confirm our commitment to ensuring that the financial system will include underbanked people. Additionally, we will implement a new differential product aimed at the Salary Plan segment –which today does not qualify for the traditional loan offer–, with immediate crediting, short-term financing and reduced amount. Loans 2017 2018 Personal loans (number) 1,118,846 1,152,126 Personal loans (amount in million pesos) (1) 48,258 57,438 Mortgage loans (number) 4,798 7,002 Mortgage loans (amount in million pesos) (1) 3,746 9,701 UVA Loan approvals (mortgage, personal, other loans) 2,864 2,551 (1) Balance of Personal Banking Portfolio (capital + adjustment + interest + OCIF). Accounts and packages We presented digital onboarding, which allows the opening of an account remotely through our App Macro, so whoever wishes so, can register as a Banco Macro customer and immediately open a savings account, manage their respective debit card, and start to operate. These technological tools, which combine an intuitive design of the application, through the cell phone, and a robust logical security scheme, enable quick management and facilitate financial inclusion. On the other hand, a new package offer accompanied the commercial dynamics of the different customer segments, with a focus on providing a differential product, and on our becoming their main bank. Industrial Capital 91 Our challenge is to continue to grow in package volume and to improve further the value proposal of each product. We are thus committed to becoming the main Bank of our customers. Furthermore, we intend to continue optimizing the use and development of digital channels, with inclusive products and the launch of savings products. Insurance We focused on actions aimed at promoting the development of our insurance portfolio, so as to continue to provide our customers with alternatives according to their needs, for each stage of their lives, and considering the current socioeconomic context. To our traditional and consolidated insurance offer aimed at the protection of our customers, their family and property, we added the Cell Phone Insurance. We managed to diversify our offer, improve our services and follow market trends with a solid and accessible proposal. The types of insurance that make up our current portfolio are the following: —— Home Insurance: comprehensive coverage that provides protection to the family home in the event of unforeseen situations, and protects the family against domestic accidents. It also includes an additional assistance service in case of emergencies. —— Public Road Protection Insurance: coverage aimed at providing peace of mind by allowing the recovery of the economic loss sustained in an unsafe situation on public roads. It provides coverage against theft or robbery of handbag, purse or wallet, cash, personal documents, cards, keys, cell phone and electronic devices. It also includes an assistance service consisting in a cab ride to the insured’s place, transmission of urgent messages, and professional advice on how to report the event and cancel credit and debit cards. —— Liabilities Protection: coverage against accidents for our elderly customers. It also provides coverage to their family or beneficiaries in the event of death. —— Burial insurance: coverage to assist family members with burial expenses in the event of an unexpected situation. —— Cell Phone Insurance: coverage that provides for monetary compensation in the event of robbery on the streets and/or accidental damage to the cell phone up to the insured sum chosen when the insurance was taken out. For 2019, our goal is to continue to work on improving and enhancing our value offer so that we can effectively meet the specific needs of our customers. 92 Annual Report | Banco Macro Credit Cards As of December 2018, 2,650,641 credit cards had been issued, which meant purchases for ARS 91.592 billion. This made it possible for us to maintain our desired position, and enabled growth opportunities for the purchase-leveraged product. We worked on getting new customers to sign up for the e-statement option, which guarantees effective receipt of information by the customer, as achieved by the successful and, above all, environmentally friendly distribution of such information, and also reducing the complaints management workload. We also introduced full-chip technology for credit cards Visa Débito and Visa Gold, in line with the advance in payment methods. This is the starting point to endorse and embrace contactless technology, and to be able to put it into effect in 2019 as an improvement of the value offer of our products. Debit Cards This product occupies a relevant place within the strategy aimed at generating a greater transactional relationship with customers, because it encourages the use of accounts. As of December 31, 2018, the number of debit cards issued by the Bank was 3,348,204, which represents a year-on-year 6% portfolio growth. Among the 2018 actions, we highlight the migration of our debit cards to EMV (Europay MasterCard Visa) chip technology, which features debit cards with embedded microprocessor chip. We also increased the withdrawal limits of our customers in order to encourage the use of automatic channels to get cash. Industrial Capital 93 Benefits for Individual Customers Always with the aim of building customer loyalty, during 2018 we continued offering benefits nationwide. Through several actions, we obtained a minimum monthly share, which amounted to 8%, in Visa credit card purchases, with an 8.48% peak in March. We offered different credit card promotions in tourism, clothing, and services. We highlight our proposal for savings in supermarkets and pharmacies, which was valid throughout the year for customers who held a package of products or whose retirement pension was credited to their account with Banco Macro. We also conducted campaigns for special dates, such as “Verano” (Summer), “Vuelta al Cole” (Back to School), Children’s Day, Mother’s Day, and “Fiestas” (Xmas & New Year). The offering and its communication included both national and regional businesses and stores, with the aim of fulfilling our goal of being a bank that is close to its customers. From September to November, we conducted a special campaign to encourage debit card purchases in the divisions in which we are a financial agent. This campaign was addressed to customers who have the habit of paying cash and withdrawing their income at a teller window or from an ATM. They could, through their purchases, add chances to enter a monthly draw to win a motorcycle and five smart TVs per division. The action performed was based on two communication axes: on the one hand, we encouraged the use of the debit card, and, on the other, we focused on providing contents on financial education to favor change in the behavioral habits of our customers. Continuing with our commitment to federal presence, we made different agreements with municipalities and retailers. In particular, the programs “Ahora Góndola” (Now Gondola) –which offers savings in supermarkets in the province of Misiones–, “Ahora Patente”7 and “Ahora Misiones”8, among others. We also participated in different campaigns, such as “Fashion Week”, promoted by the Federal Government and Nación Fideicomisos. We enhanced Macro Premia –our nationwide program that allows customers to accumulate points, which they can later exchange for different rewards– with several actions. First of all, we added a new functionality, which allows customers to make purchases on the site with their credit cards without having to redeem their points. In this way, we added new payment methods to existing ones: only points, and points plus pesos. In addition, we offered discounts for the exchange of points in more than 60 stores through the Credit Card Savings proposal. We also added the possibility of exchanging points for SUBE refills, becoming the first and only bank that offers this service. Besides, we added the possibility of reloading cell phones and paying for that with credit card or Macro Premia Points through Internet Banking or the App Macro, or by sending an SMS. 7 A program that provides rebates on the provincial transit tax on motor vehicles in Misiones. 8 This program, established by the Province of Misiones, provides discounts on credit card purchases made at merchant partners. 94 Annual Report | Banco Macro More than 40 Macro Premia special campaigns were run during the year, the most outstanding of which was “Banco Macro te lleva a Rusia 2018” (Banco Macro takes you to Russia 2018), whereby we sought to encourage Visa credit and debit card purchases. Customers could add chances with their purchases, or through the exchange of Macro Premia Points, and thus participate in a draw to win a trip to the World Cup and many more prizes. This nationwide campaign could be seen in the press, on the radio, on digital media, and in social networks. On the other hand, high-income customers had access, from the middle of the year, to an exclusive product proposal, accompanied by a differential look and feel for Selecta customers. We continued with the alliance with Aerolíneas Argentinas, which allows our customers to enjoy ticket promotions and earn miles under the Aerolíneas Plus program. Our Selecta customers accumulate miles on purchases with their Visa Signature and MasterCard credit cards, and the Macro Selecta debit cards. In addition, we continued to add foundations to the “donations” category, which offers different options of exchanging points for economic contributions to civil society organizations. This year we added Fundación Espartanos. All these actions brought about positive behavior. 45% more transactions were made, 10% more customers participated in the program, and complaints represented only 2.6% of the customers who made transactions. The investment amounted to ARS 185 million. During 2018, we worked on the three pillars of the current Macro Premia proposal: Savings, Mobile Reloads, and SUBE. Industrial Capital 95 Macro Premia 2017 2018 Number of transactions Products 217,205 185,011 Travel 7,998 10,614 Reloads 23,881 111,146 Miles 14,677 35,631 Savings 305 37,276 Others (1) 11,609 19,245 Total 275,675 398,923 Number of points exchanged Products 2,257,860,001 2,216,682,090 Travel 164,517,900 260,354,606 Reloads 36,036,300 264,558,660 Miles 142,646,122 375,239,468 Savings 700,600 220,932,150 Others (1) 64,585,000 96,424,207 Total 2,666,345,923 3,434,191,181 Number of users Products 115,695 100,381 Travel 6,186 8,181 Reloads 6,736 25,988 Miles 8,101 14,599 Savings 269 16,547 Others (1) 11,514 6,116 Total (2) 34,520 148,569 (1) The “Others” category covers the rest of the proposal published in December 2018 not included in the mentioned categories: Cinemas, Experiences, Gift Cards, Shows, Instant Prized, Donations, World Chance. The “Reloads” category includes “SUBE Refills”. (2) The total of Single Customers is recorded independently of the number of categories requested. 45% year-on-year growth of transactions of the Macro Premia program in 2018. 96 Annual Report | Banco Macro Corporate Banking This segment includes smalland medium-sized companies (PyMEs, its Spanish acronym), microenterprises, and regional businesses, to which we seek to offer products and services according to their profile, depending on their size and the location where they operate, with the aim of achieving the sustained growth of this segment and building customer loyalty. Corporate Banking portfolio composition 2017 2018 Corporate 29% 46% Medium-sized companies 25% 18% PyMEs 20% 11% Microenterprises 5% 3% Agribusiness 21% 22% Corporate Customers by region 2017 2018 Jujuy 2,574 2,733 NEA (Argentine Northeast) 4,416 4,786 Salta 4,207 4,293 Tucumán 6,655 6,345 West 4,078 6,754 Patagonia (1) 2,901 0 Buenos Aires 16,947 15,690 Córdoba 20,540 21,876 Santa Fe 30,870 27,728 Total Customers 93,188 90,205 (1) As from 2018 this data is all consolidated under West. Main segments of Corporate Banking PyME and Microenterprise Banking At Banco Macro, we seek to build long-term relationships with PyMEs and microenterprises throughout the country. We do so by betting, as always, on closeness, personalized assistance, geographical presence, and the knowledge of our customers. Actions undertaken for the PyME and Microenterprise segments during 2018 were focused on the growth of this banking segment and the consolidation of the relationship with existing customers. In the commercial area, we are oriented to the increase in deposits, mainly in call deposit balances, and in Transactional Products (cash management). We strengthened the teams of officers specialized in cash management in all divisions, and managed to maintain our positioning based on a proactive and a differentiated commercial strategy. Industrial Capital 97 The main objective for 2019 is to strengthen our relationship with customers with comprehensive proposals and tailored relational values. We intend to offer financing and transactional solutions that allow us to support the sustained growth of the segment and increase the productive capacity of our customers. In this respect, we will foster even further the strategy of increasing penetration and cross-selling of our products. Naves Program For the past four years, we have been developing the NAVES Program in association with IAE Business School, Universidad Austral, a benchmark in Argentina in entrepreneurship training. This program has two goals: to help entrepreneurs to turn a business idea into reality, and to cooperate with companies so that they grow and prosper, if they are new, or innovate or modernize, if they are already consolidated. In order to set in motion the federalization of this program, and betting on the PyMEs and entrepreneurs as key actors in the generation of jobs, we have invested more than ARS 38 million since 2015, which allowed 3,000 entrepreneurs across Argentina to have access to NAVES completely free of charge. The experience for participants includes academic training in entrepreneurship topics, access to tutorials, mentoring and consultancy for the resolution of practical issues, and the relationship with investors and other successful entrepreneurs. In the 2018 edition, investment in NAVES amounted to more than ARS 15 million. The program was developed in 11 locations: Salta, Jujuy, Oberá, Córdoba, Santa Fe-Paraná, Rosario, Tucumán, Mendoza, Mar del Plata, Tandil and Neuquén. . More than 720 entrepreneurs participated in the training process and more than 280 business plans were evaluated. Participating projects dealt with technological, industrial, service, education, health, agribusiness, and social matters. At the end of the federal stage of the program, the five winners from each district traveled to Buenos Aires to participate in NAVES Nacional, on the IAE Business School campus in Pilar. The five winning projects from each region were analyzed by the commercial area of Banco Macro’s PyME segment for possible financing. At the end of the program, the first position in each category was awarded the financing of an international training trip to Israel. Three participants traveled to Tel Aviv, one of the biggest centers of innovative entrepreneurship. There, they were trained in the construction of a powerful enterprise, with global projection, future-oriented, and connected with the power of innovation. Participants whose projects did not reach the final stage continued to receive support and key guidance, through tutorials delivered by a virtual learning platform, and were allowed to share their knowledge in an exchange network to enable them to make progress in their initiatives. 98 Annual Report | Banco Macro With the Naves Program we bet on PyMEs and enterprises giving them tools for devising business plans and innovative projects. True to our federal mission, the 2018 edition took place in 11 cities and towns across the country. NAVES Program Results 2018 Seminars held 5 Number of participating towns and cities 11 Participating companies 492 Persons attending 729 Number of business plans 281 Winning projects 55 Megra9 Banking We worked to interpret the needs of our Megra Banking customers, developing actions to incorporate their suppliers and small producers in order to achieve the integration of their value chain, and strengthen the business. We also focused on increasing our Salary Plan customer base working jointly with Personal Banking and the network of branch offices. We sought to concentrate our commercial actions by supporting our positioning within the segment, under a context of control, regulatory compliance and continuous review of the credit portfolio. The objective was to be closer to the companies and improve the quality of service provided. For 2019, the main goal is to become the main Bank of our customers, by cementing the relationship with existing customers and focusing on getting new ones, in those regions 2,488 where our presence is not strong yet. Along these lines, we will foster further the strategy of increasing the penetration and cross-selling of our transactional products, especially collections and payments, the major generators of call deposit balances, and working together with the branch network, we will seek to enlarge our salary plan customer base Megra and make the most of our presence throughout the country. Banking customers. 9 Mediumand large-sized companies. Industrial Capital 99 Corporate Banking We focused on the growth of banking and the consolidation of our relationship with customers. We bet heavily on growth in deposits, particularly in call deposit balances, and in transactional products, for which we strengthened the teams of officers specialized in cash management in all divisions. As a result of these actions, we managed to maintain our positioning based on a proactive and differentiated commercial strategy. The main goal for 2019 is to make stronger our relationship with customers with comprehensive proposals, tailored relational values, as well as to offer financing and transactional solutions that will make the segment grow and increase its productive capacity. In this regard, we will foster even further the strategy of increasing penetration and cross-selling in our products. Agribusiness Banking In spite of the macroeconomic context that –due to the increase in the exchange rate, and stock reductions– seemed promising, the agricultural sector went through an unfavorable period. On the one hand, this was due to extreme climatic events, which led several districts to a state of emergency, and on the other, it was the result of volatility in prices, with a downward trend and uncertainty as regards the local industry needs, which affected the production plans decisions. During 2018, we also continued to grow in our customer portfolio, and kept on strengthening the value chain concept among Corporate, Megra and PyME Banking segments, as well as the “Community of Payment” concept, in order to identify customers from the same community and provide specialized assistance to each of the companies that form part of the different chains. 100 Annual Report | Banco Macro This year we innovated and improved our processes so that our customers could operate with us directly with grains, and we thus surpassed the 1 million ton milestone per year. For these reasons, we directed the commercial actions of the segment at supporting and assisting our producer customers. In this way: —— we supported them in their need for the financing of working capital and investment projects; —— we placed operations in US dollars as working capital, medium-term loans (three to five years), by financing the purchase of agricultural machinery, investments or purchase of assets; —— we innovated and improved the processes so that our customers could operate with us directly with grains (“Pay with Grains” Program); —— we entered into agreements with the main manufacturers of consumables to provide predictability in the investment of their campaign plans; —— we continued with the rural credit card promotion agreements (known as zero rate) with an excellent performance; —— we gave advice and provided updated information in business rounds with our customers so they could make better decisions; we listened to them and analyzed the current situation of the agricultural industry sector in Argentina and in the world, and the variables to be taken into account for decision-making in each specific-crop campaign; and —— we strengthened and trained our commercial force to be able to deal with a more challenging demand that exceeds the customer’s expectations, all that without neglecting the quality of our portfolio, maintaining a strong and atomized growth, and prioritizing financing in foreign currency. Industrial Capital 101 Cash Management For our Megra Banking and Corporate Banking customers, we implemented the “remote deposit”, closing the year with a monthly transaction volume of ARS 800 million and 9 active customers. In addition, we developed connectivity via Web Service, and thus won a new business deal with the oil and gas sector customer. At the same time, we launched a new technology to enhance and defend the business, with another company in this sector, which can be replicated in new cases. Finally, we offered the payment of salaries online, providing more expeditiousness to our customers aligned with the developments of the competition in the market. In 2019, we will take on three challenges. In the first place, we intend to launch the new Home Banking for Companies, through which we intend to generate a radical change in the way in which our Business customers operate, based on the pillars of Security, Selfmanagement and Transactionality. We also aim to implement the Web Service in the open market and thus meet the demand for new technologies and communication channels with corporate customers. In this way, we can atomize further the operational customer base in collection services. Our third challenge is to implement Echeq, the electronic check, in replacement of payment to providers with check. It is a new payment methodology with high impact on conventional products, which offers new solutions to Cash Management services. Financing for the productive sector We sought to continue providing the best services for the agricultural segment, industry and commerce, trying to promote development and innovation in different areas of the productive sector, inspired by the aspirational values of the Bank, closeness to the customer, effort, devotion, and sense of belonging. We continued to offer financing for the acquisition of vehicles and machinery for PyMEs, through the “Prenda Ágil” (Expeditious Pledge ) product and also the Instant Credit Line designed to finance the working capital of micro entrepreneurs and PyMEs from all over the country, with immediate granting and minimum requirements. In addition, we are working on an electronic credit invoice development process so that MiPyMEs (micro-, small-, and medium-sized companies) can negotiate their invoices in the securities market. We continued with E-Comex Digital, and Macro Pro-Comex, an exclusive customer service at no cost so that our customers can make any inquiries that help them expand their business abroad. We supplemented this service by offering relevant and significant information, such as customized market research on exporting and/or importing markets, potential buyers and/or sellers of foreign markets, and prices. 102 Annual Report | Banco Macro As regards commercial programs with public agencies, we developed the following programs and agreements: —— Financial Assistance Program for Smalland Medium-Sized Companies with rate subsidy by the Province of Santa Fe, designed for the industrial sector for the acquisition of new agricultural machinery for primary and livestock production, and new undertakings. —— Sectoral Credit Program for the Province of San Juan FONDEFIN. —— With the Consejo Federal de Inversiones (Federal Investment Council), the Credit Line for Production Recovery designed for MiPyMEs, a production recovery program considered strategic by the provincial authorities for the development of their economies. —— Rate Discount regime SEPYME, intended for micro-, smalland medium-sized companies (MiPymes) to finance investment projects, working capital associated with an investment project, and purchase of capital assets. —— Financing agreement for the yerba mate production sector (province of Misiones) subsidized by the National Yerba Mate Institute (INYM). —— Agreement with the government of the Province of Misiones “AHORA PYMES” (Now PyMEs) – Misiones. —— FONDEP, the line to finance working capital at a subsidized rate. With the Competitiveness Program for Regional Economies (PROCER), designed to finance working capital and investment projects of companies located throughout the country –except those situated in the provinces of Buenos Aires, Córdoba and Santa Fe, and the City of Buenos Aires–, we participated in a new tender organized by the Ministry of Production. For 2019, we intend to analyze new solutions to expand the financing offer and implement the discounting of deferred payment checks through remote deposit and the new Home Banking for Companies. We maintained our commitment to the PyME and the agricultural sectors by participating actively in commercial programs and special lines, providing differential financing sources in the market. Industrial Capital 103 Packages for PyMEs (number) 2017 2018 Campo XXI 11,875 11,884 Comercio XXI 16,883 15,857 Emprende XXI 33,750 32,433 MACROPYME 7,999 8,952 Total 70,507 69,126 Agreements and alliances 2018 Commercial programs with public entities Number of agreements and alliances made 7 Amount (in million ARS) 33,284 Financing for agricultural machinery Number of loans granted 63 Amount (in million ARS) 11,262 Agreements and alliances with manufacturers and terminals Number of agreements and alliances made 10 Amount (in million ARS) 14,588 Commercial campaigns for Individuals and Companies With our commercial campaigns, we seek to promote the positioning and placement of the Bank’s strategic products, support the different segments, and define the best approach strategy as unified with the commercial offer according to the use and consumption profile. Campaigns are the product of interdisciplinary work that involves commercial intelligence to appeal to the target public, risk management to understand their credit profile, analysis of segments and categories to determine the optimal value offer, communications to deliver the proposal, and distribution and sales to monitor and track commercial channels for the management of the campaign. During 2018, we launched commercial campaigns for the Personal Banking segment with the aim of attracting new customers, increasing the cross-selling rate, enhancing loyalty and use of products, and working on retaining current customers. 104 Annual Report | Banco Macro Personal Banking Campaigns Bimonthly, an average of 2 million customers received at least one product credit offer through an automated qualification process. More than 7 million SMS, and 4.5 million emails were sent, which contained pre-approved loan, credit card and product package offers, the most outstanding of which were addressed to single-product customers and were intended to attract deposits and for the opening of savings accounts. In addition, personalized mass communications were delivered through our own channels, such as the tickets and screens of ATMs, and the e-flows. Communications were aimed at encouraging the application for pre-approved products, and/or the pick-up at branch offices of pre-embossed cards, as well as at promoting the use of credit cards with early activation benefits. In 2018, we also introduced a personalized offer on the portal through banners, which brought customers a proposal according to their rating and moment in life. These were the featured campaigns of the period: —— Cross-selling to customers: Bimonthly, outgoing management campaigns were implemented for customers with the greatest cross-selling potential and available contact data. —— Recruitment of new customers: within the framework of the Big Data project, we brought potential customers a personalized offer of products and benefits according to the moment in life of each prospect. In addition, we conducted a pilot test to put to trial a customer-contact model that approached the recipient of communications through different channels. —— Salary Plan-related customer attraction: We sought to promote the transfer of salary crediting of Banco Macro Open Market customers and of companies with related agreements, offering them differential benefits such as credit flexibility, differential price of products, and welcome gifts. —— Pre-embossed cards: We printed almost 50 thousand Visa credit cards to enhance cross-selling among customers from the Salary Plan and Macro Selecta segments who did not have a credit card, and among customers with a current MasterCard credit card.| —— Savings Account offer: With the aim of encouraging banking inclusion and the use of our digital channels (App and Internet Banking), we conducted campaigns that delivered our customers an offer of a free savings account with its corresponding debit card. We supplemented the product offer with point benefits to encourage as well knowledge and use of the Bank’s loyalty program, “Macro Premia”. Industrial Capital 105 Corporate Banking Campaigns During 2018, an average of 70,000 customers or prospects received at least one product credit offer bimonthly. Most of the campaigns are biannual, renewable, and nationwide, aimed at cooperating with the fulfillment of commercial objectives. Besides, more than 15 regional campaigns were conducted, which originated in the signature of commercial agreements with chambers and entities present in the communities where our branches operate. In addition, any value offer that implies a credit pre-qualification arises from an integrated process conducted with the Credit Risk Management Department. Furthermore, we generated offers to attract term deposits from Microenterprise and PyME Banking customers or for them to renew their existing deposits Featured campaigns run during the year: —— Relationship with new customers: Through a commercial analysis of customers, we generated attractive credit offers and transactional discounts on Cash, Comex, Retailers, and Account Packages. —— Achieving profitability on Cash and Comex cross-selling: Focused on customers from the PYME, Agribusiness and Microenterprise segments, transactional offers include one or more of the current products. —— Biannual supplementary salary: Aimed at increasing the placement of active products on customers with salary payment agreements, we granted the benefit of financing payment of the biannual supplementary salary with a specially designed credit line. —— Pay with Grains: We made Agribusiness Banking customers credit offers in dollars based on the prequalification made by the risk team. In addition, through the program called “Pague con Granos” (Pay with Grains), we allowed agricultural producers to pay their obligations with the grains they produce. Public Sector We continued to support and give advice to the provinces of Jujuy, Salta, Tucumán and Misiones (of which we are a financial agent) as regards obtaining funding for the development of infrastructure, through participation in the organization, structuring and placement of the local debt, with the contribution of our experience in the different financing tools through the capital market. In 2018, we defined our strategic project whose aim is to consolidate Banco Macro as the leading bank in the public sector business. In this respect, our commercial strategy focused on the following actions and initiatives: —— As a team with the Distribution and Sales areas, we made segmented commercial visits where Banco Macro is not a financial agent. As a result, we incorporated new customers and developed cash management, investment and salary plans business. Thus, we tripled the financial volume compared to the previous year. —— We expanded the range of products and services to the public sector, and consolidated in this way a commercial proposal and integral service model, with a focus on the development of relations and sustainable deals. 106 Annual Report | Banco Macro In 2018, we renewed for 10 years the financial agency agreement with the province of Misiones. —— In search of operational and commercial efficiency, we readjusted rules, standardized processes and simplified circuits in the provinces where the Bank is a financial agent. —— In order to provide support to the network in commercial management, we optimized the reporting boards of the Government Banking business as tools to improve decision-making. One of the main milestones of the year was the renewal of the Financial Agency Agreement with the province of Misiones for an additional 10-year period, which will expire in 2029. We reaffirmed our commitment to the province, and implemented an investment plan primarily aimed at opening new branches and permanent promotion stands, the creation of new ATMs and self-service terminals with technology and systems in line with service requirements, and the incorporation of technology and innovation into digital platforms and alternative channels to facilitate banking inclusion, financial inclusion, and customer service improvement. Furthermore, we resolved to develop a program to promote provincial productive and economic development that provides lines of financing specially designed in accordance with the strategic promotion objectives prioritized by the province: actions to foster the development of domestic consumption; financing for PyMEs, small producers, and cooperatives in the different sectors of the economy: yerba mate, tobacco, tea and forestry, commerce and services; funding for equipment and technological renovation of the municipal and communal public sector; and mortgage loans to public administration agents. Finally, we committed ourselves, within the framework of our Sustainability Strategy, to continuing to develop activities and initiatives aimed at promoting the social, educational and environmental welfare of the province. In our role as financial agent of the provinces of Jujuy, Misiones, Salta and Tucumán, we continued to support incentive programs for the regional economy. We renewed “Ahora Misiones” (Now Misiones) and “3D+15 Salta”, and added, during the year, other programs for the promotion of mass consumption, extended to special holidays. We did so, in all cases, with the participation of chambers of commerce, the province, and the Bank in discounts and financing. Moreover, we renewed and implemented new efficiency programs for annual tax collection: we offered rebates and financing to taxpayers for early payment with Banco Macro cards. Industrial Capital 107 In addition, due to the current economic situation, we signed agreements for the financing of PyMEs by discounting checks under preferential conditions. In relation to financial assistance, we disbursed the funds under the ARS 200-million facility agreement made in 2017 with the province of Misiones for the construction of wooden dwellings under a social housing program. We also provided the Municipality of Ushuaia with a loan of ARS 35 million for the acquisition of public transportation buses and execution of public works. With those public entities that deposited salaries with Banco Macro, we continued with, and extended the provisional financial assistance agreements for the payment of remunerations. Promoting public-private synergy, we qualified more than 70 federal, provincial, and municipal public entities throughout the country for more than ARS 7.8 billion to financially assist their providers and contractors in the private sector through loans secured by pledge of public work certificates and/or the discounting of checks issued by them For 2019, we intend to consolidate the project conceived in 2018, strengthening the model with the following strategic initiatives: —— measurement of Government Banking commercial management for the alignment of incentives in the development of integral business deals, —— development of new products and loyalty actions in line with the increasingly sophisticated needs of public sector customers and the growing competition from other financial institutions, and —— strengthening of the use of digital platforms and automatic alternative collection and payment channels at financial agents; and implementation, as a team with the Distribution and Sales department, of improvement opportunities detected in 2018 in terms of operational and commercial efficiency. 108 Annual Report | Banco Macro In spite of an adverse financial context, we continued to support our customers by financing their purchases: we exceeded ARS 4.5 billion in trust underwriting and portfolio purchases. Investment Banking The aim of Investment Banking is to create and structure tailor-made financing solutions with high value added, through the development of a long-term priority, support, and commitment relationship with customers, in order to achieve a deep understanding of every business deal, and offer advice. The industries and sectors that receive financing are, among others, the following: energy generation, oil and gas, industrial, construction, automotive, agriculture, and consumption. In 2018, the business was developed in a close international market environment for the placement of debt and stock shares. There was a context of high volatility in the macro variables of Argentina, such as the interruption of international capital inflow, the severe credit rationing by banks as a consequence of the BCRA’s restrictive policies, and very high interest rates. It was difficult to obtain financing for energy investment projects (RENOVAR) and infrastructure (PPP); and the capital market was virtually closed for several months, mainly as a result of the heavy redemptions sustained by the Mutual Fund industry. Even so, we continued to support our customers by financing their purchases: we exceeded ARS 4,500 million in trust underwriting and portfolio purchases. We also funded renewable energy projects. We did so from Banco Macro –as an organizer– and Macro Securities –as an underwriter– and thus we led the issuance of corporate notes by Genneia, with the aim of financing several renewable energy projects that the company has underway, in particular, “Parque Eólico Madryn” (Wind Farm Madryn). Furthermore, we led the reopening of the capital market in October 2018 with our successful participation in the issuance of Banco Ciudad Corporate Notes. Industrial Capital 109 We led the reopening of the capital market in October 2018 by participating successfully in the issuance of Banco Ciudad Corporate Notes. Infrastructure and Service Channels Our presence throughout the country Branches We seek to be the entity with the greatest federal presence. Thus, we intend to contribute to increased access to financial products and services, and thus improve people’s quality of life of people and promote the development of local communities throughout the country. That is why we are one of the private financial entities with the greatest presence throughout Argentina. We operate in 22 jurisdictions, and have 471(8) branches, 96% of which are located in districts in the provinces, and we have an active participation in the productive areas of those regions. Our role as financial agent of four provinces strengthens the Bank’s business structure. In 193 districts, we are the only banking institution present –through branches or ATMs. This number has been increasing year after year with the opening of new branches. We opened 9, remodeled 54, and moved 5 branches. In relation to physical assistance, we implemented a new Commercial Management Model for Corporate Banking and Operational Efficiency, and significant improvements in the technological customer service platform to gain efficiency and productivity in customer contact. In addition, we launched the New Puerto Nuevo Branch Pilot Assistance Model, and designed the new commercial planning scheme “Ideal Branch”. For 2019, we intend to implement the Commercial Management Model for Personal Banking and move forward with the integration with Banco del Tucumán. We will also define the New Service Model and the implementation methodology. (8) This number includes Banco Macro and Banco del Tucumán. 110 Annual Report | Banco Macro Regions Branches Financial System Share (%) Branches NOA (Argentine Northwest) 98 303 32% Central Region 178 1.003 18% NEA (Argentine Northeast) 52 367 14% Patagonia 21 302 7% Cuyo 21 262 8% Province of Buenos Aires 73 1.511 5% City of Buenos Aires 28 850 3% TOTAL 471 4.598 10% Districts with the presence of Banco Macro only Districts 2017 2018 Salta and Jujuy 72 76 Tucumán 28 29 Córdoba 5 5 Misiones 58 59 Santa Fe 21 20 Mendoza 2 4 Total 186 193 Our 471 branches in 22 jurisdictions confirm our federal mission: to become the Bank with the strongest presence throughout Argentina. Automatic Channels The increase in transactions via automatic channels has two benefits: it simplifies and speeds up customer operations and, at the same time, reduces operational tasks in branches. Banco Macro has ATMs that operate independently from the branch and offer the residents of the area, money withdrawal account and balance checking services, among other transactions. To guarantee sufficient cash availability in ATMs during the salary payment period, ATM functionality is daily monitored by technicians, and cash refilling is supervised. Industrial Capital 111 In 2018, we reached 1,489 installed ATMs. Among them, 386 feature the cash recognition and deposit crediting function, and 66 feature double cash dispensing. Through the ATM network, 16,056,875 transactions for an aggregate amount of ARS 19.498 billion were made in the year. Automatic Channel Users (1) 2017 2018 Personal Banking 654,136 798,224 Corporate Banking 69,223 91,596 Total 723,359 889,820 (1) This includes all those who operate through any automatic channel. Internet Banking, Mobile Banking, SelfService Terminals, IVR, and Customer Service Call Center. Transactions through Automatic Channels 2017 2018 (in million ARS) Number Amount Number Amount Digital (Internet Banking and Mobile Banking) 270,369,674 287,960.1 476,460,316 506,759.7 TAS (Self-Service Terminals) 1,295,260 1.6 1,258,076 24,213,4 IVR (Automatic Customer Services) 5,711,168 54.1 6,700,083 71.9 CSCC (Customer Service Call Center) 2,172,074 1,649,5 1,941,313 1,497.9 Automated Teller Machines 2017 2018 Installed machines 1,452 1,489 Replacements 31 73 New locations 22 49 Location reinforcements 58 55 ATMs w/cash recognition and online deposit crediting 340 386 ATMs w/double cash dispensing 59 66 Transactions 15,002,784 16,056,875 Amount of transactions (in million ARS) 17,371 19,480 Self-Service Terminals We have 938 self-service terminals distributed in the branch network throughout the country, thus offering customers the possibility of making deposits 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. In 2018, 1,304,117 transactions were made for an aggregate amount of ARS 1.7 million. Self-Service Terminals (TAS) 2017 2018 Installed terminals 900 938 Replacements 54 77 New locations 1 9 Location reinforcements 22 32 Branches with TAS 431 433 Transactions 1,295,260 1,304,117 Amount of transactions in pesos 1,605,706 1,685,911 112 Annual Report | Banco Macro Intelligent Self-Service Terminal (TASI) We continued to implement the intelligent check deposit functionality in this type of terminals in order to reduce the operational tasks at the branches. In 2018, we installed 163 terminals in 120 branches throughout the country. Through them, 180,860 transactions were made for the amount of ARS 1.3 million. Intelligent Self-Service Terminals (TASIs) 2017 2018 Installed terminals 101 163 Branches with TASIs 73 120 Transactions 370,028 180,860 Amount of transactions in ARS 1,369,412 1,300,950 Access to products and services Seeking to reach every district in the country is not the only way to contribute to financial inclusion. We also focus on ensuring that the people who choose us can access our products, services and facilities, and are provided with customer service that meets their needs and expectations. For this reason, we offer the braille account statement printout service, and installed access ramps and special bathrooms at branches. We also increased the number of automated teller machines for visually impaired individuals: today, 97% of all ATMs are equipped with a voice guidance system. In addition, we installed non-slip flooring and special seats in our customer service centers for the retired. Branch accessibility 2017 2018 ATMs for visually impaired customers 1,370 1,440 ATMs for visually impaired customers over the total number of the Bank’s 94% 97% ATMs Branches with ramps (1) 486 520 Branches with special restrooms (1) 186 240 (1) As of 2017, we break down the “branch offices with ramps and special restrooms” indicator. Physical security and secure information handling People’s Safety With the aim of guaranteeing the physical security of people, our systematized and monitored processes in place allow us to evaluate and prevent adverse situations. Among them, we highlight the following tools: Branch Security Vulnerability Risk Matrix, Bank Security Manual, and Security Procedures and Policies Guide. In addition, this year we introduced the Electronic Security Manual, and the Physical Security Manual as a step forward in this matter. We also implemented the Control of Minimum Security Measures at Branches to respond to the needs of the Distribution and Sales division. To achieve this, we generated a strategic plan in conjunction with said division to allow the remote control of access via Industrial Capital 113 CCTV (Closed Circuit Television). Thus, we established a protocol that provides detailed reports on the current situation and the future corrective/preventive measures to be applied in terms of security by the “Image Requirement” Unit officers. In this way, the CROAS (Regional Operative and Administrative Coordinator) can focus 100% on commercial issues. During the year, there was news regarding the protocols of action in the following areas: —— Performance of Monitoring Center. —— Access Control at the Data and Telecommunications Center in Banco Macro Tower. —— Protocol of Administration and Custody of Keys and Passwords in Central Areas. —— Certificates of Security Devices. —— Image Requirement (Control of Minimum Security Measures at Branches). —— Opening and Closing of Branches. —— ATM load balancing and cash loading. —— Physical Security in Banco Macro Tower. —— CCTV in Banco Macro Tower. —— Instructions for Security Guards in Banco Macro Tower. We also implemented an annual training plan for additional guards and police officers in coordination with the private security companies and the provincial police departments. Furthermore, we reengineered the Security Department so as to redistribute resources and thus create a centralized billing system for the nine divisions and streamline the budget process, control and analysis. With the same personnel structure, we absorbed 30% of the operational/administrative tasks of the divisions, and we thus achieved that the Divisional Security Coordinators and the technical resources could devote themselves to the tasks inherent in their specific functions. In order to generate significant savings in security expense accounts, we reduced 32 external private security guards in Branches and managed, under the Remote Bunker system, to monitor the same number of offices with a smaller number of guards. 114 Annual Report | Banco Macro In 2018, we managed to raise the security standards and, at the same time, optimize the use of resources. We developed and implemented the Macro Tower (physical and electronic) security system following the “protection rings” concept, which consists of human and electronic elements that act and operate under specific protocols of the area. We trained all the surveillance staff in several topics of the field and in the specific policies of the Macro Tower. Besides, we developed a master key system that facilitates access to all groups of doors in the building but does not limit the level of security, and implemented an electronic key management system that allows us to administer, authorize, control and audit all movements made with the building keys. In 2019, we will develop a tool under the RMS (Risk Measurement System) platform in order to speed up the loading of information obtained in the survey of branches, and thus avoid duplication of processes. Said tool will be based on the Branch Survey Form, completed by the divisional security coordinators as ordered by the division manager. Furthermore, we will link the Branch Security Vulnerability Risk Matrix with the Expenses and Investment Matrix to quantify the risk in line with the budget. We will also make the Remote Bunker grow along with the 10% increase in the number of branches as specified in the strategic plan formulated for next year. Personal data protection Our policies and procedures regarding privacy and the protection of personal data meet the requirements of the Argentina Data Protection Act No. 25326, as amended, and the rules issued by the Access to Public Information Agency. All our employees having access to personal data on our customers keep such information strictly confidential and are subject to the duties of custody and maintenance. These duties will survive the cancellation or annulment of the information in the databases even after the termination of customer’s contractual relationship. In addition, we feature information signs for our customers on video surveillance security areas at branches in accordance with the laws currently in force. Our “Image Requirement” unit centralizes the downloading of images which can be requested by court order, customers, or which can be used in banking fraud proceedings. We also comply with the Security Rules and Regulations of the BCRA on document digitalization. Industrial Capital 115 New sustainable corporate building In 2018, we were able to finalize a project that lasted for several years: moving to the Macro Tower. In March, we began to implement an ambitious plan that allowed the transfer of more than 1,600 employees to their new workplace. This task was carried out successfully during successive weekends to guarantee the continuity of the business. As part of the preparations for that great moment, we started a process of culture change. The aim was to inform the employees of both the benefits of the place and the new habits that we should develop. In this way, we closed the circle of commitment to the environment that we had already taken on with the construction of this LEED-certified tower. By way of example, we replaced the disposable water and coffee cups with reusable ones, which were handed to the employees as part of a welcome kit. For the design of this building, we adopted an open operational plant model to encourage collaborative work and socialization, although we also noticed an additional benefit: that occupancy standards improved compared to previous buildings. On average, the surface area per inhabitant is 9.50 m2, which represents a work environment of high spatial quality for users. To encourage healthy habits among employees, we allocated an entire floor for the dining room, with tableware and food refrigeration service, and an eatery concession that includes a healthy menu, and gluten-free meals. We also allocated one floor for the gym, a space that not only promotes physical well-being, but also encourages bonding with workmates beyond work interaction. To achieve greater energy efficiency, we have already put into operation the following control systems of the building: rainwater collection and utilization for irrigation, and reuse of condensate and bleed-off water from cooling towers as wastewater. The utilization of this recovered water, in conjunction with the automatic shut-off valves and double-discharge valves fitted in the water supply lines to which our toilets are connected, makes it possible to minimize the consumption of drinking water. 116 Annual Report | Banco Macro An air conditioning control system, that manages in a centralized manner the almost 1,000 evaporative cooling units of the building, is already in operation, and features an on/off timer which allows for time control to be set based on a needs diagram. This Heat Recovery technology system also allows the use of heat and cold simultaneously, which at certain times of the year results in considerable energy savings. At the same time, a lighting control system manages blinds and shades lowering them at the hours of greatest solar radiation, so as to minimize the use of air conditioning. In order to reduce energy consumption from lighting, our tower is equipped in a very high percentage with LED technology devices. On the other hand, lights closest to the building facade vary in intensity according to the amount of external light they receive. We started to create three lighting schemes under which a schedule for each floor can be programmed from the control system. The outdoor air treatment units recover part of the energy used for the cooling of a large volume of air, which is later drawn out from restrooms. We also started to implement a central equipment management and energy monitoring system, which will be an important management tool that will allow us to monitor the correct functioning of different services. In addition, we seek to reduce the use of paper, in compliance with the sustainable office premise. In the light of our moving, we initiated the following actions, which we continue to develop: Industrial Capital 117 Departments / areas Actions performed Next steps Operations – Court documents In mid-March, we finished our four-month work consisting in the organization, clean-----ing out and filing court documents in the Court Documentation Section folders. This task comprised all the human and technical aspects necessary and sufficient for the correct administration, digitalization and final disposition of the documents to be handled. Operations – We coordinated with several departments of the Bank the project for the Digitization of ComTrack the project. Business Customer panies’ Files at the head office of the Documentary File Provider. This work took 12 months. The Service Center main tasks included receiving, preparing, ordering, selecting, classifying, grouping, scanning, checking, returning, indexing and dispatching the files of Banco Macro’s business customers within a period of not more than 72 business hours. Operations – We coordinated the tasks with the area and the provider, mainly based on getting rid -----Documentation of and destroying the relevant documentation from each Pledge Loan/ Discounting of Safekeeping Checks drawer. In addition, we selected and classified documentation to be filed away prior to moving the division to Banco Macro Tower. Credit Risk Leasing We coordinated the tasks of organizing and eliminating the stock of files belonging to the -----Leasing Division. Operations – We coordinated with the area and the provider, the project for the Digitization of Company Track the project. Business Customer Files at the Bank. This work took approximately five months, and mainly consisted in the Service Center handling and preparation of each file or document, the assignment of the relevant category/section to each document observing the current physical order, the digital capture of each page and the respective covers, and the renaming of the resulting image file, whose format should be PDF. The building of Banco Macro Tower is 95% complete. Investment in land, construction, interior design, and technological equipment is expected to be above USD 240 million. We are planning its inauguration for 2019. Banco Macro’s head office was established in the corporate building. In 2019, we will inaugurate our new corporate building, Banco Macro Tower. Its construction, which required an investment of USD 240 million, was designed by the renowned architect César Pelli and complies with the highest energy efficiency and sustainable design standards. 118 Memoria Anual | Banco Macro Intellectual Capital 119 Intellectual Capital This Capital is composed of intangible assets related to the reputation, development and know-how of the organization. Next, we describe the actions that we carry out in order to make it grow, always guided by the search for innovation, and our positioning as a reference digital bank. In addition, we show our performance relative to the customer service model, in which we prioritize quality, security, and an open and constructive dialog with stakeholders. Customer’s experience as a competitive differentiation strategy The perception that the customer has after each interaction with us constitutes their service experience, and this, in turn, is what heightens their sense of loyalty to the Bank, and influences the economic value that the organization produces. We consider that management of customer’s experience is a strategy of competitive differentiation and exceeds service satisfaction and quality: it also focuses on the design of each link with the customer. With that aim, we have a Customer’s Experience area, which is responsible for defining strategies and promoting the construction of an organizational culture that, rather than thinking about the customer, thinks like them Getting to know the customer’s experience is crucial to us, and that is why we continually strive to improve our customer service channels, our experience measurements, and complaints management. This is how we get closer to our vision: making customer’s life easier, and doing sustainable business. 120 Annual Report | Banco Macro Measurement and design of customer’s experience Understanding our customers and knowing how they experience their relationship with the Bank is key for us to be able to orient the service towards them. Therefore, we set out to achieve a continuous and real-time measurement of customer’s experience, automatically and through different means. Specifically, we sought to integrate and validate qualitative and quantitative information through commercial intelligence with the support of our data repository to generate a 360° vision, and bring the complete information to the entire portfolio of the Bank. During 2018, we consolidated the measurement and design area of customer’s experience and customer’s role as a strategic and collaborative business partner, to accompany and support the strategic goals of the different departments, always with the customer as the focus. These were the experience measurement and evaluation methodologies that we employed: —— Macro Community “The game of experiences”: It is a virtual community of customers where activities are done to gather strategic information for the bank. We engaged in more than 48 activities and 17 on-line surveys with 300 active customers distributed in five Personal Banking communities and one PyME11 community. These inquiries were related to the chat bot, web portal, Macro Premia, AAplus, Conectividad Perfiles and assessment of connectivity benefits, the platform “Pulse” for the Retired, Life certificate, Pin resetting, Cuentas Sanas (Healthy Accounts), Investment Habits, drivers chosen by Bank for the Salary account, and motivations to change bank. —— Henko Community: It is a virtual community of non-customers oriented to innovation and co-creation, where activities are done to reveal strategic information for the bank, with the participation of 35 customers and non-customers from the creative and innovative fields having a curious and bold profile, and we engaged in 22 activities under the design-thinking concept. —— Business Meetings: These are spaces intended to have meetings with customers while having breakfast or lunch, where they express their ideas based on the issues raised. We held new meetings with 105 customers from PyME, Megra12, and Corporate Banking in Córdoba, Tandil, Salta, Rosario, AMBA (Metropolitan Area of Buenos Aires), and Expo Agro in San Nicolás. The objective was to know the opinions of customers about the redesign of Corporate Home Banking, and the concept of a access unique code, self-management, MultiProfile operator, and signature and power of attorney uses. 11 Smalland medium-sized enterprise (SME). 12 Mediumand large-sized companies. Intellectual Capital 121 —— Individual and PyME Experience Score: This is an online and telephone survey that we conducted throughout the country, where we measured indicators related to the Bank’s strategy. We made three measurements of customer’s experience indicators –Net Promoter Score (NPS), Principal Bank Relationship13, Effort, Future Relationship, Experience and Fidelity. In the latter, we implemented the telephone methodology to reach those customers without an email registered in the Bank’s database, and thus we managed to increase, in this last edition, the sample and the indicators. —— First benchmarking of the main Key Performance Indicators (KPI) of Experience: we did this by comparing the main private and public banks in the country, through a mixed methodology with 1,291 online and telephone surveys. —— Immersion in underbanked and unbanked customers and potential customers: To know and explore the underbanked profile, we conducted six focus groups and 18 in-depth interviews in Salta, Córdoba and NEA (Argentine Northeast), in which 50 customers participated. —— Follow-up study of brand strategy results moment 0: We accompanied and supported the area that develops the Bank’s brand positioning, in order to determine, through this study, the starting point of the Banco Macro brand with mixed methodologies, telephone and face-to-face surveys, and online panel, in which 2,293 banked individuals, customers and non-customers, participated. We also did the pretest of the new positioning commercial, and cooperated in the design of a brand health dashboard. —— Digital Banking Study on Home Banking & App: Compared with other banks through 808 self-administered surveys. —— Online investment survey: Online survey of Selecta customers on investment behaviors, answered by 903 Selecta customers. —— Study of traditional, digital media, and social networks: Online and telephone study in which we evaluated the behavior of the general population with traditional and digital communication media, and social networks. We surveyed 4,173 individuals and 461 PyMEs and Agribusinesses through online, telephone, and face-to-face polls. —— Sending of self-administered surveys on SMS recharges, channels, chat bot: Online surveys of Bank customers, in which they answered questions on the issues raised; more than 5,000 customers participated. —— Measurement of the Macro portal and its sections through the Hotjtar tool: Short surveys to measure the experience within the different sections of the Bank’s portal; 2,700 visitors participated. —— 40 face-to-face surveys at the Puerto Norte branch to learn about the new service model. —— Measurement of digital transformation initiatives related to online account management and transactions, onboarding, and self-management terminal through online surveys of customers who used these channels, and subsequent co-creation of initiatives with customers. 13 The first bank the customer would choose. 122 Annual Report | Banco Macro —— Participation in the Youth Meeting and in the Entrepreneurs Meeting, in which we conducted a survey of the attendees’ profile. —— Updating of the five profiles of Personal Banking customers, integrating the information gathered during the year, and performing micro-segmentation within each category. On the other hand, these were the novelties in the customer’s experience design, and the advances in the development of actions and processes for continuous improvement: —— Internalization and understanding of the Key Performance Indicators (KPI) of Experience, and knowledge of customers. —— Addition of new points of capture of customer’s voice to the process of automation, integration and management of data. —— Work with divisions and Human Resources to transmit a DNA in which customer’s experience is the focus. —— Development of a customer’s experience model for the Corporate segment, and start by knowing the Microenterprise segment. —— Measurement of customer’s voice (community) generating insights for the organization that allow the development of sustainable customer-focused business deals oriented to Digital Banking, Digital Transformation and exploration of unbanked or underbanked segments. —— Implementation of continuous measurement through the automation of surveys in real time, doing a pilot test and then extending it to the rest of the customers of the all branches in the country. This gives us information on time and with greater granularity. —— Updating of customer’s experience boards with the inclusion of the data arising from the automation of surveys and the implementation of the qualitative data aggregation. —— Supporting of Digital Banking and Digital Transformation projects with appropriate measurements and techniques. In short, during 2018 we managed to meet the challenges that we had taken on. We also managed to get all projects to relate to each other and nourish customers’ profiles. We were able to share knowledge and add value mutually by working in interdisciplinary tables. We will continue in 2019 facing new demands, always focused on the customer, and working towards the strategic objectives of the business. Intellectual Capital 123 During 2018, we consolidated the measurement and design area of customer’s experience and the role of the customer as a strategic and collaborative partner. Customer’s Experience Indicators 2017 2018 Customer’s Experience Score – Individuals 53% 50% NPS – Individuals 35% 28% Effort Score (1) of Personal Banking Customer 61% 60% Principal Bank Relationship Score(2) of Personal Banking Customer 60% 61% Macro Premia Score(3) of Personal Banking Customer s/d 52% Future Relationship Score(4) of Personal Banking Customer 86% 85% Customer’s Experience Score (5) – PyMe 49% 44% NPS – PyMe 20% 11% Effort Score of PyMe Customer 65% 60% Principal Bank Relationship Score of PyMe Customer 48% 44% Integral Business Assistance Score of PyMe Customer 36% 33% Future Relationship Score of PyMe Customer 83% 80% (1) It refers to the degree of effort expended by the customer to perform the operation in the last contact with the Bank. The scale goes from 1 (little effort) to 5 (a lot of effort). (2) It refers to the percentage of customers that declare that Banco Macro is their main Bank, whether because they operate solely with the Bank or because they choose it as the principal one among the banks with which they operate. (3) It is the percentage of customers who used Macro Premia loyalty program and rate it on a scale of 1 to 10 (1 is very bad, and 10 very good), with a grade of 9 or 10. (4) It refers to the percentage of Bank customers who declare that they have operating with Macro so far and intend to continue doing so, or who plan to hire a new product. The indicator arises from a semantic differential scale question between ceasing to operate with the Bank and acquiring more products. (5) It is the percentage of customers that rate their last contact experience with the Bank, on a scale of 1 to 10 (1 is very bad, and 10 very good), with a grade of 9 or 10. 124 Annual Report | Banco Macro Digital Banking Our goal is to position ourselves as the best offer in digital services, and we work on a digital offer of high impact on customers, on the research and development of disruptive technologies, and the implementation of the digital transformation strategy. For that purpose, we decided on a digital transformation strategy focused on anticipating the needs of our customers and providing them with the best experience. Thus, during 2018 we worked on different actions and initiatives based mainly on the pillar of providing ease and accessibility to our customers when it comes to operating, seeking to be the “Most Simple Bank”. Among them, we highlight: Mobile Banking (App Macro) This year we added new functionalities to this application that generate value for customers, such as, access with biometrics (fingerprint or facial recognition), which speeds up access to the channel; digital onboarding, which allows access to generate for the registration of customers and accounts; sending push notifications to customers who have downloaded the app on their cell phone; and the implementation of improvements at the application performance level. Internet Banking for Individuals We added new functionalities to this digital channel that permanently seeks to make life easier for our customers and enhance the use of digital channels. Among them, we highlight “mis tenencias” (my holdings) (consolidated information about customer’s banking products at the end of each year) to facilitate customer’s tax operations, and the new inquiries about checks service. Focused on becoming the Bank that offers the best digital services, we are working on a digital offer with a high impact on customers, on research and development of innovative technologies. Intellectual Capital 125 We also added new management-oriented features in Mobile Banking (App Macro) and Internet Banking for Individuals: —— Self-management of Mobile/Internet Banking Code, which saves customers having to go to an ATM. —— Self-management of security token for customers with an E-banking code card. —— Increase in the limit of immediate transfers with a security token, general portfolio (ARS 200,000), and Selecta (ARS 500,000). —— Generation of telephone/TAS (self-service terminal) code. —— Debit card PIN resetting (with a security token or E-banking code card). —— Insurance checking (statement, and printing of payment certificate). —— Agro Card balance checking. —— New voucher checking that includes the destination account in transfers. —— Mobile reloads via SMS. —— PIM reloads. During 2018, we used different tools to communicate the news to our customers. Among them, notifications through the mailbox of Mobile/Internet Banking or push information sent to the cell phone, emails, publications on Facebook, and dissemination of contents on the Bank’s portal. Internet Banking for Companies In January 2018, we began to hold the co-creation workshops of the new Internet Banking for Companies, organizing an interdisciplinary team composed of business areas, processes, technology, operations, customer services and computer security. In total, 28 workshops were held, in which we defined the scope of the new solution, aligned with the Digital Transformation Program, and with the aim of being a simple bank also for our business customers. Thus, we worked on proposals based on different pillars: Digital Transformation (new functionalities, the only platform for all services, and App Empresas14), Ease and Simplicity (single code for Companies and Individuals, self-management of codes and passwords –user name registration or recovery, or password resetting–, biometric access, simple navigation, multiprofile user), Processes (integration with signatures and powers of attorney, architecture review, and synchronization with strategic projects of companies), and Customer Experience (customer testing, and analysis of Competition). On the other hand, in March and April, 2018 we held meetings with 105 companies from all segments, and from different regions of the country to test the most significant concepts of the new Corporate Home for Companies. For 2019, we plan to divide the next meetings into four stages, which will add new features. 14 App for companies. 126 Annual Report | Banco Macro New web portals During 2018, we renewed all the websites related to the Bank, unifying the user’s experience throughout our digital ecosystem, also achieving greater communication efficiency. In March, we launched the institutional portal of Banco Macro, which has a responsive design, a clearer language, and new features. A search bar was designed (“What do you need?”), found on the home page, which offers information on frequently asked questions, financial education and search results within the content of the new portal. Besides, it has a cognitive virtual assistant, which is the intelligent chat that enables the customer to obtain information from the Bank and humanizes contact. Currently, this assistant can answer questions about loans, investments, and frequently asked questions. We expect that by March 2019 it will be able to do so in connection with all our products. The portal can be self-managed, so the updating of contents can be done in a friendly way, and without the need to resort to technological developments, which allows us to update contents much more dynamically. In June, we enabled the Savings and Monthly Payments webpage with a new design and filters that allow us to specify the search for benefits, and the Macro Securities portal, with renewed aesthetics, stock ticker, and search for Securities and Stock. In November, we focused on the implementation of the new “Cuentas Sanas” (Healthy Accounts) site, whose renewed design provides a more user-friendly experience and greater accessibility to the information and tools offered. We highlight the development within the portal of the debt simulator, and the monthly savings calculator, which were previously available only in an Excel file. Finally, in December we enabled the Macro Fondos (Macro Funds) portal. We highlight the inclusion of simulators and comparators of Mutual Funds. For 2019, we have taken on the challenge of relaunching the Investor Relations portal, which informs the Banco Macro stock price on the New York and Buenos Aires Stock Exchanges, as well as quarterly results, financial statements, corporate presentations, communications with regulators, among other topics. Intellectual Capital 127 We renewed all our websites, which now offer new functionalities and a general browsing and checking experience much more user-friendly. In order to evaluate the behavior of portals, we implemented the use of data measurement and collection tools, and surveys, in order to enrich them constantly according to the needs of our customers and the business. These tools have the ability to obtain reports about usability, and the reactions of customers during navigation on those portals, which will allow us to apply continuous improvements in pursuit of greater user satisfaction. Digital transformation We aim to transform ourselves into a dynamic and innovative Bank through the use of technology. Our mission is to empower our customers through simple and effective technological solutions that have a positive impact on their experience and on business sustainability. To achieve this, we incorporated face-to-face channels and 100% of digital channels, and created new models of customer service and online business. Onboarding We incorporated 100% digital onboarding (customer registration, and savings account opening approval) to the Mobile Banking application. We aim to add new customers by streamlining the process of registering an account as a first step towards the creation of a fully digital experience. This onboarding allows identity validation through a selfie and the identity document photograph without the customer having to visit a branch. Online loans Online loans allow Bank customers and non-customers to apply for personal loans from the web without the need to operate with passwords. Particularly for amounts within the established limit, crediting is immediate, and the procedure 100% online. For higher amounts, the application process can be started by uploading documentation online, and subsequently the customer can go to the branch; this equally simplifies the executive’s operations. 128 Annual Report | Banco Macro Self-Service Terminal This device brings about a change to the customer service model at the branch through a customer service interface that processes post-sale operations and facilitates use of digital tools. Thanks to it, we managed to simplify and reduce the time of usual transactions and post-sale operations, such as the resetting of PINs or passwords. Co-creation We conducted a new cycle of co-creation of ideas that generated initiatives aimed at improving the customer’s experience, and the efficiency in our customer service channels. These ideas focus on the use of the fingerprint, voice and face biometric traits for the identification of customers who begin their relationship with the Bank or operate with us already. We will begin to implement biometrics in the origination processes of products for Personal Banking, Life Certificate for the Retired Workers segment, and the generation and resetting of access codes to digital channels, and then we will progressively incorporate this system into the other processes, always with a focus on the customer. The incorporation of biometrics will contribute to the transformation we seek by generating a simpler bank for our customers. Communication and Customer Service Channels (Digital Banking) 2018 Internet Banking (Businesses) Users 91,590 Transactions 52,523,080 Total amounts (in million pesos) 209,247 Total amounts (in million USD) 102 Internet Banking (Individuals) Users 591,753 Transactions 328,376,771 Total amounts (in million pesos) 221,295 Total amounts (in million USD) 1,251 Mobile Banking (Individuals) Users 294,333 Transactions 95,560,465 Total amounts (in million pesos) 21,512 Total amounts (in million USD) 85,066 Intellectual Capital 129 Digital payment methods This year we implemented DEBIN II, a method of making recurring payments through immediate debit transfers using the alias or the CBU number of the destination account. We also launched the possibility of transferring funds to virtual accounts (CVU) (Uniform Virtual Code), and thus made possible transactions between bank accounts (CBU) and virtual accounts. In 2018, we introduced new types of transfers. We thus helped our customers to make transactions between accounts with a more accurate identification. 130 Annual Report | Banco Macro Customer Service Assistance Strategies and Customer Service Call Center (CSCC) Leveraging new technologies to make our customer service more efficient, in 2018, we worked on these actions: Speech Analytics – understanding our customers This tool, recently incorporated, allowed us to monitor all calls received at the Customer Service Call Center (CSCC) and thus improve customer satisfaction and assistance quality. Its main advantages are: —— it detects in the customer’s voice improvement situations in assistance circuits; —— it monitors call management to analyze the behavior of customers and operators; —— it monitors the result of actions implemented in real time and automatically; —— it increases the efficiency of processes that improve customer service; and —— it automates audits of operators’ performance in order to evaluate with transparency and objectivity 100% of the calls received by each operator. IVR – improvements in customer service by telephone In order to improve the quality of service, we implemented the self-service password management solution via IVR (Interactive Voice Response), whose purpose is to allow the customer to manage their password automatically, comfortably from their home. In addition, we enabled the debit card PIN resetting via IVR option. In this way, we also decompress the branch network and the CSCC, and facilitate our customers’ transactions and operations. Finally, we included in the Corporate IVR initial menu, access to the Foreign Trade section. In this way, we streamlined assistance to those customers who want to contact this sector. Intellectual Capital 131 Calls answered at the Customer Service Call Center (CSCC) 2017 2018 Tucumán CSCC 380.504 462.885 Macro CSCC 1.817.859 1.155.937 Corporate CSCC 128.902 121.394 Help Desk 146.390 134.854 Selecta CSCC 119.026 82.941 Investments CSCC 25.467 29.270 Retention and Sales CSCC 80.820 144.682 IVR calls (Total) (1) 5.298.746 6.700.083 (1) Interactive Voice Response. During 2018, the BCRA established –through Communiqué “A” 6418– the creation of a Committee for the Protection of Users of Financial Services. The first meeting of the committee took place on April 9 and, thereafter, meetings were held quarterly. One Director, the Officer Responsible for Financial User Protection, the Legal Department Manager, and the Integral Risk Management Department Manager form part of this committee. Topics related to necessary improvements were discussed in these committee meetings. Based on consensus, and on the joint work with the different areas involved, positive results were achieved in the consumption relationship with the customer, the optimization of circuits and processes, and the decrease in the number of complaints. For 2019, we have the challenge of continuing to optimize the operations of this division, by simplifying the general processes, designing new products and services and making modifications to existing processes or circuits. This is achieved through proactive interaction to simplify the customer’s operations, participation in business meetings and/or forums convened by the Central Bank, the implementation of improvement strategies in line with requirements and designed to optimize customer satisfaction; and the focus on the prevention and measurement of risks related to the problems that have a direct impact on financial users. Complaints management We seek to incorporate into the management of complaints the same strategies and customer service models applicable to business assistance, in order to streamline processes and improve the quality of service. In addition, as part of the launch of the Bank’s new portal, we incorporated technologies that make it possible to create a differentiated strategy, intended for the general public, customers and non-customers. We have tools that pursue the aim of offering users a dynamic surfing experience that responds to all inquiries in an innovative and consistent manner, and which were designed to improve our commitment to the customer based on the interpretation of their needs. Among them, the Cognitive Browser (knowledge base), which answers our customers’ queries by providing financial education information and frequently asked questions, and the Virtual Assistant, which allows us to chat with customers automatically about personal loans, mortgage loans, frequently asked questions, investments, Macro Premia, and credit cards. 132 Annual Report | Banco Macro Our goal for 2019 is to get the Virtual Assistant to be trained to give advice to customers and non-customers about all the products and services offered by the Bank according to the Business Strategy. This will be the starting point for the incorporation of artificial intelligence as transversal technology into all our service channels, and the first contact space with our customers. Besides, we are developing the Workforce Management system for the planning, control and measurement of metrics related to the internal processes of the complaints department. Thus, we will set in motion a dynamic of continuous improvement with results, which will allow us to make time estimates and determine performance objectives to optimize the allocation of resources. In addition, this year we updated the Remedy tool version that we use to resolve incidents and problems. The new version has the following benefits: —— the uploading of the main processes defined to ensure the normal functioning of the Bank; —— a more user-friendly and dynamic user console, which simplifies the process of uploading Incidents, Problems, and Solutions Base; and —— greater access security. Number of complaints received per channel (1) 2017 2018 Branch 79,302 87,452 Telephone Assistance Center 113,067 107,233 Internet 47,894 47,007 Complaints Management and Quality Department 1,427 1,477 Letters 141 172 Back Businesses 126 152 Officers answerable to the BCRA 239 194 Total 242,196 243,687 Complaints rate per customer 8% 8% (total complaints/individual banking customers) Resolved complaints rate 99% 94% (total resolved complaints/total complaints) (1) The information shown includes GCR (Complaints Management and Quality) of Banco Macro and Banco del Tucumán. Intellectual Capital 133 Simplified agreements and new origination of products For more than two years, we have been working with the intention of making our customers’ lives easier. We seek to speed up and improve the interaction with the branch network and with that aim, we continue improving processes designed to achieve greater Simplification of Contracts and the improvement of Origination in the CRM (Customer Relationship Management) system. Both tools are intended to synthesize these processes and make them more efficient. In this way, we help customers to know their rights and obligations more easily, clearly and transparently and thus improve communication with them and their understanding of significant information. As from the simplification of agreements, we achieved the following: —— elimination of the “small print”, because the structure of the agreement clearly highlights the different sections, and the contents of greatest interest; —— replacement of technical terms with everyday expressions; —— writing of texts in a simple way to facilitate reading and make it quicker; —— reduced customer service time thanks to a simpler product origination process, with fewer steps, and with fields automatically completed in forms, such as product data or customer data, among others; —— reduction in the number of signatures by making all product forms into one (we reduced signatures by 62% and forms by 76%); —— offering to executives a documentation checklist, a new and easy tool, useful for creating the customer’s file. As part of our constant search to optimize transparency in the information provided to customers, we developed –as a pilot test– practical handbooks on our products. These guides benefit customers, because they bring concise and clear information to them, as well as executives, because they facilitate their daily work by making all information available to them in a single document. As part of our goal of making customers’ lives easier, we work on the simplification of agreements to help them to know their rights and obligations in an easier, clear, and transparent way. 134 Annual Report | Banco Macro Human Capital 135 Human Capital Human Capital is essential for our growth. We know that without the contribution of each member of our staff, we would not be today, 40 years after our founding, the great Bank we are. We present below the main actions carried out to take care of and develop this vital resource Our management Efficiency and professionalism characterize the work done by the Human Resources Department. From there, and in a centralized way –making the most of the available technology in order to make work more dynamic, and be able to say “here” throughout the country– we get close to all the members of the Bank with the commitment that strengthens our brand and fills our employees with pride in belonging to our institution. During this year, we worked mainly on these initiatives: —— Simple Bank: we tried to develop simple and efficient processes. We centralized processes and optimized resources, and thus we achieved efficiency in decision making. —— Growing Bank: we accompanied the business in the development of its needs. —— Digital transformation: we worked hard on the implementation of digital tools to —— improve and make transparent the management of our human capital Human capital in figures 2017 2018 Men Women Total Men Women Total Number of employees 5,340 3,373 8,713 5,407 3,558 8,965 Mean age 45.85 41.00 43.43 46.32 41.28 43.80 Mean seniority 18.45 13.79 16.12 18.78 13.89 16.34 Staff broken down by region 2017 2018 Men Women Total Men Women Total Employees in the city of Buenos Aires and GBA15 1,529 1,125 2,654 1,604 1,239 2,843 Employees in provinces 3,811 2,248 6,059 3,803 2,319 6,122 15 Greater Metropolitan Area of Buenos Aires 136 Annual Report | Banco Macro Staff broken down by Central Areas an d Branches 2017 2018 Men Women Total Men Women Total Employees in central areas 2,175 1,282 3,457 2,178 1,309 3,487 Employees in the branch network 3,165 2,091 5,256 3,229 2,249 5,478 By seniority 2017 2018 Men Women Total Men Women Total Less than 5 years 945 761 1,706 907 797 1,704 From 5 to 9 years 707 660 1,367 792 697 1,489 From 10 to 14 years 555 560 1,115 601 666 1,267 From 15 to 19 years 518 396 914 342 286 628 From 20 to 24 years 787 475 1,262 768 545 1,313 From 25 to 29 years 706 201 907 787 243 1,030 More than 30 years 1,122 320 1,442 1,210 324 1,534 New employees recruited 2017 2018 Total new employees recruited 481 632 By region Federal Capital and Buenos Aires Metropolitan Area (AMBA) 292 343 Other regions 189 289 By gender Man 270 294 Woman 211 338 By age range Up to 30 years 269 255 From 31 to 50 years 202 234 More than 50 years 10 143 Employees by age 2017 2018 Men Women Total Men Women Total Up to 30 years 514 483 997 457 456 913 From 30 to 50 years 2,762 2,219 4,981 2,806 2,406 5,212 More than 50 years 2,064 671 2,735 2,144 696 2,840 Staff broken down by professional category and gender 2017 2018 Men Women Total Men Women Total Top Management 11 3 14 10 3 13 Manager 71 19 90 75 21 96 Head/Supervisor 1,526 533 2,059 1,500 533 2,033 Analyst/Executive Officer 1,898 1,813 3,711 2,012 1,956 3,968 Administrative employee/Operator 1,834 1,005 2,839 1,810 1,045 2,855 Staff broken down by professional category and age 2017 2018 Up to 30 years From 30 More than Up to 30 years From 30 More than to 50 years 50 years to 50 years 50 years Top Management 0 11 3 0 9 4 Manager 3 50 37 1 60 35 Head/Supervisor 40 1,135 884 24 1,112 897 Analyst/Executive Officer 677 2,328 706 644 2,545 779 Administrative employee/Operator 277 1,457 1,105 244 1,486 1,125 Total 997 4,981 2,735 913 5,212 2,840 Human Capital 137 2017 2018 Turnover Recruited Dismissed/ Turnover Recruited Dismissed/ Turnover Retired Retired By region Employees in the city of Buenos Aires and GBA 292 128 12% 343 167 15% Employees in provinces 189 203 7% 289 213 9% By age group Up to 30 years 269 89 36% 255 111 40% From 30 to 50 years 202 124 7% 234 140 7% More than 50 years 10 118 5% 143 129 10% 2017 2018 Turnover by gender Recruited Dismissed/ Turnover Recruited Dismissed/ Turnover Retired Retired Women 211 131 10% 338 154 14% Men 270 200 9% 294 226 10% Total 481 331 9% 632 380 11% Return and retention rates after maternity or paternity leave, broken down by gender 2017 2018 Men Women Men Women Employees on maternity or paternity leave 168 185 165 163 Employees returning after maternity or paternity leave 168 184 165 163 Return and retention rates of employees on maternity or paternity leave 100% 99% 100% 100% Employment Security Rates 2017 2018 Absence rate (1) 5.03% 5.32% Days lost due to absenteeism 106,968 115,224 Accident absence rate 0.11% 0.10% Days lost due to work accidents 2,266 2,200 Sickness absence rate 2.62% 2.45% Days lost due to sickness 55,791 52,995 (1) Absence rate: days lost during the year / working days in the year (staff per business days). DAYS LOST 2018 By region Accidents Sickness Total City of Buenos Aires and GBA 1,093 13,753 14,846 Provinces 1,107 39,242 40,349 By gender Accidents Sickness Total Men 1,099 25,347 26,446 Women 1,101 27,648 28,749 138 Annual Report | Banco Macro We improved our participation and satisfaction levels in the working environment survey, which follows the Great Place to Work model. Working environment In 2018, we performed, for the second consecutive time, the measurement of the working environment under the Great Place to Work model, an anonymous and confidential survey sent to all the employees. The level of participation was very high: 80% of the total staff, eight points higher than in 2017; and we grew two points in the general satisfaction level. Based on the results, we established new plans of action on a general level. We conducted informative talks and made all the information available to the heads so they can implement plans of action by area. We will continue striving to detect the necessary improvements in terms of satisfaction and welfare for our employees, and to strengthen our employer brand in order to be a more attractive place to work in every day. Strategic management of performance Feedback conversations help to optimize team performance, improve the working environment, and promote a culture based on trust. As from the updating of the management model by ability to assess performance, we established three moments in the year for these conversations to take place. In 2017 and 2018, we got a thousand employees –all of them heads and managers– to set goals, and then evaluate them based on their achievement. Meanwhile, we held conversations in order to facilitate constant improvement. In 2019, we will extend the model to the entire population of the Bank, in order to continue laying down clear guidelines for the measurement of individual performance. Acknowledgments We understand that it is important to recognize the actions of our employees that reflect our corporate values. We maintained the use of the Star Me Up application so that all employees could recognize the actions that reflect our corporate values. Through that means, any person can highlight another’s attitude; in this way, the desired behaviors become more visible, and achievements can be shared among all. The most outstanding employees receive additional recognition in the intranet or have breakfast with members of the Top Management. Human Capital 139 We believe in the importance of appreciating the work done. Therefore, we pay tribute to those who have been with us for 25 years; we reward outstanding performance within the sales force, and encourage mutual recognition between staff members. We also continued to recognize the experience of those employees who have been with us for 25 years, and who stand out for their effort to be better every day. To pay tribute to them as they deserve, our directors gave them –in several parts of the country and personally– a silver medal made by the renowned master goldsmith Juan Carlos Pallarols. The program “Actitud Macro” (Macro Attitude) continues to be the incentive tool that rewards best practices and highlights exceptional performance among the sales force. We are working to extend this recognition to those who, with their Macro attitude, put our values into action. Training and Development We work constantly on the development of new training activities with the support of technological tools that allow us to reach the whole country in a dynamic and expeditious manner. During 2018, we incorporated more than 100 courses into the e-learning platform, with the aim of supplementing the technical and skills training of our employees. The platform –implemented in 2017– is accessible without restrictions from anywhere, even through mobile devices, and records all the activity done. Seeking to promote the development of new leaders, we renewed the strategic alliance with Universidad Siglo 21, with which we organized two diploma courses this year. The first on leadership skills, and the second was oriented to the development of management skills. A total of 107 employees from all over the country participated in these courses. Besides, we worked on training activities tailored to the demands of the different areas, and with the aim of contributing to the sustainability of the business through continuous training. The main activities offered throughout the year were: 140 Annual Report | Banco Macro We provided +48% hours of training per staff member in 2018 compared to 2017. —— Comprehensive Banking Training Program, offered to more than 150 employees from various cities in the country, implemented in association with Universidad Católica Argentina (UCA) and the ADEBA chamber. —— Courses on digital skills for specialist employees (Artificial Intelligence, Digital Marketing, User Experience, Data Sciences), in alliance with the Digital House institute. —— Certification in Capital Markets to grant suitability licenses in this field to branch employees who give advice to the investing public. —— Insurance Certification for all insured Customer Service officers at branches. —— Courses on regulations and policies concerning Hygiene and Safety, Prevention of Money Laundering and Criminal Liability of Legal Entities. —— Training in English language of employees from central areas who require the use of that language for their work. —— Continuity of job position training programs for the branch network, aimed at ensuring the key abilities of each function. —— Implementation of three programs under the format of School of Managers, School of Executives for the Personal Banking Segment, and School of Officers for the Corporate Banking segment. Next year we will continue with this practice, and will offer the School of Operational Managers. Training of staff 2017 2018 Total man-hours 104,413 154,972 Total hours face-to-face courses 49,790 95,127 Total hours distance courses 54,623 59,845 % participation on total staff 99% 99,68% Man-hours by gender Women 51,768 67,059 Men 52,645 87,913 Number of man-hours by professional category Top Management 520 187 Manager 1,162 1,181 Head/Supervisor 23,080 48,717 Analyst/Executive Officer/Others 79,651 104,887 Career plans The commitment to our people is focused on the search of their growth and professional development: they are the ones who drive the organization. For this reason, we worked on the implementation of career plans based on the technical skills of job positions with a customized training offer. This year, we published and started the development model for our branch network employees, and in 2019, we will extend it to other central areas. Human Capital 141 Committed to the professional growth of our staff, we devised career and training plans for each job position. Generation of employment We continued to generate jobs at the federal level: in 2018, we opened 31 branches, which provided more employment in the communities where we are present. Internally, we conducted 141 searches, and gave 256 promotions, and in this way, we fostered the growth and development possibilities of those who work in the institution. We recruited 632 staff members, and so, we, who form part of Banco Macro, became 8,965 employees. We participated in different job fairs and work training programs in several places, such as Córdoba, Salta, Jujuy, and other cities in the Northeast of the Argentine Republic, in order to enlarge our database and position ourselves as an employer brand. In “Expo Empleo Joven” (Young Employment Expo), organized by the Government of the City of Buenos Aires, we also presented, together with the company Worcket, an innovative recruitment tool based on artificial intelligence that replaces the written resumé and conventional publication with videos, and thus streamlines the selection process. This presentation was a success, and we attracted applicants with different profiles interested in forming part of Banco Macro. We also developed a new system for the management of employment processes, with the aim of providing greater transparency and visibility to internal opportunities. In addition, we implemented the Success Factors Recruitment module in order to unify and optimize the process. The new module allows the filling of vacancies easily and expeditiously and the recording of every stage that a candidate goes through until their recruitment is confirmed. It thus unifies the database of candidates and facilitates the recruiter’s task, all digitally. Recruitment of members from Fundación Espartanos In line with our commitment to social inclusion, in December we added two members of Fundación Espartanos to our team in Buenos Aires and Misiones, respectively. Fundación Espartanos is a non-profit organization that promotes, through rugby, the integration, socialization, and guidance of people deprived of liberty due to criminal conviction, thus contributing to their reintegration into the workplace and encouraging exemplary behavior. As part of the process, we interviewed the candidates, came to know their history, and we learned about their experience within the Foundation. 142 Annual Report | Banco Macro Teleworking Based on the possibilities offered by digital tools, we issued teleworking permits to another 90 employees in central areas who work outside the office once or twice a week. Thus, we seek to continue improving performance and job satisfaction, avoiding the transfer from or to the Bank, especially of those whose situation is somewhat special (they live far away from our offices, or are returning to work after maternity leave, for example). Both managers and employees who are part of the Teleworking program receive training and permanent monitoring so that project results can be evaluated. In 2019, we will continue with this practice. Welfare BENEFITS 2017 2018 Banco Macro Banco de Tucumán Banco Macro Banco de Tucumán Children’s Day 4,100 600 4,046 590 School Kits 5,470 780 5,161 741 Births 207 19 132 24 Vaccines 4,573 3,645 Gifts for retirees 72 8 69 6 In Banco Macro, we care about the welfare of our employees and their family. That is why we work on the management and implementation of a proposal that contributes to improving their quality of life. Thus, every year we offer and review a set of actions that include care, recreation, gifts, benefits, and differential products. Healthcare and recreation —— Health services within the workplace through doctor’s offices rooms in central areas. —— Sports, recreational and competition activities that promote physical exercise and integration. —— Flu vaccination campaign, and health tips to prevent diseases. —— Training in accident prevention. Gifts —— Children’s Day gifts for employees’ kids. —— School kits for employees’ children. —— Gifts to employees’ newly born children. —— Gifts for marriage to our employees. Benefits —— Draw for tickets to shows sponsored by Banco Macro. —— Financial aid for employees with disabled children or spouses. —— Free medical coverage from the coordinator position upwards. —— Discounts on purchases for special days. —— Mortgage and personal credit lines under preferential access conditions. —— —Free banking products. Human Capital 143 Event “Los chicos nos visitan” (Children visit us) Within the framework of our 40th anniversary and the inauguration of the new Macro Tower, we organized a visit by the employees –together with their children and grandchildren– with the aim of offering them a different and memorable experience, which will have a multiplying effect in the years to come that will help to strengthen their pride in belonging. Creation of the Gender-Based Violence Victims Assistance Commission Based on an agreement signed with Asociación Bancaria (Banking Association), we created an Assistance Commission, and an action protocol for gender-based violence victims. Both are intended to emotionally support and accompany them through comprehensive guidance on the specific alternatives recommended in each case. In this way, we made a commitment to facilitate the relocation of the victim –or their permanence in the workplace– to make their protection effective, grant them a special paid leave from work, and give them financial aid through emergency loans, and an allowance for possible daycare or moving expenses, among other matters. The Commission will also propose cultural actions for dissemination, awareness and prevention in connection with this problem through the different communication channels available in the institution, with campaigns and workshops that spread the current protection regulations, and their specific implementation within the Bank. 144 Annual Report | Banco Macro Internal communication To improve the system of traditional channels (intranet, email, newsletter) that form part of management, and strengthen internal communication, we launched JAM, a Success Factors tool from SAP that provides a collaborative, friendly and modern internal social network. Now all employees can keep up with the latest news online, from their desktop PCs or mobile phones. They can also give their opinions, make suggestions and express themselves on important topics of the business and the life of the Bank. In 2018, we continued with the Strategic Planning Meetings, bringing together leaders from several regions of the country, and promoting a closer relationship. We shared in those meetings the most important topics of the Bank’s business and strategy. We implemented a social and collaborative network provided by SAP as the main internal communication channel. Human Capital 145 Efficiency We continued working to achieve a high-level service, drawing on resources to the maximum in order to guarantee our staff the same dynamic and efficient experience. In order to diagnose significant situations and carry out permanent follow-ups, we built a Human Resources Indicator Board using a Business Analytics tool. In this way, we can now manage with greater efficiency the main variables of the organization, and in particular, the human capital, based on the interpretative reading of the past and the present. In addition to innovating in technological means that accelerate response times and reduce costs, we went ahead with a centralization plan for areas in order to provide a better service from the Headquarters, and allocate more human resources for the network. Likewise, we worked on the modification of some areas to adapt them to the organizational structure and make them increasingly efficient. We implemented Staffing Analysis Models in Central Areas, working hand in hand with the departments involved, whereby we were able to determine the required staffing models. Having them allows us to know the existing gap between the ideal staffing and the actual staffing of each area or department, and at the same time take actions focused on efficiency. The actions carried out impact on both Human Resources processes and the management of each area or department analyzed. At the same time, we focused on the centralization of Central Areas located in the provinces. With the aim of increasing efficiency, reducing operational efforts and optimizing processes, areas and departments were transferred to the Macro Tower with highly satisfactory results. Volunteering that generates change “Generando el Cambio” (Generating Change) is the Corporate Volunteering program seeking to arouse the feelings of solidarity of Banco Macro employees and encourage them to donate their time and skills in pursuit of a solidarity cause. For example, they organize collections throughout the country and volunteering meetings in central areas and branches, promote integration into social organizations, and also the annual “Proyectos Solidarios” (Solidarity Projects) contest. This contest, which we launched in 2007, rewards with funds the best projects presented by the Bank’s branches and central areas, together with a social organization. In this edition, 120 teams from central areas and branches participated, and more than 3,100 employees joined the voting phase. We rewarded 60 institutions with ARS 60,000 each to enable them to develop their initiatives, so the total investment in the program was ARS 3,600,000. Corporate Volunteering Program 2017 2018 Volunteers 4,174 2,741 Hours devoted to solidarity causes 4,695 3,878 Volunteers who participated in the volunteering meetings 372 530 Volunteers who participated in collections 3,714 2,211 Direct beneficiaries 7,643 18,550 Indirect beneficiaries 22,929 15,166 146 Annual Report | Banco Macro 147 Social and Relational Capital Our commitment is to achieve real and high-impact economic and social inclusion. To achieve this, we bring value programs and actions to all parts of the country. We accompany thus the local communities, trying to help people and organizations to fulfill their dreams and expectations. In this chapter, we report on our performance as regards social and relational capital. Awards and honors In 2018, we were recognized with three awards. We received the Operational Excellence Award from the financial institution JP Morgan Chase, and a special recognition in the 15th edition of “Distinciones RSC” (CSR Awards) for the program “Cuentas Sanas” (Healthy Accounts) (Business category), and we were chosen as the Best Bank of Argentina 2018 according to the prestigious international business and finance publication Euromoney. In addition, we are ranked in the top positions of the category. BrandZ Top 50 2018 designated our brand as one of the two most valuable in the Argentine market. In addition, the Merco ranking, which monitors corporate reputation, ranked us number 44 among the 100 leading companies in the country, bringing us up 55 positions compared to the previous edition. Transparent communication The trust that the interest groups place in us, and the credibility they give to us are key factors in our management. That is why Top Management itself is permanently involved in the communication strategy, and we all work to provide transparent contact channels that facilitate dialogue. However, our commitment is not only to the transparency of the organization, but also to the development of towns and cities throughout the country. This is why we strive to reach each region directly through local media, small radio stations, and provincial TV programs. Only in 2018, we invested ARS 148,817,592 in advertising, 28% more than the previous year. 148 Annual Report | Banco Macro Events, patronage and sponsoring During 2018, we continued to bring the best shows and events to our customers and the community in general. Aiming to promote innovation, culture and sports, we offered entertainment options to residents of both large urban centers and the most remote places in Argentina. In particular, we set out to promote the development of innovation and technology, and that is why we have especially supported entrepreneurs, accelerators and incubators of innovative projects that generate cultural changes and solutions in society. Events and shows During this year, we sponsored events and shows that bought entertainment options to our customers, not only in large cities, but also in small towns across the country. We invited more than 18,000 clients to more than 300 performances by various artists, such as Simona, Diego Torres, Alejandro Lerner, Maluma, CNCO, Los Tekis, J. Balvin, Paulo Londra, David Bisbal and Sebastian Yatra. In addition, we supported theatrical plays, such as Siddharta, and Fiddler on the Roof, and several shows for children, such as Lego Brick Live, Paw Patrol, and Pica Pica. With the aim of continuing to support regional economies, we also participated in the most significant events, concerts and festivals of each town in the provinces, such as “Festival de la Canción a Orillas del Mar”, “Fiesta Internacional de la Cultura Andina”, “Festival Nacional de la Doma y el Folklore”, “Festival Monteros de la Patria”, “Serenata a Cafayate”, Carnival of Jujuy, and the Cheese Festival, among others. Fairs and events We were present in more than 60 exhibitions and events throughout Argentina. We took advantage of these social occasions to spread the word about benefits and products intended for our current and potential customers, particularly those of the PyME (SME), Foreign Trade (Comex) and Agribusiness (Agro) segments. In particular, we developed and strengthened our Program for PyME Development, through which we brought talks, trainings and advice to communities throughout the country. We did this thanks to our exclusive alliances with the most important institutions in the industry, such as IAE, Endeavor, El Cronista Comercial, and Cámara de Importadores de la República Argentina (Argentine Chamber of Importers), among others. Furthermore, we supported the most innovative startups of Fintech and Agtech through the NXTP accelerator. In this way, we integrated the entrepreneurial ecosystem into our Bank. For the youngest, we participated in micro entrepreneurs’ fairs, such as “Cumbre Internacional de Jóvenes Líderes” (International Summit of Young Leaders), and “Día del Emprendedor Porteño” (Porteño Entrepreneur’s Day). In our agribusiness segment, we continued to accompany the growth of the agricultural sector, getting closer to producers across and throughout the country. We participated in the major fairs and exhibitions (Expoagro and Agroactiva), and also in zonal exhibitions, local auctions, and the other agricultural events of each town and city. Social and Relational Capital 149 Sporting events Supporting sports means promoting healthy life, and transmitting positive values to all the communities. For this reason, we supported various local and nationwide sports teams and leagues. Hockey We renewed our sponsorship for 4 further years, and we are proud to continue supporting the Argentine hockey men’s and women’s teams, since we share the values that identify them and have led them to great achievements: effort, teamwork, self-improvement, fair play, loyalty, talent, courage and comradeship. The results of this effort are there for everyone to see. Professional soccer In addition to being a promoter of habits and values, sports are a key factor in the life of towns. This is even truer in the Argentine provinces, especially due to the intensity and fidelity with which their inhabitants relate to their soccer clubs. Because we believe that by supporting sports clubs we are also supporting the whole town, we continued to support Club Atlético Tigre, and Gimnasia y Esgrima de Jujuy. Rugby In order to promote sports, we offer our support to some of the main rugby clubs throughout the country. Thus we contribute to the development of young people and children by providing them with emotional support and more tools to deal with life, given what the sacrifice of training, sharing and cooperating with the team means. We are sponsors of Tucumán Rugby Club, Maristas de Mendoza, Jockey Club de Rosario, Club Atlético del Rosario, Jockey Club de Salta, La Plata Rugby Club, Club San Fernando, Olivos Rugby Club, Belgrano Athletic Club, and Club Pueyrredón. Boxing This year we delivered four amazing boxing performances –which included world title fights in some categories– in different towns: Mercedes, Villa Adelina, Tigre, and Mar del Plata. Padel Tennis We are sponsors of Asociación Pádel Argentino, which aims to stimulate, promote and support the sustainable development of the game of padel. Besides, we support Roberto Gattiker, the renowned Argentine professional padel player, who accumulates more titles than any other athlete in the history of this sport. Marathons We are sponsors of different marathons in more than 14 cities, including Santa Fe, Junín, La Falda, Cordoba, Mendoza, Jujuy, Tucumán, Rosario and Río Tercero, among others. Polo We were once again the official sponsor of the Tortugas Country Club Open Polo Championship – Macro Grand Prize. This was the first championship of the 2018 Argentine Triple Crown, and the one with the highest average handicap in the world. 150 Annual Report | Banco Macro Golf We participated, for the second time and for three further years, as the presenting sponsor of the Open Golf Championship of the Republic of Argentina (Abierto de la República de Golf) (113th Open Visa presented by Macro), held at Pilará Golf Club, one of the most recognized golf courses in the country, designed by the renowned Jack Nicklaus. The 113th Open Visa of Argentina presented by Banco Macro is the seventh oldest in the world and was organized by the Asociación Argentina de Golf (Argentine Golf Association). In addition, we participated in several exclusive tournaments across and throughout the country: Mar del Plata, Pinamar, Salta, Cordoba, Mendoza, Pinamar, Rosario, and Tandil, among others. Car racing We share the great passion that car racing awakens. That is why we supported Marcos Urtubey in the Top Race, and Agustín Canapino in TC (Road Racing), the latter a champion of the most popular category of Argentine car racing. In addition, we are the strategic sponsor of Citroën Total Racing Super TC2000 Team, and sponsored Federico Iribarne, Facundo Chapur and Manuel Urcera. Support to social impacts events We seek to provide social value in every place where we are present. Therefore, we bet on providing financial education in the various fairs and exhibitions in which we participate. We do this through our “Cuentas Sanas” program, which offers workshops and also has a web portal –the first of its kind in the country– with information on personal and family finances. In 2018, we formed part of the following events: —— “Fiesta Nacional de la Manzana”, in General Roca: We gave there three workshops “Cuentas Sanas sin esfuerzo” (Healthy Accounts without effort) for those who visited the Banco Macro stand. —— “Expo Empleo Joven” (Employment for the Young) organized by the GCBA (Government of the City of Buenos Aires) at La Rural: We gave 8 workshops “Cuentas Sanas desde tu primer trabajo” (Healthy Accounts from your first job), in which we taught financial and professional skills to young adults. —— “Copa Salta la Linda” with the Asociación de Fútbol Femenino de Argentina (AFFAR) (Argentine Women’s Soccer Association): program dissemination activities —— Meeting of the Network of Graduates of Fundación Cimientos at the Centro Metropolitano de Diseño (Metropolitan Design Center) (CABA) with the workshop “Cuentas Sanas para tu futuro” (Healthy Accounts for your future). —— Workshops with Somos Juno, the company that makes the sustainable bags of the kit: two “Cuentas Sanas sin esfuerzo” workshops, and two “Cuentas Sanas para tu negocio” (Healthy Accounts for your business), aimed at the women who manufacture these products. —— Workshops for entrepreneurs “Cuentas Sanas para tu negocio” with Club of Entrepreneurs of Santa Fe (capital city); Club of Entrepreneurs of Maipú, Mendoza; Club of Entrepreneurs of Tandil; Club of Entrepreneurs of Pinamar, and the Incubator of Entrepreneurs of Malargüe (four workshops with the latter). —— “Cuentas Sanas para tu futuro” within the framework of a meeting for Junior Achievement youngsters in Córdoba. —— “Cuentas Sanas sin esfuerzo” in San Salvador de Jujuy with the Ministry of Human Development of the Republic of Argentina, at the multipurpose room of Macro Selecta. —— Family Day: Cuentas Sanas was present with the renovated minibranch and the game of life “Cuentas Sanas”. Social and Relational Capital 151 Our private social investment As social actors, we take care of the development of the local communities in which we are present. Therefore, we work on programs, products and services that support the economic growth of entrepreneurs, and prioritize projects involving those communities. We do so focused on inclusion and financial education, and through effective investment that maximizes our social impact. To ensure that our investment is correctly oriented towards value programs, every year we measure its impact through a digital tool – designed by ourselves– developed according to the guidelines of the LBG (London Benchmarking Group) model. In the light of its results, we analyze the implemented actions, our management, the specific contribution, and the installed capacity of each proposal. In addition, since 2017 we have been implementing a digital survey to make data collection more effective. In 2018, 48 organizations –with which we perform high socialvalue actions throughout the country– responded to this survey. These results complement the monitoring and permanent surveys in which all the participants of the Cuentas Sanas workshops and Naves program took part. Social investment in figures 2017 2018 Investment in sustainability (in pesos) (1) 82,350,192 108,019,079 By social work area Support to Micro entrepreneurs Program 39,550,022 43,342,404 Sustainable Work Program 13,533,417 17,424,007 Financial Education and Inclusion Program 6,195,497 7,198,399 Nutrition 1,430,162 1,860,011 Education 6,200,599 8,167,290 Integration 1,208,810 13,311,786 Social Medicine 1,451,123 1,857,098 Volunteering 2,481,414 4,063,390 Environment 969,543 2,024,741 Several donations 7,590,197 4,831,489 Fundación Banco Macro Management 1,739,408 3,938,464 Other indicators Volunteer employees (2) 4,174 2,741 Number of programs (3) 10 10 Number of provinces 11 11 Number of direct beneficiaries 67,276 77,871 Number of alliances with organizations (4) 260 307 (1) Indicator composed of social investment and administrative expenses from Corporate Sustainability management. (2) The sum of Volunteering Meetings, Collections and Professional Volunteering. (3) Includes: Sustainable Work, Financial Education and Inclusion, Nutrition, Education, Social Medicine, Integration, Volunteering, Alumbra, Environment and Social Assistance. (4) Includes social organizations with which Fundación Banco Macro works, and organizations and municipalities where we ran the Cuentas Sanas workshops on financial education 152 Annual Report | Banco Macro Beneficiaries 2018 Program area Direct beneficiaries Indirect beneficiaries Sustainable Work 18,180 (1) 25,249 Financial Education and Inclusion 9,134 (2) 17,884 Nutrition 1,264 1,900 Education 15,458 29,167 Integration 1,097 2,756 Social Medicine 14,188 38,122 Corporate Volunteering 18,550 15,166 Totals 77,871 130,244 (1) Scope; support to civil society organizations that work in this area, and to participants in the NAVES program. (2) Scope: Cuentas Sanas workshops, and Aula Móvil (Mobile Classroom) workshops by Fundación Educando. Financial Inclusion ALUMBRA Program Since 2014, we have been implementing –through Fundación Banco Macro– ALUMBRA, a financial inclusion program that provides microloans for productive purposes (working capital) to unbanked micro entrepreneurs. We seek, in this way, to respond to those who, due to their lack of formality, do not have regular access to financing in the formal system. In 2018, we continued to operate in six cities: San Miguel de Tucumán, and Banda del Río Salí (province of Tucumán); city of Salta; and San Salvador de Jujuy, Perico, and Palpalá (province of Jujuy). This program takes a step forward and surpasses the traditional offers of the sector because it supplements financial support with integral and free advice. It thus provides entrepreneurs with resources such as information, business contacts, and management techniques that allow them to grow in a sustainable manner. Under the strategic guidelines of the ALUMBRA team, experienced professionals specialized in each of the areas provide the different types of advice. We highlight the advice given on legal and accounting matters, business management, digital inclusion for the insertion of enterprises and their owners into the new technologies, access to quality health systems, and with mPOS devices (mobile POSnet), a financial tool that facilitates commercial operations of companies and generates competitive advantages to which this kind of business did not have access previously. Fundación Macro’s investment also extends to the training of staff involved in the activity, who was recruited from regional universities and has been trained in the most modern and efficient practices in microfinance. In the Startups segment, we carried out the 4th edition of the program “ALUMBRA tus ganas de emprender, de Salta al mundo” (Light up your interest in setting up a business – from Salta to the World) in nine towns of the Province of Salta; the 3rd edition in three towns of the Province of Jujuy, and the first edition in the Province of Tucumán. Social and Relational Capital 153 Participation in the financial inclusion program “ALUMBRA”, that supports entrepreneurs by providing them with microloans and integral advice, continued to grow and obtained successful results, with business deals that made progress, and financial obligations duly fulfilled. With this proposal, we provide integral support through training and practices focused on the needs of entrepreneurs, such as, sharing experiences on entrepreneurship, personalized mentoring, networking opportunities, and emotional support to those who go along this path from the idea to the ongoing project. More than 2,000 entrepreneurs went through the different training commissions, and a great part of them participated after the evaluations. Finally, 76 were supported with more than $ 8.5 million in soft loans to make their projects a reality. The interest of micro entrepreneurs in participating in these processes continued to grow. In 2018, more than 38% of the lending portfolio received and was strengthened by these services. In terms of progress of the undertakings and fulfillment of the assumed financial obligations, we can say that this year’s experience was successful, just like in previous years. Financial education Financial Education Program: “Cuentas Sanas” (Healthy Accounts) For more than three years, we have brought the financial system closer to all citizens so that they can be economically responsible and contribute to the economic growth of our country. We do this through the Financial Education Program “Cuentas Sanas”, through which we developed the first financial education website in Argentina: cuentassanas.com.ar, which offers contents and tools so that all people –of any age, place of residence, level of education, financial situation or moment in life– can find useful knowledge and resources to manage their personal economy and make safe decisions that improve their levels of well-being and financial inclusion. In 2018, we relaunched the site, which already registers more than 13,000 users. We renewed its image with new characters and a more modern interface with improved website navigability. Through the 759 virtual workshops offered, we trained more than 22,000 people. We also incorporated new concepts and resources associated with regulatory changes, new products –accounts for minors, UVA16 mortgage loans–, a news section, notes, and the calendar of activities. 16 Units of purchasing value. 154 Annual Report | Banco Macro To reinforce our commitment, we also continued organizing face-to-face workshops throughout the country. We fulfilled three objectives: to supplement the digital channels with face-to-face spaces, segment the target audience to adapt contents and methodology to the needs of each group, and multiply the scope of the program and, in this way, facilitate its federalization. In detail, these are the different types of activities and training carried out during 2018: —— 157 workshops with Bank customers. —— 35 workshops with ANSES, and 30 workshops with the CSR Department of the Province of Buenos Aires. —— Workshops with the Food Bank in AMBA, Tucumán and Córdoba. —— Basic economy workshop for entrepreneurial management with AFFAR. —— Workshops with industrial chambers of Puerto Madryn and Puerto Pirámides. —— First series of 8-class workshops with prisoners of Prison Unit No. 48 of San Martín, in association with Fundación Espartanos. —— 7 webinars “Cuentas Sanas para tu futuro” with interns from the program “Jóvenes Valores” (Young Values) of the province of Córdoba (206 young people participated). —— Cuentas Sanas third anniversary celebration (it included a webinar for employees). —— Training for Bank employees in the Press and Social Network areas, plus agencies. —— Training for employees of Córdoba and Misiones as volunteer counselors of the Cuentas Sanas Program. —— First “Cuentas Sanas” workshop for organizations that work with the Ministry of Social Development of the Republic of Argentina. —— Organization of the local team Bariloche (with the inclusion of two counselors from that city), thus counting up to 6 local teams (Salta, Tucumán, Córdoba, Misiones, Bahía Blanca, Bariloche) plus the central one. We also promoted two counselors in Salta and Tucumán. —— Integral renovation of “Cuentas Sanas” mini-branch, and its opening on Family Day, reaching all the provinces in the country (this year we covered San Juan, La Rioja, Entre Rios, Chaco and Formosa). —— Inclusion of sustainable bags, made in partnership with the socially-conscious company Juno, in the kits given to the participants of workshops. —— Participation as the only Argentine private financial institution leader in the GMW for the third consecutive year. —— Participation in the Expo Empleo Joven (Young Employment Expo) with 8 mini-workshops on labor market inclusion, and entrepreneurship for young people. —— Presentation of the Declaration of Educational Interest in San Juan, San Luis and Catamarca. Cuentas Sanas (Healthy Accounts) received the Declaration of Educational Interest and Teaching Score for the Teachers and Students Training Course “Cuentas Sanas para tu futuro” (Healthy Accounts for your future) in eight jurisdictions: Tucumán, Salta, Jujuy, Misiones, Mendoza, Córdoba, City of Buenos Aires, and the Nation. Social and Relational Capital 155 Results 2018 of the program “Cuentas Sanas” Accumulated results of the entire program 329 workshops 767 workshops 8.228 participants 22.341 participants 17.884 indirect beneficiaries 85.184 indirect beneficiaries 106 cities in 19 provinces 170 cities in 23 provinces Allied organizations: —— AFFAR —— ANSES (National Social Security Administration) —— Banco de Alimentos (Food Bank) —— Cimientos —— Dirección de RSE de la Provincia de Buenos Aires (CSR Department of the Province of Buenos Aires) —— Dirección Nacional de Responsabilidad Social para el Desarrollo Sostenible (National Social Responsibility Department for Sustainable Development) with Fundación Pequeños Pasos —— Fundación Empujar —— Fundación Espartanos —— Fundación DAR —— Fundación Pequeños Pasos —— Fundación Ruta 40 —— Fundación Sí —— Fundación Zaldívar —— Young Employment Expo —— Los Grobo —— Mujeres 2000 (Women 2000) —— Ministerio de Desarrollo Social de la Nación (Ministry of Social Development of the Republic of Argentina) —— Somos Juno In its four years, Cuentas Sanas ran more than 700 face-to-face workshops in 170 cities of the 23 Argentine provinces. More than 22,000 persons have participated in a direct way in courses, with an indirect impact due to the multiplying effect of training provided to teachers and household heads, estimated at more than 85,000. 156 Annual Report | Banco Macro News in other programs Fundación Macro supports local civil society organizations that work on nutrition, social medicine, integration, and education. Nutrition We supported and helped community kitchens and “merenderos” located in the provinces of Salta, Jujuy, Misiones, and Tucumán. We worked there in association with the community, and with the mothers in charge of buying food and preparing lunch, who received the training tools to make the project more sustainable. These mothers were supervised by a team of nutrition specialist who guided them. Social Medicine We supported projects related to social medicine, and several public hospitals in the provinces where we are present, such as Fundación Saberes, Asociación Civil La Casa del Niño, Fundación Hospital de Niños, TU.JU.ME, Fundación por Nuestros Niños, Asociación Civil Creación, Sala Cuna and Tren Fundación Alma. Integration We generated alliances with organizations that work in pursuit of integration of people into society through sports, inclusive workshops, the arts, or alternative rehabilitation therapies. The ultimate goal is to cooperate in improving their quality of life, and to foster and enhance their psychophysical development. Among our alliances, we highlight those made with Fundación ASEMCO, Fundación Cecilia Baccigalupo, Fundación de Equinoterapia del Azul, Fundación Puentes de Luz, Asociación Civil Te Acompañamos, and Fundación Por Nuestros Niños. Support to education In association with local organizations in each province, we sponsored primary and secondary school children. Scholarships are awarded to cover the purchase of books and school supplies, travel and food allowance, clothing and footwear, among others. Each scholarship recipient is supervised by a pedagogical companion, who is in charge of providing them with support in the process of learning and personal assessment. Education for the elderly For eight years now, we have been working together with Fundación Educando in the program “Educando en Informática” (Educating about Information Technology), which promotes the incorporation of new technologies and basic computer skills. We also reinforced the training of the elderly in the use of automated teller machines. In addition, the financial education and personal finances module on the Healthy Accounts portal addressed to the elderly has been operational since 2015. Social and Relational Capital 157 University scholarships Agreement with Universidad Católica de Salta (UCASAL) The purpose of our agreement with UCASAL is to promote the development of educational, cultural, scientific and common interest activities. The agreement provides for courses, symposia, seminars, workshops, and conferences on sustainability and financial education, according to the requirements and the interest of both institutions. WARMI Center in the Puna Jujeña We have been supporting for seven years this innovative project in Abra Pampa, province of Jujuy, along with Asociación Civil Warmi, Universidad Siglo 21 (specialized in virtual and distance education), Fundación Sí, and other organizations that support this initiative. The center trains young Coyas in their place of origin. The aim is that these trained youngsters will apply their new knowledge in the future, and be able to help to improve the quality of life of their regions. The students who continue to study come from native communities in the departments of Santa Catalina, Yaví, Rinconada, Cochinoca, Humahuaca, Susques, and Tumbaya. University Residences Since 2016, we have supported the project “University Residences” of Fundación Sí. It is intended for young graduates from secondary schools in rural areas or located in areas distant from the urban centers in which the offer of tertiary and university education is concentrated, who, having the intention and desire to progress through studying, do not have the material resources to do so. The projects consists in providing lodging, meals, financial aid for the acquisition of study materials and travel and food allowance to low-income young people from rural areas, as well as medical assistance, and psychological, psychopedagogical, and emotional support to those who may need this help. Currently, the initiative has nine residences in Santiago del Estero, La Rioja, Catamarca, Cordoba, Salta, Neuquén, Rosario, Corrientes and Tucumán. During 2018, we also cooperated with the annual maintenance of two rooms for two residents (one in the Residence of Córdoba, and the other in the Residence of Salta). Universidad de San Andrés, Program “Abanderados Argentinos” We supported the program “Abanderados Argentinos” (Argentine Flag Bearers) of Universidad de San Andrés the objective of which is to reward the effort and improvement of flag bearers. Scholarships are awarded to students from public or government-subsidized high schools appointed as flag bearers or flag-bearer escorts who demonstrate commitment to studying and academic excellence. Satellite Internet for rural schools We participated in the program “Humahuaca Escuelas en Red” (Humahuaca Networked Schools) providing the satellite Internet service to 80 schools in the Quebrada de Humahuaca. This project is endorsed by the Ministry of Education of the Province of Jujuy, the purpose of which is to help to reduce the digital gap, and include schools in technological advance. Likewise, we supported Fundación Equidad through the donation of technological materials which became obsolete for the Bank, and the acquisition of the computers recycled in its labor inclusion workshops, which then allowed us to respond to the multiple requests received from schools and other institutions. With these actions, we turned inequality into opportunity, and created efficient communication spaces in the communities where we are present. 158 Annual Report | Banco Macro Cooperation with Fundación Espartanos In August of 2017, we launched, together with Fundación Espartanos, a plan aimed at improving sports facilities in provincial prisons throughout the country. This alliance consists in multiplying the scope of the Espartanos program throughout Argentina for the next seven years. Thus, we developed a progressive plan to be implemented in five provinces per year, focused on the construction and/or repair of fields and classrooms in prisons of each province. In 2017, we started the construction of one field in Misiones, one in Tucumán, one in Jujuy and two in Salta. In 2018, we continued with these works, and added a field in each of the following provinces: Corrientes, Mendoza, La Pampa and Santa Fe, and in Tierra del Fuego a synthetic turf field. We plan to build in 2019 a field in Catamarca, Santiago del Estero, San Juan, Chubut and Córdoba. Furthermore, we created spaces to offer workshops on financial education and inclusion. Since November 2018, we have been teaching the first course on personal and family economy for prisoners who participate in the sporting and educational activities of Fundación Espartanos in Prison Unit 48, located in General San Martín district. The Course on practical economy for life and work: Healthy Accounts for “Espartanos” (Curso de economía práctica para la vida y el trabajo: Cuentas Sanas para Espartanos) is based on the contents of the personal and family finances program “Cuentas Sanas”, and was adapted specifically to help prisoners to make better use of their resources. It consists of eight weekly three-hour meetings, which are held inside the prison in the classrooms built by Fundación Espartanos. It covers basic topics such as how to make a resumé, and tips for managing one’s own and family finances. The ultimate goal is to bring these contents to the rest of the country’s prison units. Dealing with vendors Promotion of local development: local and inclusive purchases We went ahead with our leverage plan for regional economies. That is why we continued to search for small and medium-sized providers in the provinces. In this way, we hired local services and products to supply the branch network, and meet the promotional and gift-giving needs, and at the same time we hired large leading companies for nationwide projects. 99% of our vendors are of local origin. Social and Relational Capital 159 We detail here the five most outstanding inclusive purchases from expanding local providers: —— Bottles recycled into batteries from the NGO Ecovolta. —— Electronic queuing systems and exchange rate boards from E-Zener, a company that manufactures these goods, which are assembled with components made in Argentina. —— Towels for the Macro Tower gym, from a small vendor that manufactures its products with domestic fabric, Bicosoft S.A. —— Handmade mate gourds and cups from Arandu S. R. L., a provider that also manufactures saddlery. —— Reupholstering of chairs at El Ébano Designe S.A., a provincial provider. Vendor portal, qualification system, and database As we proposed in 2017, during 2018 we started projects related to the management of vendors. In the first place, the development of the Vendors Portal, which has already passed the stage of rigorous testing by the Procurement Department, and is going through its final phase, the audit log. Secondly, the design of a system of continuous vendor qualification/rating, ranging from the evaluation of their performance in the financial field, their history of legal action, to their behavior towards the AFIP17. This project seeks to achieve a homogeneous base of high informative quality and complete in its financial, ethical and political aspects. Although it is still in progress, the project has already allowed the evaluation of 47 providers out of the 150 regarded as the main vendors for the operations of the institution. Finally, the creation of a database that includes qualified suppliers, grouped by service, that enables us to identify their potential operational capacity and track their performance to the Bank and their evolution as a company. The pilot test of this project will be carried out for the main categories managed by the Administration Department. During 2018, we moved forward as regards three challenges in the vendor area: we developed their portal, a continuous qualification/rating system, and a database of the most qualified. These initiatives will allow us to manage the area more efficiently, and get to know our providers better. 17 Argentine Tax Authority 160 Annual Report | Banco Macro Challenges and context These three projects presented great challenges. In the case of the Vendors Portal, due to the need to host sensitive information in the cloud, and to control possible frauds through the audit log. In addition, we adopted the Bank’s comprehensive anti-corruption policy (Banco Macro Anti-Corruption Policy), with the coordination of the Procurement area and the Vendors and Payments Administration. This way we know more about the provider and generate control barriers for hiring. Another challenge was to purge the operational base of the inactive vendors that we detected there. To achieve this, we analyzed all the payments made last year to each provider, created a filter for those without movements in the last 13 months, and these vendors were blocked. In the event that we need to activate them again in the future, we will contact them again and request them to submit to us updated documentation. To promote the opening of checking accounts at the branch, we also resolved that vendors having an account outside the institution and whose services are required more than once, should open an account with the Bank. With this, we establish control and develop vendor loyalty to our products. In this context, the challenges we propose for 2019 in the management of the value chain are: —— reformulating the procurement and contracting process by applying SAP good practices (approval of need without an amount), —— improving the quality of providers by discarding those with financial, legal and employer situations that are doubtful or do not meet the required standard, —— achieving a vendor database in which we can find useful, clear and necessary information for decision making, and —— supporting the Bank’s technological area in the planning of projects both as regards their conceiving and development, and in connection with the hiring process. Vendors in figures 2017 2018 Number of vendors (1) 6,599 6,906 Vendors by region: Total % Total % Buenos Aires 2,978 45 2,726 39 Norte Grande Argentino (Large North of Argentina) 533 8 1,862 27 Middle 2,510 38 1,786 26 New Cuyo 279 4 251 4 Patagonia 299 5 281 4 (1) In 2017, we had a total of 8,281 vendors in the system, 80% of them reported active during the year. Social and Relational Capital 161 Number of vendors 10 main segments 2017 2018 Transportation 849 1,051 Professional services 937 1,083 Maintenance of machines and equipment 63 144 Advertising and publicity 693 1,073 IT Services 272 244 Security 115 125 Stationery and related supplies 86 117 Medical services 74 80 Cleaning services 71 88 Building repair and maintenance 660 686 Code of Conduct for vendors All our active vendors know our Code of Conduct and abide by it. This allows us to share with them the importance we attach to social issues, respect for human rights, the protection of the environment, and the management of responsible business deals, always based on ethical rules and transparency. The main aspects addressed by the Code of Conduct for vendors are the following: —— Ethical conduct: The adoption of the highest principles of personal ethics is required. This is reflected, for example, in the maintenance of the confidential nature of relations with the Bank, respecting intellectual property, trade secrets and any other private information of the Bank. —— Human rights: It encourages compliance with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights guaranteeing that the vendor company does infringe them. It forbids physical punishment, harassment and abuse of power. —— Labor practices: It implies offering a safe, healthy and favorable work environment for all employees and avoiding any type of discrimination in any job position and in the selection process. It forbids child labor, forced labor and abuses in general. —— Environment: It advocates the maintenance of a preventive approach to the preservation of the environment and the efficient management of resources and waste generated by business operations. It encourages initiatives that promote environmental awareness, and the best environmental practices. —— Rule of conduct: It means transmitting the Code to all its employees and subcontractors who participate in the preparation of the products and services offered to the Bank.. During 2018, we made amendments to the Code to keep it up to date with current regulations and trends regarding sustainability and work with the value chain. One of the most representative changes is the application of Act 27401 on Criminal Liability of Legal Entities. Communication and dialog with vendors We seek to maintain a smooth and transparent link with our entire value chain, and receive their queries, opinions and suggestions. Therefore, in addition to offering communication channels such as email, our website, and telephone customer service, we visited vendors to have personal contact with them. Under our program “Conozca a su Proveedor” (Know Your Vendor), we visited more than 20 strategic vendors in 2018. To strengthen proximity to our vendors, we also offer them a checking account at no cost. We also perform a credit analysis, instead of requiring providers to post a bond, thus reducing costs. 162 Annual Report | Banco Macro 163 Natural Capital We are aware of the direct and indirect environmental impact we generate as a result of our business and this is why each year we strengthen and renew our commitment to preserving natural resources and fighting climate change. For this reason, we work to improve our environmental management based on the identification of key indicators and the monitoring thereof, and we as well develop initiatives aimed at preserving the natural resources and fight against climate change. In this sense, 2018 was a year of significant progress with respect to our relationship with the environment. Direct Environmental Impact Environmental Management System (EMS) The construction of the Macro Tower under LEED standards –prioritizing energy efficiency and sustainable designis an essential milestone to reduce the direct impact we generate on the environment. Its design allows each floor to take maximum advantage of daylight. The building features as well intelligent and automated technology that, apart from achieving high energy efficiency, it allows us to save drinking water thanks to two modern systems: one of them recycles water coming from the replacement and cleaning of the air conditioning cooling tower and the other one collects rain water and uses it for irrigation. This milestone became the kick off for us to rethink our actions affecting environment. We understood that all the effort dedicated to designing a building with less impact should be accompanied by a long-term commitment, which should as well ensure the commitment of all employees and vendors. This is the reason why we decided to implement an ISO 14.001:2015 compliant Environmental Management System (EMS), with the support and involvement of the Senior Management. The first step was to identify the environmental aspects of each activity in the Tower, studying the entrance and exit of materials and resources, and making interviews and visits to different sectors. For each identified environmental aspect we analyzed the impact thereof on the environment. Then we weighted such impact according to the seriousness thereof, the possibility of occurrence and the associated legal requirement, to finally determine it significance and classify it as high, medium or low in an environmental aspect and impact matrix. As a result, each activity under analysis has an associated valuation in accordance with the impact it generates and its relevant operating controls. For the activities classified as of medium or high significance, we defined certain procedures and goals to ensure the appropriate management thereof. 164 Annual Report | Banco Macro At the same time, we studied the legal requirements as to environment applicable to the Tower’s activity and registered them on a matrix that allows us to follow up on all rules and regulations we must comply with and those we have voluntarily adhered. In addition, we identified the requirements all our vendors must meet from a life cycle perspective. The aspects and impacts matrix and the environmental-legal requirements matrix were two resources that, combined, turn out essential for the development of our environmental policy, the framework to understand and manage the environmental aspects, and address the risks and opportunities of Banco Macro Tower. Environmental Commitment Our aim is to the most sustainable bank federally speaking. To achieve this, we commit to work to improve our environmental impact by making an efficient use of the resources, a responsible management of our business and raising internal and external awareness promoting environmental sustainability in our environment. This approach of action is summarized in the following commitments: —— Ensure compliance with the applicable environmental rules and regulations as well as other requirements voluntarily undertaken. —— Make efficient use of natural resources and perform a responsible management of waste in order to guarantee environmental protection by preventing contamination. —— Define, monitor and review environmental goals oriented to continuous improvement. —— Raise awareness among our stakeholders, understanding commitment to work articulately will be essential for the policy success. —— Promote the construction of positive environmental impact through business lines. Other notable events related to the EMS implementation were the hiring of environmental insurance and the commencement of a process to redefine position descriptions in order to include responsibilities as to the protection and care of the environment. Energy Management Law 26190, as amended, promotes the use of renewable sources for energy production. In this scenario, it defines that large customers –among which we are includedby 2015 must incorporate an increasing energy percentage coming from renewable sources, as part of their own total energy consumption. In order to meet this obligation, we entered into an agreement with Genneia effective from May 2018, under which we agreed the purchase of energy from renewable sources for the Bank’s Data Processing Center for a period of 10 years. Under this agreement, during this year we purchased 800 Mwh of renewable energy and, during the period 2019-2027 we shall increase this value almost four times acquiring 3,000 Mwh a year. This year we achieved an energy consumption saving of 1,059.9 MWh, 9% above total consumption reported last year. Natural Capital 165 Consumption of Electric Power and CO2 Emissions 2017 2018 Electric Power Consumption (in MWh) 11,615.8 10,555.9 Energy consumption % from renewable sources 8% CO2 Emissions in tCO2e (Scope 2) 6,156,4 5,170,6 (1) Indirect Emissions. Those deriving from consumption of purchased electricity (external source). Emissions calculated according to the Operating Margin Emissions Factor informed by the Secretary of Energy. In order to compare it with 2017, please note that the value reported last year was recalculated according to the new method. Materials Management We consider the environmental variable in the materials we use: we buy recycled plastic bags or biodegradable bags; in all our events we use glass and china tableware to avoid single use plastic, and we make our greeting and invitation cards in digital format. As to paper consumption with implemented a series of actions to keep on reducing its use: —— Due to improvements in our CRM System, such as the automation of internal controls in the stage before customer assessment, we were able to eliminate a significant amount of paper printouts. This allowed us, in turn, to save energy and other supplies, and also to save working time and improve information recording. —— We implemented the autocomplete dynamic check lists and forms that allow a notable reduction in the amount of paper used and facilitate work by reducing errors for manual data entry. —— We also modified the credit ranking approval methodology at inferior Committees, implementing digital signature instead of paper signed authorizations on documents considered in Committees at face-to-face meetings. —— We approved the purchase of software that controls and releases printouts and implemented the new software in the new Banco Macro Tower. We estimate this system will allow a 15% reduction of the current printing levels. —— We encourage our customers to migrate to e-statement and we were able to have more and more subscribers each year. Paper Management 2017 2018 Variación interanual Reams used 202,031 162,066 -20% Print Count 132,195,027 121,349,376 -8% e-Statement Subscription 2017 2018 Subscriptions Customers adhered to e-statement(1) 929,965 1,102,645 Customers adhered to accounts 712,964 875,616 Customers adhered to credit cards 561,131 694,832 Accounts Checking Accounts 12,274 12,314 Savings Accounts 363,641 459,261 Packages 455,563 529,145 Credit Cards Visa 478,050 605,673 Master 189,470 233,404 American Express 22,995 26,453 (1) A subscription may refer to more than one product. 166 Annual Report | Banco Macro Waste Management Among the several waste currents associated with our activity, the generation of electrical and electronic waste is for us particularly important. This waste contains components that may be dangerous for the environment if not properly disposed, but which at the same time may be, in most cases, easily repaired or may contain any component that can be reused in the productive circuit. For this reason, we deliver computers, monitors, printers, servers, cards in disuse, disks, keyboards, ATMs, SSTs and telephone equipment to different organizations who recover them. Extending the useful life of an electronic or electric device significantly minimizes the environmental impact generated by reducing the amount of waste sent to final disposal and also by avoiding raw material extraction to manufacture new products. Additionally, we donate to different institutions all the furniture we do not use and donate paper and plastic for recycling. Electronic Waste Management 2017 2018 Scrap equipment (monitors, PCs, printers, peripherals, etc.) 1,078 1,188 (quantity) Scrap equipment (monitors, PCs, printers, peripherals, etc.) (tons) 12 (1) Equipment derived from ATMs (tons) 37 59 Recycled computers delivered to Fundación Equidad 210 179 Entities that benefited from Fundación Equidad 80 110 Donated IT equipment 946 2.899 Total beneficiary entities 136 246 (1) This value in tons is added to the indicator calculated in quantities, since during 2018 the calculating method was in weight and number. These two indicators do not represent the same volume in different calculation units. Other Waste Management 2017 2018 Recycled Paper (kg) (1) 74,920 69,126 Recycled Plastic (kg) (2) 653 2,442 Donated furniture 767 2,553 (1) 2018 Breakdown: AMBA 51,230; Salta 93; CBA 1,540; Littoral 16,000, Tucumán 263 kg. (2) 2018 Breakdown: AMBA 404; Salta 1,796; CBA 6; Jujuy 10; Patagonia 46; Littoral 180 kg. Macro Bici (Macro Bike) Program We continue betting on our Macro Bici program, encouraged by the numerous benefits that the use of bikes brings: it is a clean means of transport –since it does not produce greenhouse gas emissions-, it promotes physical exercise and contributes to people’s well-being. Macro Bici is as well an initiative focused on sustainable tourism by establishing strategic stops so that cyclists are able to enjoy and contemplate valuable landscapes throughout the circuit. Natural Capital 167 During 2018, under Macro Bice program we donated 125 bicycles, with the relevant helmets, padlocks and baskets. From 2015, we generated alliances with several municipalities and donated bikes, helmets, padlocks, baskets, bicycle parking racks and bike shelters: in 2018 we reached more than 2,400 units delivered. This program features Macro Bici stations in the following localities: Tilcara and El Carmen, in Jujuy; Cachi, La Caldera, San Carlos and Parque del Bicentenario, in Salta; La Falda and Villa Giardino, in Córdoba; Lujan de Cuyo, in Mendoza; Yerba Buena, in Tucumán, and Posadas and San Ignacio and Iguazú, in Misiones. This year we incorporated the second station in Costanera de Posadas and the development of Parque del Bicentenario in Salta. Renovation of Public Spaces In urban areas, squares and playgrounds have a key role for the well-being of the inhabitants: they are meeting points, recreation spots and a place to have contact with the natural environment. Besides, they are associated with other environmental services, such as regulating temperature, being the habitat for different species and improving the quality of the air we breathe. For this reason, since 2014 we accompany several municipalities in which we operate our branches with the reconditioning of their emblematic squares and playgrounds. Our aim is to turn such spaces in what they used to be, a place to enjoy and relax, and to promote the sense of belonging. Indirect Impact Management Aware of the key role we have to play in sustainable development when offering financing, we work to achieve a deep knowledge of the environmental and social risks associated with the business of our present and potential customers. These actions are managed through our Corporate Banking Credit Policy (9). (9) For additional information see “Comprehensive Risk Management” section in this Report. 168 Annual Report | Banco Macro 169 Dividend Distribution Proposal and Creation Reserve Fund BCRA’s rules on Distribution of Earnings establish that financial entities may distribute earnings without exceeding different off-balance-sheet limits, in order to avoid compromising their solvency and liquidity. Such limits are aimed at maintaining compliance with the basic rules and regulations and ensuring financial entities additional coverage margins. For such purpose, they are required to consider, apart from the minimum capital surplus, a capital conservation margin of 2.5% of the risk-weighted assets, with an additional 1% for those financial entities labeled as systemically important, among which we find Banco Macro. In turn, the BCRA fixes an additional limit, known as anti-cyclical margin that the entity must maintain as coverage, although such Organism has not yet determined the percentage thereof. In turn, the Board of Directors of the Bank must safeguard the Bank’s liquidity and solvency and, also approve the business global strategy and monitor the entity’s risk profile. Taking into account the above mentioned elements and in order to maintain appropriate solvency standards, the Board of Directors shall propose the following to the Shareholders’ Meeting: a) To apply the retained earnings for the year ended 31 December 2018 as follows: —— the amount of AR $ 3,145,848,599.32 to the Legal Reserve Fund, —— the amount of AR $ 3,475,668,970.21 to a Statutory Reserve Fund Special for first-time application of IFRS, pursuant to Communiqué “A” 6618 issued by the Central Bank of the Republic of Argentina, which includes the balance of the profits generated by application for the first time of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Such reserve fund may only be used for capitalization or to absorb eventual negative balances in the “Retained Earnings” account. —— the amount of $ 12,583,394,397.30 to the optional reserve fund for future distribution of profits under Communication “A” 5273 issued by the Central Bank of the Republic of Argentina; and b) Separate from the Optional Reserve Fund for future distribution of profits, for the payment of a cash dividend of AR $10 per outstanding share, which shall make a total amount to be distributed of AR $ 6,393,977,460 (1,000% of the Bank’s outstanding capital stock of AR $ 639,397,746). Acknowledgments We thank our customers, correspondents, vendors and colleague entities, the shareholders, and the authorities and officers of the regulatory and controlling entities for the support we received. We thank very specially the staff of the Bank for the high degree of loyalty, cooperation and professionalism with which they performed their duties. Buenos Aires, March 8th, 2019. The Board of Directors 170 Memoria Anual | Banco Macro 171 Exhibit I Scope and Guidelines Used Definition of Contents to be included in this Report We carried out a materiality analysis following the G4 Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the AA1000 Stakeholder Engagement Standard of the English organization AccountAbility and the framework of International Integrated Reporting Council (IRRC) in order to report all significant aspects for the Bank and its stakeholders. In this way, based on a systematized process we carry out each year, we seek to select all matters reflecting the Bank’s most relevant economic, environmental and social impacts, as well as all those aspects having a substantial influence on the decisions of our key audiences. The exercise started with the identification of the issues in 2016 based on the analysis of internal and external sources, sustainability trends and based as well on the Bank’s Strategy and Sustainability Policy. As a result of this exercise we defined 28 material issues, divided among the 5 Pillars of our Sustainability Strategy. In addition, we associated these 28 significant issues with the capitals under the Integrated Reporting Framework. This way we identified the most significant capitals for our region and our business model. 172 Annual Report | Banco Macro The second stage, the prioritization, started in 2016 and the following years -2017 and 2018we extended the scope of our survey, taking as starting point the same issues originally identified. During these three years 2,818 people from different groups of interest of the Bank participated in the survey; including employees, allied foundations working with Fundación Banco Macro and registered users of our Financial Education Program known as Healthy Accounts. In addition, this year we incorporated the opinion of the Bank’s Senior Management represented by 10 directors. As a result we obtained a Materiality Matrix including the issues identified per each of the 5 pillars of our Sustainability Strategy, according to their significance for the Bank’s management, in relation to the vision of the sustainability team and of the Groups of Interest. This materiality matrix provided us information to select the relevant GRI Standards to present in the GRI Table of Contents communicated at the end of this document, and to define the contents of the Report for it to effectively account for the Bank’s performance and to allow this document to be a key element for decision-making. Finally, the Senior Management is in charge of reviewing this Report and seeing to the correct application of the materiality matrix. Exhibit I 173 Materiality Matrix References: 1 2 Financial Capital Industrial Capital Intellectual Capital 4 3 Human Capital Natural Capital Social and Relational Capital 5 7 6 Influence on the evaluations and decisions of the stakeholders. 10 8 9 14 11 15 12 13 16 17 18 20 19 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 Importance of the impacts on the business. List of Material Issues 1. Generation of local employment. 16. Support to local vendors and PyMEs. 2. Employee training and professional development. 17. Training and advisory programs for PyMEs. 3. Products and services adapted to each customer profile. 18. Financing to environmental and social entrepreneurships. 4. Efficient complaint and customer service channels. 19. Products and services for young people. 5. Production-oriented microcredits for non-bankarized 20. Customer satisfaction measuring levels. entrepreneurships. 21. Financial crime prevention and anti-corruption 6. Financial education program for families, young compliance and counter-terrorism financing. people and children. 22. Responsible water consumption. 7. Integral benefit program for employees and their families. 23. Corporate volunteering program for employees 8. Rational use of paper and recycling process. and families. 9. Products and services tailored for PyMEs. 24. Financial education program for elderly people. 10. Clear and simplified contracts. 25. Transparency line and reporting mechanisms 11. Access to banking system in scarcely populated to deal with ethical and conflict of interest issues. places or areas with low bankarization level. 26. Products and services for elderly people. 12. Environmental awareness actions for employees 27. Risk management and compliance with laws, and customers. internal rules and regulations applicable to the Bank. 13. Responsible use of energy. 28. Carbon footprint measuring and reduction 14. Technology, plastic and paper waste management. of greenhouse gas emissions. 15. Security and privacy of customers when handling personal information. 174 Annual Report | Banco Macro Application of the framework prepared by the IIRC Since 2014 we prepare an annual Report integrating the entire Bank’s financial and non-financial information into a single publication. This way, we were pioneers in the country to present a document with this characteristics and that follows the guidelines established by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) in its document called “The International <IR> Framework”. Below we show the results of the exercise made to link the Bank’s sustainability pillars to the capitals of the IIRC model with the aim of being able to align all the tools we use to improve day by day the management of our business and focus on the issues which are significant for the Bank and our Stakeholders. Relationship between Banco Macro’s sustainability pillars and the capitals of the IIRC model. Transparency Responsibility for Inclusion and Development of PyMEs Direct and indirect in all our actions the well-being and financial education and entrepreneurships environmental inclusion of people impact FINANCIAL X INDUSTRIAL X X X INTELLECTUAL X HUMAN X SOCIAL & RELATIONAL X X NATURAL X Besides, within the framework of the materiality analysis, we made this exercise of relating the 28 material issues we selected and prioritized with the capitals of the IIRC model and the table below shows the results we obtained: Transparency in all our actions Financial Financial crime prevention and anti-corruption compliance and counter-terrorism financing. Industrial Security and privacy of customers when handling personal information. Intellectual Clear and simplified contracts. Customer satisfaction level measuring. Risk management and compliance with laws, internal rules and regulations applicable to the Bank. Transparency line and reporting mechanisms to deal with ethical and conflict of interest issues. Efficient complaint and customer service channels. Exhibit I 175 Responsibility for the Well-Being and Inclusion of People Human Generation of local employment. Corporate volunteering program for employees and families. Integral benefit program for employees and their families. Employee training and professional development. Inclusion and Financial Education Industrial Access to banking system in scarcely populated places or areas with low bankarization level. Products and services adapted to each customer profile. Products and services for elderly people. Products and services for young people. Social and Relational Financial education program for elderly people. Financial education program for families, young people and children. Development of PyMEs and Entrepreneurships Industrial Products and services tailored for PyMEs. Training and advisory programs for PyMEs. Social and Relational Production-oriented microcredits for non-bankarized entrepreneurships. Financing to environmental and social entrepreneurships. Support to local vendors and PyMEs. Direct and Indirect Environmental Impact Natural Rational use of paper and recycling process. Carbon footprint measuring and reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Responsible use of energy. Responsible water consumption. Technology, plastic and paper waste management. Environmental awareness actions for employees and customers. 176 Annual Report | Banco Macro Application of G4 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) This Report has been prepared in accordance with GRI standards: Core option. In this way, we carried on an internal work in order to ensure the compliance with the new GRI standards. In addition, we included additional information that is not directly related to any GRI indicator but it is relevant for the Stakeholders and to explain the annual performance of the entity. In the following Relationship Table, we link the material issues selected in the Analysis to the 5 sustainability pillars of Banco Macro, and the GRI Standards defined for the construction of the following table of contents. Relationship Table Strategic Key sustainability issues identified GRI Standards to be reported or Bank’s own Scope Sustainability Pillars in the materiality analysis aspects to be included in the Table of Contents. Inclusion and Access to banking system in scarcely populated Bank’s own aspect: Financial Inclusion Internal and Financial Education places or areas with low bankarization level. External Products and services adapted to each customer Bank’s own aspect: Financial Inclusion profile. Products and services for elderly people. Bank’s own aspect: Financial Inclusion Products and services for young people. Bank’s own aspect: Financial Inclusion Financial education program for elderly people. Bank’s own aspect: Financial Education Financial education program for families, young Bank’s own aspect: Financial Education people and children. Direct and indirect Rational use of paper and recycling process. GRI 301: Materials 2016 Internal and environmental Carbon footprint measuring and reduction of GRI 305: Emissions 2016 External impact greenhouse gas emissions. Responsible use of energy. GRI 302: Energy 2016 Responsible water consumption. GRI 303: Water 2016 Technology, plastic and paper waste GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 management. Environmental awareness actions for employees GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 and customers. Responsibility for Generation of local employment GRI 401: Employment 2016 Internal the well-being and Corporate volunteering program for employees Bank’s own aspect: Volunteering inclusion of people and families. Integral benefit program for employees and their GRI 401: Employment 2016 families. GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 Employee training and professional development GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 GRI 408: Child Labor GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor Exhibit I 177 Strategic Key sustainability issues identified GRI Standards to be reported or Bank’s own Scope Sustainability Pillars in the materiality analysis aspects to be included in the Table of Contents. Development of Products and services tailored for PyMEs GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts External PyMEs and Training and advisory programs for PyMEs. Bank’s own aspect: Financial Education entrepreneurships Production-oriented microcredits for Bank’s own aspect: Financial Inclusion non-bankarized entrepreneurships. Financing to environmental and social Bank’s own aspect: Financial Inclusion entrepreneurships. Support to local vendors and PyMEs. GRI 204: Procurement practices 2016 Transparency in all Security and privacy of customers when handling GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 Internal and our actions personal information GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 External Clear and simplified contracts GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016 Customer satisfaction measuring levels. Bank’s own aspect: Customer Experience Risk management and compliance with laws, inGRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 ternal rules and regulations applicable to the Bank. Financial crime prevention and anti-corruption GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 compliance and counter-terrorism financing. Transparency line and reporting mechanisms to GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 deal with ethical and conflict of interest issues. Efficient complaint and customer service channels. Bank’s own aspect: Customer Experience United Nations Global Compact & Communication on 2018 Progress This report is our Communication on 2018 Progress, whereby we inform about compliance with the 10 Principles on Human Rights, Labor Rights, Environment and Anti-corruption of the United Nations Global Compact. The GRI G4 Content Index and Communication on Progress included in this Report describes the linking of the GRI Contents to the 10 Principles and indicates the pages in which this Report provides an answer to each of them. Categories Principles Human Rights Principle 1 Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 Not to be complicit in human rights abuses. Employment Principle 3 Uphold the freedom of association and the recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5 Abolish all forms of child labor. Principle 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7 Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 Promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Principle 10 Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 178 Memoria Anual | Banco Macro 179 Exhibit II 2018 Corporate Governance Explanatory Report Compliance Non-compliance Inform (2) o Explain (3) (1) Total Partial PRINCIPLE I. TRANSPARENT THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN ISSUER, THE ECONOMIC GRUOP ISSUER LEADS AND/OR INTEGRATES AND ITS RELATED PARTIES Recommendation I.1: Ensure the disclosure by the management of policies applicable to the relationship of issuer with the economic group issuer leads and/or integrates and with its related parties. Answer if: Issuer has an internal rule or x Banco Macro S.A. (“Banco Macro” or the “Bank”) has adopted a procedure to policy of authorization of transaccomply with the provisions of the Capital Markets Act 26831 and the rules and tions between related parties regulations issued by the Comisión Nacional de Valores or CNV (N.T. 2013 in compliance with section and its amendments), as to treatment by the Audit Committee of the transac73 of Law 17811, transactions tions with related parties involving a significant amount. performed with shareholders This procedure includes requesting the Audit Committee its opinion with and members of the Managerespect to the transactions meeting the conditions set forth in the above menment Body, senior managers and tioned law for acts and contracts involving a significant amount. auditors and/or members of the On the other hand, note that the Bank carries out its transactions with supervisory committee, within related parties under the same conditions as with the rest of its customthe scope of the economic group ers, complying with the applicable Credit Policies and the exposure limits Issuer leads and/or integrates. regulated by the BCRA. Explain the main guidelines of the Additionally, the Bank, in its capacity as authorized financial entity, complies internal rule or policy. with the information provisions and obligations set forth by the Financial and Exchange Entities Act No. 21526 and the regulations issued by the Controlling Entity (Central Bank of the Republic of Argentina). Pursuant to the laws (Business Company Act 19550), the specific applicable rules and regulations issued by the CNV, the professional accounting principles (Technical Resolution No. 21) and the best practices, the Bank informs about the transactions with affiliated and related companies (subsidiaries), in notes to the financial statements. The information provided includes the relevant transactions carried out with shareholders and managers, in habitual market conditions. 180 Annual Report | Banco Macro Compliance Non-compliance Inform (2) o Explain (3) (1) Total Partial RECOMMENDATION I.2: Ensure the existence of mechanisms to prevent conflict of interests. Answer if: Issuer has, notwithstanding the x The Code of Ethics for Directors and Senior Management Officers sets laws and rules in force, clear forth the procedure to be followed in case of interest overlapping or policies and specific procedures conflict of interest. to identify, handle and resolve The Code provides that the Directors and Officers shall: any conflict of interest that may * Act honestly and in an ethical manner, including the ethical handling of arise between the members of any conflicts of interest, be they apparent or real, between their personal the Management Body, senior and professional relationships, promoting also an ethical behavior among management officers and colleagues and subordinates; auditors and/or members of the * Avoid any kind of conflict of interest known by them or which might be supervisory committee in their reasonably deemed known thereby, reporting the Audit Committee of the relationship with Issuer or with Bank’s Board of Directors (the “Audit Committee”) any significant transacpersons related to Issuer. tion or personal relationship which might reasonably originate such Include a description of the conflict of interest. relevant aspects of such policies. Recommendation I.3: Prevent the abuse of privileged information. Answer if: Issuer features, notwithstandx Banco Macro features a policy applicable to it and to its subsidiaries ing the laws and rules in force, (collectively referred to as the “Bank”) in connection with the handling of achievable policies and mechathe confidential information obtained by directors, executive officers and nisms to prevent the abuse of employees of the Bank and the trading of Securities (as defined below) privileged information by the issued by the Bank on the basis of such confidential information (hereinafmembers of the Management ter the “Policy”); these are the Privileged Information Use Prevention Policy Body, top management officers, and the Private Investment Policy. auditors and/or members of the This Policy determines the guidelines allowing the directors, executive supervisory committee, controlofficers and employees of the Bank to comply with the obligations set ling shareholders or shareholdforth by the laws in force and applicable to securities in the jurisdictions in ers exercising significant influwhich Securities of the Bank are traded. ence, acting professionals and This Policy does not limit in any manner the restrictions and obligations the rest of the persons listed in set forth by the rules and regulations applicable to the trading of Securisections 7 and 33 of the Decree ties. The directors, executive officers and employees of the Bank must No. 677/01. be aware or informed about the obligations imposed by the different Include a description of the rellocal and national rules and regulations in connection with the trading of evant aspects of such policies. Securities, before participating in that kind of transactions. On the other hand, the Board has approved the Personal Investments Policy that governs access to the market by Senior Management members and some members of the Finance, Investment Banking, Capital Market –Transactions Departments and the Secretary of the Board and Corporate Management in connection with the sale and purchase of instruments issued by Banco Macro S.A. Exhibit II 181 Compliance Non-compliance Inform (2) o Explain (3) (1) Total Partial PRINCIPLE II. SET THE BASIS FOR A SOLID MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISION OF ISSUER Recommendation II. 1: Ensure the Management Body assumes the management and supervision of issuer and the strategic orientation thereof. Answer whether the Management Body approves: II.1.1.1 the strategic o business x The Board of Directors each year approves the Business Plan, containing plan, as well as the management the description of all management goals and also the Expenditure and goals and annual budgets, Investment Budget. The Board trusts the Management Control and Strategic Planning Department with the preparation of the Business Plan, based on the goals defined by the Bank’s management. The Business Plan is approved by the Asset and Liability Committee (“ALC”) and is subsequently disclosed to the Board. Senior Management is in charge of the execution of the approved Business Plan and the ALC revises compliance with the Plan on a monthly basis. The Management Control and Strategic Planning Department is as well responsible for the follow-up of the budgeting process and informs the Asset and Liability Committee about the revisions made and the causes for the deviations detected by such Department. The ALC informs the Board on the compliance with these plans and budgets. II.1.1.2 the investment policy (inx The Board trusts the ALC with the implementation, follow-up and adjustment vestment in financial and capital of the Investment and Financing Policy. The Investment and Financing Policy assets) and the financing policy, is reflected in the Business Plan and the Expenditure and Investment Budget. The Board evaluates and approves both and also takes notice of the analysis performed by the ALC with respect to any deviations. II.1.1.3 the corporate governance x The Board of Directors has approved the Corporate Governance Policy policy (Code of Corporate Goverapplicable to the Bank and its subsidiaries. In addition, the Board has nance compliance), decided the creation of the Corporate Governance & Designations Committee. This Committee is in charge of Supervising the implementation and compliance with the good practices contemplated in the Code of Corporate Governance in the Bank and the subsidiary companies, all of which shall be informed to the Board. II.1.1.4 the policy of selection, x With respect to the evaluation and remuneration of Senior Managers, the evaluation and remuneration of Bank features a Compensation Policy that contemplates both the fixed remusenior managers, neration as the variable one; the latter subject to a process of evaluation of goals and responsibilities. The Incentive Committee is in charge of controlling whether the staff economic incentive system is consistent with the entity’s culture, goals, long-term business, strategy and control environment and the prudent assumption of risks. The goals that Banco Macro pursues are to compensate its personnel ensuring recognition of their work and acts, internal equity, competitiveness, productivity, efficiency and added value. As to the selection of personnel, Banco Macro’s policy is to ensure all vacancies are covered with the most appropriate person for each position, prioritizing internal candidates. The Bank features a selection process that includes defining position requirements and search strategy, competence selection interviews, level of adjustment to the Bank’s culture and technical knowledge with Human Resources and the line, and also complementary pre-employment tests, aimed at gathering as much information as possible to choose the best candidate to fill the position. 182 Annual Report | Banco Macro Compliance Non-compliance Inform (2) o Explain (3) Total(1) Partial II.1.1.5 la the policy of allocax The Organization Guide includes a summary of the responsibilities and tion of responsibilities to senior duties of Senior Management officers, including the General Manager, managers, the first-line managers directly reporting to him/her and the Board’s staff and lower positions as well. The Bank’s Organization Guide and Organization Chart are approved by the Board of Directors. Furthermore, the Bank features several Policies that the Bank’s officers must observe and comply with, which are also approved by the Board. II.1.1.6 the supervision of managx Through the delegation to the Corporate Governance & Designations ers succession plans, Committee. Such Committee is in charge of the process to replace or substitute senior management officers, and of approving the designation thereof, following the guidelines of the executive officers succession plan. The Bank features guidelines for the succession of key positions. II.1.1.7 the corporate social x The Bank features a Sustainability Policy. The Board has decided that the responsibility policy, Ethics & Compliance Committee shall be in charge of supervising the application of these guidelines. Besides, the Bank has a specific department that develops actions related to such policy. II.1.1.8 comprehensive risk manx Risk Management: The Board has decided the creation of a Risk Manageagement and internal control ment Committee. In addition, it has designated a Comprehensive Risk policies, and fraud prevention Manager, who in turn is responsible for each of the risk officers within policies, the Bank. The Risk Management Committee is in charge of following up senior management activities as to credit, market, liquidity, operations, among other aspects. The Risk Management Committee also advises the Board on the risks to which the entity is exposed. Internal Control: The Board defines clear guidelines with respect to the responsibility of each of the members of the organization. It is the responsibility of Senior Management to implement appropriate internal control systems and to monitor the effectiveness thereof, periodically reporting to the Board about compliance with goals. In addition, pursuant to the provisions set forth in the Capital Markets Act 26831 and the Rules and Regulations issued by the CNV (N.T. 2013 and the amendments thereof), it is the responsibility and duty of the Audit Committee to supervise the operation of the internal control systems and of the administrative and accounting system, as well as the reliability of the latter and of all the financial information or of other significant events submitted to the CNV and the self-regulated entities in compliance with the applicable information requirements. Furthermore, the Bank has an Internal Audit Committee –as required by the rules of the Central Bank of the Republic of Argentinain charge of supervising the appropriate operation of the internal control systems defined in the entity by means of periodic evaluations. Exhibit II 183 Compliance Non-compliance Inform (2) o Explain (3) Total(1) Partial Finally, the Bank complies with the SOX Certification, which is part of the regulatory requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) for companies listing its shares in the United States of America, and which requires the assertion that the Entity had, at the end of each fiscal year, an effective internal control over the financial reporting based on a set of control criteria defined in order to meet the requirements under the Auditing Standard No. 5 “An Audit of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting That is Integrated with An Audit of Financial Statements” (AS N. 5) issued by the PCAOB (Public Company Accounting Oversight Board). This certification is reviewed by our Independent Auditors. Prevention of Fraud: The Bank features a department with specific functions as to the prevention and investigation of frauds. The procedures in this regard are aimed at detecting behaviors and investigating fraudulent events and practices in order to protect customers’ rights and the Bank’s institutional image, preserving the transparency and safety of its transactions. II.1.1.9 the policy of continuous x These officers, within the scope of their responsibilities, have the possibility training and formation for the of arranging their training in different subjects or topics related to the busimembers of the Management ness and the Bank provides the necessary resources for such training. Body and senior managers. During the last fiscal year, the Directors have been able to attend presentaIn case this policy is in place, tions related to Corporate Governance, Sustainability, Anti-Money Launderplease describe the main aspects ing issues, given by independent and internal advisors. thereof Besides they also attend regular information updating sessions about regulatory issues, of banking matters and also about micro and macroeconomic aspects. Furthermore, Board members and senior management officers frequently participate in courses, seminars or similar events that deal with banking, anti-money laundering issues, etc. II.1.2 If applicable, add other polix Code of Banking Practices cies applied by the Management • Code of Investor Protection Body and not mentioned herein, • Corporate Sustainability Policy and describe the significant • Protection of Personally Identifiable Information aspects thereof. • Policy of Non-Discrimination in the Composition of the Board of Directors • Know Your Organization Structure Policy • Anticorruption Policy • Information Transparency Policy • Financial Services User Protection Policy • Personal Investment Policy The Code of Corporate Governance, as posted in the corporate Website of Banco Macro –About UsInvestor Relationshttp://ri-macro.com.ar/, contains a detailed description of each of these 184 Annual Report | Banco Macro Compliance Non-compliance Inform (2) o Explain (3) Total(1) Partial II.1.3 Issuer features a policy x The Bank complies with the provisions set forth in the Business Company aimed at ensuring the availability Act 19550 as to the operation of the Board of Directors as corporate manof relevant information for deciagement body. As to the meetings of the Board, before each one of them, sion making by its Management the members of the Board are given the list of matters to be discussed Body and a direct enquiry line and all relevant supporting information/ documentation allowing a corfor management level members, rect analysis. Additionally, the members of the Board have the Secretary in order to ensure a symmetric of the Board to answer any inquiries or questions that may arise. information resource for all its On the other hand, the Bank’s committees operate subject to a set of rules members (executive officers, inand regulations and under the coordination of an officer, who shall be dependent and external) in equal responsible for the distribution and access to the information material to conditions and with reasonable be discussed in each meeting, before such meetings are held. advance in order to allow the adequate analysis of the its content. Please specify II.1.4 Issues submitted to the x The Bank features Risk Management Policies and Procedures and a Risk decision of Management Body Management Committee that sees to the application thereof. Within the are accompanied by an analysis scope of such Committee, the Bank has established, in agreement with of the risk associated to the the Board, thresholds and limits for each significant risk exposure and a decisions to be taken, taking into schedule for the authorization of these risk exposures. In addition, Banco account the corporate risk level Macro features rules for the analysis and approval of new products and defined by Issuer as acceptable. proceedings that include the analysis of related risks. Please specify. Recommendation II.2: Ensure an effective control of corporate management. Answer whether the Management Body verifies: II.2.1 compliance with the annual x The Assets & Liabilities Committee is in charge of following up the complibudget and the business plan, ance with the Business Plan and the Budget. Such Committee shall inform the Board of Directors about any significant deviation it may detect. II.2.2 the performance of senior x The performance of the General Manager and of senior managers and managers and compliance of the the fulfillment of their goals are evaluated on a permanent basis. goals defined for them (the level of The Board as a whole and the Directors individually, through their particiexpected profits versus the level of pation in the different committees of the Bank, continuously evaluate the profits actually obtained, financial performance of senior management officers, in addition to the annual rating, accounting report quality, planning and evaluation contemplated in the Incentive Policy. market share, etc.) Furthermore, this review is carried out through the follow-up of the BusiInclude a description of the relevant ness Plan and the Budget, which are responsibilities allocated by the aspects of Issuer’s Management Function Manual. Control policy providing details of the techniques employed and the frequency of the monitoring actions carried out by the Management Body. Exhibit II 185 Compliance Non-compliance Inform (2) o Explain (3) (1) Total Partial Recomendación II.3: Dar a conocer el proceso de evaluación del desempeño del Órgano de Administración y su impacto. Responder si: II.3.1 Each member of the Manx The Board of Directors has no operating rules and regulations. Each of agement Body complies with the its members fully complies with the provisions of the corporate bylaws. Bylaws of the company and, if apSection 10 of the Financial Entities Act contemplates certain situations that plicable, with the Operating rules render a person incompetent to act as Director, and in addition there are and regulations of the Managecertain rules that establish conditions of knowledge and previous experiment Body. Provide details of the ence related with the financial system. main provisions of such Operating rules and regulations. Indicate the degree of compliance with the company’s Bylaws and the Operating Rules and Regulations. II.3.2 The Management Body x The Board of Directors discloses the results of its administration through reports the results of its adminthe Annual Report and the Balance Sheet (making up the Sustainability istration taking into account the Integrated Report), pursuant to section 66 and 63 of the Business Comgoals set at the beginning of the pany Act 19550, respectively, and section 60 of the Capital Markets Act year, so that the shareholders are No. 26831. able to evaluate the compliance In addition, the Board set a Board Self-Assessment Policy, being the degree of such goals, which Corporate Governance Committee the body in charge of implementing include both financial and nonthis policy, which shall be carried out each year individually (with a Selffinancial aspects. Additionally, Assessment Survey) and in groups, pursuant to the consolidated results the Management Body submits obtained. a diagnosis on the compliance On the other hand, the Code of Corporate Governance and its accompadegree of the policies described nying Explanatory Report supplement the reporting as to the managein Recommendation II, items II.1.1. ment framework. and II.1.2. Finally, it is worthwhile mentioning that the Directors’ administration has Describe the main aspects of the never been questioned by the shareholders. evaluation made by the Shareholders’ Meeting regarding the degree of compliance on the part of the Management Body of the goals set at the beginning of the year and of the policies described in Recommendation II, items II.1.1 and II.1.2, specifying the date of the Shareholders’ Meeting during which such evaluation was submitted. Recommendation II.4: That the number of external and independent members be a significant proportion in the Management Body. Answer whether: II.4.1 The proportion of executive x The Bank has the number of independent directors that is necessary to external and independent officers meet the requirements of the rules of the Central Bank of the Republic (the latter as defined in the rules of Argentina, the Argentine Securities Exchange Commission and the of this Commission) of the ManUS Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and is in proportion to agement Body is in accordance Issuer’s capital structure. to Issuer’s capital structure. Please specify. 186 Annual Report | Banco Macro Compliance Non-compliance Inform (2) o Explain (3) Total(1) Partial II.4.2 During the present x There is no need of a shareholders’ agreement to keep a proportion of at year, the shareholders agreed least 20% of independent members, pursuant to the laws mentioned in at a Shareholders’ Meeting the preceding item. upon a policy aimed at keeping The Bank complies with the indicated proportion since six out of the 13 a proportion of at least 20% of members elected by the Shareholders’ Meeting to compose the Board independent members over the of Directors have declared their independent capacity, and therefore, the total number of members of the proportion achieves 53% of the members. Management Body. The independent capacity of the members of the Board has not been Describe the relevant aspects of questioned. such policy and any other shareholders agreement that may help to understand the way in which the members of the Management Body are designated and for how long. Specify whether the independent capacity of the members of the Management Body was questioned during the course of the present year and whether there has been any abstention due to conflict of interests. Recommendation II.5: Commit to the existence of rules and proceedings inherent to the selection and proposal of the members of the Management Body and first-line managers. Answer whether: II.5.1 Issuer has a Designations x The Bank has a Designations Committee (known as Corporate GoverCommittee nance and Designations Committee). II.5.1.1 composed by at least three x The Committee shall be composed so that independent Directors are members of the Management the majority. In addition, the Board has designated as members of such Body, a majority of which acts as Committee the Head of Human Resources, the Head of Comprehensive independent members, Risk Management and the Head of Legal Affairs. II.5.1.2 chaired by an indepenx The Bank determined this Committee shall be chaired by an independent dent member of the Managedirector. ment Body, II.5.1.3 whose members prove x The members of the Committee have long and proved experience in to have enough knowledge and terms of Human Resources and solid knowledge of the banking business. experience in human capital policy matters, II.5.1.4 whose members meet at x The Committee meets at least semi-annually. least twice a year. Exhibit II 187 Compliance Non-compliance Inform (2) o Explain (3) Total(1) Partial II.5.1.5 whose decisions are not x According to the Board of Directors definition, under the Corporate Goverbinding for the General Sharenance Policy, the directors must be morally suitable and have experience in holders’ Meeting but rather of an and knowledge of the banking business. There are no formal requirements advisory nature as to the selection to participate in the board apart from those set forth by the applicable laws. of the members of the ManageOn the other hand, the Central Bank of the Republic of Argentina (BCRA), ment Body. through its CREFI circulars (communications regarding the Creation and Operation of Financial Entities), sets forth evaluation criteria followed in order to grant the authorization to the directors designated by the shareholders’ meeting. No person falling within the inabilities and incompatibilities established by law may act as Director. The legal representative must verify the person nominated to be designated as director does not fall within such inabilities or incompatibility grounds. Regard shall be given to whether the person has been convicted for money-laundering and/or terrorism financing activities or crimes and has been sanctioned by the Financial Reporting Unit or has been disqualified, suspended, prohibited or revoked by the Central Bank of the Republic of Argentina (BCRA), the Argentine Securities Exchange Commission (CNV) and/or the National Superintendency of Insurance (SSN for its acronym in Spanish). The Board must be composed by at least 2/3 of directors suitable and with experience in managing positions or other prominent positions related with the public or private financial activity, either in the country or abroad. The BCRA shall evaluate the background information of the designated directors. Previous evaluation by the BCRA of the background information or record shall not be necessary when: i) the designated director has already acted as such in a financial entity and was subject to previous evaluation by the BCRA; ii) the time elapsed from termination of such office and the new proposal or designation does not exceed 3 years; or iii) the office to hold is in a financial entity of the same or inferior class –pursuant to the provisions of section 2 of the Financial Entities Law No. 21526and/or of inferior Group, pursuant to the provisions of Section 4 – Revised Text “Financial Entities Authorities – Division of Executive and Management Duties). II.5.2 In case the entity has a Designations Committee, answer whether such committee: II.5.2.1. verifies the annual review x The Committee revises on an annual basis its rules and regulations and and evaluation of its rules and suggests to the Board any possible amendments or changes to be done. regulations and suggests the Management Body the amendments for the approval thereof, II.5.2.2 proposes the developx The Board of Directors has defined the criteria for the selection of new memment of criteria (qualification, exbers of the Board and included them in the Corporate Governance Policy (see perience, professional reputation, II.5.1.5). The Bank’s directors must be morally suitable and have experience in ethics and other) for the selection and knowledge of the banking business. There are no formal requirements of new members of the Manageto participate in the Board apart from those set forth by the applicable laws. ment and senior managers, Fulfillment with such requirements is evaluated at the time of the proposal for the designation of the directors made by the shareholders’ meeting as well as on a periodic basis during the time the director holds office as such. As to Senior Management (first-line managers), the Bank features a selection process that includes defining position requirements and search strategy, competence selection interviews, level of adjustment to the Bank’s culture and technical knowledge with Human Resources and the line, and also complementary pre-employment tests, aimed at gathering as much information as possible to choose the best candidate to fill the position. 188 Annual Report | Banco Macro Compliance Non-compliance Inform (2) o Explain (3) Total(1) Partial II.5.2.3 identifies candidates to We consider this item does not apply since the Argentine laws establish hold office as members of the that the proposal for the designation of new Directors must be submitted Management Body to be proby the shareholders, who have not delegated such functions. posed by the Committee to the General Shareholders’ Meeting, II.5.2.4 suggests members of the We consider this item does not apply since the Board of Directors is the Management Body who shall body deciding the composition of the Bank’s Committees. act as members of the different Committees within the Management Body in accordance with their background, II.5.2.5 recommends that the x The Bank complies with this recommendation since the President of the Chairman of the Board shall not Bank does not act as General Manager. The Board has designated a simultaneously act as General General Manager who is not part of the Board of Directors. Manager of Issuer, II.5.2.6 ensures the availability x Pursuant to the provisions of the Board contemplated in the Transparof the resumes of the members ency Policy, the Bank’s website (www.macro.com.ar – Investor Relations of the Management Body and section) shows the information regarding the composition and a brief senior managers in Issuer’s description of the resumes of the directors, the members of the Superviwebsite, where there is express sory Committee and Senior Management Officers. indication of the term of their mandates in the first case, II.5.2.7 confirms the existence of a x The Argentine laws grant the Shareholders’ Meeting the power to appoint succession plan applicable to the the members of the board of directors of a company. Management Body and senior Senior Management: when companies need to develop a Business managers. Strategy, they require physical and financial assets, and inevitably people to provide them with the knowledge and management capacity. For this reason, the Bank decided that Human Capital must also be planned, in order to efficiently meet present and future requirements of the business. This planning implies: identifying business needs and what competences and capabilities we will need; when should they be available and implementing actions to have the necessary professional resources for each situation. It is Banco Macro’s policy to have a qualified professional team to hold Management positions and to allow the Bank’s short, medium and longterm growth and development. II.5.3 3 If applicable, please add Not Applicable. any implemented policies designed by the Designations Committee of Issuer not mentioned in the preceding item. Exhibit II 189 Compliance Non-compliance Inform (2) o Explain (3) (1) Total Partial Recommendation II.6: Evaluate whether it is convenient to have the members of the Management Body and/or auditors and/or members of the supervisory committee rendering services for several Issuers. Answer whether: Issuer establishes a limit to the x The Board considers appropriate not to limit the number of companies in members of the Management which the directors and/or auditors of the Bank may hold office as such. Body and/or auditors and/or The board bases its decision in this respect on the diversity of knowledge members of the supervisory and experience that such other offices may contribute to the directors committee to render services for and/or auditors. or hold offices in other entities This decision is contemplated in the Code of Corporate Governance, as that are not part of the economic approved by the Board of Directors. group controlled by Issuer and/ or of which Issuer is a member. Specify such limit and indicate whether during the year Issuer detected and verified any violation of such limit. Recommendation II.7: Ensure the training and development of the members of the Management Body and senior managers of Issuer. Answer whether: II.7.1 Issuer has continuing Training x The Bank features a continuing formation and training program for the Programs related to Issuer’s needs members of the Board and Senior Management officers. In addition, for the members of the Managethese officers, within the scope of their responsibilities, have the possibility ment Body and senior managers, of arrange their training in different subjects related to the business, and which include matters regarding the bank provides the necessary resources to allow such training. their role and responsibilities, During the last fiscal year, the Directors have attended training courses the integral management of on Corporate Governance, Corporate Social Responsibility, Anti-Money business risks, specific aspects of Laundering, which have been given by independent and internal advisors the business and the rules and and have had adequate compliance. regulations applicable thereto, Besides, they are regularly given information sessions related to regulacorporate governance dynamics tory matters of banking nature and also on micro and macroeconomic and matters regarding corporate aspects. social responsibility. In the case of They frequently participate in courses, seminars or similar events on the members of the Supervisory banking, anti-money laundering matters, among other subjects. Committee, international accounting standards, audit and internal control principles and rules and specific capital market rules and regulations. Describe the programs implemented during the year and the level of fulfillment thereof. II.7.2 Issuer encourages, by x The formation and training program is aimed at fostering the commitment other means not described in of those who direct the company so that they are the main transmission II.7.1 above, the members of the sources both of knowledge and the Bank’s culture. Management Body and first-line Therefore, our policy includes both internal and external training activities managers to keep a constant in order to allow the officers to propose the formation alternatives that training to complement is formabest suit or meet their needs and the needs of the person to carry out his/ tion level in order to add value her work at the Bank. to Issuer. Indicate how Issuer accomplishes this. 190 Annual Report | Banco Macro Compliance Non-compliance Inform (2) o Explain (3) (1) Total Partial PRINCIPLE III. GUARANTEE AN EFFECTIVE POLICY OF IDENTIFICATION, MEASUREMENT, MANAGEMENT AND DISCLOSURE OF BUSINESS RISK Recommendation III: The Management Body must have a comprehensive business risk management policy and monitors the appropriate implementation thereof. Answer whether: III.1 Issuer features comprehenx Macro Risk Management Policy defines the environment for the risk mansive business risk management agement process, under the notions of risk identification, measurement policies (of compliance with and monitoring. It also establishes the responsibilities of each level within strategic, operating and financial the Organization in this process. goals, with account reporting The risk management process includes the Board defining exposure limits requirements, laws and rules for each of the risks, following up the exposure of each of such limits by the and regulations, among others). persons in charge, preparing periodic reports for the Risk Management Please describe the most relevant Committee, following up the alerts and applying the relevant action plans aspects of such policies. to such alerts. III.2 There is a Risk Management x The Board has decided the creation of a Risk Management Committee. In Committee within the Manaddition, it has designated a Comprehensive Risk Manager, who superagement Body or the General vises the Head of Compliance and the Head of Risk Management, who in Management. Please inform turn is responsible for each of the risk officers within the Bank. about the existence of procedural The Head of Comprehensive Risk Management is responsible for the guidelines and provide details of follow-up of the activities of the Senior Management regarding the the principal risk factors that are management of the credit, market, liquidity, operation risks, among other specific for Issuer or its activity risks. The Head of Comprehensive Risk Management advices the Board and the implemented mitigation on the risks to which the entity is exposed. actions. In the absence of such This Committee is formed by 3 Directors, 2 of them acting as indepenCommittee, please describe the dent directors, the General Manager, The Head of Comprehensive Risk supervisory function performed Management Department, the Head of Risk Management, the Credit Risk by the Supervisory Committee as Manager, the Head of Finance, the Head of Human Resources and the regards risk management. Head of Operations and Technology. Additionally, specify the interacWithin the scope of risk management, each person in charge of risk tion level between the Managemanagement issues designs and implements the specific policies and ment Body or its committees and proceedings applicable to each of the risks (credit, market, operational), Issuer’s General Management follows up risk exposure based on the limits and/or thresholds defined regarding the comprehensive for each risk in agreement with the Board. Additionally, the person in business risk management accharge informs about any alerts that may arise and coordinates the tions and proceedings. implementation of the applicable action plans to regularize the situation. The description of the risk management framework is included in the Annual Report prepared for the present fiscal year, in the notes to the Financial Statements and in our Website. The Committee keeps the Board updated and informed about the risk management framework. The Board is aware of all the minutes of the meetings held by the Committee. III.3 There is an independent x Risk management responsibility falls on the Head of Integral Risk Manfunction within Issuer’s General agement. Management that implements The Risk Management Committee is in charge of following up risk manthe comprehensive risk manageagement matters. ment policies (function of the Risk The Committee is in charge of establishing an independent risk manageManagement Officer or equivament. It also advises and keeps the Board updated on the entity’s risks. lent). Specify. www.globalreporting.org Exhibit II 191 Compliance Non-compliance Inform (2) o Explain (3) Total(1) Partial III.4 Integral risk management x Risk Management Policies are continuously updated, adjusting the bank’s policies are constantly updated in practices to the best market practices, based on the model’s maturity. accordance with the recommenThese policies and specific procedures are submitted to the consideration dations and methods recognized of the Risk Management Committee as well as any amendments or and accepted in this field. Specify changes to be introduced. which ones (Enterprise Risk ManRisk management policies are in line with the recommendations issued agement, under the scope of by the Basle Committee and the rules of the BCRA and comply with secCOSO – Committee of Sponsoring tion 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Organizations of the Treadway Commission-, ISO 31000, IRAM 17551, section 404 of SarbanesOxley Act, others). III.5 The Management Body comx The risk management framework is shown through the Notes to the municates the results of superviFinancial Statements, the Annual Report for the relevant fiscal year, and in sion of risk management actions our Website section called Investors Relations (http://ri-macro.com.ar/). performed on a joint basis with Additionally, in such website we publish the Market Discipline report, a the General Management in the summary of the risk management framework applied by the Bank. financial statements and in the The main aspects of the involve a description of the process of identificaAnnual Report. Describe the main tion, measurement, monitoring and control applicable to each risk, as aspects of the statements made well as the guidelines for stress tests and the methods used to determine therein. de economic capital. PRINCIPLE IV. PROTECT THE INTEGRITY OF FINANCIAL INFORMATION WITH INDEPENDENT AUDITS Recommendation IV: Guarantee the independence and transparency of the functions entrusted to the Audit Committee and the Independent Auditor. Answer whether: IV.1. When the Management x The Bank lists its shares in the New York Exchange; therefore it is subject to Body appoints the members of Rule 10A-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Section 303A.06), which the Audit Committee, taking into establishes that all the members of the Audit Committee must be indepenaccount that the majority of them dent Directors. must be independent, evaluates The Bank’s Audit Committee is composed of three regular directors, who are the convenience that such Audit independent under the rules of the CNV. Accordingly, the Audit Committee is Committee be chaired by an chaired by an independent Director. independent member. 192 Annual Report | Banco Macro Compliance Non-compliance Inform (2) o Explain (3) Total(1) Partial IV.2 There is an internal audit x There is an Internal Audit function that reports to the Audit Committee function reporting to the Audit provided for in section 109 of the Capital Markets Act 26831 and to the Committee or to the Chairman Internal Audit Committee (the latter, required under the provisions of the of the Management Body and Central Bank of the Republic of Argentina). that is in charge of evaluating the The Audit Committee provided for in section 109 of the Capital Markets internal control system. Act 26831 performs an annual review on the performance of the Internal Indicate whether the Audit ComAudit department and also on the degree of independence of such activimittee or the Management Body ties. This evaluation is carried out by reviewing the internal auditors’ plans makes an annual evaluation and the performance thereof. Particularly, there are periodic meetings about the performance of the with them in order to learn about: i) their responsibilities, ii) the internal internal audit department and audit policies and proceedings, iii) the scope and plans for the fiscal year, the degree of independence of including the sufficiency of available resources to be used, personnel’s its professional work, meaning experience and related costs, iv) their evaluation on the quality of the that the professionals in charge controls carried out by the Entity, v) fraud-related risk factors, and vi) the of such function are independent kind of reports issued thereby and to whom they are addressed and sent from the rest of the operating such reports. In addition, they discuss about: i) the quality of the Entity’s departments and also meet general control environment, ii) the material recommendations to improve independency requirements as internal controls and the Board’s response to such recommendations, iii) to the controlling shareholders or the treatment given to material recommendations issued by independent related entities having significant auditors in order to improve internal control and, iv) the effectiveness of influence on Issuer. internal controls over the accounting reports to be used by third parties. Specify, as well, whether the The Internal Audit department reports directly to the Committee, being internal audit function carries out independent form the operating and business departments. its work in accordance with the The internal audit department performs its work in accordance with the standards of international professtandards of international profession of internal audit issued by the Instision of internal audit issued by tute of Internal Auditors (IIA). the Institute of Internal Auditors In addition, the Internal Audit department is evaluated by the Central (IIA). Bank of the Republic of Argentina. IV.3 The members of the Audit x The Audit Committee provided for in section 109 of the Capital Markets Act Committee perform an annual 26831 makes an annual evaluation of the competence, experience and perforevaluation of the competence, inmance of Independent Auditors, through periodic meetings with them in order dependence and performance of to learn about: i) the internal quality controls the have, ii) the scope and plans Independent Auditors appointed for their reviews limited by interim periods and for their audit for the final year, by the Shareholders’ Meeting. including the sufficiency of the resources to be used and the fees, iii) their evaluDescribe the relevant aspects of ation of the risk of material errors in the financial statements and the designed the proceedings used to carry out controls, iv) the departments evaluated as of higher risk, and v) internal control such evaluation. improvement recommendations. Besides, at such meetings the Audit Committee and the Independent Auditors discuss about: i) critical accounting policies and alternative accounting treatments discussed with the Management, ii) the most significant estimates and opinions, iii) changes in the scope of the work or proceedings planned due to a change in risk assessment, iii) weakness in internal control of accounting reporting, iv) the use of specialized people or experts in material matters, and v) the results of their limited reviews and audits. Finally, the Committee evaluates the different professional services and their relationship with independence, pursuant to the provisions of the professional standards, the CNV’s rules and regulations and the internal policies aimed at ensuring compliance with the above described independence rules and/or standards. The Bank has obtained information on the composition of the fees billed by the different services rendered in accordance with the categorization defined under the CNV’s rules and regulations. The Independent Auditors’ function is in turn evaluated by the Central Bank of the Republic of Argentina. Exhibit II 193 Compliance Non-compliance Inform (2) o Explain (3) Total(1) Partial IV.4 Issuer features any policy rex The provisions of the Central Bank of the Republic of Argentina, through garding the rotation of the memthe CONAU rules – Accounting and Audit, Chapter F – Minimum Provibers of the Supervisory Comsions on Independent Audits of the BCRA, provide for the rotation of the mittee and/or the Independent signing partner every five years. Auditor; and in connection with On the other hand, the provisions of the CNV for issuing companies the latter, whether such rotation provide, pursuant to General Resolution 663 dated 5 May 2016, the folincludes the auditors company lowing: or firm or only the individuals that SECTION 28.The rotation of the key audit partners must comply with the are members thereof. provisions of the Exhibit “Rules on the Independent Nature of Auditors” of Technical Resolution No. 34 issued by the FACPCE for public interest entities. If the firm or association of public accountants only has a limited number of persons with the knowledge and experience necessary to act as key audit partner of issuer, issuer shall be released form the obligation to rotate audit partners provided the rotation requirement is replaced by the participation of an additional professional not related with the audit team who shall revise the work done or, otherwise give appropriate advice, taking into account –among other factorsthe entity’s nature, the risks involved and the complexity of the transactions. This additional professional shall not exceed the term of SEVEN (7) years, the above mentioned rotation being applicable, and shall be governed by the same rules and regulations as those applicable to the audit firm or association. Besides, the participation of this professional may be replaced with any person who is not a member of such audit firm or association, allowing all types of service contracts or temporary union by virtue of which such professionals or associations shall meet the present rule. The entity subject to the public offering regime, in order to determine the moment in which it shall rotate the key audit partner in such entity, shall have to take into account the time during which such persona has rendered audit services as key audit partner. When an entity enters the public offering regime, in order to determine the date on which the rotation shall occur, the entity must take into account the time during which the public accountant has rendered services to the entity as key audit partner before the entity entered the public offering regime. If the public accountant has acted as key audit partner for FIVE (5) years or a shorter period, the number of years during which such public accountant may continue to act as key audit partner, before vacating such office due to the rotation requirement, is seven years, after deducting the years he served as key audit partner. If the public accountant has acted as key audit partner for the customer during SIX (6) years or more at the time the entity enters the public offering regime, the partner may continue to act as such during a maximum term of two additional years before vacating the office pursuant to the rotation requirement”. On the other hand, the Bank has no rotation policy applicable to the members of the Supervisory Committee, since the designation thereof is the responsibility of the shareholders. 194 Annual Report | Banco Macro Compliance Non-compliance Inform (2) o Explain (3) (1) Total Partial PRINCIPLE V. RESPECT THE RIGHTS OF SHAREHOLDERS Recommendation V.1: Ensure shareholders have access to Issuer’s information. Answer whether: V.1.1 The Management Body x The Investor Relations department, operating within the Finance Managpromotes periodic information ing Department and whose purpose is to create and maintain relations meetings with the shareholders with institutional investors, analysts and other agents of the local and simultaneously with the preinternational financial system, organized during 2018 four public confersentation of the interim financial ence calls with investors, in which it submitted the quarterly/annual statements. statements of income. Provide details and indicate the number and frequency of the meetings held during the year. V.1.2 Issuer features mechanisms x Issuer features a channel open to investors through its website and a to keep investors informed and specialized department devoted to managing Investor Relations through a specialized department to which investors may direct their queries and/or requests. attend to their queries. It also Additionally, Issuer hired press release distribution services and a mail has a website available to the distribution system (mailing) that allows the distribution of all news Issuer shareholders and other investors, considers relevant. allowing an access channel Due to the shareholding structure of Banco Macro and the knowledge they for them to be able to contact have of each other, the Bank does not consider necessary to establish acamong themselves. Provide cess channels to allow the shareholders to contact among them. details. Recommendation V.2: Encourage all shareholders’ active participation. Answer whether: V.2.1 The Management Body x Banco Macro considers very important to encourage and foster the attenadopts actions to encourage the dance and active participation of minority shareholders in the meetings. participation of all the shareholdThe Board is permanently watching over the respect of the rights of all ers in General Shareholders’ shareholders. Meetings. Specify, differentiatThere are no restrictions at all which may limit the participation of such ing those measures or actions shareholders, being their rights legally and statutorily guaranteed and required by law and those protected. voluntarily offered by Issuer to its shareholders. V.2.2 The General Shareholders x The provisions of the Business Company Act No. 19550 ensure that the Meeting has Rules and Regulainformation and documentation for decision making by the shareholders’ tions applicable to its operation meeting is available to the shareholders sufficiently in advance. that ensure the information is available to the shareholders, sufficiently in advance for decision making. Describe the main guidelines of such Rules and Regulations. Exhibit II 195 Compliance Non-compliance Inform (2) o Explain (3) Total(1) Partial V.2.3 The mechanisms implex Banco Macro complies with the mechanisms established under Act mented by Issuer for the minority 19550 and the Rules of the Argentine Securities Exchange Commission shareholders to propose matters (CNV), so that the minority shareholders may propose mattes to be disto be discussed at the General cussed at the General Shareholders’ Meeting. Shareholders’ Meeting pursuant to the laws in force apply. Explain the results. V.2.4 Issuer features policies enx Banco Macro complies with the applicable laws and, therefore, gives the couraging the participation of the same treatment to all the shareholders. most relevant shareholders, such The Bank has a department of Investor Relations devoted to create and as institutional investors. Specify. maintain relations with institutional investors, analysts and other local and international financial system agents. V.2.5 At Shareholders’ Meetings, The Bank has determined that these representations be made at sharethe agenda of which includes the holders’ meetings and this aspect is communicated to the shareholders designation of members of the in the notice calling to the relevant meeting. Management Body, the entity discloses, prior to voting: (i) the position of each of the candidates as to the adoption or not of a Code of Corporate Governance; and (ii) the basis for such position. Recommendation V.3: Guarantee the equity principle between share and vote. Answer whether: Issuer features a policy that x Pursuant to Sect. 216 of the Business Company Act 19550, no shares encourages the equity principle with privileged voting rights may be issued after the company has been between share and vote. Indicate authorized to enter the public offering regime. the changes in the composition Therefore, at present Banco Macro cannot issue shares with plural voting of outstanding shares per class votes. The existing 11,235,670 shares with 5 votes represent 1.7% of the during the last three years total outstanding shares. The composition of the capital stock has changed during the last three years: Class A Shares: 11,235,670 Class A + Class B Shares: 669,663,021 RECOMMENDATION V.4: Define mechanisms to protect all the shareholders from control changes. Answer whether: Issuer adheres to the public x Banco Macro adheres to the mandatory public offering regime of acquisioffering regime of mandatory tion under the Capital Markets Act 26831 and its applicable Rules and acquisition. Otherwise, specify Regulations issued by the CNV (N.T. 2013 and the amendments thereof).. if there are other alternative mechanisms provided for in the entity’s bylaws, such as tag along or others. 196 Annual Report | Banco Macro Compliance Non-compliance Inform (2) o Explain (3) (1) Total Partial Recommendation V.5: Increase the percentage of outstanding shares over capital sock. Answer whether: Issuer has a stock dispersion of at x Banco Macro’s stock dispersion index is above the 20% defined as good least 20% for its common shares. practice. Otherwise, Issuer has a policy Three comparative years: aimed at increasing stock dispersion in the market. Floating Anses (FGS) Controlling Group Indicate Issuer’s stock dispersion 12/31/2016 30.10 31.50 38.40 as a percentage of Issuer’s capital 12/31/2017 39.25 27.49 33.26 stock and the changes it went 12/31/2018 39.24(*) 27.49 33.27 through during the last three years. (*) includes 4.32% treasury stock. Recommendation V.6: Ensure a transparent dividend policy. Answer whether: V.6.1 Issuer features a dividend x Section 32 of the bylaws provides for the application by shareholders’ distribution policy under the Cormeeting of the net profits reported in the financial statements as apporate Bylaws and approved by proved by such management. the Shareholders’ Meeting, which The Code of Corporate Governance provides that the dividend distribuestablishes the conditions to tion policy of Banco Macro is based on keeping the appropriate balance distribute dividends in cash or in between the distributed amounts and the investment and expansion polikind. If such policy exists, indicate cies of the Bank. It is worthwhile to mention that this dividend policy may the criteria, frequency and condibe conditioned in the future for the existence of market regulations and tions that must be met to declare for the strategic plans that the company may adopt on each opportunity. the payment of dividends. Additionally, the distribution of dividends to shareholders is regulated by the revised text Income Distribution issued by the Central Bank of the Republic of Argentina. V.6.2 Issuer has documented x The Bank features a procedure for the preparation of the “Year Profit processes for the preparation of Distribution Project”. Such procedure involves the determination of the the proposal regarding the applidistributable amount under the provisions of the Central Bank of the Recation of accumulated earnings public of Argentina, the issuance of accompanying reports on the results of Issuer deriving in the creation thereof, the effects of the potential distribution of profits on the technical of legal, statutory or voluntary relationships with the BCRA, the Bank’s financial position and Business reserve funds, or carry forwards Plan. These reports are submitted to the Board of Directors to be taken and/or payment of dividends. into account at the time of making the proposal to be submitted to the Explain such processes and Shareholders’ Meeting. provide details as to which The Shareholders’ Meeting held on April 27th 2018 resolved to apply the Shareholders’ Meeting approved retained earnings of the year 2017 as follows: the distribution (in cash or in Total Retained Earnings de AR$ 9,388,771,818.55: a) AR$ 1,877,754,363.71 kind) or otherwise resolved not to to the Legal Reserve Fund, b) AR$ 7,511,017,454.84 to the optional reserve distribute such earnings, in case fund for future distribution of profits under Communication “A” 5273 isthere are no provisions regardsued by the Central Bank of the Republic of Argentina. ing this aspect in the Corporate Bylaws. Exhibit II 197 Compliance Non-compliance Inform (2) o Explain (3) (1) Total Partial PRINCIPLE VI. MAINTAIN A DIRECT AND RESPONSIBLE RELATIONSHIP WITH THE COMMUNITY Recommendation VI: Provide to the community the disclosure of matters related to Issuer and a direct communication channel with the company. Answer whether: VI.1 Issuer features an updated x Banco Macro’s Website contains an “Investors Relations” link where the public access Website, not only Bank presents company-related information required to comply with the providing company-related inforbest practices. (http://www.macro.com.ar/relaciones-inversores/home). mation (bylaws, economic group, This website provides contact information and allows investors to submit composition of the Management their queries and concerns. Body, financial statements, anIn addition the Bank has defined several contact mechanisms through the nual report, among other inforchannels receiving customers’ queries (branch offices, call center, customer mation) but also servicing and service, Internet banking). attending to customers’ queries in general. VI.2 Issuer issues a Social x Banco Macro issues from the year 2007 its annual report on Corporate SoCorporate and Environmental Recial and Environmental Responsibility accounting for the actions performed sponsibility Report on an annual throughout the country. basis, under the verification of Corporate Sustainability is part of the Bank’s culture where the focus is an Independent Auditor. In case placed on the vulnerable sectors, and on the creation of opportunities in it does so, indicate the scope or each region of the country, based on the offering of quality financial prodlegal or geographical coverage ucts and services and the responsible management of the impact and risks thereof and where to find it. Specof the business for the benefit of present and future generations. ify which standards or initiatives In 2014, the Bank made its first Integrated Sustainability Report. For the Issuer has adopted to carry out preparation of such report we used the following guidelines: i) G4 Sustainits corporate social responsibility ability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) with the policy (Global Reporting Initiative Sector Supplements for the financial industry, meeting the “in accordance” and/or United Nations Global criterion and achieving the “Core” option, ii) the Framework prepared by the Compact ISO 26,000, SA8000, International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) and iii) the 10 principles of Milenium Development Goals, the United Nations Global Compact.. ESG 21-Foretica, AA 1000, Equator These documents are available in our institutional website. Principles, among others). PRINCIPLE VII. PAY FAIR AND RESPONSIBLE REMMUNERATIONS Recommendation VII: Define clear remuneration policies applicable to the members of the Management Body and first-line managers, paying particular attention to the recognition of conventional or statutory limitations based on the existence or non-existence of earnings. Answer whether: VII.1 Issuer has a Remuneration x The Board has established the creation of an Incentive Committee, with Committee, responsibilities regarding the supervision of the economic incentive system applicable to the Bank’s personnel and its consistency with the Entity’s culture, goals, long-term business, strategy and control environment and prudent assumption of risks. In the definition and description of such responsibilities the Entity considered the recommendations issued by the Central Bank of the Republic of Argentina in its Communication “A” 5201 – Financial Entities Corporate Governance Guidelines. 198 Annual Report | Banco Macro Compliance Non-compliance Inform (2) o Explain (3) Total(1) Partial VII.1.1 composed of at least three x The Incentives Committee shall be composed of a majority of indepenmembers of the Management dent directors. The Board has designated as members of this Committee Body, in its majority independent the Head of Comprehensive Risk Management and the Head of Human members , Resources as well. VII.1.2 presided by an indepenx The Remuneration Committee is chaired by an Independent Director. dent member of the Management Body, VII.1.3 formed by members that x The Committee members prove to have knowledge and experience in prove to have enough knowlbanking business matters and in human resource management-related edge and experience in human policies. resources policy issues, VII.1.4 that meets at least twice x The Committee meets at least semiannually. a year, VII.1.5 whose decisions are not x The Argentine laws provide that the Shareholders’ Meeting shall evaluate on necessarily binding upon the an annual basis the performance and acts of the Board at the time of holding General Shareholders’ Meeting the general meeting evaluating the matters provided for under subsections or the Supervisory Committee , 1 and 2 of section 234 of the Business Company Act No. 19550. To the date but are of an advisory nature as hereof, such body has not evaluated the possibility that the Board evaluates to the remuneration of the memits own performance prior to the holding of such Shareholders’ Meeting. bers of the Management Body. Notwithstanding the above, the Board has established for its own management, the Board’s Self-Assessment Policy, being the Corporate Governance Committee the body in charge of seeing to the implementation thereof, which shall be performed individually (through a Self-Assessment Survey) and in groups, pursuant to the consolidated results obtained. VII.2 If Issuer does have a Remunerations Committee, such Committee shall: VII.2.1 ensure the existence of a x The Variable Remuneration program, within the scope of the Remuneraclear relationship between the tion Policy, is consistent with the mission and values of the organization, the key personnel’s performance and goals, the long-term business sustainability, the strategy, the control environthe fixed and variable remunerament and the prudent assumption of risks. The Variable Remuneration is tion thereof, taking into account aimed at recognizing the extraordinary performance of the employees in the risks assumed and the accordance with: management thereof, • employee’s contribution to the results obtained • employee’s acts in line with the mission and values of the Organization The relevant variables for the determination of the remunerations are the following: • Position’s degree of responsibility and complexity • Employee’s Capacities and Potential • Employee’s Performance and Results • Position with respect to reference market • Organization’s results Exhibit II 199 Compliance Non-compliance Inform (2) o Explain (3) Total(1) Partial VII.2.2 supervise that the variable x The Incentives Committee supervises compliance with the Remuneration portion of the remuneration of the Policy and carries out an annual revision of the entire incentive system. The members of the Management Remuneration Policy, in its chapter on variable remuneration, includes the Body and first-line managers Senior Managers and some supervision positions. relates to the medium/long-term The remuneration of the Directors is determined by the Shareholders’ performance of Issuer, Meeting that evaluates on annual basis the performance and acts of the Board at time of holding the general meeting called to consider the matters provided for under subsections 1 and 2 of section 234 of the Business Company Act No. 19550. The shareholders’ meeting defines a fixed amount as annual remuneration of the directors in accordance with reasonability criteria, based on the results obtained during their administration, taking into account the provisions of the Business Company Act No. 19550, the Capital Markets Act No. 26831, as amended and supplemented, and the Rules of the Argentine Securities Exchange Commission (CNV). VII.2.3 revise the competitive position x The Remuneration Policy includes as fixed remuneration revision mechaof Issuer’s policies and practices as nism the evaluation of the level thereof within the market scenario. to remunerations and benefits of comparable companies, and recommend changes or not, VII.2.4 define and communicate x The Remuneration Policy, the supervision of which is the responsibility of the Issuer’s employee-retention, Incentive Committee, contemplates the mechanisms to be applied in order promotion, dismissal and susto evaluate the retention and promotion of the employees marked as key pension policy applicable to key employees for the organization. personnel On the other hand, the Bank has implemented a Code of Ethics and a Code of Business Conduct applicable to its officers. Deviations from internal compliance standards, is within the scope of the Ethics and Compliance Committee and some of the penalties are the suspension or dismissal of employees. VII.2.5 inform the guidelines Not applicable since Issuer has not defined retirement programs. to determine the retirement programs for the members of Issuer’s Management Body and senior managers, VII.2.6 account on a regular basis x The Board acknowledges the minutes of the meetings held by the Incenfor the actions taken and the mattive Committee. ters analyzed during its meetings to the Management Body and the Shareholders’ Meeting, VII.2.7 it guarantees the presence This item does not apply since the shareholders’ meeting determines the of the chairman of the Remuannual remuneration of the directors in accordance with the reasonability neration Committee at the General criteria, based on the results obtained during their administration, taking Shareholders’ Meeting approving into account the provisions of the Business Company Act No. 19550, as the remunerations payable to the amended and supplemented and the Rules of the Argentine Securities Management Body for the chairExchange Commission (CNV). man to explain Issuer’s policy as to In addition, it is not applicable for the reasons described in the Remunerthe remuneration of the members ation Policy and because in the case of Banco Macro Senior Managers of the Management Body and are employed by the Bank and receive no additional payments apart senior managers. from their remuneration. 200 Annual Report | Banco Macro Compliance Non-compliance Inform (2) o Explain (3) Total(1) Partial VII.3 If relevant, please mention the Not applicable policies applied by the Remuneration Committee of Issuer not described in the preceding section. VII.4 If Issuer lacks a Remuneration Not applicable Committee, explain how the functions described in VII.2 are performed within the Management Body. PRINCIPLE VIII. ENCOURAGE CORPORATE ETHICS Recommendation VIII: Guarantee ethical behavior within Issuer. Answer whether: VIII.1 Issuer has a Code of Busix Banco Macro has adopted a Code of Ethics for its Directors and senior manness Conduct. Describe the main agement officers and applicable to the persons that carry out similar funcguidelines and if such Code is tions (jointly referred to as “Senior Financial Officers”). This Code is available to available to the public in general. the public in general and can be found in our corporate website. Answer if such Code is signed by In addition, the Bank has implemented a Code of Conduct applicable to all its at least the members of the Manemployees. The Bank expects all its employees to act in accordance with the agement Body and senior manhighest personal and professional integrity levels in all aspects of their activity, agers. Indicate whether Issuer’s to comply with the applicable laws, to discourage the performance of repreemployees are encouraged to hensible acts and to abide by the Bank’s Code of Conduct and other policies apply such Code to vendors and and proceedings adopted by the entity and that regulate the conduct of its customers. employees. This Code of Ethics supplements the Bank’s Code of Conduct. Furthermore, the Bank has implemented the Code of Conduct for Vendors, aimed at transmitting suppliers/vendors the mission, philosophy and values of the Bank, so as to bring to them the responsibility of sustainable actions. This Code includes aspects such as Ethical Behavior, Human Rights, Employment Practices, Environment and Conduct. VIII.2 Issuer features mechanisms x In line with its integrity and transparency standards, Banco Macro has to receive the reporting of any made available to its personnel, vendors, investors, and third parties in unlawful act or any non-ethical general, a confidential communication channel known as Ethics Line, manaction, in person or through any aged by an independent third party, KPMG, ensuring the confidentiality and electronic means ensuring the anonymity principles. information transmitted meets This communication channel allows the employees, customers and high confidentiality and integvendors to report any possible irregularities in or deviations from ethical rity standards, such as those of behavior and conduct, including without limitation, those regarding acregistration and preservation of counting, audit and internal control issues. information. Indicate whether the The reports may be sent through different channels, such as: telephone report-reception and evaluation call, web, e-mail, fax, in person, mail. The received reports are communiservices are rendered by Issuer’s cated to the relevant Work Group, under de supervision of the Ethics and personnel or by independent Conduct Committee. The Line administrator will inform within the next 24 professionals for additional prohours from receipt, those reports marked as relevant, according to the tection of those who report this defined protocol. kind of acts or behavior. The Ethics and Conduct Committee shall take note of all the reports received and processed and how they were treated, pursuant to the investigation and penalty proceedings in force. The Audit Committee analyzes the reports received through our Ethics Line, considering all the information furnished in such reports as strictly confidential to the extent permitted by the applicable law. Exhibit II 201 Compliance Non-compliance Inform (2) o Explain (3) Total(1) Partial VIII.3 Issuer features policies, prox Reports are received and registered through the following channels: cesses and systems to manage Telephone: 0800 122 5768 and resolve the reports described E-Mail: eticagrupomacro@kpmg.com.ar in item VIII.2. Please describe the Web: www.eticagrupomacro.kpmg.com.ar most relevant aspects thereof Mailing Address: Bouchard 710, 6to piso, 1001, Buenos Aires, Argentina, and indicate the degree of into the attention of “KPMG–Línea Ética Grupo Macro” volvement of the Audit Committee Fax: +54 (11) 4316-5800 to the attention of “Línea Ética Grupo Macro” in such resolutions, particularly In the Bank’s Website there is a link “Ethics Line”, through which you may in those related to accounting have access to institutional information about the Line and the chanreporting internal control issues nels. All reports received, are registered by the Line administrator into a and to the behavior of the memsystem that returns to the reporting subject a registration number. This bers of the Management Body registration number allows the interested party to follow-up or check the and senior managers. progress of the report. The link is also available in the intranet, for the information of the Bank’s employees. PRINCIPLE IX: GO DEEPER INTO THE SCOPE OF THE CODE Recommendation IX: Encourage the incorporation good practices of corporate governance provisions into the bylaws. Answer whether: The Management Body evaluates x The general and special shareholders’ meeting held on April 21st 2009 if the provisions of the Code of resolved to incorporate section 23 bis into the bylaws. This section Corporate Governance must be provides that the Board of Directors may create a Designations and reflected, totally or partially, in Corporate Governance Committee. Within the scope of such section, Issuer’s Bylaws, including the on November 7th 2011 the Board resolved to create a Designations and general and particular responsiCorporate Governance Committee effective as of January 1st 2012, as well bilities of the Management Body.. as the Risk Management Committee, the Incentives Committee and the Indicate which provisions are acEthics and Compliance Committee. tually included in the Bylaws from the effective date of the Code up to the present day. 202 Annual Report | Banco Macro GRI Content Index and 2018 Communication on Progress The following table shows the Contents that meet At the same time, we show the relationship with the GRI Standard requirements, pursuant to the Core Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, option. In addition, we include some content since this report constitutes our 2018 Communication required under the Comprehensive Option. on Progress (COP). We also show the Sustainable Development Goals that have already been prioritized by the Bank and that are linked to the GRI Contents. GRI Standard Content Page Numbers Omission UN Global Sustainable Compact Development Principles Goals (SDG)(1) GRI 101: Foundation 2016 General Contents GRI 102: 102-1 Name of the organization 41 General 102-2 Activities, brands, products 41, 57-62, 81-93, 96-103,105-108 Disclosures and services 2016 102-3 Location of headquarters The Headquarters are located in Buenos Aires, Argentina. 102-4 Location of operations Banco Macro has operations in all regions of the Argentina. 102-5 Ownership and legal form 41 102-6 Markets served 10-12, 81, 84, 96, 101-102, 105-108 102-7 Scale of the organization 78-79 102-8 Information on employees 135-136. 100% of the employees Principle # 6 8.5 and other workers work full-time and has a permanent employment agreement 102-9 Supply chain 171-173 102-10 Significant changes to the During 2018 there were no significant organization and its supply chain changes as to the size, structure, ownership and supply chain of Banco Macro. 102-11 Precautionary Principle 51, 52-53, 63-65, 163-167 or approach 102-12 External initiatives 19, 68, 174-177 102-13 Membership of associations 68 102-14 Statement from senior 4-5 decision-maker 102-15 Describe key impacts, 57-62, 57-71 risks, and opportunities Exhibit II 203 GRI Standard Content Page Numbers Omission UN Global Sustainable Compact Development Principles Goals (SDG)(1) 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and 49-55, 57, 63-67 Principle # 10 norms of behavior 102-17 Mechanisms for advice 49-55, 200-201 Principle # 10 and concerns about ethics 102-18 Governance structure 42-48 102-19 Delegating authority 42-48, 182 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for Milagro Medrano is the Head of the economic, environmental and social Bank’s Institutional Relations Departtopics ment. She is in direct contact with the Board and manages the sustainability strategy as well as Fundación Banco Macro. 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on eco55, 171-173, 195-197 nomic, environmental and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest gover42-48 nance body and its committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance The Chairman of the Board performs 16.6 body executive functions within the Bank. 102-24 Nominating and selecting the 42-48,186-188 highest governance body 102-25 Conflicts of interest 42-50, 180. During 2018 there were 16.6 no conflicts of interest. 102-26 Role of highest governance body 42, 63-67, 182 in setting purpose, values and strategy 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest 42-43, 55, 182-183, 189 governance body 102-28 Evaluating the highest 42-43, 181, 184-185 governance body’s performance 102-29 Identifying and managing eco48-55, 171-173, 182-183, 189-191 nomic, environmental and social impacts 102-30 Effectiveness of risk 48-55, 171-173m 182-183, 189-191 management processes 102-31 Review of economic, 42-44, 181-183 environmental, and social topics 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in The President of the Bank approves sustainability reporting the Report. 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 55, 197 102-34 Nature and total number 42, 50, 171-173 of critical concerns 102-35 Remuneration policies 42-43, 48, 171-173, 197-200 102-36 Process for determining 42-43, 48, 171-173, 197-200 remuneration 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement 42-43, 48, 171-173, 197-200. The opinin remuneration ions of external groups are not taken into account for the determination of remunerations. 204 Annual Report | Banco Macro GRI Standard Content Page Numbers Omission UN Global Sustainable Compact Development Principles Goals (SDG)(1) 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio Confidentiality Issues. Due to the local scenario in which the Bank carries out its business, this information is confidential in order to safeguard the personal safety of the Entity’s employees and senior management officers. 102-39 Percentage increase in annual Confidentiality Issues. total compensation ratio Due to the local scenario in which the Bank carries out its business, this information is confidential in order to safeguard the personal safety of our employees and top management officers of the entity. 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 19, 62 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements All our employees are included in Principle # 3 8.8 the collective bargaining agreement represented by Asociación Sindical de Bancarios (Banking Trade Union Association) 102-42 Identifying and selecting stake62-67 holders 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engage119-133, 138, 144, 147, 151, 158-161, ment 171-173 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 119-123, 130-132, 138, 151, 171-173 102-45 Entities included in the consoli41 dated financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic 171-177 Boundaries 102-47 List of material topics 171-173 102-48 Restatements of information If there are any restatements of information of previous reports, these shall be explained with a footnote if applicable. Exhibit II 205 GRI Standard Content Page Numbers Omission UN Global Sustainable Compact Development Principles Goals (SDG)(1) 102-49 Changes in reporting There are no significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope of material topics and Topic Boundaries. 102-50 Reporting period 19 102-51 Date of most recent report Year 2017 102-52 Reporting cycle Banco Macro presents its integrated report communicating its economic, social and environmental performance annually. 102-53 Contact point for questions sustentabilidad@macro.com.ar regarding the report Phone: (011) 5222 6500 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance 176, 202 with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index 202-2011 102-56 External assurance This report has not been externally verified. SIGNIFICANT TOPIS Indirect Economic Impacts GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 171-177 Management and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 21-33, 57-62, 63-67, 135, 151-158, 161, components 171-173 103-3 Evaluation of the management 21-33, 57-62, 63-67, 135, 151-158, 161, approach 171-173 GRI 203: 203-1 Infrastructure investments and 151-158 Indirect services supported Economic Disclosure 203-2 Significant indirect 81-93, 96-103, 105-115, 151-158 8.3, 8.5 Impacts 2016 economic impacts Procurement Practices GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 171-177 Management and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 21-33, 57-62, 63-67, 158-161, 171-177 1.4 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 21-33, 57-62, 63-67, 158-161, 171-177 approach GRI 204: 204-1 Proportion of spending on local 158-161. We understand “Significant 8.3 Procurement suppliers locations of operation” as the central Practices 2016 departments and branches of Banco Macro distributed throughout the country. 206 Annual Report | Banco Macro GRI Standard Content Page Numbers Omission UN Global Sustainable Compact Development Principles Goals (SDG)(1) Anti-corruption GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 171-177 Management and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 21-33, 42-55, 57-62, 63-67, 171-177 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 21-33, 42-55, 57-62, 63-67, 171-177 approach GRI 205: 205-1 Operations assessed for risks 42-55 Principle 10 16.5 Anti-corruption related to corruption 2016 205-2 Communication and training about 205-1 Operations assessed for risks 16.5 anti-corruption policies related to corruption and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption No incidents of corruption reported Principle 10 16.5 and actions taken in 2018. Materials GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 171-177 Management and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 57-62, 63-67, 115, 163, 166, 171-177 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 57-62, 63-67, 115, 163, 166, 171-177 approach GRI 301: 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 166 Principles 7 y 8 8.4 Materials 2016 301-2 Recycled input materials used 163-165 8.4, 12.5 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packNot applicable. Due Principle 8 8.4, 12.5 aging materials to the nature of the business carried out by Banco Macro, this indicator is no applicable to the company. Energy GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 171-177 Management and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 57-62, 63-73, 115, 163-165, 171-177 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 57-62, 63-67, 115, 163-165, 171-177 approach GRI 302: 302-1 Energy consumption within the 163-165 Principles 7 y 8 8.4, 13.1 Energy 2016 organization 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 163-165 Principles 8 y 9 8.4, 13.1 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements 164-165. Due to the nature of the busiPrinciples 8 y 9 8.4, 13.1 of products and services ness carried out by Banco Macro, total energy consumption is related to the service rendered. Exhibit II 207 GRI Standard Content Page Numbers Omission UN Global Sustainable Compact Development Principles Goals (SDG)(1) Water GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 171-177 Management and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 57-62, 63-67, 115, 163-164, 171-177 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 57-62, 63-67, 115, 163-164, 171-177 approach GRI 303: 303-2 Water sources significantly Water supply at Banco Macro is rePrinciple 8 Water 2016 affected by withdrawal of water lated to the use for food and sanitary purposes, through utility services without causing material impact on water sources. Emissions GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 171-177 Management and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 57-62, 63-67, 115, 163-164, 171-177 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 57-62, 63-67, 115, 163-164, 171-177 approach GRI 305: 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 164-165 Principles 7 y 8 13.1 Emissions 2016 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG 164-165 Principles 7 y 8 13.1 emissions 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 164-165 Principles 8 y 9 13.1 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting Not applicable. Due Principles 7 y 8 substances (ODS) to the nature of the business carried out by Banco Macro, this indicator is no applicable to the company. 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur Not applicable. Due Principles 7 y 8 oxides (SOX), and other significant air to the nature of the emissions business carried out by Banco Macro, this indicator is no applicable to the company. Effluents and Waste GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 171-177 Management and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach 57-62, 63-67, 115, 163-166, 171-177 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 57-62, 63-67, 115, 163-166, 171-177 approach GRI 306: 306-2 Waste by type and disposal 166 Principle 8 12.5 Effluents and method Waste 2016 208 Annual Report | Banco Macro GRI Standard Content Page Numbers Omission UN Global Sustainable Compact Development Principles Goals (SDG)(1) Evaluación ambiental de proveedores GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 171-177 Management and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 57-62, 63-67, 158-161, 171-177 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 57-62, 63-67, 158-161, 171-177 approach GRI 308: Supplier308-1 New suppliers that were screened 158-161 Principle 8 Environmental using environmental criteria Assessment 308-2 Negative environmental impacts 158-161. No negative impacts to Principle 8 in the supply chain and actions taken report. Employment GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 171-177 Management and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 57-62, 63-67, 135, 171-177 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 57-62, 63-67, 135, 171-177 approach GRI 401: 401-1 New employee hires and 135-137 Principle 6 8.5, 8.6 Employment employee turnover 2016 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time em142-143. 100% of the employees work 8.5 ployees that are not provided to full-time. We understand “Significant locatemporary or part-time employees tions of operation” as the central departments and branches of Banco Macro distributed throughout the country. 401-3 Parental leave 137. All employees are entitled to Principle 6 8.5 parental leave. Training and Education GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 171-177 Management and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 57-62, 63-67, 135, 138-140, 171-177 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 57-62, 63-67, 135, 138-140, 171-177 approach GRI 404: Training 404-1 Average hours of training 140 Principle 6 4.3, 4.4, 8.5 and Education per year per employee 2016 138-140 8.5 Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 171-177 Management and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach 57-62, 63-67, 135, 171-177 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 57-62, 63-67, 135, 171-177 approach GRI 405: 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and 42-47, 136-137 Principle 6 8.5 Diversity and employees Equal Opportu405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuWe apply the same basic salary per Principle 6 8.5 nity 2016 neration of women to men professional category to men and women. Exhibit II 209 GRI Standard Content Page Numbers Omission UN Global Sustainable Compact Development Principles Goals (SDG)(1) No Discrimination GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 171-177 Management and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 57-62, 63-67, 135, 171-177 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 57-62, 63-67, 135, 171-177 approach GRI 406: No Dis406-1 Incidents of discrimination No cases to report in 2017. Principle 6 8.8 crimination 2016 and corrective actions taken Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 171-177 Management and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 57-62, 63-67, 135, 171-177 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 57-62, 63-67, 135, 171-177 approach GRI 407: 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which Banco Macro considers trade union Principle 3 8.8 Freedom of the right to freedom of association and representation as a key aspect for the Association and collective bargaining may be at risk proper operation of the business. In Collective Barthis sense, we guarantee a fluid diagaining 2016 logue with the labor unions relevant to the Bank’s activity. Child Labor GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 171-177 Management and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 57-62, 63-67, 135, 161, 171-177 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 57-62, 63-67, 135, 161, 171-177 approach GRI 408: 408-1 Operations and suppliers at signifi63-67, 161, 171-177 Principle 5 Child Labor cant risk for incidents of child labor 2016 Forced or Compulsory Labor GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 171-177 Management and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 57-62, 63-67, 135, 161, 171-177 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 57-62, 63-67, 135, 161, 171-177 approach GRI 409: Forced 409-1 Operations and suppliers at 63-67, 161, 171-177 Principle 4 or Compulsory significant risk for incidents of forced or Labor 2016 compulsory labor Customer Health and Safety GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 171-177 Management and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach 57-62, 63-67, 112-114, 171-177 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 57-62, 63-67, 112-114, 171-177 approach 210 Annual Report | Banco Macro GRI Standard Content Page Numbers Omission UN Global Sustainable Compact Development Principles Goals (SDG)(1) GRI 416: Cus416-1 Assessment of the health and safety 112-115, 119-131 tomer Health impacts of product and service categories and Safety 2016 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance conNo such incidents to report in 2018. cerning the health and safety impacts of products and services Marketing and Labeling GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 171-177 Management and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 57-62, 63-67, 119-123, 171-177 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 57-62, 63-67, 119-123, 171-177 approach GRI 417: 417-1 Requirements for product and Banco Macro abides by the following 12.8 Marketing and service information and labeling entities and Control Codes: Labeling 2016 • Central Bank of the Republic of Argentina (BCRA). • Argentine Securities Exchange Commission (CNV), for whom each year we issue our Corporate Governance Explanatory Report. • Code of Corporate Governance Practices of the Argentine Securities Exchange Commission. • Code of Banking Practices prepared by the different associations of banks and financial institutions of Argentina. • Investor Protection Code including guidelines and recommendations for compliance with investor protections rules within the public offering scenario. • Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) Act, since the Bank lists its shares in the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). • NYSE’s Listed Company Manual, as amended, since the Bank qualifies as private foreign issuer. • Financial Information Unit (UIF) as to anti-money laundering and terrorism financing. 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance conNo such incidents to report in 2018. cerning product and service information and labeling Customer Privacy GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 171-177 Management and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach 57-62, 63-67, 112-114, 131, 171-177 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 57-62, 63-67, 112-114, 131, 171-177 approach GRI 418: Customer 418-1 Substantiated complaints regarding 112-114 Privacy 2016 concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Exhibit II 211 GRI Standard Content Page Numbers Omission UN Global Sustainable Compact Development Principles Goals (SDG)(1) Financial Inclusion GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 171-177 Management and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach 21-33, 57-62, 63-67, 81-83, 86-90, 96, and its components 109-110, 152-155, 171-177 103-3 Evaluation of the management 21-33, 57-62, 63-67, 81-83, 86-90, 96, approach 109-110, 152-155, 171-177 Number of customers per segment. 10-15, 81-84, 96 Total monetary value of products and 84-89, 96-103, 133, 152-155 services designed to create social benefits in basic business lines, by goal. Access points in scarcely populated or 109-110 economically disadvantaged areas, by type Initiatives to improve access of disadvan81-92, 112, 133, 152-155 taged people to financial services Financial Education GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 171-177 Management and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 21-33, 57-62, 63-67, 150-158, 171-177 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 21-33, 57-62, 63-67, 150-158, 171-177 approach Number of individuals trained in financial 151-155 education actions Customer Experience GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 171-177 Management and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach 21-33, 57-62, 63-67, 119-133, 171-177 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 21-33, 57-62, 63-67, 119-133, 171-177 approach Customer satisfaction measuring 119-131 Number of claims received and satisfac131-133 torily settled Volunteering GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 171-177 Management and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 57-62, 63-67, 145, 151-155, 171-177 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 57-62, 63-67, 145, 151-155, 171-177 approach Number of hours devoted to volunteering 145, 151-152 work days Number of participants in volunteering 145, 151-152 program Notes: (1) To prepare this relationship table we only took into account the SDGs prioritized by Banco Macro. We used the online tool powered by SDG Compass “Inventory of Business Indicators” available in https://sdgcompass.org. Financial Statements 214 Annual Report | Banco Macro Financial Statements 215 Banco Macro S.A. Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 together with the Independent Auditors’ Reports and the Supervisory Committee’s Report. Contents —— Cover —— Consolidated Balance Sheets —— Consolidated Statement of Income —— Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive Income —— Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity —— Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow —— Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements —— Consolidated Exhibits —— Separate Balance Sheet —— Separate Statement of Income —— Separate Statement of Other Comprehensive Income —— Separate Statement of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity —— Separate Statement of Cash Flow —— Notes to the Separate Financial Statements —— Separate Exhibits —— Independent Auditors’ Report on Consolidated Financial Statements —— Independent Auditors’ Report on Separate Financial Statements —— Supervisory Committee’s Report —— Profit Distribution Proposal 216 Annual Report | Banco Macro Financial Statements for the Year ended 31 December 2018 CORPORATE NAME: Banco Macro S.A. REGISTERED OFFICE: Avenida Eduardo Madero 1182 Autonomous City of Buenos Aires CORPORATE PURPOSE AND MAIN ACTIVITY: Commercial Bank CENTRAL BANK OF THE REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA (BCRA): Authorized as “Argentine private bank” under No. 285 REGISTRATION WITH THE PUBLIC REGISTRY OF COMMERCE: Under No. 1154 By-laws Book No. 2, Folio 75 dated March 8, 1967 BY-LAWS EXPIRY DATE: March 8, 2066 REGISTRATION WITH THE IGJ (SUPERINTENDENCY OF CORPORATIONS): Under No. 9777 – Corporations Book No. 119 Volume A of Sociedades Anónimas, dated October 8, 1996. PERSONAL TAX IDENTIFICATION NUMBER: 30-50001008-4 REGISTRATION DATES OF AMENDMENTS TO BY-LAWS: August 18, 1972, August 10, 1973, July 15, 1975, May 30, 1985, September 3, 1992, May 10, 1993, November 8, 1995, October 8, 1996, March 23, 1999, September 6, 1999, June 10, 2003, December 17, 2003, September 14, 2005, February 8, 2006, July 11, 2006, July 14, 2009, November 14, 2012, August 2, 2014. Financial Statements 217 Name of Signing Auditor Norberto M. Nacuzzi Auditing Firm Pistrelli, Henry Martin y Asociados S.R.L. Report for the fiscal year ended 31 December 2018 001 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2018, 2017 y 2016 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Items Notes Exhibits 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 ASSETS Cash and Cash Equivalents P 74,766,039 35,561,574 35,986,159 Cash in hand 10,696,465 6,761,426 4,871,152 Central bank of the Republic of Argentina (BCRA) 50,212,127 23,703,476 28,482,100 Other Local and Foreign Entities 13,401,648 3,781,451 2,631,916 Other 455,799 1,315,221 991 Debt Securities at fair value through profit or loss A and P 2,635,247 1,086,028 332,481 Derivative Financial Instruments 8 P 17,293 8,228 9,721 Repo transactions 4 P 1,419,808 19,124 Other Financial Assets P and R 2,999,584 2,272,679 1,105,513 Borrowings and Other Financing B, C, D, P and R 178,874,755 132,658,674 88,390,646 Non-financial Public Sector 1,775,507 1,883,581 1,585,481 Other Financial Entities 5,573,806 3,239,514 1,713,170 Non-financial Private Sector and Foreign Residents 171,525,442 127,535,579 85,091,995 Other Debt Securities A and P 64,584,759 34,703,765 20,395,499 Other Financial Assets delivered as security 5 P 6,756,220 7,638,352 3,690,694 Investments in Equity Instruments A and P 51,518 282,659 406,868 Investment in associates and joint ventures 11 E 108,823 218,947 124,268 Property, Plant and Equipment F 9,002,694 8,193,441 7,229,412 Intangible Assets G 1,401,017 828,022 586,915 Deferred Income Tax Assets 19 46,559 27,762 Other Non-financial Assets 834,069 1,239,241 998,707 Non-current Assets held of Sale 13 804,017 199,890 94,588 TOTAL ASSETS 342,882,594 226,339,070 159,370,595 218 Annual Report | Banco Macro Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2018, 2017 y 2016 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Items Notes Exhibits 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 LIABILITIES Deposits H, I and P 237,954,419 144,129,177 111,862,805 Non-financial Public Sector 19,354,087 12,890,701 9,468,055 Financial Sector 148,275 81,359 55,867 Non-financial Private Sector and Foreign Residents 218,452,057 131,157,117 102,338,883 Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss I and P 6,450 Derivative Financial Instruments 8 1,369 23,107 Repo Transactions 4 I and P 164,469 2,688,093 1,095,634 Other Financial Liabilities I and P 15,318,513 10,561,203 6,341,674 Financing received from the BCRA and Other Financial Entities I and P 2,998,010 1,174,111 260,458 Corporate Bonds 35 I and P 6,377,311 4,712,216 1,684,636 Current Income Tax Liabilities 2,946,479 3,975,320 1,749,800 Subordinated Corporate Bonds 35 IyP 15,288,390 7,565,759 6,376,537 Provisions 15 J 1,045,894 694,919 335,007 Deferred Income Tax Liabilities 19 274,671 496,849 1,321,393 Other Non-financial Liabilities 5,875,117 3,576,001 3,164,159 TOTAL LIABILITIES 288,244,642 179,603,205 134,192,103 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY Share Capital 27 669,663 669,663 584,563 Non-capitalized Contributions 12,428,461 12,428,461 399,499 Adjustment to Shareholders’ Equity 4,511 4,511 4,511 Earnings Reserved 21,995,937 20,363,386 14,384,820 Retained Earnings 3,264,742 2,799,084 2,990,757 Other accumulated Comprehensive Income 543,086 204,560 65,711 Income for the Fiscal Year 15,729,243 10,065,358 6,540,832 Net Shareholders’ Equity attributable to the owners of parent company 54,635,643 46,535,023 24,970,693 Net Shareholders’ Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 2,309 200,842 207,799 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 54,637,952 46,735,865 25,178,492 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 342,882,594 226,339,070 159,370,595 The accompanying Notes 1 to 41 to the consolidated Financial Statements and Exhibits A to J, L, N, P to R are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 219 Consolidated Financial Statement of Income for the fiscal years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Items Notes Exhibits 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Income from interest received Q 65,577,382 34,594,718 Expense for interest paid Q (25,931,913) (10,446,528) Net Income from interest 39,645,469 24,148,190 Income from commissions received 20 Q 11,888,974 9,186,220 Expense for commissions paid Q (755,907) (682,673) Net Income from commissions received 11,133,067 8,503,547 Subtotal (Net Income from interest + Net Income from commissions) 50,778,536 32,651,737 Net Income from recognition of financial instruments at fair value through Q 1,065,690 592,431 profit or loss Loss/(Profit) from sold assets at amortized cost (4,489) 10,603 Difference in quoted prices of gold and foreign currency 21 (1,377,516) 1,380,309 Other operating income 22 2,846,032 1,607,008 Charges for bad debt (2,706,406) (1,594,534) Net Operating Income 50,601,847 34,647,554 Employee benefits 23 (10,304,818) (7,695,169) Administration expenses 24 (6,832,712) (4,694,760) Depreciation of Property, Plant and Equipment (736,540) (586,245) Other Operating Expenses 25 (10,252,432) (6,784,227) Operating Income 22,475,345 14,887,153 Income from associates and joint ventures 11 266,302 196,621 Income before tax on continuing operations 22,741,647 15,083,774 Income tax on continuing operations 19 (6,964,755) (4,931,961) Net Income from continuing operations 15,776,892 10,151,813 Net Income for the year 15,776,892 10,151,813 Net Income for the year attributable to the owners of the Company 15,729,243 10,065,358 Net Income for the year attributable to non-controlling interests 47,649 86,455 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 220 Annual Report | Banco Macro Consolidated Profit per Share for the fiscal years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Items 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Net Profit attributable to Parent’s shareholders 15,729,243 10,065,358 PLUS: Potential diluted earnings per common share Net Profit attributable to Parent’s shareholders adjusted as per diluted earnings 15,729,243 10,065,358 DENOMINATOR Weighted average of outstanding common shares for the period 661,141 629,531 PLUS: Weighted average of the number of additional common shares with dilution effects Weighted average of outstanding common shares for the period adjusted as per dilution effect 661,141 629,531 Basic earnings per share 23.7911 15.9887 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 221 Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive Income for the fiscal years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Items Notes Exhibits 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Net Income for the period 15,776,892 10,151,813 Foreign currency translation differences in financial statements conversion 732,813 137,148 Foreign currency translation differences for the period 732,813 137,148 Profit or loss for financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (394,307) 1,279 (FVOCI) (IFRS 9(4.1.2)(a) Income for the period from financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) Q (527,371) 21,846 Income tax 133,064 (20,567) Total other comprehensive income that is subsequently reclassified to profit or loss 338,506 138,427 Total Other Comprehensive Income 338,506 138,427 Total Comprehensive Income for the period 16,115,398 10,290,240 Total Comprehensive Income attributable to the owners of the parent Company 16,067,769 10,204,207 Total Comprehensive Income attributable to non-controlling interests 47,629 86,033 The accompanying Notes 1 to 41 to the consolidated Financial Statements and Exhibits A to J, L, N, P to R are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 222 Annual Report | Banco Macro Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity for the fiscal year ended 31 December 2018 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Capital Stock Non-capital Other Comprehensive Income Contributions Changes Notes Outstanding Treasury Stock Issuance Equity Accumulated foreign Other Shares Stock Premium Adjustments currency translation difference Balance at the beginning of the fiscal year 669,663 12,428,461 4,511 137,148 67,412 Total Comprehensive Income for the year Net profit for the year Other Comprehensive Income for the year 732,813 (394,287) Distribution of retained earnings as approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting dated 27 April 2018 Statutory Reserve Cash Dividends Other(1) Other changes Treasury Stock 27 (28,948) 28,948 Balance at the end of the year 640,715 28,948 12,428,461 4,511 869,961 (326,875) Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity for the fiscal year ended 31 December 2017 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Capital Stock Non-capital Other Comprehensive Income Contributions Changes Notes Outstanding Treasury Stock Issuance Equity Accumulated foreign currency Other Shares Stock Premium Adjustments translation difference Balance at the beginning of the fiscal year 584,563 399,499 4,511 65,711 Total Comprehensive Income for the year Net profit for the year Other Comprehensive Income for the year 137,148 1,701 Distribution of retained earnings as approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting dated 28 April 2017 Statutory Reserve Cash Dividends Other(1) Capital Increase approved as approved 27 85,100 12,028,962 by the Shareholders’ Meeting dated 28 April 2017 Balance at the end of the year 669,663 12,428,461 4,511 137,148 67,412 (1) Reserve fund for future distribution of profits. As of 2017, it includes Shareholders’ Personal Asset Tax. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 223 Earnings Reserved Statutory Other Retained Total Equity net of Total Equity net of Total Equity Earnings Controlling Interests Non-controlling Interests 4,994,932 15,368,454 12,864,442 46,535,023 200,842 46,735,865 15,729,243 15,729,243 47,649 15,776,892 338,526 (20) 338,506 1,877,755 (1,877,755) (3,348,315) (3,348,315) (26) (3,348,341) 7,511,018 (7,511,018) (210,927) (210,927) (246,136) (457,063) (4,407,907) (4,407,907) (4,407,907) 6,872,687 15,123,250 18,993,985 54,635,643 2,309 54,637,952 Earnings Reserved Statutory Other Retained Total Equity net of Total Equity net of Total Equity Earnings Controlling Interests Non-controlling Interests 3,686,472 10,698,348 9,531,589 24,970,693 207,799 25,178,492 10,065,358 10,065,358 86,455 10,151,813 138,849 (422) 138,427 1,308,460 (1,308,460) (701,476) (701,476) (92,990) (794,466) 5,371,582 (5,424,045) (52,463) (52,463) 12,114,062 12,114,062 4,994,932 15,368,454 12,864,442 46,535,023 200,842 46,735,865 The accompanying Notes 1 to 41 to the consolidated Financial Statements and Exhibits A to J, L, N, P to R are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 224 Annual Report | Banco Macro Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the fiscal years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Items Notes 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Income for the period before Income Tax 22,741,647 15,083,774 Adjustments to obtain cash flows from operating activities: Amortization and depreciation 736,540 586,245 Charges for bad debts 2,706,406 1,594,534 Foreign currency translation difference (8,920,497) (384,778) Other adjustments 1,326,390 (1,924,703) Net increase/ decrease from operating assets: Debt Securities at fair value though profit and loss (1,569,634) (1,281,582) Derivative financial instruments (9,065) 1,493 Repo transactions 1,419,808 (1,400,684) Borrowings and other financing Non-financial public sector 108,074 (280,926) Other financial entities (2,334,292) (1,526,341) Non-financial private sector and foreign residents (46,601,098) (43,961,424) Other debt securities 5,784,015 (9,834,145) Financial assets delivered as security 882,132 (3,947,658) Investments in equity securities 231,141 124,209 Other assets (315,871) (1,387,235) Net increase/ decrease from operating liabilities: Deposits Non-financial public sector 6,463,386 3,422,646 Financial sector 66,916 25,492 Non-financial private sector and foreign residents 87,294,940 28,818,234 Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss (6,450) 6,450 Derivative financial instruments (21,738) 23,107 Repo transactions (2,523,624) 1,592,459 Other liabilities 8,867,621 8,754,471 Income Tax payments (7,142,608) (4,244,561) TOTAL CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES (A) 69,184,139 (10,140,923) Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 225 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the fiscal years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Items Notes 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Payments: Acquisition of PPE, intangible assets and other assets (1,971,946) (1,926,596) Proceeds: TOTAL CASH USED IN INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (B) (1,971,946) (1,926,596) CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Payments: Dividends (3,348,618) (846,930) Acquisition or redemption of the Company’s own assets (4,407,907) Unsubordinated corporate bonds (2,451,391) (2,171,204) Financing from local financial entities (631,400) Subordinated corporate bonds (773,358) (442,935) Changes in non-controlling interests with no control loss (456,757) Proceeds/ Income: Issuance of additional shares of stock 12,114,062 Unsubordinated corporate bonds 3,206,999 4,604,398 Central Bank of the Republic of Argentina 12,940 3,084 Financing to local financial entities 864,793 TOTAL CASH USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES (C) (8,849,492) 14,125,268 EFFECT OF EXCHANGE RATE FLUCTUATIONS (D) 16,581,529 1,557,623 TOTAL CHANGES IN CASH FLOWS NET INCREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (A+B+C+D) 74,944,230 3,615,372 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE BEGINNING OF THE YEAR 26 55,685,525 52,070,153 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE END OF THE YEAR 26 130,629,755 55,685,525 The accompanying Notes 1 to 41 to the consolidated Financial Statements and Exhibits A to J, L, N, P to R are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as of 31 December 2018 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) 1. CORPORATE INFORMATION Banco Macro SA (hereinafter, the Entity), is a stock trustee agent, direction and management of mutual corporation (sociedad anónima), organized in the funds and stock exchange services. Republic of Argentina that offers traditional banking products and services to companies, including those Macro Compañía Financiera SA was created in 1977, companies operating in regional economies, as well as a non-banking financial institution. In May 1988, it as to individuals, strengthening in this way its goal to received the authorization to operate as a commerbe a multi-services bank. In addition, through its cial bank and was incorporated as Banco Macro SA. subsidiaries, the Bank performs transactions as a Subsequently, as a result of the merger process with Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 226 Annual Report | Banco Macro other entities, it adopted other names (among them, 2.2. 2.2. Agreement with the Provincial Banco Macro Bansud SA) and since August 2006, it Government of Salta operates as Banco Macro SA. The Bank and Salta’s Provincial Government entered into a special-relationship agreement whereby the The Bank´s shares have been publicly listed on the Bank was appointed, for a ten-year term since March 1, Bolsas y Mercados Argentinos (BYMA) since 1996, as the Provincial Government’s exclusive financial November 1994 and as from March 24, 2006 they agent, as well as revenue collection and obligation are listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). payment agent. Additionally, on October 15, 2015 the Entity was authorized to list its shares on the Mercado Abierto On February 22, 2005 and August 22, 2014, extensions Electrónico SA (MAE). to such agreements were agreed upon, making it currently effective through February 28, 2026. Since 1994, Banco Macro SA’s market strategy was mainly focused on the regional areas outside the As of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, the deposits City of Buenos Aires. Following this strategy, in 1996, held by Salta’s Provincial Government with the Bank Banco Macro SA started the process to acquire amounted to 2,630,532, 908,270 and 1,340,738 entities and assets and liabilities during the privati(including 644,863, 458,550 y 370,154 related to court zation of provincial and other banks. deposits), respectively. On March 8, 2019, the Board of Directors approved the 2.3. Agreement with the Provincial issuance of these Consolidated Financial Statements. Government of Jujuy The Bank and Jujuy’s Provincial Government entered into a special-relationship agreement whereby the 2. OPERATIONS OF THE BANK Bank was appointed, for a ten-year term since January 12, 1998, as the Provincial Government’s 2.1. Agreement with the Provincial exclusive financial agent, as well as revenue collection Government of Misiones and obligation payment agent. On April 29, 2005 and The Bank and Misiones’ Provincial Government July 8, 2014, extensions to such agreement were entered into a special-relationship agreement agreed upon, making it currently effective through whereby the Bank was appointed, for a five-year term September 30, 2024. since January 1, 1996, as the Provincial Government’s As of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, the deposits exclusive financial agent, as well as revenue collecheld by Jujuy’s Provincial Government with the Bank tion and obligation payment agent. On November amounted to 1,387,236, 4,649,184 and 1,580,312 25, 1999, and December 28, 2006, extensions to such (including 436,972, 320,825 and 253,622 related to agreement were agreed upon, making it currently court deposits), respectively. effective through December 31, 2019. In addition, on October 1, 2018, the parties executed a new 10-years 2.4. Banco del Tucumán S.A. extension of the above mentioned agreement from Banco del Tucumán SA acts as an exclusive January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2029. financial agent and as revenue collection and obligation payment agent of the Provincial GovernAs of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, the ment of Tucumán, the Municipality of San Miguel de deposits held by Misiones’ Provincial Government Tucumán and the Municipality of Yerba Buena. The with the Bank amounted to 5,540,994, 3,255,353 agreements executed with these entities are and 2,495,781 (including 430,545, 333,032 and effective through 2031, 2023 and 2020, respectively. 139,610 related to court deposits), respectively. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 227 On July 4, 2018, the legislative body of the Province 3. BASIS FOR THE PREPARATION OF THESE of Tucumán turned into law a bill issued by the FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND APPLICABLE National Executive Power, authorizing the sale to ACCOUNTING STANDARDS Banco Macro S.A. of the shares held by such Province in Banco del Tucumán S.A., as well as its Preparation Basis continuity as provincial financial agent for 10 additional years from expiration of the relevant Applicable Accounting Standards agreement, and in this case, the possibility to merge On February 12, 2014 the Central Bank, through both companies. Communiqué “A” 5541 established the general On August 10, 2018, the Province of Tucumán guidelines towards conversion to the IFRS issued by transferred to Banco Macro S.A. 43,960 class B the International Accounting Standards Board common registered non-endorsable shares of (IASB) for preparing financial statements of the nominal value 100 each and entitled to one vote per entities under its supervision, for the annual fiscal share, representing 10% of the capital stock and years beginning on January 1, 2018 as well as those votes. As consideration for this transaction the Entity of interim-periods. paid 456,462. Additionally, the Entity acquired from a private person 59 shares for 295. Additionally, through Communiqués “A” 6114, the Such transaction was recorded within the Entity’s Central Bank set specific guidelines within the scope Equity, cancelling, at book Price, the non-controlling of such convergence process, among which it interest. The difference between the amount by which defined (i) the transitory exception to the application the controlling and non-controlling interests were of section 5.5 “Impairment” of the IFRS 9 “Financial adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid Instruments” (sections B5.5.1 to B5.5.55)) up to the was recorded as retained earnings. In the separate fiscal years beginning as of January 1, 2020; and (ii) financial statements this transaction was reported in order to calculate the effective interest rate of using the acquisition method of accounting (see also assets and liabilities so requiring it for the measureNote 2 to the separate financial statements). ment thereof, pursuant to IFRS 9, up to December 31, On the other hand, the Board of Banco Macro S.A., on 2019, the Bank may transitorily make a global October 17, 2018, resolved, among other issues: (i) to estimate of the calculation of the effective interest perform all the necessary acts aimed at the reorganirate on a group of financial assets or liabilities with zation by merger of Banco Macro S.A. and Banco del similar characteristics which shall be applied such Tucumán S.A.; (ii) approve the principles that shall effective interest rate. To the date of the present guide the Merger, which shall be duly reflected in the condensed consolidated interim financial statedocuments to be executed to document and register ments the Bank is in the process of determining and the Merger with the Public Registry of Commerce quantifying the effect the application of section 5.5 (Preliminary Merger Agreement); and (iii) prepare the “Impairment” mentioned in (i) above will have. Special Consolidated Financial Statements of Merger Finally, through Communiqués “A” 6323 and 6324 as of December 31, 2018. and supplementary rules, the Central Bank defined As of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, the the minimum chart of accounts and the provisions deposits held by Tucumán’s Provincial Government, applicable to the preparation and presentation of the the Municipality of San Miguel de Tucumán and the financial statements of financial entities for the fiscal Municipality of Yerba Buena with Banco del years beginning on January 1, 2018, respectively Tucumán SA amounted to 6,047,312, 1,913,801 and 2,450,436 (including 1,890,398, 1,225,993 and 943,683 related to court deposits), respectively. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 228 Annual Report | Banco Macro As of December 31, 2018 all conditions have been concern and concluded that it has the resources to met for the Entity’s Consolidated Financial Statecontinue in operation for the foreseeable future. In ments for the year ended such date to incorporate addition, the Management has no information of the inflation adjustment provided under IAS 29 any material uncertainty that could cast doubts on “Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Econothe Entity’s ability to continue as a going concern. mies”. Nevertheless, for the reasons expressed under Therefore, the accompanying consolidated Financial section “Unit of Measure” in this note, financial Statements were prepared on a going concern basis. entities are temporarily unable to apply the above mentioned standard. Transcription in the Books of Accounts The accompanying consolidated financial stateTo the date of the accompanying Consolidated ments of the Entity were prepared pursuant to the Financial Statements, the same are in the process of Accounting framework provided for by the BCRA being transcribed in detail as of 31 December 2018, based on the IFRS (Communiqué “A” 6114 and in the Bank’s Inventory and Balance Sheet Book. supplementary rules of the Central Bank of the Republic of Argentina), with the exceptions deFigures expressed in thousands of Pesos scribed in the preceding paragraphs. Taking into The accompanying consolidated Financial Stateaccount these exceptions, the above mentioned ments disclose figures expressed in thousands of regulatory framework comprises the Standards and Argentine pesos and round the amounts in thousands Interpretations adopted by the IASB and includes: of pesos to the nearest whole number, unless it expressly states the contrary. —— the IFRS; —— the International Accounting Standards (IAS); and Balance Sheet Disclosure —— the interpretations developed by the IFRS InterpreThe Entity presents its assets and liabilities in order of tations Committee (IFRIC) or former IFRIC (SIC). liquidity, in accordance with the model under Communiqué “A” 6324 of the BCRA. The analysis For the preparation of the present Financial Statereferred to the recovery of assets and settlement of ments the Entity contemplated the exceptions and liabilities during the 12 months following the reporting exemptions provided for in IFRS 1 “First-time date and more than 12 months after the reporting Adoption of International Financial Reporting date is disclosed in Note 17 to the accompanying Standards” and those applied are described in consolidated Financial Statements. section “First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards in accordance with Financial assets and financial liabilities are generally Communiqué 6114 of the BCRA” of this Note. disclosed in gross numbers in the Balance Sheet. They are only compensated and disclosed in net The accounting policies comply with the IFRS as figures when there is a legal and unconditional right to currently approved and applicable to the preparacompensate such financial assets and liabilities and tion of the first annual consolidated Financial the Management intends to settle them on a net Statements in accordance with the IFRS adopted by basis or to realize assets and settle liabilities the BCRA pursuant to its Communiqué “A” 6114, as simultaneously. amended and supplemented. Generally, the BCRA does not allow the anticipated application of any Note also that the present consolidated Financial IFRS, unless it expressly states the contrary. Statements were prepared on the basis of historical amounts, except for monetary Regulation InstruGoing concern ments of the BCRA and certain Federal Government The Management of the Entity made an assessSecurities, which were valued at fair value through ment of the Entity’s ability to continue as a going Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) and Provincial Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 229 Government Securities, Corporate Bonds, Debt that percentage, while the federal government’s Securities and listed and unlisted Certificates of targets and other available projections indicate that Participation in Financial Trusts and listed and this trend will no reverse in the short term. unlisted Equity Securities, which were valued at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss. Therefore, according to IAS 29, the Argentine economy is currently regarded as hyperinflationary Additionally, in the case of derivative instruments (term and the entities under the control of the BCRA, who and forward transactions), both assets and liabilities are obliged to apply the IFRS as adopted by the were valued at Fair Value through Profit or Loss. BCRA through its Communiqué “A” 6114 and whose functional currency is the Argentine peso, should Comparative Information restate their financial statements to reflect the The present consolidated Balance Sheet as of effects of inflation in conformity with IAS 29. Such December 31, 2018, the Statements of Income and of restatement shall be made as if the Argentine Other Comprehensive Income, the Statement of economy would have been always hyperinflationary; Changes in Shareholders’ Equity and the Statement of using a general price index that reflects the changes Cash Flows are presented comparatively with in the currency’s purchasing power. In order to carry year-end data of the immediately preceding fiscal year. out the above mentioned restatement, the Entity shall use a series of indexes prepared and informed In addition, In compliance with IFRS 1 “First-time on a monthly basis by the Federación Argentina de Adoption of IFRS” and since the accompanying Consejos Profsionales de Ciencias Económicas consolidated Financial Statements are the first ones (FACPCE). That series of indexes combines the being submitted pursuant to Communiqué “A” 6114 consumer price index (CPI) published by the Instituto of the BCRA, we include the opening Balance sheet Nacional de Estadísticas y Censos (INDEC) from to the transition date (December 31, 2016). January 2017 (base month: December 2016) with the internal wholesale price index (WPI) published by the Unit of Measure INDEC through that date, computing for the months The IFRS require that financial statements of any of November and December 2015 –in respect of entity whose functional currency is the currency of a which there is no available information from the hyperinflationary economy be restated in a homogINDEC on the development of the WPIthe variation enous currency. In order to achieve uniformity as to recorded in the CPI of the City of Buenos Aires. the identification of an economic environment of Taking into consideration the above-mentioned this kind, IAS 29 provides certain guidelines, index, in the fiscal years ended 31 December 2018 including but not limited to the following, which and 2017, the inflation rate amounted to 47.64% and consist of (i) analyzing the behavior of population, 24.79%, respectively. prices, interest rates and wages faced with the development of price indexes and the loss of the However, under Communiqué “A” 6651 of the BCRA, currency’s purchasing power, as a qualitative financial entities shall start to apply the restatement indicator, and (ii) as a quantitative feature, which, in method of financial statements in conformity with IAS practice, is the mostly considered condition, 29 from the fiscal years beginning January 1, 2020. verifying whether the cumulative inflation rate over three years approaches or exceeds 100%. Although Failure to report the changes in the currency’s in recent years the general level of prices experigeneral purchasing power under highly inflationary enced a significant growth, the cumulative inflation economies may distort the accounting information rate over three years in Argentina had remained and, therefore, this situation must be taken into below 100%. However, due to different macroecoaccount when interpreting the information reported nomic factors, triennial inflation in 2018 surpassed by the Entity in the accompanying consolidated Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 230 Annual Report | Banco Macro Financial Statements including its balance sheet, its the closing date of the reporting period, then statement of income and statement of cash flows. comparing the restated amounts of such assets with the relevant recoverable values. . The effects of the application of IAS 29 are summarized below: Depreciation charges of property, plant and equipment and amortization charges of intangible (a) Financial statements must be adjusted so as to assets recognized in profit or loss for the period, as consider the changes in the currency’s general well as any other consumption of non-monetary purchasing power, so that they are expressed in assets will be determined on the basis of the new the current unit of measure at the end of the restated amounts. reporting period. (v) When activation of financial costs applies to (b) In summary, the restatement method under IAS non-monetary assets, the portion of these costs 29 is as follows:: compensating creditor for the effects of inflation shall not be capitalized. (i) Monetary items (those with a fixed nominal value in local currency) are not restated in as much as they (vi) The restatement of non-monetary assets in terms are already expressed in terms of the measuring unit of the measuring unit current at the end of the current at the closing date of the reporting period. In reporting period without an equivalent adjustment for an inflationary period, keeping monetary assets tax purposes, gives rise to a taxable temporary generates loss of purchasing power and keeping difference and to the recognition of a deferred tax monetary liabilities generates an increase in liability, whose contra-account is recognized. When purchasing power, provided such items are not in addition to the restatement, there is a revaluation subject to an adjustment method somehow of non-monetary assets, the deferred tax derived compensating such effects. The net monetary gain from the restatement is recognized in income for the or loss shall be included as income for the period for period, and the deferred tax derived from the which it is reported. revaluation (amount exceeding revaluation value over restatement value) is recognized in other comprehen(ii) Assets and liabilities subject to adjustments under sive income. specific agreements shall be adjusted in accordance with such agreements. (vii) Income and expenses are restated from the date when they were recorded, except for those profit or (iii) Non-monetary items carried at the current value loss items that reflect or include in their determinaof the end date of the reporting period shall not be tion the consumption of assets carried at the restated to be presented in the balance sheet, but purchasing power of the currency as of a date prior to the restatement process must be completed in order the recording of the consumption, which are restated to determine in terms of homogenous unit of based on the date when the asset to which the item measure the income derived from such non-moneis related originated; and except also those profit or tary items. loss items originated from comparing two measurements expressed in the purchasing power of currency (iv) Non-monetary items carried at historical cost or at as of different dates, for which it is necessary to the current value of a date prior to the end of the identify the compared amounts, restate them reporting period are restated using coefficients that separately, and compare them again, but with the reflect the variation recorded in the general level of restated amounts. prices from the date of acquisition or revaluation to Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 231 (viii) At the beginning of the first year of application of —— the purpose and design of the controlled entity, the restatement method of financial statements in —— what the relevant activities are and how deciterms of the current measuring unit, the equity sions about those activities are made and whether components, except for reserved earnings and the Entity has the ability to direct such relevant undistributed retained earnings, shall be restated in activities, conformity with IAS 29, and the amount of undistrib—— contractual arrangements such as call rights, uted retained earnings shall be determined by the put rights and liquidation rights, difference between net assets restated at the date of —— whether the Entity is exposed, or has rights, to transition and the other components of opening variable returns from its involvement with such equity expressed as indicated above, once all controlled entity, and whether the Entity has the remaining equity components are restated. ability to use its power over the controlled entity to affect the amount of the Entity’s returns. To the date of the accompanying consolidated Financial Statements, the Entity is in the process of The Entity has no interests in structured entities that quantifying the effect that the application of IAS 29 required to be consolidated. would have on the Entity’s financial position, but we estimate such effects are significant. Subsidiaries are completely consolidated since the date of the effective transfer of the control over the Basis for Consolidation same to the Entity and consolidation ceases when The accompanying consolidated Financial Statethe Entity loses control over the subsidiaries. The ments include the Financial Statements of the accompanying consolidated Financial Statements Entity and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 2018. include the assets, liabilities, income and each component of other comprehensive income of the Subsidiaries are all the entities controlled by the Entity and its subsidiaries. Transactions between Entity. The Entity controls other entity when it is consolidated entities are completely eliminated. exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its continuing involvement with such other entity, and Changes in a parent’s ownership interest in a has the ability to use its power to direct the operatsubsidiary that do not result in the parent losing ing and financing policies of such other entity, to control of the subsidiary are equity transactions. affect the amounts of such returns. However, if a parent company loses control of a subsidiary, it shall derecognize the assets (including This generally happens when there is a shareholding any goodwill) and liabilities of the subsidiary, any of more than half of its shares having voting rights. non-controlling interests in the former subsidiary and other capital components, while any profit or loss Notwithstanding the above, under certain particular derived from the transaction, event or circumstances circumstances, the Entity may still have control with that resulted in the loss of control shall be recognized less than a 50% participating interest or may not as a profit or loss, and any investment retained in the have the control even if it holds more than half of the former subsidiary shall be recognized at its fair value shares of such other entity. at the date when control is lost. Upon evaluating whether it has power over the The Financial Statements of the subsidiaries have controlled entity, and therefore controls the variation been prepared to the same dates and for the same of its returns, the Entity shall consider all relevant accounting periods as those of the Entity, using facts and circumstances, including: uniform accounting policies consistent with those Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 232 Annual Report | Banco Macro applied by the latter. In case necessary, adjustments c) Income for the periods ended December 31, 2018 shall be made to the Financial Statements of the and 2017 were translated to pesos on a monthly subsidiaries so that the accounting policies used by basis, using the monthly average of the reference the group will be uniform. exchange rate of the BCRA. The Entity considers the Argentine peso as its d) Foreign currency translation differences arising as functional and presentation currency. To such effect, a result of the preceding paragraphs are recognized before consolidation, the Financial statements of its as a separate component within the Shareholders’ subsidiary Macro Bank Limited, originally expressed Equity account reporting them in the Statement of in US dollars, were translated to pesos (presentation Other Comprehensive Income, which is called currency) using the following method: “Foreign currency translation differences in financial statements conversion”. a) Assets and liabilities were converted at the reference exchange rate of the BCRA, in force for On the other hand, non-controlling interests that foreign currency at the closing of business on represent the portion of income and equity not the last business day of the periods ended Decemdirectly or indirectly attributable to the Entity and in ber 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016. the accompanying consolidated Financial Statements they are disclosed as a separate line in the b) owners’ contributions (capital stock, stock Balance Sheet, the Statement of Income, the issuance premium and irrevocable capital contribuStatement of Other Comprehensive Income and the tions) were translated applying the effective exStatement of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity. change rates as of the date on which such contributions were paid in. As of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, the Bank has consolidated its Financial Statements with the Financial Statements of the following companies: Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 233 Subsidiaries Principal Place of Business Country Main Activity Banco del Tucumán S.A. San Martín 721 – San Miguel de Tucumán – Province of Tucumán Argentina Banking Entity Macro Securities S.A. (a) y (b) Av. Eduardo Madero 1182 – Autonomous City of Buenos Aires Argentina Stock Exchange Services Macro Fiducia S.A. AV. Leandro N Alem 1110 – 1° piso – Autonomous City of Buenos Aires Argentina Services Macro Fondos S.G.F.C.I.S.A. Av. Eduardo Madero 1182 – 24th floor Office B Argentina Mutual Funds Direction Autonomous City of Buenos Aires and Management Macro Bank Limited (c) Caves Village, Building 8 Office 1 – West Bay St., Nassau Bahamas Banking Entity (a) Consolidates with Macro Fondos SG.F.C.I. S.A. (80,90% Participating and Voting Interest). (b) The indirect interest of Banco Macro S.A. comes from Macro Fiducia S.A. (c) Consolidates with Sud Asesores (ROU) S.A. (100% Voting Interest–Equity interest 3,602). The Entity’s participating interest in the companies it consolidates is as follows: As of December 31, 2018: Subsidiaries Shares Entity’s Participating Interest Non-controlling Interest Type Number Total Capital Stock Voting Interest Total Capital Stock Voting Interest Banco del Tucumán S.A. Common 439,360 99.945% 99.945% 0.055% 0.055% Macro Securities S.A. Common 12,776,680 99.921% 99.932% 0.079% 0.068% Macro Fiducia S.A. Common 6,475,143 98.605% 98.605% 1.395% 1.395% Macro Fondos S.G.F.C.I.S.A. Common 327,183 99.936% 100.00% 0.064% Macro Bank Limited Common 39,816,899 99.999% 100.00% 0.001% As of December 31, 2017 and 2016: Subsidiaries Shares Entity’s Interest Participating Non-controlling Interest Type Number Total Capital Stock Voting Interest Total Capital Stock Voting Interest Banco del Tucumán S.A. Common 395,341 89.932% 89.932% 10.068% 10.068% Macro Securities S.A. Common 12,776,680 99.921% 99.932% 0.079% 0.068% Macro Fiducia S.A. Common 6,475,143 98.605% 98.605% 1.395% 1.395% Macro Fondos S.G.F.C.I.S.A. Common 327,183 99.936% 100.00% 0.064% Macro Bank Limited Common 39,816,899 99.999% 100.00% 0.001% Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 234 Annual Report | Banco Macro Total assets, liabilities and net equity of the Bank and each of its subsidiaries as of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: As of 12/31/2018 Banco Macro S.A. Banco del Tucumán S.A. Other Subsidiaries Eliminations Consolidated Assets 323,268,073 21,329,507 4,081,903 (5,796,889) 342,882,594 Liabilities 268,421,503 18,883,250 1,739,951 (800,062) 288,244,642 Equity attributable to the owners 54,635,643 of parent company Equity attributable to 2,309 non-controlling interests As of 12/31/2017 Banco Macro S.A. Banco del Tucumán S.A. Other Subsidiaries Eliminations Consolidated Assets 213,157,890 14,789,934 2,922,315 (4,531,069) 226,339,070 Liabilities 166,622,867 12,802,725 1,259,906 (1,082,293) 179,603,205 Equity attributable to the owners 46,535,023 of parent company Equity attributable to 200,842 non-controlling interests As of 12/31/2016 Banco Macro S.A. Banco del Tucumán S.A. Other Subsidiaries Eliminations Consolidated Assets 148,783,028 11,548,487 2,215,093 (3,176,014) 159,370,595 Liabilities 123,812,335 9,489,193 1,107,074 (216,500) 134,192,103 Equity attributable to the owners 24.970.693 of parent company Equity attributable to 207,799 non-controlling interests The Entity’s Management considers there are no benchmark US dollar exchange rate effective as of other companies or structured entities to be included the closing date of transactions on the last business in the Financial Statements as of December 31, 2018, day of each period or fiscal year, as applicable. 2017 and 2016. Additionally, assets and liabilities denominated in Summary of Significant Accounting Policies other foreign currencies were translated at the repo exchange rate communicated by the BCRA. Foreign Below there is a description of the principal valuaexchange differences were recorded in the related tion and disclosure criteria used for the preparation statements of income as “Difference in quoted of the accompanying consolidated Financial prices of gold and foreign currency”. Statements as December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016: 3.2 Financial Instruments 3.1 Assets and liabilities denominated in Initial Recognition and Measurement foreign currency The Entity recognizes financial assets when such The Entity considers the Argentine Peso as its financial assets become party to the contractual functional and presentation currency. The assets provisions of such financial instrument. and liabilities denominated in foreign currency, The purchase and sale of financial assets requiring mainly in US dollars, were valued at BCRA’s the delivery of assets within the term generally Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 235 established by the rules and regulations or the —— at amortized cost: the objective of the business market conditions are recorded on the transaction’s model is to hold financial assets in order to collect trading date, i.e., on the date the Entity undertakes contractual cash flows. to acquire or sell the relevant asset. —— at fair value through other comprehensive income: the objective of the business model is both collecting At initial recognition, the financial assets and the contractual cash flows of the financial asset and/or liabilities were recognized at fair value. Those of those derived from the sale of the financial asset. financial assets and liabilities not recognized at fair —— at fair value from profit or loss: the objective of the value through profit or loss, were recognized at fair business model is generating income derived from the value adjusted for transactions costs directly purchase and sale of financial assets. attributable to the acquisition or issue of the financial asset or liability. Therefore, the Entity measures its financial assets at fair value, except for those that meet the following At initial recognition, the fair value of a financial two conditions and are measured at amortized cost: instrument is generally the transaction price. Nevertheless, if part of the consideration received or paid is —— the financial assets are held within a business for something different form the financial instrument, model whose objective is to hold financial assets in the Entity estimates the fair value of the financial order to collect contractual cash flows, instrument. If this fair value is based on a valuation —— the contractual terms of the financial asset give technique using only observable market data, any rise, on specified dates, to cash flows that are solely additional amount regarding the consideration shall payments of principal and interest on the principal be an expense or a lesser income, unless it meets the amount outstanding. requirements to be recognized as any other kind of asset (“day 1” income). If the fair value is based on a The Entity’s business model is determined at a valuation technique using non-observable market level that reflects how groups of financial assets data, the Entity shall recognize such deferred are managed together to achieve a particular difference in income only if it arises from a change in business objective. a factor (including time) that market players would consider when determining the price of the asset or The business model is not assessed on an instruliability, or when the instrument is cancelled. ment-by-instrument approach, but it should rather be determined on a higher level of aggregation and Finally, in the ordinary course of business, the Entity is based on observable factors such as: performs repo transactions. Under IFRS 9, species involved in active repo and passive repo transactions —— how the performance of the business model and received from or delivered to third parties, respecthe financial assets held within that business model tively, do not meet the requirements to be recogare evaluated and reported to the Entity’s key nized or derecognized, respectively. management personnel. —— the risks that affect the performance of the Subsequent Measurement – Business Model business model (and the financial assets held within The Entity established three categories for the that business model) and, in particular, the way in classification and measurement of its debt instruwhich those risks are managed; and, ments, in accordance with the Entity’s business —— the expected frequency, value, timing and model to manage them and the contractual cash reasons of sales are also important aspects. flow characteristics thereof: Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 236 Annual Report | Banco Macro The assessment of the business model is performed Therefore, the financial assets and liabilities were on the basis of scenarios that the Entity reasonably classified pursuant to the above expressed as expects to occur, without taking into account the “Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss”, scenarios such as the so-called ‘worst case’ or ‘stress “Financial assets at fair value through other comprecase’ scenarios. If after the initial recognition cash hensive income” or “Financial assets at amortized flows are realized in a way that is different from the cost”. Such classification is disclosed in Exhibit P Entity’s expectations, the Entity does not change “Categories of Financial Assets and Liabilities”. the classification of the remaining financial assets held in that business model, but rather considers all Financial assets at fair value relevant information to assess the newly originated through profit or loss or newly purchased financial assets. This category presents two subcategories: financial assets at fair value held for trading and financial Test of contractual cash flow characteristics assets initially designated at fair value by the As part of the classification process, the Entity Management or under section 6.7.1. of IFRS 9. The assessed the contractual terms of its financial Entity’s Management, has not designated, at the instruments in order to determine if such financial beginning, financial assets at fair value through instruments give rise to cash flows on specific dates profit or loss. which are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. The Entity classifies the financial assets as held for trading when they have been acquired or incurred For the purposes of this assessment, “principal” is principally for the purpose of selling or repurchasing defined as the fair value of the financial asset at them in the near term or when they are part of a initial recognition, provided such amount may portfolio of identified financial instruments that are change over the life of the financial asset, for managed together and for which there is evidence example, if there are repayments of principal or of a recent actual pattern of short-term profit-taking. premium amortization or discount. Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through The most significant elements of interest within a profit or loss are recognized at fair value in the loan agreement are typically the consideration for Balance Sheet. Changes in fair value are recognized the time value of money and credit risk. under the item “Net Income for measurement of financial instruments at fair value through profit or In order to test contractual cash flow characteristics, loss”, as well as income or expenses for interest and the Entity applies judgment and considers relevant dividends pursuant to the contractual terms and factors such as the currency in which the financial conditions, or when the right to receive payment of asset is denominated and the period for which the the dividend is established. interest rate is set. Estimation of fair values is explained in detail under However, contractual terms that introduce exposure “Accounting judgments, estimates and assumpto risks or volatility in the contractual cash flows that tions” in this Note. are unrelated to a basic lending arrangement, do not give rise to contractual cash flows that are solely Note 9 to the accompanying consolidated Financial payments of principal and interest on the principal Statements includes a detail description of the amount outstanding. In such cases, financial assets process used to measure financial instruments are required to be measured at fair value through valued at fair value. profit or loss. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 237 Financial assets at fair value through other After initial recognition, these financial assets are comprehensive income (OCI) recognized in the Balance Sheet at amortized cost (i) A financial asset shall be measured at fair value using the effective interest method, less the allowthrough other comprehensive income if (i) the ance for loan losses. financial instrument is held within a business model whose objective is achieved by both collecting Income from interest and impairment are disclosed in contractual cash flows and selling financial assets the Statement of Income as “Income from interest and (ii) the contractual terms of the financial asset received” and “Provision for loan losses”, respectively. meet the determination that cash flows are solely Changes in the allowance are presented in Exhibit R payments of principal and interest on the principal “Value correction for credit losses – Allowance for amount outstanding. uncolectibility risk”. Debt instruments at fair value through other The effective interest method uses the rate that comprehensive income are recognized in the allows the discount of estimated future cash payBalance Sheet at fair value. Profits and losses ments or receipts through the expected life of the derived from changes in fair value are recognized in financial instrument or lesser term, if applicable, to other comprehensive income as “Profits or losses the net carrying amount of the financial asset or to from financial instruments at fair value through other the financial liability. When applying this method, the comprehensive income”. Income from interest Bank identifies the interest basic points, fees, (calculated using the “effective interest method” premiums, discounts and incremental direct costs of described in the following section), profit and loss the transaction as an integral part of the effective from translation differences and impairment are interest rate. For such purposes, interest is the recognized in the statement of income in the same consideration for the time value of money and for the manner as for financial assets measured at amorcredit risk associated with the amount of principal tized cost and are disclosed as “Income from outstanding during a specific period of time. interest received”, “Difference in quoted prices of gold and foreign currency” and “Provision for loan 3.2.1 Cash and deposits in banks losses”, respectively. They were valued at their nominal value plus the relevant accrued interest, if applicable. Accrued When the Entity has more than one investment on interests were allocated to income as “Income from the same security, it must be considered that they interest received”. shall be disclosed using the first in first out costing method. 3.2.2 Repo transactions (purchase and sale of financial instruments) On derecognition, gains and losses accumulated These transactions were recognized in the Balance previously recognized in OCI are reclassified to profit Sheet as financing granted (received), as “Repo or loss. transactions”. Financial assets at amortized cost – The difference between purchase and sale prices of Effective Interest Method such instruments were recognized as interest They represent financial assets held in order to collect accrued during the effective term of the transactions contractual cash flows and the contractual terms of using the effective interest method and were which give rise on specified dates to cash flows that allocated to income as “Income from interest are solely payments of principal and interest on the received” and “Expense for interest paid”. principal amount outstanding. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 238 Annual Report | Banco Macro 3.2.3 Loans and other financing – Allowance for uncolectibility risk”. The section Non-derivative financial assets that the Entity holds “Accounting judgments, estimates and assumpwithin a business model whose objective is to hold tions” in this Note includes a more detailed financial assets in order to collect contractual cash description of impairment estimates. flows and the contractual terms of which give rise, on specified dates, to cash flows that are solely 3.2.5 Financial Liabilities payments of principal and interest on the principal After initial recognition, certain financial liabilities amount outstanding. were measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method, except for derivatives that were After initial recognition, loans and other financing measured at fair value through profit or loss. were measured at amortized cost using the effective Interests were allocated to income as “Expense for interest method, less the allowance for loan losses. interest paid””. The amortized cost was calculated taking into account any discount or premium incurred in the Within other financial liabilities we included guaranorigination or acquisition, and origination fees or tees granted and eventual liabilities, which must be commissions, which are part of the effective interest disclosed in the Notes to the Financial Statements, rate. Income from interest was allocated to income when the documents supporting such credit facilities as “Income from interest received”. are issued and are initially recognized at fair value of the commission received, in the Balance Sheet. After 3.2.4 Allowance for loan losses and initial recognition, the liability for each guarantee allowance for eventual commitments was recognized at the higher of the amortized These allowances were built-up based on estimated commission and the best estimate of the disburseloan losses of the credit facilities of the Entity, ment required to settle any financial obligation deriving, among other aspects, from the arising as a result of the financial guarantee. assessment of the compliance level of debtors and Any increase in the liabilities related to a financial the guarantees that secure the relevant transactions guarantee was recognized as income. The commistaking into account the provisions of Communiqué sion received has been recognized as “Income from “A” 2950 and supplementary provisions of the Central commissions received” in the Statement of income, Bank and the allowance policies of the Entity. based on the amortization thereof following the straight-line method over the effective term of the In the case of loans with specific allowances that are financial guarantee granted. repaid or generate the reversion of allowances built-up in the current period, and in case of 3.2.6 Derivative financial instruments allowances built-up in previous fiscal years that turn Receivables from forward transactions out to exceed those deemed necessary, such without delivery of underlying assets allowance excess is reversed with impact on the It includes forward purchase and sale transactions of income for the present period. foreign currency without delivery of traded underlying asset. Such transactions were measured at the Impairment losses are included in the Statement of fair value of the contracts and were performed by Income as “Provision for loan losses” and the the Entity with intermediation purposes on its own changes in this accounting item are disclosed in account. The originated income was allocated to Exhibit R “Value correction for credit losses income as “Net income for measurement of financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss”. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 239 Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities On the other hand, a financial liability is derecogA financial asset (or, if applicable, a part of a financial nized when the obligation specified in the relevant asset or a part of a group of similar financial assets) contract is discharged or cancelled or expires. When shall be derecognized when: (i) the contractual rights there is an exchange between an existing borrower to the cash flows from the financial asset expire, or and lender of debt instruments with substantially (ii) the Entity transfers the contractual rights to different terms, or the terms are substantially receive the cash flows of the financial asset or retains modified, such exchange or modification shall be the contractual rights to receive the cash flows of the accounted for as an extinguishment of the original financial asset, but assumes a contractual obligation financial liability and the recognition of a new to pay the cash flows received immediately to a third financial liability, recognizing the difference party pursuant to a transfer agreement. between the carrying amount of a financial liability extinguished or transferred to another party A transfer shall qualify for derecognition of the and the consideration paid, in profit or loss as “Other financial asset only if (i) the Entity has transferred operating income”. substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset, or (ii) it has neither transferred Reclassification of financial nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of assets and liabilities ownership of the financial asset, but has transferred The Entity does not reclassify its financial assets after the control of the financial asset, considering that the initial recognition thereof, except under extraordithe control is transferred if, and only if, the transferee nary circumstances when it changes its business has the practical ability to sell the asset in its entirety model for managing financial assets, as a result of to an unrelated third party and is able to exercise external or internal changes significant to the Entity’s that ability unilaterally and without needing to transactions. Financial liabilities are never reclassiimpose additional restrictions on the transfer. fied. As of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, the Entity has made no significant reclassifications. If the Entity neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a trans3.3 Financial Leases ferred asset, and has retained the control over it, the The Entity grants loans through financial leases, Entity shall continue to recognize such transferred recognizing the current value of lease payments as asset to the extent to which it is exposed to changes a financial asset, which the Entity reports in its in the value of the transferred asset. Balance Sheet as “Borrowings and other financing”. The difference between the total lease receivables The Entity derecognizes a loan when the terms and and the current value of financing is recognized as conditions thereof have been renegotiated provided interest to accrue. This income is recognized during that, such loans substantially becomes a new loan, the term of the lease using the effective interest rate recognizing the difference as income from account method, which reflects a constant rate of return and derecognition. If such modification does not is recognized in profit or loss as “Income from generate substantially different cash flows, then the Interest received”. Losses originated for impairment modification shall not result in derecognition. The are included in the Statement of income as “ProviEntity performs the reassessment of the gross book sion for loan losses” and changes in this accounting value of such asset as the current value of the item are disclosed in Exhibit R “Value correction for modified contractual cash flows, using the effective credit losses – Allowance for uncolectibility risk”. interest rate of the original loan for the discount and recognizes an income from modification. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 240 Annual Report | Banco Macro 3.4 Investments in associates losses, if applicable. The historical cost of acquisition and joint ventures includes all expenses directly attributable to the An associate is an entity over which the Entity has acquisition of the assets. Maintenance and repair significant influence, i.e. the power to participate in costs were accounted for in profits or losses as the financial and operating policy decisions of such incurred. Any replacement and significant improvecontrolled entity, but without having the control ment of an item of property, plant and equipment is thereof. Investments in associates were recognized recognized as an asset only when it is likely to through the equity method and they were initially produce any future economic benefits exceeding the recognized at cost. The Entity’s share in the profits or return originally assessed for such asset. losses after the acquisition of its associates was Depreciation of the items of property, plant and accounted for in profits or losses, and its share in equipment was assessed in proportion to the other comprehensive income after the acquisition estimated months of useful life, depreciating comwere accounted for in other comprehensive income. pletely on the acquisition month of the assets and not on the derecognition date. In addition, at least at A joint arrangement is an arrangement of which the each financial year-end, the Bank reviews if expectaEntity and other party or parties have joint control. tions regarding the useful life of each item of property, Under IFRS 11 “Joint Arrangements”, investments in plant and equipment differ from previous estimates, in these arrangements are classified as joint ventures order to detect any material changes in useful life or joint operations depending on the contractual which, if confirmed, shall be adjusted applying the rights and obligations of each investor, regardless of relevant correction to the depreciation of property, the legal structure of the arrangement. A joint plant and equipment accounting item. Depreciation venture is an arrangement pursuant to which the is recognized in the Statement of Income as “Depreparties having joint control of the arrangement have ciation of Property, plant and equipment”. rights to the net assets of such arrangement. A joint The residual value of the assets, as a whole, does operation is an arrangement pursuant to which the not exceed their recoverable amount. parties having joint control of the arrangement have rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities, Furthermore, the Bank is building a new corporate relating to the arrangement. building in the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires. Under IAS 23 “Borrowing Costs”, this is qualifying The Entity has assessed the nature of its joint asset and therefore all costs related to financing arrangements and determined that the same are directly or indirectly attributable to the acquisition joint ventures. Investments in joint ventures were and construction of this asset were capitalized. On recognized using the equity method described in the December 2018 the Entity ceased to capitalize the paragraph above. See also Note 11. borrowing costs since it completed all necessary activities to render this asset suitable for the 3.5 Property, plant and equipment intended use. See also Note 14 to the accompanying The Bank chose the cost model for all kinds of consolidated Financial Statements. assets accounted for in this accounting item, taking into account the considerations mentioned in the 3.6 Intangible Assets section “First-time Adoption of International Intangible assets acquired separately were initially Financial Reporting Standards in accordance with measured at cost. After initial recognition, they were Central Bank Communiqué “A” 6114” of this Note for accounted for at cost less any accumulated the real property owned by the Bank. These assets depreciation (for those to which finite useful lives were carried at their cost less any accumulated have been allocated) and any accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment impairment losses, if applicable. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 241 Internally generated intangible assets, excluding —— how the intangible asset will generate probable capitalized development expenses, shall not be future economic benefits, capitalized and the relevant disbursement shall be —— the availability of adequate resources to comreported in the Balance Sheet for the period in which plete the development, and such expenditure is incurred. —— its ability to measure reliably the expenditure attributable to the intangible asset during its Useful lives of intangible assets may be finite or development: indefinite. After initial recognition of the development expendiIntangible assets with finite useful lives are amorture as an asset, such asset shall be carried at its tized over their economic useful lives, and are cost less any accumulated amortization and any reviewed in order to determine whether they had any applicable accumulated impairment losses. impairment loss to the extent there is any evidence Amortization shall begin when the development that indicates that the intangible asset may be phase has been completed and the asset is impaired. The period and method of amortization for available for use. The asset amortizes over the an intangible asset with a finite useful life are period in which the asset is expected to generate reviewed at least at the financial year-end of each future benefits. Amortization is accounted for in the reporting period. Amortization charges of intangible Statement of income as “Depreciation of Property, assets with finite useful lives are accounted for in the plant and equipment”. During the development Statement of Income as “Depreciation of Property, phase, the asset is subject to annual tests to plant and Equipment”. determine whether there is any impairment loss. Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not 3.7 Investment Property amortized and are subject to annual tests in order to We included certain real property that the Entity determine whether they are impaired, either individuholds for undetermined future use, which were ally or as part of the cash-generating unit to which recognized pursuant to IAS 40 “Investment Property”. such intangible assets were allocated. The Entity has no intangible assets with indefinite useful lives. For this kind of property, the Entity chose the cost model described in Note 3.5 Property, plant and The gain or loss arising from the derecognition of equipment. an intangible asset shall be determined as the difference between the net disposal proceeds, if An investment property is derecognized on disposal any, and the carrying amount of the asset, and it or when the investment property is permanently shall be recognized in profit or loss when the asset withdrawn from use and no future economic is derecognized. benefits are expected from its disposal. The difference between the net disposal proceeds and the Development expenditure incurred in a specific carrying amount of the asset is recognized in profit project shall be recognized as intangible asset when or loss in the period of the retirement or disposal as the Bank can demonstrate all of the following: “Other Operating Income”. —— the technical feasibility of completing the An entity shall transfer a property to, or from, intangible asset so that it will be available for the investment property when, and only when, there is a intended use or sale, change in use. For a transfer from investment —— its intention to complete the intangible asset and property to an item of property, plant and equipits ability use or sell it, ment, the property’s deemed cost for subsequent Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 242 Annual Report | Banco Macro accounting is its fair value at the date of change in 3.10 Provisions use. If an item of property, plant and equipment The Entity recognizes a provision if and only if the becomes an investment property the Entity recogfollowing circumstances are met: (a) the Entity has a nizes the asset up to the date of change in use in present obligation as a result of a past event; (b) it is accordance with the policy established for property, probable (i.e., it is more likely than not) that an plant and equipment. outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and (c) a reliable estimate can be made 3.8 Non-current Assets held for Sale of the amount of the obligation. The Entity reclassifies in this category non-current assets of which the carrying amount will be recovIn order to determine the amount of provisions, the ered principally through a sale transaction rather risks and uncertainties were considered taking into than through continuing use. The asset (or disposal account the opinion of independent and internal group) must be available for immediate sale in its legal advisors of the Entity. Where the effect of the present condition subject only to terms that are usual time value of money is material, the provisions shall and customary for sales of such assets (or disposal be discounted using a pre-tax rate that reflects, if groups) and its sale must be highly probable. applicable, current risks specific to the liability. When the discount is recognized, the effect of the These non-current assets classified as held for sale provision derived from the lapse of time is accountare measured, at the time they are reclassified to this ed for as “Expense for interest paid” in the Statecategory, at the lower of carrying amount and fair ment of Income. Based on the analysis carried out, value less costs to sell and are reported on a separate the Entity recognized as provision the amount of line in the Balance Sheet. Once they are classified as the best estimate of the expenditure required to held for sale, these assets are not subject to depreciasettle the present obligation at the end of each tion or amortization. Income from sale of non-current reporting period. assets held for sale is reported in the Statement of Income as “Other Operating Income”. The provisions accounted for by the Entity are reviewed at the end of each reporting period or fiscal 3.9 Impairment of Non-financial Assets year, as applicable, and adjusted to reflect the The Entity evaluates, at least at each fiscal yearcurrent best available estimate. In addition, proviend, whether there are any events or changes in the sions are recognized with specific allocation to be circumstances that may indicate the impairment of used only for the expenditures for which they were non-financial assets or whether there is any evidence originally recognized. that a non-financial asset may be impaired. When there is any evidence or when an annual In the event: a) the obligation is possible; or b) it is impairment test is required for an asset, the Entity not probable that an outflow of resources will be shall estimate the recoverable amount of such required for the Entity to settle the obligation; or c) asset. If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its the amount of the obligation cannot be estimated recoverable amount, such asset is deemed impaired reliably, the contingent liability shall not be recogand its carrying amount shall be reduced to its nized and shall be disclosed in the Notes. Nevertherecoverable amount. To the date of the accompanyless, when the possibility of an outflow of resources ing consolidated Financial Statements, there is no is remote, no disclosures shall be made. evidence of impairment of non-financial assets. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 243 3.11 Recognition of Income and Expenses 3.12 Customer Loyalty Program 3.11.1 Revenue from interest received and The loyalty program offered by the Entity consists expenses for interest paid in accumulating points generated by purchases Revenue from interest received and expenses for made with the credit cards, which can be exinterest paid were recognized according to their changed by any reward (including, among other accrual period, applying the effective interest offers, products, benefits and awards) available in method, as described in section “Financial assets at the program platform. amortized cost – Effective Interest Method”. Revenue from interest received includes the return The Bank concluded that the rewards to be granted on fixed income investments and negotiable originate a separate performance obligation. instruments, as well as the discount and premium Therefore, at the end of each fiscal year the Entity on financial instruments. recognizes a provision for the rewards to be granted in “Other financial liabilities”. Bond coupons were recognized at the time they were declared. Based on the variables that the Entity takes into account in order to estimate the (fair) value of the 3.11.2 Loan Commissions points granted to customers (and the relation Commission charges and direct incremental costs thereof with the exchange of the Reward), it is related with the granting of financing facilities were worthwhile to mention that such estimates are deferred and recognized adjusting the effective subject to a significant level of uncertainty (and interest rate thereof. variation) that should be considered. These considerations are described in detail in the section 3.11.3 Service Commissions “Accounting judgments, estimates and assumpThis income is accounted for when (or to the extent) tions” in this Note. the Entity satisfies each performance obligation by transferring the services undertaken under the 3.13 Income Tax and Minimum applicable contracts, in an amount that reflects the Presumed Income Tax consideration to which the Entity expected to be 3.13.1 Income Tax entitled in exchange for those services. Tax expense (tax income) comprises current tax expense (current tax income) and deferred tax At the commencement of each contract, the Entity expense (deferred tax income). This tax is accounted evaluates the services involved in such contract and for as part of profit or loss in the statements, except in identifies each promise to transfer a different service the case of accounting items that are to be recogor a bundle of different services that are substantially nized directly in other comprehensive income statethe same and that have the same pattern of ments. In this case, each accounting item is presented transfer to the customer. before assessing their impact on Income Tax, which is accounted for in the relevant accounting item. 3.11.4 Non-financial revenue and expenses They are accounted for in accordance with the -Current income tax: the consolidated current terms and conditions for recognition provided for in income tax expense is the sum of the income tax the Conceptual Framework, such as the requirement expenses of the different entities that compose the for income to be accrued in order to be reported. Group, which were assessed, in each case, by applying the tax rate to the taxable income, in accordance with the Income Tax Law, or equivalent rule or provision, of the countries in which any subsidiary operates. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 244 Annual Report | Banco Macro -Deferred income tax: it is assessed based on the 3.13.2 Minimum presumed income tax individual Financial statements of the Bank and of In the fiscal year 1998, Law No. 25,063 established each of its subsidiaries and reflects the effects of minimum presumed income tax for a ten-year term. temporary differences between the carrying amount At present, after subsequent extensions, and taking of an asset or liability in the balance sheet and its into account the provisions of Law No. 27,260, such tax base. Assets and liabilities are measured using tax is effective through the fiscal years ending up to the tax rate that is expected to be applied to the and including December 31, 2018. This tax is taxable income in the years in which these differsupplementary to income tax, while the latter is ences are expected to be settled or recovered. The levied on the taxable income for the year, minimum measurement of deferred tax liabilities and deferred presumed income tax is a minimum levy assesstax assets reflects the tax consequences that will ment applicable on the potential income of certain follow from the manner in which the Bank and its production assets at a 1% rate. Therefore, the Bank’s subsidiaries expect, at the end of the reporting tax obligation for each year will be equal to the period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of higher of these taxes their assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized regardless of the time in In the case of entities subject to the Financial which the temporary differences are expected to Entities Act, the above mentioned Law provides reverse. Deferred tax assets are recognized when it that such entities shall consider as taxable basis for is probable that taxable profit will be available the minimum presumed income tax 20% of their against which the deductible temporary difference taxable assets after deducting those defined as can be utilized. non-taxable assets. On December 29, 2017 the Argentine Executive However, if minimum presumed income tax exceeds Power passed and put into effect the Tax Reform Act income tax in a given tax year, such excess may be which, among other things, reduces the corporate computed as a payment on account of any income rate of income tax applicable to corporate retained tax in excess of minimum presumed income tax that earnings and impacts on the measurement of may occur in any of the following ten years, once deferred tax assets and liabilities. This reduction in accumulated net operating losses (NOLs) have the corporate rate of income shall be implemented been used. gradually over the next four years dropping from the 35% rate applicable for and including the fiscal year As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the amounts 2017, to a 25% rate in 2020. The effects thereof shall recognized for income tax exceeded those assessed be considered from the deferred taxes assessed as of for minimum presumed income tax for those same December 31, 2017, as follows: if reverse shall occur periods. See also Note 19. from January 1, 2018 and up to December 31, 2019, the applicable tax rate is 30% and if reversion shall 3.14 Earnings per Share occur from January 1, 2020 onwards, the applicable Basic earnings per share shall be calculated by tax rate is 25%. In addition, through this tax reform dividing Net profit attributable to parent´s shareholdthe Government introduced changes in connection ers of the Entity by the weighted average number of with the balancing tax, tax adjustment for inflation, ordinary shares outstanding during the period. See treatment of acquisitions and investments made also Note 28. from January 1, 2018, tax revaluation and employer contributions among other issues. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 245 3.15 Fiduciary Activities have used them as basis for valuation. When prices and Investment Management in active markets are not available, the Entity The Entity renders custody, administration, investestimated those values as values based on the best ment management and advisory services to third available information, including the use of models parties that originate the holding or placement of and other assessment techniques. assets in the name of such third parties. These assets and the income on them are not included in Additionally, the BCRA allows for additional the Financial Statements, since they are not owned allowances for loan losses and changes in classificaby the Entity. The commissions derived from these tion of debtors, as the case maybe, based on the activities are accounted for as “Income from Entity’s risk management policy. The Risk Managecommissions received” in the Statement of Income. ment Committee may decide to increase the See also Notes 31, 32.3 and 36. amount of the provision for loan losses by establishing additional allowances after assessing the Accounting judgments, estimates portfolio risk, basing its decision for example in the and assumptions analysis of the local and international macroecoThe preparation of the accompanying condensed nomic conditions. consolidated interim financial statements requires the Entity’s Management to consider significant As to the customer loyalty program, the Bank accounting judgments, estimates and assumptions estimates the fair value of the points awarded to that impact on the reported assets and liabilities, customers under the “Macropremia” program by income, revenues and expenses, as well as the applying statistics techniques. The data that feed assessment and disclosure of contingent assets and the models include assumptions regarding exliabilities, as of the end of the reporting period. The change percentages, the product combinations Entity’s reported amounts are based available for exchange in the future and customers’ preferences. on the best estimate regarding the probability of occurrence of different future events and, therefore, First-time adoption of IFRSs under the uncertainties associated with the estimates and Communiqué “A” 6114 issued by the BCRA assumptions made by the Entity’s Management may drive in the future to final amounts that may Communiqué “A” 6324 requires the presentation of differ from those estimates and may require material the following reconciliations: adjustments to the reported amounts of the affected assets and liabilities. -between the consolidated equity determined in accordance with the standards of the BCRA and the In certain cases, the Financial Statements prepared consolidated equity determined in accordance with in accordance with Communiqué “A” 6114 issued by Communiqué “A” 6114 issued by the BCRA, as of the BCRA, require that the assets and liabilities to December 31, 2016 (date of transition) and Decembe recognized and/or presented at their fair value. ber 31, 2017; and The fair value is the amount at which an asset can be exchanged, or at which a liability can be settled, -between the consolidated net income determined in mutual independent terms and conditions in accordance with the standards of the BCRA for between participants of the principal market (or the year ended December 31, 2017 and the consolimost advantageous market) duly informed and dated total comprehensive income determined in willing to transact in an orderly and current transacaccordance with Communiqué “A” 6114 issued by the tion. When prices in active markets are available, we BCRA to the same date. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 246 Annual Report | Banco Macro In preparing these reconciliations, the Entity’s Use of fair value as deemed cost for an item of Management considered the IFRSs currently property, plant and equipment and investment approved and applicable to the presentation of the properties: accompanying consolidated Financial Statements that are the first consolidated Financial Statements Properties and properties under construction were presented in accordance with Communiqué “A” 6114 measured in the opening balance sheet as of issued by the BCRA, but applying the exceptions December 31, 2016 (date of transition) at fair value, and exemptions under IFRS 1 described below: determined on the basis of valuations made to such date by an independent valuer who holds a recog• Optional exemptions nized and relevant professional qualification. The Business combinations: Entity chose to use these values as carrying amount The Entity decided not to apply IFRS 3 “Business at the date of transition. After the date of transition, Combinations” retroactively to the acquisition of measurement of items of property, plant and subsidiaries (that are deemed businesses), investequipment and investment property were made in ments in associates and interests in joint ventures accordance with IAS 16 “Property, Plant and occurred before December 31, 2016 (date of transiEquipment” and IAS 40 “Investment Property”, tion). Using this exemption implies that the carrying respectively. To such effect, the Entity has chosen amounts of assets and liabilities measured pursuant the cost model provided for under such standards. to BCRA standards, and that must be recognized in accordance to the IFRSs, are the cost thereof Accumulated translation differences: attributed as of the acquisition date. After the The Entity decided to consider at zero accumulated acquisition date, measurements shall be made in currency translation differences as of December 31, accordance with Communiqué “A” 6114 issued by 2016 (date of transition), for the foreign subsidiary the BCRA. Assets and liabilities that do not qualify Macro Bank Limited. to be recognized as such according to the IFRSs are excluded from the opening Balance sheet. Fair value measurement of financial assets at initial recognition: In this sense, no previous amount which would have For the presentation of the carrying amounts at the been recognized according to BCRA standards was date of transition, related to the acquisition of loan excluded and no amount which was not previously portfolio, the Entity decided to go for the exemption recognized has been recognized, pursuant to BCRA contemplated in paragraph D of IFRS 1 and recogstandards. IFRS 1 also establishes that the carrying nized prospectively the cost of transactions related amount of goodwill measured according to BCRA to such acquisitions. standards shall be included in the opening balance sheet, regardless of the adjustments for impairment Borrowing costs: and for recognition or derecognition of certain The Entity decided to apply the transitional proviintangible assets that qualify or not to be recognized sions of IAS 23 and has capitalized borrowing costs as such under IAS 38 “Intangible Assets”. in qualifying assets from December 31, 2016 (date of transition). The Entity has not used other exemptions or exceptions available under IFRS 1. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 247 • Obligatory exceptions Non-controlling interests Estimates The total comprehensive income of subsidiaries was The significant accounting judgments, estimates attributed to the owners of the parent company and and assumptions made by the Entity’s Manageto the non-controlling interests, from December 31, ment to determine the amounts according to the 2016 (date of transition). IFRS as of December 31, 2016 (date of transition), and as of December 31, 2017, were consistent with Reconciliations required those made as of the same dates according to BCRA standards and reflect the current conditions • Reconciliation of consolidated equity as of as of the respective dates. December 31, 2016 (date of transition). Previous BCRA Adjustments Balance under Standards & Reclassifications Communiqué “A” 6114 Total Assets 154,998,960 4,371,635 159,370,595 Total Liabilities 132,893,062 1,299,041 134,192,103 Equity 22,105,898 3,072,594 25,178,492 Equity attributable to parent company 207,799 Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 24,970,693 Description Balance as of 12/31/2016 Under previous BCRA Standards 22,105,898 Adjustments & Reclassifications Debt securities and investment in equity instruments 153,970 Loans and other financing (238,730) Property, plant and equipment and investment property 4,560,495 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities (1,321,392) Other non-financial assets 52,757 Other non-financial liabilities (370,143) Corporate bonds 31,560 Other adjustments (3,722) Third-party minority interests 207,799 Total adjustments 3,072,594 Total Equity under BCRA’s Communiqué “A” 6114 25,178,492 Equity attributable to parent company 24,970,693 Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 207,799 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 248 Annual Report | Banco Macro • Reconciliation of equity as of December 31, 2017. Description Previous BCRA Adjustments Balance under Standards & Reclassifications Communiqué “A” 6114 Total Assets 224,242,704 2,096,366 226,339,070 Total Liabilities 181,112,157 (1,508,952) 179,603,205 Equity 43,130,547 3,605,318 46,735,865 Equity attributable to parent company 200,842 Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 46,535,023 Description Balance as of 12/31/2017 Under previous BCRA Standards 43,130,547 Adjustments & Reclassifications Debt securities and investment in equity instruments 17,423 Loans and other financing (291,040) Property, plant and equipment and investment property 4,556,825 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities (469,086) Other non-financial assets 64,785 Other non-financial liabilities 51,579 Corporate bonds (515,769) Other adjustments (10,241) Third-party minority interests 200,842 Total adjustments 3,605,318 Total Equity under BCRA’s Communiqué “A” 6114 46,735,865 Equity attributable to parent company 46,535,023 Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 200,842 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 249 • Reconciliation of consolidated income and other comprehensive income for the three-month period ended March 31, 2017. Reconciliation of income for the fiscal year ended 12/31/2017 Net Income Other Comprehensive Comprehensive for the Period Income Income Under previous BCRA Standards 9,388,772 Income from interest received (33,158) Expenses for interest paid 20,019 Income from commissions received (19,556) Net Income from measuring financial instruments at fair value through OCI (109,077) Depreciation of Property, plant and equipment (45,407) Employee benefits (114,042) Other operating expenses (70,000) Income from associates and joint ventures 18,633 Reclassification for share issuance expenses 276,480 Foreign currency translation differences (137,148) 137,148 Income from financial instruments at fair value through OCI 1,279 Other adjustments 121,333 Income Tax 854,964 Total adjustments & reclassifications 763,041 138,427 Balance under BCRA’s Communiqué “A” 6114 10,151,813 138,427 10,290,240 Equity attributable to parent company 10,065,358 138,849 10,240,207 Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 86,455 (422) 86,033 Explanatory notes to the adjustments on Debt securities transition to IFRS Adjustments in this accounting item arise mainly This section includes a brief description of the main when the valuation established for each business adjustments on transition to the standards estabmodel into which holdings were classified, differs lished by BCRA’s Communiqué “A” 6114 affecting from the valuation established by the BCRA equity as of December 31, 2016 (date of transition) standards. and as of December 31, 2017, and the consolidated income and other comprehensive income for the In addition, the Entity carried out active repo fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, and which arise transactions of which, under BCRA standards, the from comparing the accounting policies applied by underlying assets should be recognized as assets of the Entity to the preparation of the Financial Statethe Entity. Under IFRS, these assets received from ments up to the end of the previous fiscal year ended third parties do not meet the requirements to be December 31, 2017 (BCRA) and the accounting recognized as such. policies applied by the Entity to the preparation of the Financial Statements from the fiscal year beginning Furthermore, the Entity received security deposits on January 1, 2018. which, under BCRA standards, implied recognition of such security within this accounting item against a Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 250 Annual Report | Banco Macro liability for deposits for the principal plus the agreed companies were recognized at the best approximaupon interest and the quoting difference, which was tion to the fair value through profit or loss according accounted for in Deposits. According to IFRS 9, to IFRS 9. Under BCRA standards, these approximathese transactions neither imply the recognition of tions were recognized at cost, plus the nominal value the asset nor the offset in liabilities. In addition, items of any dividends received in shares. accrued in favor were reclassified from “Expense for interest paid” to “Expenses for services” within Non-financial assets “Commissions related to security transactions”. Under IFRS 15 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers”, the Entity included Contract Assets for Loans and other financing commissions charged for the subscription to one of The Entity’s loan portfolio was generated in a the Entity’s customer loyalty programs. In such business model structure intended principally to program, the only performance obligation contemreceive contractual cash flows (composed of plated in the contract is the one that requires the principal and interest). Under IFRS 9, the loan Entity to contact its customer with a recognized portfolio shall be measured at amortized cost, airline. As consideration for this service, the Entity measuring it at the beginning at fair value, using the receives a membership fee. effective interest method, which implies that the commissions charged and the direct incremental Investments in associates and joint ventures costs related to the granting of such financing The Entity holds interests in UTEs (joint ventures), facilities shall be deferred and recognized over the which according to IFRS 11 “Joint Arrangements” are term of the financing facility. accounted for using the equity method. Under BCRA standards, the Entity used the proportional Under BCRA standards, interests were accrued on consolidation method. the basis of exponential distribution in the periods in which they were generated and the commissions Property, plant and equipment were charged and the direct costs were recognized and investment property at the time they were generated. For the presentation of the carrying amount to the date of transition the Entity used the exemption Furthermore, loan portfolio acquisitions made by the contemplated under “Optional exemptions”, which Entity were measured for in accordance with such implied using the fair value as cost of acquisition. In IFRS, recognizing such acquired loan portfolios at order to determine such fair value, the Entity used fair value at the date of acquisition. Under BCRA valuations for all properties. standards, these transactions were recognized at their contractual value. Since the Entity chose the cost model, the new cost of acquisition according to the IFRSs implied an Investments in equity instruments increase in depreciations. The contributions to risk funds of Reciprocal Guarantee Companies (RGC) in which the Entity particiAdditionally, within the item Property, plant and pates, do not meet the financial asset individual test, equipment, the Entity capitalized from the date of therefore they are not included in the Entity’s transition, the financing costs attributable to the business model and were measured at their fair value construction of the new corporate building, in through profit or loss. As to those companies in which accordance with IAS 23. the Entity has no control or significant influence, such Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 251 Intangible assets In addition, and under IAS 19 “Employee Benefits”, Under IAS 38, intangible assets shall be measured vacations are considered as irrevocable accumulatat cost. Under BCRA standards, the Entity capitaling paid absences and shall be measured at the ized certain software costs and other organizational expected cost of such absences, based on the expenses, which according to the above mentioned additional amount that the Entity expects to pay for IAS the Entity should have not recognized as such paid absences multiplied by the number of intangible assets and, therefore, were accounted for days accumulated in favor of the employees and in profit or loss for the relevant period. unused at the end of the reporting period. Under BCRA standards, charges for paid vacations were Corporate bonds accounted for at the time the personnel used such The Entity issued subordinated and unsubordinated benefit, i.e., when vacations were paid. Corporate Bonds that, according to IFRS 9, were measured at amortized cost, using the effective Capital stock – Stock issuance premium interest method, which implied having to account Under IAS 32 “Financial Instruments: Presentation”, for lesser liabilities the direct placement expenses. the costs incurred by the Entity with respect to the Under BCRA standards, such Corporate Bonds were issuance of capital stock are accounted for as a measured in accordance with the unpaid balance of deduction of the amount of such instrument, principal and accrued interest and the expenses provided they are incremental costs directly attributwere accounted for in profit or loss at the time they able to such equity transaction, which would have were generated. been avoided if such transaction had not taken place. Under BCRA standards, the Entity recognized Assets and liabilities for deferred income tax such costs in profit or loss. According to IAS 12 “Income Tax”, the Entity shall recognize (i) the part of the current tax that is Foreign currency translation expected to be paid or recovered and (ii) the deferred Under IAS 21 “The Effects of Changes in Foreign tax that is the tax the Entity expects to settle or Exchange Rates”, the Entity recognized and reclassirecover of Income Tax, for the accumulated tax fied foreign exchange translation differences, with losses and the temporary differences arising respect to the Entity’s interest in a foreign subsidiary. between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and The Entity used the voluntary exemption under their carrying amounts. Under BCRA standards, the paragraph D of IFRS 1 “First-time Adoption of Entity assessed income tax applying the rate in force International Financial Reporting Standards” and did to the expected taxable profit, without taking into not recognize the translation differences accumuaccount the effect of differences between the lated as of the beginning of the date of transition. carrying amount and its tax base. Explanation of material adjustments Other non-financial assets in the Statement of Cash Flows According to IFRS 15, the Entity recognized income Preparation method: the Entity chooses the Direct arising in the course of its ordinary activities so that Method, except for the presentation of cash flows they represent the transfer of goods or services from operating activities, for which it shall use the promised to customers in exchange for an amount indirect method. that reflects the consideration the Entity expects to have the right to receive in exchange for such goods -Cash: (i) it does not include the cash of UTEs, since or services. under IFRS such balances are recognized using the proportional equity method and under BCRA Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 252 Annual Report | Banco Macro standards UTEs are recognized using the propor• IFRIC 23: “Uncertainty over income tax treatment”: tional consolidation method; (ii) the Entity incorpothis interpretation provides guidance on how to rated foreign currency purchase and sale spot account for uncertainty over income tax treatments transactions previously not included in the Stateunder IAS 12. This standard shall apply to fiscal years ment of Cash Flows under BCRA standards. beginning January 1, 2019. The Entity does not expect the above described standard to have a material -Cash equivalents: pursuant to the Entity’s policy impact on the consolidated Financial Statements. applicable to cash equivalents, issuer must be the National Government or the BCRA and they must • IFRS 3 “Business combinations” – modification to have maturity periods of 90 days or less from the the definition of business: this modification shall purchase date, whereas under BCRA standards help Entities to determine whether an executed cash equivalents should meet the following requireacquisition is a business or a purchase of a group of ments: they should be subject to insignificant risks assets. This new definition emphasizes that the regarding change of value and have maturity “output” of the business is to provide goods and periods of 90 days or less from the purchase date. services to customers, while the previous definition focused on return in the form of dividends, less New pronouncements costs or other economic benefits. This standard applies to fiscal years beginning January 1, 2020. Pursuant to Communiqué “A” 6114 issued by the The Entity does not expect the above described BCRA, as new IFRS are approved and existing IFRS standard to have a material impact on the consoliare amended or revoked and, once these changes dated Financial Statements. are approved through Notices of Approval issued by the Argentine Federation of Professionals Councils in 4. REPO TRANSACTIONS Economic Sciences (FACPCA for its Spanish As of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, the Entity acronym), the BCRA shall issue a statement on the has agreed repurchase and reverse repurchase approval thereof for financial entities. Generally, transactions of government and private securities for financial entities shall not apply any IFRS in ad164,469, 4,107,901 and 1,114,758, respectively. Maturity vance, except specifically authorized at the time of of the agreed transactions as of December 2018 the approval thereof. In this case, the Entity shall shall occur during the month of January 2019. adopt the following standards: Furthermore, to the those same dates, the securities delivered to guarantee the reverse repurchase • Such standard eliminates the dual accounting transactions total 182,448, 2,993,719 and 1,201,029, method for lessees that distinguishes between respectively, and are recorded under “Financial finance leases recognized within the Financial assets delivered as guarantee”, while securities statements and operating leases for which future received to guarantee repurchase transactions as of lease payments are not required to be recognized. December 31, 2017 and 2016 total 1,591,288 and Instead, it develops a single model, within the 19,335, respectively and were recognized outside the balance sheet, which is similar to the present balance sheet finance lease. As to lessor, the standard maintains the present practice –i.e., lessors keep on classifying Profits generated by the Entity as a result of its leases as finance and operating leases. This repurchase transactions arranged during the fiscal standard is applicable to fiscal years beginning as of years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 total January 1, 2019. The Entity does not expect the 416,569 and 655,742, respectively, and are accountabove described standard to have a material impact ed for in “Income from interest received” in the on the consolidated Financial Statements. Statement of Income. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 253 In addition, losses generated by the Entity as a 5. FINANCIAL ASSETS DELIVERED AS result of its reverse repurchase transactions arGUARANTEE ranged during the fiscal years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 total 184,669 and 112,795, respecAs of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, the Entity tively, and were recognized in “Expense for interest delivered as guarantee the following financial assets: paid” in the Statement of Income. Description Carrying Amount 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 For transactions with the Central Bank 5,719,689 4,005,730 2,093,960 For equity forward contracts 182,448 2,993,719 1,201,029 For guarantee deposits 854,083 638,903 395,705 Total 6,756,220 7,638,352 3,690,694 The Entity’s Management considers there shall be no losses due to the restrictions on the above listed financial assets. 6. 5. LOSS ALLOWANCE – ALLOWANCE FOR UNCOLLECTIBILITY RISK OF LOAN AND OTHER FINANCING LOSSES Changes in allowances for loan losses as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are disclosed in Exhibit R “Value correction for credit losses – Allowance for uncolectibility risk” in the accompanying consolidated Financial Statements. The table below presents the Entity’s changes in allowances by portfolio category: Commercial loans Consumer loans Total As of December 31, 2017 575,401 2,091,337 2,666,738 Increases 516,676 2,583,451 3,100,127 Reversals 30,045 10,916 40,961 Charge-off 76,136 1,489,023 1,565,159 As of December 31, 2018 985,896 3,174,849 4,160,745 Commercial loans Consumer loans Total As of December 31, 2016 436,009 1,403,413 1,839,422 Increases 168,936 1,573,900 1,742,836 Reversals 20,161 2,124 22,285 Charge-off 9,383 883,852 893,235 As of December 31, 2017 575,401 2,091,337 2,666,738 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 254 Annual Report | Banco Macro On the other hand, the table below shows the composition of the net uncollectibility charge, generated by loans and other financing: 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Uncollectability charge 2,706,406 1,594,534 Repaid loans (Other operating Income) 293,70 346,632 The method to determine the allowance for letters of credit and documentary credits. Although uncollectibility risk of Loans and other financing is these transactions are not recognized in the balance explained in Notes 3 (section “Accounting judgsheet, since they imply a possible obligation or ments, estimates and assumptions”) and 39 to the liability for the Entity, they expose the Entity to accompanying consolidated Financial Statements. additional credit risk to those recognized in the balance sheet and are, therefore, an integral part of 7. CONTINGENT TRANSACTIONS the total risk of the Entity. In order to meet specific financial needs of customAs of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, the Entity ers, the Entity’s credit policy also includes, among maintains the following contingent transactions: others, the granting of guarantees, securities, bonds, 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 Overdraft and unused agreed credits (*) 634,288 743,856 291,945 Guarantees granted (*) 940,990 444,526 446,483 Liabilities for foreign trade transactions 256,788 90,274 163,308 Total 1,832,066 1,278,656 901,736 (*) Includes transactions not included in the financial sector debtors standard. As to Overdraft and unused agreed credits, it includes the 221,220, 488,146 and 100,938, for the years 2018, 2017 y 2016, respectively. As to Guarantees granted, it includes 166,650, 191,176 and 158,986, for the years 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Risks related to the contingent transactions described above have been evaluated and are controlled within the framework of the Entity’s credit risk policy described in Note 39. 8. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The main differences in risks associated with these types of contracts are the credit risk and the liquidity The Entity holds Forwards and Futures as derivative risk. In forward contracts there is counterparty risk, financial instruments. These are contractual agreethe Entity has credit exposure to the counterparties ments to buy or sell a specific financial instrument at of the agreements. The credit risk related to futures a given price and a fixed date in the future. Forward contracts is deemed very low because daily cash contracts are customized contracts traded on an margin requirements help to guarantee these over-the-counter market. Futures contracts, in turn, contracts are always fulfilled. In addition, forward correspond to transactions for standardized contracts are generally settled in gross terms and, amounts, executed in a regulated market and therefore, they are deemed to have higher settlesubject to daily cash margin requirements. ment risk than futures contract that, except they are Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 255 chosen to be executed by delivery, are settled on a as part of its general risk management framework. net base. Both types of contracts expose the Entity Information on the Entity’s credit risk management to market risk. objectives and policies is included in Note 39. At the beginning, derivatives often imply only a The following tables show the notional values of mutual exchange of promises with little or no these instruments, expressed in thousands of US investment. Nevertheless, these instruments dollars, in the currency of origin. Notional values frequently imply high levels of leverage and are quite indicate the number of pending transactions at year volatile. A relatively small movement in the value of end and are not indicative of either the market risk or the underlying asset could have a significant impact the credit risk. Additionally, is presented the fair value in profit or loss. Furthermore, overthe-counter of the derivative financial instruments recognized as derivatives may expose the Entity to risks related to assets or liabilities in the Balance sheet. Changes in the absence of an exchange market in which to fair values were accounted for in profit or loss, the close an open position. The Entity’s exposure for breakdown of which is disclosed in Exhibit Q derivative contracts is monitored on a regular basis “Breakdown of profit or loss”. 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 Derivative assets Notional Value Fair Value Notional Value Fair Value Notional Value Fair Value Foreign currency forward purchase con24,867 14,555 11,700 7,664 7,900 9,721 tracts without delivery of underlying asset Forward contracts of Government bonds 5,000 2,738 10,000 564 Total derivatives held for trading 29,867 17,293 21,700 8,228 7,900 9,721 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 Derivative assets Notional Value Fair Value Notional Value Fair Value Notional Value Fair Value Foreign currency forward purchase con1,100 1,369 44,500 23,107 tracts without delivery of underlying asset Total derivatives held for trading 1,100 1,369 44,500 23,107 Derivatives held for trading are generally related with Additionally, they may be held for arbitrage, i.e. to products offered by the Bank to its customers. The obtain a benefit free of risk for the combination of a Entity shall also take positions expecting to benefit derivative product and a portfolio of financial assets, from favorable changes in prices, rates or indexes, trying to benefit from anomalous situations in the i.e. take advantage of the high level of leverage of prices of assets in the markets. these contracts to obtain high yields, assuming at the same time high market risk. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 256 Annual Report | Banco Macro 9. FAIR VALUE QUANTITATIVE AND —— Level 2: Valuation techniques for which the data QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES and variables having a significant impact on the determination of the fair value recognized or The fair value is the amount at which an asset can disclosed are observable for the asset or liability, be exchanged, or at which a liability can be settled, either directly or indirectly. Such data includes in mutual independent terms and conditions quotes for similar assets or liabilities in active between participants of the principal market (or markets, quotes for identical instruments in inactive most advantageous market) duly informed and markets and observable data different from Price willing to transact in an orderly and current transacquotes, such as interest rates and implicit volatility, tion, at the measurement date in the current market credit differentials and yield curves. Besides, it may conditions whether the price is directly observable or be necessary adjust Level 2 input data depending estimated using a valuation technique under the on specific factors of assets or liabilities, such as the assumption that the Entity is an ongoing business. condition and location of the asset, the extent to which the input data is related to the asset or When a financial instrument is quoted in a liquid liability comparable accounting items. Nevertheless, and active market, its price in the market in a real if such adjustments are based on non-observable transaction provides the most reliable evidence of its input data which are material for the entire meafair value. Nevertheless, when there is no quoted surement, then the Entity classifies instruments as price in the market or it cannot be an evidence of Level 3. the fair value of such instrument, in order to determine such fair value, the entities may use the —— Level 3: Valuation techniques for which the data market value of another instrument with similar and variables having a significant impact on the characteristics, the analysis of discounted cash flows determination of the fair value recognized or or other applicable techniques, which shall be disclosed are not based on observable market significantly affected by the assumptions used. information. Although the Entity’s Management has used its Exhibit P “Categories of Financial Assets and best judgment to estimate the fair values of its Liabilities” presents the hierarchy in the Entity’s financial instruments, any technique to perform such financial asset and liability fair value measurement. estimate implies certain inherent fragility level. Description of valuation process Fair value hierarchy. The fair value of instruments categorized as Level 1 The Entity uses the following hierarchy to determine was assessed by using quoted prices effective at the and disclose the fair value of financial instruments, end of each reporting period or fiscal year, as appliaccording to the valuation technique applied: cable, in active markets for identical assets or liabilities, if representative. At present, for government and —— Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) observable in private securities, there are two principal markets in active markets to which the Entity has access to the which the Bank operates, to wit: BYMA and MAE. measurement date for identical assets or liabilities. Additionally, in the case of derivatives, both MAE and The Entity deems markets are active only if there are Mercado a Término de Rosario SA (ROFEX) are enough trading activities as to volume and liquidity deemed active markets. of identical assets or liabilities and if there are binding and enforceable price quotes available to the closing date of each reporting period. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 257 On the other hand, for certain assets and liabilities Finally, the Entity has categorized as level 3 those that do not have an active market, categorized as assets and liabilities for which there are no identical Level 2, the Entity used valuation techniques that or similar transactions in the market. In order to included the use of market transactions performed determine the market value of these instruments, the under mutual independent terms and conditions, Entity used valuation techniques based on its own between interested and duly informed parties, assumptions. For this approach, the Entity mainly provided there are any available, as well as referused the cash flow discount mode. ences to the current fair value of other instrument As of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, the Entity being substantially similar, or otherwise the analysis has neither changed the techniques nor the assumpof cash flows discounted at rates built from market tions used to estimate the fair value of the financial information of similar instruments. instruments. In addition, certain assets and liabilities included in this Below is presented the reconciliation between the categorization were valued using identical price balances at the beginning and the end of the period quotes of identical instruments in “less active markets”. of the financial assets and liabilities recognized at fair value, using the valuation techniques based on the Entity’s own assumptions, as of December 31, 2018 and 2017: Fair values using valuation techniques based on the Bank’s own assumptions (level 3) December 31, 2018 Description Debt Securities Other Financial Assets Investments in Equity Instruments Balance at the beginning 35,841 161,751 35,774 Transfers to Level 3 Transfers from Level 3 Profit and Loss (200,279) (92,022) 9,634 Purchases, sales, issuance and settlement 1,455,490 21,439 Balance at end of period 1,291,052 91,168 45,408 Fair values using valuation techniques based on the Bank’s own assumptions (level 3) December 31, 2017 Description Debt Securities Other Financial Assets Investments in Equity Instruments Balance at the beginning 45,834 15,668 Transfers to Level 3 Transfers from Level 3 Profit and Loss 5,661 20,421 Purchases, sales, issuance and settlement (15,654) 161,751 (315) Balance at end of period 35,841 161,751 35,774 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 258 Annual Report | Banco Macro Instruments measured as level 3, include mainly financial instruments not recognized at their fair debt securities and certificate of participation in value in the accompanying Financial Statements: financial trust, for which, the construction of fair values was obtained based on the Bank’s own —— Assets with fair value similar to the carrying assumptions that are not easily observable in the amount: financial assets and liabilities that are market. The most significant assumption was the liquid or have shortterm maturities (less than three placement cutoff rate of such instruments in the months) were deemed to have a fair value similar to market at the end of the period, used to determine the carrying amount. the actual value of cash flows. —— Fixed-rate financial instruments: The fair value of Any increase (decrease) in these assumptions, financial assets was recognized discounting future considered separately, would derive in a higher or cash flows at current market rates, for each fiscal lower fair value. year, for financial instruments of similar characteristics. The estimated fair value of fixed-interest rate Changes in fair value levels deposits was assessed discounting future cash flows The Entity monitors the availability of information in by using market interest rates for deposits with the market to evaluate the classification of financial similar maturities to those of the Entity’s portfolio. instruments into the fair value hierarchy, as well as the resulting determination of transfers between —— In the case of quoted assets and issued quoted levels 1, 2 and 3 at each period end. liabilities, or otherwise having prices informed by recognized price providers, the fair value was As of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, the Entity determined based on such prices. has not recognized any transfers between levels 1, 2 and 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The following table shows a comparison between the fair value and the carrying amount of financial Financial assets and liabilities instruments not measured at fair value as of not recognized at fair value December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016: Next follows a description the methods and assumptions used to determine the fair values of 12/31/2018 Carrying Amount Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Fair Value Financial Assets Cash and bank deposits 74,766,039 74,766,039 74,766,039 Other financial assets 2,586,448 2,586,448 2,586,448 Loans and other financing 178,874,755 186,951 162,375,447 162,562,398 Other debt securities 8,151,176 173,337 7,165,102 2,749 7,341,188 Financial assets delivered as guarantee 6,605,764 6,573,772 31,992 6,605,764 270,984,182 84,099,596 7,384,045 162,378,196 253,861,837 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 259 12/31/2018 Carrying Amount Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Fair Value Financial liabilities Deposits 237,954,419 106,273,098 131,778,797 238,051,895 Other repo transactions 164,469 164,469 164,469 Other financial liabilities 15,318,513 15,152,415 166,522 15,318,937 Financing received from the BCRA 2,998,010 432,346 2,964,630 and other financial entities Issued corporate bonds 6,377,311 2,532,284 4,981,686 4,981,686 Subordinated corporate bonds 15,288,390 12,260,778 12,260,778 278,101,112 124,122,266 17,841,332 131,778,797 273,742,395 12/31/2017 Carrying Amount Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Fair Value Financial Assets Cash and bank deposits 35,561,574 35,561,574 35,561,574 Repo transactions 1,419,808 1,419,808 1,419,808 Other financial assets 1,789,433 1,789,433 1,789,433 Loans and other financing 132,658,674 485,347 129,472,430 129,957,777 Other debt securities 937,713 944,876 7,916 952,792 Financial assets delivered as guarantee 4,644,633 4,644,633 4,644,633 177,011,835 44,360,324 485,347 129,480,346 174,326,017 12/31/2017 Carrying Amount Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Fair Value Financial liabilities Deposits 144,129,177 77,959,810 66,265,387 144,225,197 Other repo transactions 2,688,093 2,688,093 2,688,093 Other financial liabilities 10,561,203 10,368,143 198,870 10,567,013 Financing received from the BCRA 1,174,111 1,176,397 1,176,397 and other financial entities Issued corporate bonds 4,712,216 4,432,977 4,432,977 Subordinated corporate bonds 7,565,759 7,710,790 7,710,790 170,830,559 91,016,046 13,519,034 66,265,387 170,800,467 12/31/2016 Carrying Amount 12/31/2016 Level 2 Level 3 Fair Value Financial Assets Cash and bank deposits 35,986,159 35,986,159 35,986,159 Repo transactions 19,124 19,124 19,124 Other financial assets 941,218 941,218 941,218 Loans and other financing 88,390,646 481,628 87,807,196 88,288,824 Other debt securities 855,832 843,708 3,223 11,677 858,608 Financial assets delivered as guarantee 2,489,665 2,489,665 2,489,665 128,682,644 40,279,874 484,851 87,818,873 128,583,598 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 260 Annual Report | Banco Macro 12/31/2016 Carrying Amount Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Fair Value Financial liabilities Deposits 111,862,805 58,773,034 53,175,424 111,948,458 Other repo transactions 1,095,634 1,095,634 1,095,634 Other financial liabilities 6,341,674 6,208,887 135,477 6,344,364 Financing received from the BCRA 260,458 259,775 259,775 and other financial entities Subordinated corporate bonds 1,684,636 1,622,802 1,622,802 Financial liabilities 6,376,537 5,994,056 5,994,056 127,621,744 66,077,555 8,012,110 53,175,424 127,265,089 10. LEASES The Entity, as lessor, entered into financial lease significant balances with respect to the total financcontracts, under the usual characteristics of this kind ing granted by the Entity. The following table shows of transactions, without there being any issues that the reconciliation between the total gross investment may differentiate them in any aspect from those of financial leases and the current value of the performed in the Argentine financial market in minimum payments receivables for such leases: general. The lease contracts in force do not represent 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 Total Current Value of Total Current Value of Total Current Value of Investment Minimum Payments Investment Minimum Payments Investment Minimum Payments Up to 1 year 314,182 240,231 339,397 237,730 235,152 171,648 From 1 to 5 years 249,561 207,928 441,369 356,071 284,518 233,893 More than 5 years 175 172 2,601 2,597 563,743 448,159 780,941 593,973 522,271 408,138 As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, income for Entity’s branches operate. Such lease contracts non-accrued interests totaled 115,584 and 186,968, have an average term of 2 to 10 years. respectively. Future minimum payments for these operating lease Additionally, the Entity celebrated commercial contracts are as follows: contracts for the lease of real property, in which the 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 Up to 1 year 277,460 163,107 134,520 From 1 to 5 years 322,568 223,383 209,182 More than 5 years 27,050 1,228 627,078 386,490 344,930 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 261 11. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES AND Macro Warrants S.A .as of September 30, 2018. JOINT VENTURES Additionally, the Entity has considered, when appli11.1. Associates cable, the material transactions or events occurring The Entity holds investments in Macro Warrants S.A. between October 1, 2018 and December 31, 2018. The existence of significant influence is evidenced by the representation the Entity has in the Board of The following table presents the summarized Directors of this related company. In order to measure financial information on the Entity’s investment in this investment, we used accounting information of this related company: Summarized Balance Sheet 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 Total Assets 18,111 19,798 17,110 Total Liabilities 2,269 3,265 3,424 Net Shareholders’ Equity 15,842 16,533 13,686 Proportional interest in the entity 5% 5% 5% Carrying Amount of Investment 792 827 684 Summarized Statement of Income 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Net Income for the year 3,308 5,847 Entity’s share in net income for the year 165 292 On June 30, 2018, the Entity reclassified its investThe summarized information regarding the Entity’s ment in Prisma Medios de Pago S.A. to Non-current investment as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 is as assets held for sale (see Note 13). follows: Summarized Balance Sheet 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 Total Assets 14,366,838 9,703,861 Total Liabilities 12,492,991 8,815,774 Net Shareholders’ Equity 1,873,847 888,087 Proportional interest in the entity 7.61% 7.61% Carrying Amount of Investment 142,600 67,583 Additionally, as of December 2018 and 2017, the a) Banco Macro S.A. – Worldline Argentina S.A. Entity’s share in income by Prisma Medios de Pago UTE: on April 7, 1998, the Entity executed an S.A. amounted to 180,350 and 134,508, respectively. agreement with Siemens Itron Business Servicies S.A. to organize an UTE controlled on a joint basis 11.2 Joint Ventures in which the Entity through a 50% interest, the purpose of which is to participates facilitate a data processing center for the tax The Bank participates in the following joint ventures, administration, to modernize the systems and tax instrumented through Uniones Transitorias de collection processes of the Province of Salta and Empresas (UTE): manage and recover municipal taxes and fees. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 262 Annual Report | Banco Macro The following table presents the summarized information on the Entity’s investment in this UTE: Summarized Balance Sheet 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 Total Assets 270,287 195.829 133,188 Total Liabilities 59,639 54.646 30,362 Net Shareholders’ Equity 210,648 141,183 102,826 Proportional interest in the entity 50% 50% 50% Carrying Amount of Investment 105,324 70,592 51,413 Summarized Statement of Income Net Income for the year 140,294 69,623 Entity’s share in net income for the year 70,147 34,812 b) Banco Macro S.A. – Gestiva S.A. UTE: on May 4, the Amendment to the Agreement, without such 2010 and August 15, 2012, the Bank executed with termination to imply or modify the rights and Gestiva SA the UTE agreement to form “Banco obligations of the Entity as Financial Agent of the Macro SA – Gestiva SA – Unión Transitoria de Province of Misiones with respect to the rendering of Empresas”, under joint control, the purpose of which the services contemplated in the special-relationship relates to rendering the integral processing and and revenue collection agreement entered into with management services of the tax system of the such provincial government. As of December 31, 2018, Province of Misiones, the management thereof and pursuant to the above mentioned, the balance of tax collection services. The Bank holds a 5% interest such investment totaled 2,707 and the Entity’s share in this UTE. in the net income for the year amounted to 15,640. On June 27, 2018, the Entity, the UTE and the Tax The following table presents the summarized Authority of the Province of Misiones, executed a information on the Entity’s investment as of “Termination Agreement upon Mutual Consent” of December 31, 2017 and 2016: Summarized Balance Sheet 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 Total Assets 116,885 107,376 Total Liabilities 18,319 15,616 Net Shareholders’ Equity 98,566 91,760 Proportional interest in the entity 5% 5% Carrying Amount of Investment 4,928 4,588 – Additionally, as of December 31, 2017, the Entity’s For additional information on investments on joint share in income by Banco Macro S.A. – Gestiva S.A. ventures, see Exhibit E “Detailed information on UTE amounted to 27,009. interests in other companies”, within the consolidated Financial Statements. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 263 12. RELATED PARTIES Key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and A related party is any person or entity that is related controlling the activities of the Bank, directly or indirectly. to the Entity: The Entity considers as key management personnel, for —— has control or joint control of the Entity; the purposes of IAS 24, the members of the Board of —— has significant influence over the Entity; Directors and the Senior Management members who —— is a member of the key management personnel participate in the Risk Management Committee, Asset of the Entity or of a parent of the Entity; and Liability Committee and Senior Credit Committee. —— members of the same group; —— one entity is an associate (or an associate of a As of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, the member of a group of which the other entity is a balances and income for the transactions executed member). with related parties are as follows: Information as of December 31, 2018 Main Subsidiaries (1) Banco del Macro Bank Macro Associates Key Other related Total Tucumán S.A. Limited Securities S.A. Management parties ASSETS Cash and bank deposits 583 583 Other financial assets 2,504 25,276 20,660 48,440 Loans and other financing(2) Documents 331,699 331,699 Overdraft 6 3,505 161,905 165,416 Credit cards 286 19,011 51,424 70,721 Leases 5,746 1,407 7,153 Personal loans 1,388 1,388 Mortgage loans 54,824 356 55,180 Other loans 232,670 232,670 Guarantees granted 391,699 391,699 Other non-financial assets 83,178 83,178 Total Assets 2,504 583 114,492 20,660 78,728 1,171,160 1,388,127 LIABILITIES Deposits 13 311,073 1,774,149 4,890,280 984,659 7,960,174 Other financial liabilities 101,232 31 514 101,777 Financing received from BCRA and 301,742 301,742 other financial entities Corporate bonds issued 11,231 11,231 Subordinated Corporate bonds 46,605 46,605 Other non-financial liabilities 119 119 Total Liabilities 301,742 13 322,304 1,875,381 4,890,311 1,031,897 8,421,648 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 264 Annual Report | Banco Macro Main Subsidiaries (1) Banco del Macro Bank Macro Associates Key Other related Total Tucumán S.A. Limited Securities S.A. Management parties INCOME Income from interest received 372,476 2,398 66,651 441,525 Expense for interest paid (58,997) (3,277) (191,973) (397,248) (24,204) (675,699) Income from commissions received 9 521 112 21 5,592 6,255 Other operating income 27,280 27,280 Administration expenses (4) (9,473) (9,477) (3) Other operating expenses (1,268,375) (26,062) (1,294,437) Total Income 340,764 (2,756) (1,460,236) (394,829) 12,504 (1,504,553) (1) These transactions are eliminated during the consolidation process. (2) The maximum balance of Loans and other financing as of December 31, 2018 for Banco del Tucumán S.A., Macro Bank Limited, Macro Securities S.A., Associates,Key Management Personnel and Other related parties is 2,550,000.0, 7,216.0, 82,297 and 1,551,047, respectively. (3) This income is mainly generated by credit and debit card processing costs charged by Prisma Medios de Pago S.A. • Information as of December 31, 2017 Main Subsidiaries (1) Banco del Macro Bank Macro Associates Key Other Total Tucumán S.A. Limited Securities S.A. Management related parties ASSETS Cash and bank deposits 13,106 13,106 Debt securities at fair value 83,561 83,561 through profit or loss Other financial assets 1,378 1,378 Loans and other financing Other local financial entities 952,147 952,147 Documents 151,898 151,898 Overdraft 633 7,198 7,831 Credit cards 295 10,981 24,357 35,633 Leases 6,973 2,157 9,130 Personal loans 388 397 785 Mortgage loans 13,526 442 13,968 Other loans 147,299 147,299 Guarantees granted 443 53,792 54,235 Total Assets 953,525 13,106 7,711 25,528 471,101 1,470,971 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 265 Main Subsidiaries (1) Banco del Macro Bank Macro Associates Key Other Total Tucumán S.A. Limited Securities S.A. Management related parties LIABILITIES Deposits 16 108,378 937,658 1,111,813 746,818 2,904,683 Other financial liabilities 80,020 13 153 80,186 Subordinated corporate bonds 29,509 29,509 Other non-financial liabilities 173 173 Total Liabilities 16 108,378 1,017,678 1,111,826 776,653 3,014,551 INCOME Income from interest received 28,621 2,057 3,512 78,792 112,982 Expense for interest paid (10,263) (257) (139,560) (3,082) (4,930) (158,092) Income from commissions 12 250 75 21 5,110 5,468 received Expense for commissions paid (14) (14) Other operating income 21,608 2 674 22,284 Administration expenses (41) (13,042) (13,083) Other operating expenses (15,957) (687,956) (2) (24,243) (728,156) Total Income 39,937 (255) (12,976) (827,441) 451 41,673 (758,611) (1) These transactions are eliminated during the consolidation process. (2) This income is mainly generated by credit and debit card processing costs charged by Prisma Medios de Pago S.A. • Information as of December 31, 2016 Main Subsidiaries (1) Banco del Macro Bank Macro Associates Key Other related Total Tucumán S.A. Limited Securities S.A. Management parties ASSETS Cash and bank deposits 11,269 11,269 Debt securities at fair value 51,565 51,565 through profit or loss Other financial assets 47 47 Loans and other financing Documents 103,775 103,775 Overdraft 4,617 12,044 16,661 Credit cards 53 8,424 11,590 20,067 Leases 8,036 1,168 9,204 Personal loans 1,225 137 1,362 Mortgage loans 4,776 6,082 10,858 Other loans 756,249 756,249 Guarantees granted 885 14,365 15,250 Total Assets 47 11,269 8,974 19,042 956,975 996,307 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 266 Annual Report | Banco Macro Main Subsidiaries (1) Banco del Macro Bank Macro Associates Key Other related Total Tucumán S.A. Limited Securities S.A. Management parties LIABILITIES Deposits 17 134,778 12,581 1,082,466 600,752 1,830,594 Other financial liabilities 41,000 11 7,415 48,426 Issued Corporate bonds 61,215 68,642 129,857 Subordinated corporate bonds 213,681 213,681 Other non-financial liabilities 196 209 405 Total Liabilities 61,428 134,778 53,581 1,082,477 890,699 2,222,963 INCOME Income from interest received 612 3,658 5,118 27,750 37,138 Expense for interest paid (22,454) (86) (117,756) (9,077) (11,408) (160,781) Income from commissions 16 143 101 25 4,914 5,199 received Expense for commissions paid (141) (141) Other operating income 17,220 2 627 17,849 Administration expenses (9) (5,263) (5,272) Other operating expenses (151) (460,097) (2) (22,243) (482,491) Total Income (4,615) (84) 4,136 (577,752) (3,934) (6,250) (588,499) (1) These transactions are eliminated during the consolidation process. (2) This income is mainly generated by credit and debit card processing costs charged by Prisma Medios de Pago S.A. Transactions generated by the Entity with its Total remunerations received as salary and bonus by subsidiaries and other related parties to it for the key management personnel as of December 31, transactions arranged within the scope of the usual 2018, 2017 and 2016, totaled 115,906, 79,905 and and ordinary course of business, were performed in 41,592 respectively. normal market conditions, both as to interest rates and prices and as to the required guarantees. In addition, fees received by the Directors as of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 amounted to The Entity does not have loans granted to Directors 636,149, 468,623 and 243,704 respectively. and other key management personnel secured with shares. Additionally, the composition of the Board of Directors and key management personnel is as follows: 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 Board of Directors 24 22 21 Senior Management members of the key management personnel 15 14 14 39 36 35 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 267 13. NON-CURRENT ASSETS HELD FOR SALE Furthermore, among other issues, on the one hand, sellers keep the usufruct (dividends) of the shares As of December 31, 2018, the Entity holds its sold to be declared by Prisma for the fiscal year reported interest in Prisma Medios de Pago S.A. ended December 31, 2018 and, on the other hand, (“Prisma”) under the non-current Assets held for the proportional amount the buyer is entitled to sale, due to the obligation to sell all the shares of receive of the dividends to be declared for the such company undertaken with the Argentina’s subsequent fiscal years, subject to buyer’s promise Anti-trust Commission. As a result, the Entity’s to vote favorably for the distribution of certain interest was valued under IFRS 5 “Non-current minimum percentages, shall be subject to a security Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations” trust to repay the deferred amount of the purchase at the lower of the carrying amount and best fair price, instrumented through the granting by buyer value estimate less costs to sell. As of December 31, and Prisma of an usufruct on the economic rights of 2018, the Entity’s participating interest, included the shares in favor of such trust. under this accounting item, amounted to 105,287. The final price shall be determined in accordance On January 21, 2019, the Entity together with the with the provisions of the transaction documents, other shareholders of Prisma, accepted an offer once the parties approve the price adjustment report. submitted by Al ZENITH (Netherlands) B.V. (a related company of Advent International Global The accounting effects of such sale shall be Private Equity) for the purchase of 1,933,051 common recognized in the consolidated financial statements book-entry shares of par value 1 peso each and for the year 2019. entitled to one vote per share, representing 4.6775% of the capital stock of Prisma and equal to 51% of the 14. BORROWING COSTS Entity’s shareholding in Prisma. The Entity capitalized borrowing costs attributable On February 1, 2019, the Entity completed the to the construction of the new corporate building. transfer of such shares and determined that the estimated total price adjusted to date was US On December 27, 2018 and since the Entity comdollars 64,542 (thousands), out of which the Entity pleted all necessary activities to render the asset received US dollars 38,311 (thousands) on such suitable for the intended use, it ceased to capitalize date, while payment of the difference, in the amount borrowing costs and started to reclassify under the of US dollars 26,230 (thousands) shall be deferred accounting item Property, plant and equipment during the next 5 years and shall be paid as follows: – Real Property, the amounts for capitalized (i) 30% in pesos subject to UVA adjustment plus interests to such date amounting to 50,426. The interest at a 15% nominal rate per annum and (ii) weighted average capitalization rate was 12.24%. In 70% in US dollars plus interest at a 10% nominal rate addition, as of December 31, 2017, borrowing costs per annum. Payment of the price is guaranteed by eligible for capitalization of the expenditures on such promissory notes issued in favor of the Entity and a qualifying asset to such date totaled 30,587. pledge on the shares to be transferred. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 268 Annual Report | Banco Macro 15. PROVISIONS This item includes the amounts estimated to face a The expected terms to settle these obligations are liability of probable occurrence, which in case it as follows: occurs, would originate a loss for the Entity. Exhibit J “Changes in Provisions” presents the changes in provisions during the fiscal years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016. 12/31/2018 Within 12 months Beyond 12 months 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 For administrative, disciplinary 718 718 718 9,110 and criminal penalties Other (*) 333,646 711,530 1,045,176 694,201 325,897 333,646 712,248 1,045,894 694,919 335,007 (*) Includes mainly provisions established for lawsuits, summary proceedings, enforcement proceedings and other legal actions pending resolution. In the opinion of the Management of the Bank and 16. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS PAYABLE its legal advisors, there are no other significant effects than those disclosed in the accompanying The table below presents the amounts of employee Financial Statements, the amounts and settlement benefits payable as of December 31, 2018, 2017 and terms of which have been recognized based on the 2016: current value of such estimates, considering the probable settlement date thereof. Short-term employee benefits 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 Salaries, gratifications and social security contributions 810,905 710,093 431,656 Vacation accrual 841,463 547,443 413,004 Total short-term employee benefits 1,652,368 1,257,536 844,660 The Bank has not long-term employee benefits or post-employment benefits as of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 269 17. ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL ASSETS TO BE RECOVERED AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES TO BE SETTLED The following tables show the analysis of the balance of financial asset and liabilities the Bank expects to recover and settle as of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016: 12/31/2018 Without Up to 1 Over 1 month Over 3 Over 6 Total up to Over 12 months Over 24 Total over 12 due date month & up to 3 months & up months & up 12 months & up to 24 months months months to 6 months to 12 months months Assets Cash and bank 74,766,039 deposits Debt securities at fair 916,325 292,933 259,471 211,948 1,680,677 262,339 692,231 954,570 value through profit or loss Derivative instru15,836 1,457 17,293 ments Repo transactions Other financial assets 1,676,223 1,150,525 7,585 99,041 1,257,151 66,210 66,210 Loans and other 1,208,855 50,819,544 20,331,086 19,790,867 21,190,109 112,131,606 19,373,289 46,161,005 65,534,294 financing(1) Other debt securities 2,748 55,674,674 829,760 56,504,434 7,252,752 824,825 8,077,577 Financial assets deliv6,573,772 182,448 182,448 ered as guarantee Investments in equity 51,518 instruments Total Assets 84,279,155 108,759,352 20,633,061 20,979,139 21,402,057 171,773,609 26,954,590 47,678,061 74,632,651 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 270 Annual Report | Banco Macro 12/31/2018 Without Up to 1 Over 1 month Over 3 Over 6 Total up to Over 12 months Over 24 Total over 12 due date month & up to 3 months & up months & up 12 months & up to 24 months months months to 6 months to 12 months months Assets 103,394,451 94,031,128 32,469,390 6,825,953 1,162,963134,489,434 57,839 12,695 70,534 Derivative instru1,019 350 1,369 ments Repo transactions 164,469 164,469 Other financial li15,134,783 17,924 8,206 11,525 15,172,438 18,973 127,102 146,075 abilities Financing received 423,291 907,790 1,054,312 442,273 2,827,666 62,921 107,423 170,344 from BCRA and other financial entities Corporate bonds 235,912 69,847 305,759 6,071,552 6,071,552 issued Subordinated 165,070 165,070 15,123,320 15,123,320 Corporate bonds Total Liabilities 103.394.451 109.990.602 33.395.104 8.123.738 1.616.761 153.126.205 139.733 21.442.092 21.581.825 12/31/2017 Without due date Total up to 12 months Total over 12 months Assets Cash and bank deposits 35,561,574 Debt securities at fair value through profit or loss 138,068 947,960 Derivative instruments 8,228 Repo transactions 1,419,808 Other financial assets 1,588,751 683,928 Loans and other financing(1) 889,510 91,416,852 40,352,312 Other debt securities 34,703,765 Financial assets delivered as guarantee 4,644,633 2,993,719 Investments in equity instruments 282,659 Total Assets 41,378,376 132,269,191 41,984,200 12/31/2017 Without due date Total up to 12 months Total over 12 months Liabilities Deposits 74.499.458 69,596,920 32,799 Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 6,450 Derivative instruments 23,107 Repo transactions 2,688,093 Other financial liabilities 10,386,583 174,620 Financing received from BCRA 1,045,713 128,398 and other financial entities Corporate bonds issued 118,356 4,593,860 Subordinated Corporate bonds 80,004 7,485,755 Total Liabilities 74,499,458 83,945,226 12,415,432 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 271 12/31/2016 Without due date Total up to 12 months Total over 12 months Assets Cash and bank deposits 35,986,159 Debt securities at fair value through profit or loss 42,269 290,212 Derivative instruments 9,721 Repo transactions 19,124 Other financial assets 789,863 315,650 Loans and other financing(1) 542,275 62,609,496 25,238,875 Other debt securities 20,395,499 Financial assets delivered as guarantee 2,489,700 1,200,994 Investments in equity instruments 406,868 Total Assets 39,425,002 85,066,966 25,844,737 12/31/2016 Without due date Total up to 12 months Total over 12 months Liabilities Deposits 50,613,570 61,240,314 8,921 Repo transactions 1,095,634 Other financial liabilities 6,213,535 128,139 Financing received from BCRA and other financial entities 238,835 21,623 Corporate bonds issued Subordinated Corporate bonds 1,684,636 Total Liabilities 67,429 6,309,108 Repo transactions 50,613,570 70,540,383 6,467,791 (1) Amounts included under “without due date” correspond to past due portfolio. 18. DISCLOSURES BY 19. INCOME TAX OPERATING SEGMENT This tax shall be recognized following the liability For management purposes the Entity’s Management method, recognizing (as credit or debt) the tax effect has determined that it has only one operating of temporary differences between the carrying segment related to banking business. In this sense, amount of an asset or liability and its tax base, and the Entity supervises the operating segment results its subsequent recognition in profit or loss for the for the period, in order to make decisions about fiscal year in which the reversal of such differences resources to be allocated to the segment and assess occurs, considering as well the possibility of using its performance, which is measured in a consistent tax losses in the future. basis with the profit or loss in the financial statements. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 272 Annual Report | Banco Macro Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities in the Balance sheet are as follows: 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 Deferred tax assets Debt securities 4,982 Loans and other financing 1,063,151 834,029 437,724 Other financial assets 1,077 13,166 7,518 Allowances for contingencies 277,445 208,475 117,252 Provisions and employee benefits 260,393 181,834 157,704 Total deferred tax assets 1,602,066 1,242,486 720,198 Deferred tax liabilities Property, plant and equipment 1,196,910 1,191,529 1,614,419 Intangible assets 385,309 245,326 222,185 Investment in associates and joint ventures 41,677 167,918 84,333 Other financial and non-financial liabilities 206,282 106,800 120,654 Total deferred tax liabilities 1,830,178 1,711,573 2,041,591 Net deferred tax liabilities 228,112 469,087 1,321,393 Changes in net deferred tax liabilities as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are summarized as follows: 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Net deferred tax liabilities at beginning of year 469,087 1,321,393 Profit for deferred taxes recognized in total comprehensive income(*) 273,884 852,306 Other tax effects 32,909 Net deferred tax liabilities at year end 228,112 469,087 (*) For changes in fiscal year 2017, the Entity included the effect of the rate change, under the tax reform described in Note 3.13.1 to the accompanying consolidated Financial Statements. The income tax recognized in the Statement of The table below shows reconciliation between income Income and in the Statement of Other Comprehentax and the amounts obtained by applying the current sive Income differs from the income tax to be recogtax rate in Argentina to the carrying amount of profit: nized if all income were subject to the current tax rate. 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Carrying amount of profit before income tax 22,741,647 15,083,774 Applicable income tax rate 30% 35% Income tax on carrying amount of profit 6,822,494 5,279,321 Net permanent differences and other tax effects 142,261 (347,360) Total income tax 6,964,755 4,931,961 As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the effective income tax rate is 30.6% and 32.7%, respectively. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 273 In the consolidated Financial Statements, tax assets applicable to different taxable subjects and also (current and deferred) of an entity of the Group shall they are not legally entitled before the tax authority not be offset with the tax liabilities (current and to pay or receive only one amount to settle the net deferred) of other entity of the Group because they position. correspond to income tax 20. INCOME FROM COMMISSIONS RECEIVED Description 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Performance obligations satisfied in one act (1) 11,862,084 8,618,017 Performance obligations satisfied over certain time period 26,890 568,203 11,888,974 9,186,220 (1) Includes mainly account maintenance fees, agreements and credit card commissions. 21. DIFFERENCE IN QUOTED PRICES OF GOLD AND FOREIGN CURRENCY Description 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Translation of foreign currency assets and liabilities to pesos (2,721,085) 889,541 Income from foreign currency Exchange 1,343,569 490,768 (1,377,516) 1,380,309 22. OTHER OPERATING INCOME Description 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Services 1,135,862 926,667 Derecognition or substantial changes in financial liabilities 594,424 Other adjustments and interest from other receivables 221,202 66,051 Sale of investment property and other non-financial assets 161,058 19,915 Initial recognition of loans 53,282 Sale of property, plant and equipment 38,753 4,115 Other 641,451 590,260 2,846,032 1,607,008 23. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Description 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Remunerations 7,780,931 5,938,491 Social Security Contributions 1,513,192 1,072,817 Compensations and bonuses to employees 751,839 471,171 Employee services 258,856 212,690 10,304,818 7,695,169 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 274 Annual Report | Banco Macro 24. ADMINISTRATION EXPENSES Description 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Maintenance, conservation and repair expenses 909,643 597,837 Taxes 900,608 725,577 Fess to Directors and Syndics 717,067 445,028 Security services 709,935 537,648 Electricity and communications 592,932 348,785 Other fees 565,336 356,800 Leases 330,297 225,679 Advertising and publicity 314,602 232,872 Representation, travel and transportation expenses 114,809 82,705 Insurance 62,941 44,899 Stationary and office supplies 58,338 43,213 Hired administration services 18,210 17,970 Other 1,537,994 1,035,747 6,832,712 4,694,760 25. OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES Description 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Gross turnover tax 5,814,427 3,459,207 Charges for other provisions 1,103,851 718,702 Deposit Guarantee Fund contributions 305,437 213,487 Donations 85,705 95,761 Insurance claims 54,706 33,118 Initial loan recognition 76,000 Other 2,888,306 2,187,952 10,252,432 6,784,227 26. ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES IN THE The Entity considers as “Cash and cash equivalents” STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS the item Cash and deposits in banks and those financial assets that are readily convertible to known The Statement of Cash Flows presents the amounts of cash and which are subject to an changes in cash and cash equivalents derived from insignificant risk of changes in value. operating activities, investing activities and financing activities during the period. For the For the preparation of the Statement of Cash Flows preparation of the Statement of Cash Flows the the Entity considered the following: Entity adopted the indirect method for Operating Activities and the direct method for Investment —— Operating activities: are the normal revenueActivities and Financing Activities. producing activities of the Entity as well as other activities that cannot be qualified as investing or financing activities. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 275 —— Investing activities: are the acquisition, sale and The table below presents the reconciliation between disposal by other means of long-term assets and the item “Cash and cash equivalents” in the other investments not included in cash and cash Statement of Cash Flows and the relevant accountequivalents. ing items of the Balance sheet: —— Financing activities: are activities that result in changes in the size and composition of the Shareholders equity and liabilities of the Entity and that are not part of the operating or investing activities. 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 Cash and deposits in banks 74,766,039 35,561,574 35,986,159 Debt securities at fair value 20,415 9,585 Other debt securities 55,674,674 20,009,665 16,074,409 Loans and other financing 189,042 93,871 130,629,755 55,685,525 52,070,153 27. CAPITAL STOCK The Entity’s subscribed and paid-in capital as of December 31, 2018, amounted to 669,663. Since December 31, 2015, the Entity’s capital stock has changed as follows: Issued and Outstanding Treasury Stock paid-in Capital shares As of December 31, 2015 and 2016 584.563 584.563 Capital stock increase as approved by Shareholders´ 85.100 85.100 Meeting held on April 28, 2017 (1) As of December 31, 2017 669.663 669.663 Outstanding stock repurchased from stockholders (2) (28.948) 28.948 As of December 31, 2018 669.663 640.715 28.948 (1) Related to capital stock increase arising from i) the issue of 74,000,000 new, common, registered, Class “B” shares with a face value of Ps. 1, each one entitled to one vote, and entitled to dividends under the same conditions as common, registered, Class “B” shares, outstanding upon issuance, formalized on June 19, 2017 and (ii) additionally, as established by the abovementioned Meeting, the international underwriters exercised the option to oversubscribed 15% of the capital stock which was formalized on July 13, 2017 through the issuance of 11,099,993 new, common, registered, Class “B” shares each one entitled to one vote and with a face value of Ps.1. On August 14, 2017, such capital increases were registered with the Public Registry of Commerce. The public offering of the new shares was authorized by CNV Resolution No. 18,716 dated on May 24, 2017 and by the BCBA on May 26, 2017. As required by CNV regulations, it is advised that the funds arising from the public subscription of shares shall be used to finance its general business operations, to increase its borrowing capacity and leverage the potential acquisitions opportunities in the Argentine financial system. (2) Related to the repurchase of outstanding shares within the framework of the programs established by the Board of Directors on August 8, 2018, October 17, 2018 and December 20, 2018, aimed at reducing share quote fluctuations, minimizing the possible temporary imbalances that might arise between supply and demand in the market. The program dated August 8, 2018, provided that the maximum investment would be 5,000,000 and the maximum number of shares to be repurchased would be an amount equal to 5% of the capital stock. To the closing date of such program, the Entity repurchased 21,463,005 class B common shares of nominal value AR$1 and entitled to 1 vote each for 3,113,925. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 276 Annual Report | Banco Macro The program dated October 17, 2018 provided a new 28. EARNINGS PER SHARE DIVIDENDS beginning of the repurchase program using the unsued amount of the already expired program Basic earnings per share were calculated by dividing described in the preceding paragraph. To the ending net profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of date of such program, the Entity had repurchased the Entity by the weighted average number of 6,774,019 class B common shares of nominal value ordinary shares outstanding during the period. AR$ 1 and entitled to 1 vote each for a total amount of 995,786. To determine the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period the On December 20, 2018, for the reasons described in Entity used the number of ordinary shares outstandthe first paragraph, the Board of Banco Macro S.A. ing at the beginning of the period adjusted, if resolved to establish the terms and conditions for applicable, by the number of ordinary shares bought the repurchase of the Entity’s outstanding shares, in back or issued during the period multiplied by the accordance with Section 64 of Law 26831 and the number of days that the shares were outstanding in CNV rules, subject to the same conditions: the period. Note 27 provides a detail of the changes in the Entity’s capital stock. 1) Maximum investment: up to 900,000. 2) Maximum number of shares to be repurchased: The calculation of basic earnings per share is up to 1% of the capital stock. disclosed in the table of Earnings per share included 3) Maximum price to be paid per share: up to 158 in the consolidated Statement of Income. See also pesos per share. Note 38 to the consolidated Financial Statements 4) Term within which the repurchase shall take and the profit distribution Project. place: by and including January 10, 2019, subject to any renewal or extension of the term to be informed Dividends paid and proposed to investors. Cash dividends paid during the fiscal years 2017 and 2016 to the shareholders of the Bank amount to As of December 31, 2018, the Entity had repurchased 701,476 and 596,254, respectively, which considering 2,028,251 class B common shares of nominal value the number of shares outstanding to the date of AR$1 and entitled to 1 vote each for 298,196, out of effective payment represented 1.20 and 1.10 pesos which, to the year end, only 711,386 shares were per share, respectively. settled for a total amount of 98,353, which means there are 1,316,865 shares to be settled for a total The Shareholders’ Meeting held on April 27, 2018 amount of 199,843. resolved to distribute cash dividends for 3,348,315, which considering the number of shares outstanding For further information about the composition of the at the date of such resolution, represented 5 pesos Entity’s capital stock, see Exhibit K “Composition of per share. These dividends were paid and made capital stock” to the separate Financial Statements. available on May 15, 2018. See also Note 38 to the accompanying consolidated Financial Statements and the profit distribution Project. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 277 29. DEPOSIT GUARANTEE INSURANCE participating entities in the form of checking accounts, savings accounts, fixed-term deposits or Law No. 24485 and Decree No. 540/1995 created the other forms of deposit that the BCRA may determine Deposit Guarantee Insurance System, which was from time to time shall be subject to the above featured as a limited, compulsory and onerous system, described Deposit Guarantee Insurance System, up aimed at covering the risks of bank deposits, as to the amount of 450 (from March 1, 2019, this subsidiary and supplementary to the deposit privilege amount shall be increased to 1,000) and that meet and protection system established under the Financial the requirements provided for in the Decree 540/1995 Entities Act. The above mentioned legislation also and other requirements that the regulatory Authority provided for the organization of Sedesa with the may from time to time determine. On the other hand, exclusive purpose of managing the Deposit Guarantee the BCRA provided for the exclusion of the guarantee Fund (DGF). Sedesa was organized in August 1995. system, among others, of any deposits made by other financial entities, deposits made by persons Banco Macro SA holds an 8.300% interest in the related to the Entity and security deposits. capital stock of Sedesa according to the percentages disclosed by Communiqué “B” 11816 issued by the BCRA on February 28, 2019. 30. RESTRICTED ASSETS According to the above mentioned law and decree, As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the following all deposits in pesos and foreign currency placed in Entity´s assets are restricted: Item 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Debt securities at fair value through profit or loss and other debt securities Discount bonds in pesos regulated by Argentinean legislation, maturing 2033 securing the regional economies 108,633 98,541 Competitiveness Program – BID loan No. 3174/OC-AR Discount bonds in pesos regulated by Argentinean legislation, maturing 2033 used as security in favor of Sedesa(1) 92,659 117,454 Discount bonds in pesos regulated by Argentinian legislation, maturing 2033 securing the sectorial Credit 64,703 8,704 Program of the Province of San Juan. Production investment financing fund. Discount bonds in pesos regulated by Argentinian legislation, maturing 2033 and Federal government treasury 24,998 13,139 bonds in pesos adjusted by CER Maturity: 2021 as of December 31, 2018 and Discount bonds in pesos regulated by Argentinian legislation, maturing 2033 as of December 31, 2017, for minimum counterpart required for Agents to act in the new categories contemplated under Resolution No. 622/13, as amended, of the CNV. Discount bonds in pesos regulated by Argentinean legislation, maturing 2033 securing a BID loan of Province of 6,609 8,869 San Juan No. 2763/OC-AR. Central Bank of Argentina Internal Bills in pesos, maturing 02-21-18 as of December 31, 2017, for the performance 53,059 of forward foreign currency transactions. Central Bank of Argentina Internal Bills in pesos, maturing 02-21-2018 as of December 31, 2017, securing the 9,647 operation through negotiation secured transaction Segment as the main counterparty of the MAE. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 278 Annual Report | Banco Macro Item (cont.) 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Secured bonds under Presidential Decree No. 1579/2002 as security for a loan received 4,270 from Banco de Inversión y Comercio Exterior SA (Bice). Other private and public securities 34,259 27,225 Subtotal debt securities at fair value through profit or loss and other debt securities 331,861 340,908 Other financial assets Sundry debtors – Other 2,414 858 Sundry debtors – foreclosure within the scope of the claim filed by the DGR against the City 827 827 of Buenos Aires for differences on gross turnover tax. Subtotal Other financial assets 3,241 1,685 Loans and other financing non-financial private sector and foreign residents Interests derived from contributions made as protector (2) 32,501 110,848 Subtotal Loans and other financing 32,501 110,848 Financial assets delivered as guarantee Special guarantee checking accounts opened in Central Bank for transactions related to the electronic clearing 5,719,689 4,005,730 houses and similar entities Guarantee deposits related to credit and debit card transactions 747,487 623,491 Future contracts for repo transactions 182,448 2,993,719 Other guarantee deposits 106,596 15,412 Subtotal Financial assets delivered as guarantee 6,756,220 7,638,352 Other non-financial assets Real property related to a call option sold 73,006 222,023 Subtotal Other non-financial assets 73,006 222,023 Total 7,196,829 8,313,816 (1) As replacement for the preferred shares of former Nuevo Banco Bisel SA to secure to Sedesa the price payment and the fulfillment of all the obligations assumed in the purchase and sale agreement dated May 28, 2007, maturing on August 11, 2021. (2) In order to keep tax benefits related to these contributions, they must be maintained between two and three years from the date they were made. The same correspond to the following risk funds: Risk fund Los Grobo SGR and Risk fund of Avaluar as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 and Risk fund of Intergarantías SGR and Risk fund Garantizar SGR as of December 31, 2017. Additionally, as of December 31, 2016, the amount of restricted assets was 4,191,090. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 279 31. TRUST ACTIVITIES 31.2 Trusts created using financial assets transferred by the Entity The Entity is related to several types of trusts. The The Entity transferred financial assets (loans) to different trust agreements according to the business trusts for the purpose of issuing and selling securities purpose sought by the Entity, are disclosed below: for which collection is guaranteed by the cash flow resulting from such assets or group of assets. This 31.1 Financial trusts for investment purposes way the funds that were originally used to finance Debt securities include mainly prepayments towards the loans are obtained earlier. the placement price of trust securities of the financial trusts under public offerings, made by the As of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, according Entity through underwriting agreements (Consubto the latest accounting information available as of ond, Garbarino, Accicom, Secubono, Mila, Credicuothe date of issuance of the accompanying consolitas Consumo, Credimas, Pvcred, Naldo Lombardi dated Financial Statements, the assets managed and Agrocap 1). The assets managed for these trusts through Macro Fiducia SA (subsidiary) of this type of are mainly related to securitizations of consumer trusts amounted to 69,842, 116,697 and 59,128, loans. Trust securities are placed once the public respectively. offering is authorized by the CNV. Upon expiry of the placement period, once all trust securities have 31.3 Trusts guaranteeing loans granted been placed on the market, the Entity recovers the by the Entity disbursements made, plus an agreed-upon comAs it is common in the Argentine banking market, pensation. If after making the best efforts, such trust the Entity requires, in some cases, that the debtors securities cannot be placed, the Entity shall retain present certain assets or entitlements to receive the securities subject to underwriting. assets in a trust as a guarantee for the loans granted. This way, the risk of losses is minimized and Additionally, the Entity’s portfolio of financial trusts access to the security is guaranteed in case of the for investment purposes is completed with listed debtor’s noncompliance. final fiduciary values of financial trusts (Consubond, PVCRED, Best Consumer Directo, Credimas, Trusts usually act as conduits to collect cash from Garbarino, Chubut Regalías Hidrocarburíferas, the debtor’s flow of operations and send it to the Secubono, Megabono and Credicuotas Consumos) bank for the payment of the debtor’s loans and thus and Certificates of participation (Saenz Créditos, ensure compliance with the obligations assumed by Gas Tucumán and Arfintech). the trustor and guaranteed through the trust. As of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, debt Additionally, other guarantee trusts manage specific securities and certificates of participation in financial assets, mainly real property. trusts administrated by the Entity for investment purposes total 1,383,743, 1,011,828 and 730672, Provided there is no noncompliance or delays by respectively. debtor in the obligations assumed with the beneficiary, the Trustee shall not execute the guaranty and According to the latest accounting information all excess amounts as to the value of the obligations available as of the date of issuance of the accompaare reimbursed by the Trustee to the debtor. nying consolidated Financial Statements, the corpus assets of the trusts exceed the carrying amount in the related proportions. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 280 Annual Report | Banco Macro As of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, considering —— Being a party to public work concession agreethe latest available accounting information as of the ments granting road exploitation, management, date of the accompanying consolidated Financial keeping and maintenance. Statements, the assets managed by the Entity amount to 269,507, 328,268 and 451,569, respectively. As of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, considering the latest available accounting information as of the 31.4 Trusts in which the Entity acts date of the accompanying consolidated Financial as trustee (management) Statements, the assets managed by the Entity The Entity, through its subsidiaries, performs amounted to 3,021,849, 2,200,840 and 2,117,959, management duties of the corpus assets directly respectively. according to the agreements, performing only trustee duties and has no other interests in the trust. 32. COMPLIANCE WITH CNV STANDARDS In no case shall the Trustee be liable with its own 32.1 Compliance with CNV standards to act assets or for any obligation deriving from the in the different agent categories defined by performance as trustee. Such obligations do not the CN: imply any type of indebtedness or commitment for the trustee and they will be fulfilled only through 32.1.1 Operations of Banco Macro S.A. trust assets. In addition, the trustee will not encumConsidering Banco Macro SA’s current operations, ber the corpus assets or dispose of them beyond the and according to the different categories of agents limits established in the related trust agreements. established by CNV (revised text under General The fees earned by the Entity from its role as trustee Resolution No. 622, as amended), the Entity is are calculated according to the terms and condiregistered with this agency as agent for the custody tions of the agreements. of collective investment products of mutual funds (AC PIC FCI for their acronyms in Spanish language), Trusts usually manage funds derived from the comprehensive clearing and settlement agent and activities performed by trustors, for the following trading agent (ALyC and AN – comprehensive, for main purposes: their acronyms in Spanish language), financial trustee Agent (FF for its acronym in Spanish —— Guaranteeing, in favor of the beneficiary the language ) and Guarantee Entity (in the process of existence of the resources required to finance and/or being registered). pay certain obligations, such as the payment of amortization installments regarding work or service Additionally, the Entity’s shareholders’ equity certificates, and the payment of invoices and fees exceeds the minimum amount required by this stipulated in the related agreements, regulation, amounting to 29,000, as well as the minimum counterpart required of 20,000, which the —— Promoting the production development of the Entity paid-in with government securities as private economic sector at a provincial level, described in Note 30 to the accompanying consolidated Financial Statements and with funds deposited accounts numbers 00285 and 80285 held by the Entity at the BCRA. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 281 32.1.2 Operations of Banco del Tucumán S.A. Additionally, the shareholders’ equity of this ComConsidering Banco del Tucumán SA’s current pany exceeds the minimum amount required by this operations, and according to the different categories regulation, amounting to 500 plus 100 per each of agents established by CNV (revised text under additional Mutual Fund it administers, which the General Resolution No. 622, as amended), the Entity Company paid-in with mutual fund units or shares. is registered with this agency under the following agent categories: mutual investment funds place32.1.5 Operations of Macro Fiducia S.A. ment and distribution agent (ACyD FCI) and Considering the current operations of this Subsidclearing and settlement agent and trading agent iary, and according to the provisions established by (ALyC and AN – Individual). CNV effective as of the approval of the General Resolution 622/2013, as amended and issued by Additionally, the shareholders’ equity of this Subsidsuch agency, the Company is registered with the iary exceeds the minimum amount required by this CNV as Financial Trustee agent and Non-Financial regulation, amounting to 18,125, as well as the Trustee agent. minimum counterpart required of 9,000, which the subsidiary paid-in with government securities. Additionally, the shareholders’ equity of this Subsidiary exceeds the minimum amount required by this 32.1.3 Operations of Macro Securities S.A. regulation, amounting to 6,000, as well as the Considering the current operations of this Subsidiary, minimum counterpart required of 3,000, which the and according to the provisions established by CNV subsidiary paid-in with mutual fund units or shares. effective as of the approval of the General Resolution No. 622/2013, as amended and issued by such 32.2 Documents in custody agency, the Company is registered with the CNV As a general policy, the Entity delivers for custody to under the following categories: clearing and third parties, the documentary support of its aged settlement agent, trading agent, comprehensive accounting and management operations, i.e. those trading agent and mutual investment funds whose date is prior to the last fiscal year-end, except placement and distribution agent (ALyC, AN, AN for the Inventory Book, in which aging is deemed to – comprehensive and ACyD FCI). include those with a date prior to the two fiscal years ended. In compliance with CNV General Resolution Additionally, the shareholders’ equity of this SubsidNo. 629 requirements, the Entity has placed (i) the iary exceeds the minimum amount required by this Inventory Books for fiscal years ended through and regulation, amounting to 18,125, as well as the including December 31, 2015, and (ii) certain minimum counterpart required of 9,000, which the documentation supporting the economic transacsubsidiary paid-in with mutual fund units or shares. tions for fiscal years ended through and including December 31, 2017, under the custody of the 32.1.4 Operations of Macro Fondos Sociedad following companies: AdeA Administradora de Gerente de Fondos Comunes de Inversión S.A. Archivos S.A. (warehouse located at Ruta 36, km Considering the current operations of this Subsidiary, 31.5, Florencio Varela, Province of Buenos Aires) and and according to the provisions established by CNV ADDOC Administración de Documentos S.A. effective as of the approval of the General Resolu(warehouse located at Avenida Circunvalación tion No. 622/2013, as amended and issued by such Agustín Tosco with no number, Colectora Sur, agency, the Company is registered with the CNV as between Puente San Carlos and Puente 60 blocks, agent for the Administration of Collective InvestProvince of Córdoba and Avenida Luis Lagomarsino ment Products of Mutual Funds. 1750, formerly Ruta 8 Km 51.200, Pilar, Province of Buenos Aires). Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 282 Annual Report | Banco Macro 32.3 As depositary of Mutual Funds As of December 31, 2018 Banco Macro SA, in its capacity as Depositary Company, holds in custody the shares in Mutual Funds subscribed by third parties and assets from the following mutual funds: Fund Number of shares Equity Pionero Pesos 1,447,569,372 6,857,392 Pionero Renta Ahorro 679,237,270 5,962,020 Pionero F F 70,582,326 506,973 Pionero Renta 5,832,945 110,029 Pionero Acciones 12,464,227 284,843 Pionero Renta Plus 8,103,317 177,486 Pionero Empresas FCI Abierto PYMES 206,274,022 641,616 Pionero Pesos Plus 92,640,428 262,096 Pionero Renta Ahorro Plus 311,647,574 645,952 Pionero Renta Mixta I 27,058,866 47,610 Pionero Renta Mixta II 5,275 10 Pionero Renta Estratégico 422,791,472 519,032 Pionero Renta Capital 50,000 50 Pionero Argentina Bicentenario 50,000 50 Pionero Ahorro Dólares 127,000,808 4,965,715 Pionero Renta Global 50,000 1,890 Pionero Renta Fija Dólares 10,693,684 342,257 Argenfunds Renta Pesos 390,039,169 1,112,198 Argenfunds Renta Argentina 31,303,874 122,005 Argenfunds Ahorro Pesos 285,663,973 1,356,155 Argenfunds Renta Privada FCI 129,917,683 732,832 Argenfunds Abierto Pymes 155,767,333 161,281 Argenfunds Renta Total 974,439,315 2,050,167 Argenfunds Renta Flexible 503,464,296 896,682 Argenfunds Renta Dinámica 228,078,430 388,144 Argenfunds Renta Mixta 9,383 8 Argenfunds Renta Global 94,349,770 164,718 Argenfunds Renta Capital 5,307,151 201,447 Argenfunds Renta Balanceada 190,600,849 331,047 Argenfunds Renta Crecimiento 516,144 18,853 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 283 33. ACCOUNTING ITEMS THAT IDENTIFY THE COMPLIANCE WITH MINIMUM CASH REQUIREMENTS The items recognized by the Entity to constitute the minimum cash requirement effective for December 2018 are listed below, indicating the balances as of month-end of the related items: Description Banco Macro S.A. Banco del Tucumán S.A. Cash and bank deposits BCRA’s accounts balances 46,046,332 4,165,795 Other debt securities BCRA liquidity bills computable for minimum cash requirements 18,800,520 Government bonds computable for minimum cash requirements 7,158,360 785,400 Financial assets delivered as guarantee Special guarantee accounts with the BCRA 5,330,580 389,109 Total 77,335,792 5,340,304 34. PENALTIES APPLIED TO THE FINANCIAL Proceeding filed against: Banco Macro SA and the ENTITY AND SUMMARY PROCEEDINGS Members of the Board of Directors (Jorge Horacio INITIATED BY THE BCRA Brito, Delfín Jorge Ezequiel Carballo, Jorge Pablo Brito, Marcos Brito, Juan Pablo Brito Devoto, Luis The Central Bank Communiqué “A” 5689 requires Carlos Cerolini, Carlos Enrique Videla, Alejandro banks to disclose in their financial statements Macfarlane, Guillermo Eduardo Stanley, Constanza certain information regarding summaries and Brito and Emanuel Antonio Alvarez Agis). sanctions received from certain regulatory authoriStatus: pending resolution before the BCRA. On ties, regardless of the amounts involved and the final 04/07/2016, we filed the defenses and evidence. On conclusions of each cause. 05/18/2016 we requested on behalf of the accused Delfin Jorge Ezequiel Carballo the resolution of the Next follows a description of the situation of Banco motion for lack of standing to be sued. To date this Macro SA and Banco del Tucumán SA as of motion is still pending resolution. December 31, 2018: Penalties imposed by the BCRA Banco Macro S.A. Financial Summary proceedings: No. 1380 dated Summary proceedings filed by the BCRA 03/11/2013. Reason: Alleged excess in the assets used for Financial Summary proceedings: No. 1496 dated guarantee purposes which should have been used 02/24/2016. for related statutory operation ratios; failure to fulfill Reason: deficiencies on the consolidated superviwith the limitations of deposit increase, lack of sion exercised by the Entity regarding its subsidiarveracity in book records, neglect to present the ies, with non-compliance of internal controls. corresponding accounting disclosure of such excess and failures according to BCRA’s requirements. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 284 Annual Report | Banco Macro Penalty amount: 2,000. IV of the CNACAF under No. 19,971/2015. On Proceeding filed against: former Banco Privado de 06/23/2015 the Court informed the BCRA about the Inversiones SA, Directors, Supervisory Committee appeal lodged by Banco Macro. On 07/13/2016 and Corporate Services Manager (Alejandro Manuel Courtroom IV of the CNACAF sustained the appeal Estrada, Raúl Fernandez, Alejandro Carlos Estrada, filed by the Entity and annulled the decision Eduardo Guillermo Castro, Jorge Norberto Cerrotta, imposing the fines to the Entity. The BCRA filed an Armando Rogelio Pomar, Carlos Soulé and Baruki extraordinary appeal, which was answered by the Luis Alberto Gonzalez). Entity on 08/29/2016. On 09/06/2016 Courtroom IV Status: On 06/12/2015 the BCRA passed Judgment of the CNACAF dismissed BCRA’s extraordinary No. 527, imposing fines to those responsible. On appeal. On 09/14/2016 the BCRA lodged a motion 06/25/2015 the fine was paid. On 07/10/2015 a for reconsideration of dismissal of the extraordinary direct appeal was filed against such resolution to appeal with the CSJN (Argentine Supreme Court of CNACAF (Court of Appeals in Contentious AdminisJustice), which is still pending resolution. trative Matters). On December 2015, the penalty amount was recovered by the Entity as a result of Penalties imposed by the Financial Information the guarantee provided by the sellers at the Unit (UIF) moment of acquisition of the shares of former BPI SA. On September 2015, the appeals were filed with File: No. 62/2009 dated 01/16/2009. Courtroom II, under case No. 48607/2015 of Reason: Purchase of foreign currency from April CNACAF. On 05/10/2016, Courtroom II decided to 2006 through August 2007. Penalty amount: 718. confirm the penalties imposed by the BCRA. Upon Penalty imposed on: Banco Macro SA and those in such decision, the Entity filed an extraordinary charge of Anti-money laundering regulation appeal that was dismissed by the Courtroom II of compliance (Juan Pablo Brito Devoto and Luis the CNACAF on 08/02/2016. On 08/16/2016 a Carlos Cerolini). motion for reconsideration of dismissal of appeal Status: The UIF passed Resolution No. 72/2011 on was lodged on behalf of the Entity and of Mr. Carlos 06/09/2011, imposing fines to those responsible. An Soulé before the Argentine Supreme Court of appeal was lodged with the CNACAF. On Justice (CSJN) upon rejection of the federal 10/31/2016 the Courtroom III decided the following: extraordinary appeal, which is still pending to date. (i) on the one hand, as to the transactions carried out between 10/11/2006 and 08/22/2007, to declare Financial Summary proceedings: No. 1401 dated that the punitive power of the UIF had expired at the 08/14/2013. time of the summary proceedings, rendering UIF`s Reason: alleged failure in financing to the non-finanResolution 72/2011 invalid, (ii) on the other hand, as cial public sector, for temporary overdrafts through to the transactions performed from 03/05/2007 and checking accounts of the Municipality of Córdoba from 04/17/2007 through 08/22/2007, to refer these and Reconquista. Penalty amount: 2,400. proceedings again to the UIF for a new resolution Proceeding filed against: Banco Macro SA and the readjusting the fines imposed on the Entity and members of the Board (Jorge Horacio Brito, Jorge Messrs. Juan Pablo Brito Devoto and Luis Carlos Pablo Brito and Marcos Brito) Cerolini. Upon such court order, both the UIF and Status: On 03/02/2015 the BCRA passed Resoluthe Entity lodged an extraordinary appeal. Such tion No. 183/15 imposing fines to the Entity, which appeals were rejected by the Court on April 25, 2017. were debited from the Entity´s account 00285 on On May 10, 2017 both the Entity and the UIF filed a 03/12/2015. On 03/30/2015 a direct appeal was motion for reconsideration of dismissal of appeal filed with the CNACAF against such resolution. On before the Argentine Supreme Court which is still April 2015 the appeal was presented at Courtroom pending resolution. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 285 File: No. 248/2014 (UIF Note Presidency 245/2013 Although the above described penalties do not 11/26/2013) dated 07/30/2014. involve material amounts, as of the date of issuance Reason: Alleged deficiencies in preparing certain of the accompanying consolidated Financial “Reports on suspicious transactions (ROS)” due to Statements, the total amount of monetary penalties cases of infringement detected in certain customer received, pending payment due to any appeal files. Penalty amount: 330. lodged by the Entity, amounts to 718 and was Penalty imposed on: Banco Macro SA, the members recognized according to BCRA’s Communiqués “A” of the Board and those in charge of Anti-money 5689 and 5940, as amended and supplemented. laundering regulation compliance (Luis Carlos Additionally, there are pending summary proceedCerolini – both as Compliance Officer and Director ings before the CNV and the UIF, as described and Jorge Horacio Brito, Delfín Jorge Ezequiel below: Carballo, Juan Pablo Brito Devoto, Jorge Pablo Brito, File: No. 1480/2011 (CNV Resolution No. 17529) Alejandro Macfarlane, Carlos Enrique Videla, dated 09/26/2014. Guillermo Eduardo Stanley, Constanza Brito, Reason: Potential non-compliance with the Emanuel Antonio Alvarez Agis, Marcos Brito and obligation to inform a “Relevant Event”. Rafael Magnanini –as Directors of Banco Macro SA-). Persons subject to summary proceedings: Banco Status: upon notice of the summary proceedings, Macro SA, the members of the Board, the regular on 05/08/2015 the Entity filed its defense, offering members of the Supervisory Committee and the evidence and requesting its acquittal. On person/s responsible for Market Relations (Jorge 12/26/2016 the UIF passed Resolution 164/16 Horacio Brito, Delfín Jorge Ezequiel Carballo, Juan imposing fines on those responsible and issuing a Pablo Brito Devoto, Jorge Pablo Brito, Luis Carlos favorable decision on the plea of lack of locus standi Cerolini, Roberto Julio Eilbaum, Alejandro Macfarlodged by Messrs. Carballo and Magnanini. On lane, Carlos Enrique Videla, Guillermo Eduardo 01/30/2017 the Entity paid the fine imposed by the Stanley, Constanza Brito, Daniel Hugo Violatti, UIF, due to the non-staying effect thereof. On Ladislao Szekely, Santiago Marcelo Maidana and 03/13/2017 a Direct Appeal was filed against such Herman Fernando Aner). resolution, and the legal action it be decided at Status: on 10/28/2014 the Entity and the persons Room III of the CNACAF, entitled “Banco Macro S.A. involved filed their defenses offering evidence and et al vs. UIF on Criminal Code – Law 25246 – Derequesting their acquittal. On 08/03/2015 the term cree 290/07 sect. 25” (Court File No. 13500/2017). to produce evidence was closed and on 08/19/2015 This court file is pending resolution of the Courtroom the defendants lodged their memorials. To the date III of the CNACAF. hereof this action is still pending resolution. • Proceedings ended in the reporting year: Criminal File: 2577/2014 (CNV Resolution No. 18863) dated foreign exchange regime summary proceedings 07/20/2017. (BCRA): No. 6545 dated 09/03/2015 for alleged Reason: potential non-compliance with de provibreach of article No. 1 subsections e) and f) of the sions of section 59 of Law 19550 and paragraph 1 of CFEL and BCRA’s Communiqué “A” 5264, as Chapter 6 Section 19 of Article IV of Chapter II of amended and supplemented, for foreign exchange CNV Rules (Revised 2013, as amended) in force at transactions performed with a customer ended with the time of the issues under analysis. a favorable decision for the Entity since on Persons subject to summary proceedings: Banco 04/12/2018 the Entity was given notice of BCRA’s Macro SA, in its capacity as Custody Agent of decision to withdraw the accusation filed against Collective Investment Products of Mutual Funds, the defendants and therefore ordered the closing of regular Directors and regular members of the the case. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 286 Annual Report | Banco Macro Supervisory Committee (Jorge Horacio Brito, Delfín Brito, Delfín Jorge Ezequiel Carballo, Delfín Federico Jorge Ezequiel Carballo, Jorge Pablo Brito, Marcos Ezequiel Carballo, Carlos Enrique Videla, Alejandro Brito, Juan Pablo Brito Devoto, Luis Carlos Cerolini, Macfarlane, Guillermo Eduardo Stanley, Emmanuel Federico Pastrana, Carlos Enrique Videla, Alejandro Antonio Alvarez Agis, Nicolás Alejandro Todesca, Macfarlane, Guillermo Eduardo Stanley, Constanza Carlos Alberto Giovanelli, José Alfredo Sanchez, Brito, Emmanuel Antonio Alvarez Agis, Alejandro Martín Estanislao Gorosito, Roberto Julio Eilbaum, Almarza, Carlos Javier Piazza and Vivian Haydee Mario Luis Vicens, Nelson Damián Pozzoli, Luis Stenghele). María Blaquier, Ariel Marcelo Sigal, Alejandro Eduardo Fargosi, Juan Martin Monge Varela and Status: on 07/28/2017 the Entity and the persons Luis Cerolini in his double capacity as compliance subject to these summary proceedings were given officer and member of the management body). notice of this action and were given 10 business days Status: on 03/08/2018 the Entity and the persons to make the relevant filing. On August 11, 2017, the subject to these summary proceedings filed their Entity filed its defense requesting the nullity of the defenses. Additionally, the UIF ordered the producaccusation, the expiration of the time limit to file the tion of evidence and therefore on 03/28/2018 and administrative criminal actions and the lack of 04/03/2018 official information written notices were responsibility of the people subject to these sumgiven to the BCRA and CNV. The parties subject to mary proceedings for the acts subject matter of this these summary proceedings produced the requestaction since such supervisory obligation is not in ed evidence and as result, on 05/21/2018 the UIF accordance with the role of the Custody Agent. On closed the production of evidence and rendered the 12/06/2017 the court held the first preliminary proceedings ready for closing arguments. On hearing and the summary proceedings turned to be 06/08/2018, the Entity, the Directors and the under the analysis of the CNV, who shall decide Compliance Officer filed their closing arguments. To whether it allows for the production of evidence or the date of the accompanying consolidated directly decides on the merits of the case. On Financial Statements, the case is still being ana04/10/2018 the CNV declared the issue a matter of lyzed and pending resolution by the UIF. law and ordered notice be given to the accused parties in order for them to file the relevant memoriFile: N°1208/2014 (UIF Resolution No. 13/2016) als. On 04/27/2018, Banco Macro filed its memorial. dated 01/15/2016. Since then, the case is being analyzed by the CNV. Reason: alleged breach to Anti-money Laundering Law and the amendments thereof, and UIF ResoluFile: No. 137/2015 (UIF Resolution No. 136/2017) tion No. 121/11. dated 12/19/2017. Persons subject to summary proceedings: Banco Reason: alleged breach to the contents of the Code Macro S.A., Jorge Horacio Brito, Delfín Jorge of Procedure applicable to Anti-money Laundering Ezequiel Carballo, Juan Pablo Brito Devoto, Jorge and Terrorism Financing as Settlement and Clearing Pablo Brito, Luis Carlos Cerolini, Alejandro MacfarAgent at the time of an inspection of the CNV and lane, Carlos Enrique Videla, Guillermo Eduardo to the Internal Audit Process referred to in its Stanley, Constanza Brito, Marcos Brito and Emcapacity as Settlement and Clearing Agent. (UIF manuel Antonio Álvarez Agis. Resolution No. 229/2011, as amended). Status: on 05/17/2018 the Entity and the individuals Persons subject to summary proceedings: Banco involved were give notice of Resolution 13/2016 Macro SA, members of the management body declaring the commencement of the summary during the period subject-matter of these summary proceedings. The proceedings were filed as a proceedings (Jorge Horacio Brito, Jorge Pablo Brito, consequence of a report submitted on 05/12/2014 Juan Pablo Brito Devoto, Constanza Brito, Marcos by the BCRA on “background information in Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 287 connection with a comprehensive inspection carried loans without the appropriate authorization by the out to Banco Macro S.A. between 11/26/2013 and BCRA. Penalty amount: 1,440. 01/17/2014, by the Special Operations Supervisory Proceedings filed against: Banco del Tucumán SA Department, in order to evaluate the actions taken and the members of the Board of Directors (Jorge by the Entity as to anti-money laundering and Horacio Brito, Luis Carlos Cerolini, Delfín Jorge terrorism financing“. The UIF alleged in its resolution Ezequiel Carballo, Jorge Pablo Brito, Claudio that summary proceedings should be filed “in order Alejandro Cerezo and Waldo Camilo López) to limit any responsibilities or liabilities Banco Macro Status: On 03/12/2014 the BCRA issued Resolution S.A., its Board of Directors and the Compliance 149/14 applying the fine. On 03/19/2014 such fine Officer/s holding office at the time the alleged was debited from the Entity’s bank account number violations described in the whereas clauses of this 00060. On 04/08/2014 the Entity filed a direct [resolution] occurred might have, so as to determine appeal against the resolution of the SEFyC, on whether the above mentioned persons incurred or behalf of the Entity and of the individuals involved in not in the offense or crime provided for in section 24, the summary proceedings, before the CNACAF, who subsections 1 and 2 of Law 25246, as amended”. On sustained Resolution 149/14. On 11/14/2014 the Entity 05/17/2018, the Entity was given notice of the above filed an extraordinary appeal for arbitrariness of the mentioned summary proceedings. On 06/15/2018, decision issued by the Court of Appeals. On Banco Macro S.A., the members of the Board of 02/18/2015 Room III of the National and Federal Directors and the Compliance Officer filed the Court of Appeals (CNAF for its acronym in Spanish relevant defenses. On 07/02/2018, the UIF admitted language) dismissed the Extraordinary Appeal filed the plea of lack of locus standi lodged by Delfin by the Entity with court costs. On 02/26/2015 the Jorge Ezequiel Carballo releasing him from any Entity lodged a motion for reconsideration of liability under these summary proceedings. The dismissal of the Extraordinary Appeal, which is still production of evidence stage in this case was pending to date. opened and closed and on September 2018 the parties involved submitted the relevant memorials. • Proceedings ended in the reporting year: The date of issuance of the accompanying consolidated Financial Statements, these proceedings are Criminal foreign exchange regime summary still pending resolution. proceedings (BCRA): No. 3078 dated 06/24/2008 for alleged breach of Section 8 of the Criminal Banco del Tucumán S.A. Foreign Exchange Regime Act, for irregularities in US dollar sale transactions of the financial intermediary Summary proceedings filed by the BCRA established in Communiqué “B” 7174. On 05/24/2018, the Judge of the Federal Court No. 2 Financial summary proceedings: No. 1349 dated declared the criminal action barred due to the 09/07/2012. statute of limitations under Section 59, subsection 3 Reason: Alleged breach of the provisions of Comof the Criminal Code of the Republic of Argentina. muniqué “A” 3054, OPRAC 1-476, Exhibit, Article 2, section 2.1 and Article 3, section 3.1.2.; and CommuThe Bank Management and its legal advisors niqué “A” 4798, OPRAC 1-613, Exhibit, Article 4, consider no further significant accounting effects section 4.1., regarding the financing to the Noncould arise from the final outcome of the above Financial Public Sector, for the acquisition of secured mentioned judicial proceedings. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 288 Annual Report | Banco Macro 35. 35. ISSUANCE OF CORPORATE BONDS The corporate bond liabilities recorded by Banco Macro SA in the accompanying consolidated Financial Statements amount to: Corporate bonds Original Value Residual face value 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 as of 12/31/2018 Subordinated Resettable – Class A U$S 400,000,000 (a.1) U$S 400.000.000 15.288.390 7.565.759 Non-subordinated – Class B 4,620,570,000 (a.2) 3,391,052,000 3,460,899 4,712,216 Non-subordinated – Class C 3,207,500,000 (a.3) 3,207,500,000 2,916,412 Total 21,665,701 12,277,975 a.1) On April 26, 2016, the general regular shareholdSince reset date, these Corporate Bonds will accrue ers’ meeting approved the creation of a Global a benchmark reset rate plus 546.3 basis point, Program for the Issuance of Medium-Term Debt according terms and conditions abovementioned. Securities, in accordance with the provisions of Law No. 23,576, as amended and further applicable In addition, the Entity has the option to fully redeem regulations, up to a maximum amount outstanding the issuance as the reset date and under the at any time during the term of the program of USD conditions established in the pricing supplement 1,000,000,000 (one billion US dollars), or an equal after that date. The Entity used the funds derived amount in other currencies, under which it is from such issuance to grant loans in accordance possible to issue simple corporate bonds, not with BCRA guidelines. convertible into shares in one or more classes. Also, on April 28, 2017, the General and Special As of December 31, 2016, the recorded amount Shareholder´s Meeting resolved to extend of the related to these corporate bonds was 6,376,537. maximum amount of the abovementioned Global Program up to USD 1,500,000,000 (one thousand a.2) On May 8, 2017, under Global Program mention five hundred millions US dollars). on item a.1), Banco Macro SA issued non subordinated simple corporate bonds not convertible into On November 4, 2016, under the abovementioned shares, at a fixed rate of 17.50%, fully amortizable Global Program, Banco Macro SA issued Subordiupon maturity (May 8, 2022) for a face value of nated Resettable Corporate Bonds, class A, at a pesos 4,620,570,000 equivalent to USD fixed rate of 6.750% p.a. until reset date, fully 300,000,000 (three hundred million US dollars), amortizable upon maturity (November 4, 2026) for a under the terms and conditions set forth in the price face value of USD 400,000,000 (four hundred supplement dated April 21, 2017. Interest is paid million US dollars), under the terms and conditions semiannually on November 8 and May 8 of every set forth in the pricing supplement dated October 21, year, beginning on November 8, 2017. 2016. Interest is paid semiannually on May 4 and November 4 of every year and the reset date will be In addition, the Entity may fully redeem the issuance November 4, 2021. for tax matters, but not partially. The Entity used the funds derived from such issuance to grant loans in accordance with BCRA guidelines. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 289 On October 17, 2018, the Board authorized the To the date of the accompanying consolidated cancellation of these Corporate Bonds for a Financial Statements, the Entity reported acquisinominal value of 1,229,518,000 pesos, equivalent to tions of this issuance for a nominal value of the amount of acquisitions of this issuance 517,000,000, pesos, then leaving an outstanding performed to date. nominal value of 2,690,500,000. To the date of the accompanying consolidated As of December 31, 2016 the Bank had recorded Financial Statements and after the date mentioned 1,684,636, related to Non-subordinated Corporate in the preceding paragraph, the Entity reported Bonds – Class 2, for a face value of USD acquisitions of this issuance for a nominal value of 150,000,000. 147,955,000 pesos, then leaving an outstanding nominal value of 3,243,097,000. Moreover, on April 27, 2018, the Shareholder´s Meeting resolved to increase the maximum amount a.3) On April 9, 2018, under the Global Program of the Global Program for the Issuance of Corporate mentioned on item a.1) above, Banco Macro SA Bonds for a face value from USD 1,500,000,000 to issued, non-subordinated corporate bonds, class C, USD 2,500,000,000 or an equal amount in other for a face value of pesos 3,207,500, at an annual currencies, according to the Board of Directors variable rate equivalent to the sum of (i) Badlar opportunely determines. private rate applicable for the related accrued period; plus (ii) applicable margin of 3.5% p.a., fully 36. ACCOUNTING ITEMS OUTSIDE THE amortizable upon maturity (April 9, 2021). Interest BALANCE SHEET will be paid quarterly for the periods due on July 9, October 9, January 9 and April 9 of every year, In addition to the expressed in Note 7, the Entity beginning on July 9, 2018. recognizes different transactions outside its balance sheet, pursuant to the BCRA standards. The table In addition, the Entity may fully redeem the issuance below shows the balances of the most significant for tax matters, but not partially. The Entity used the accounting items outside the balance sheet as of funds derived from such issuance to grant loans in December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016: accordance with BCRA guidelines. Description 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 Senior guarantees and other guarantees received (1) 45,544,953 39,247,291 22,116,120 custody of government and private bonds and other assets 80,052,243 82,906,533 51,936,124 held by third parties Deposited checks pending clearance 1,680,896 1,266,306 1,134,949 Outstanding checks to be paid 3,353,434 2,054,676 1,883,988 (1) For guarantees delivered to secure loan transactions and other financing, under applicable rules and regulations in force. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 290 Annual Report | Banco Macro 37. TAX AND OTHER CLAIMS Employer’s Contributions should be claimed for the indicated periods. 37.1. Tax claims The AFIP (Federal Public Revenue Agency) and tax The Entity’s Management and its legal advisors authorities of the relevant jurisdictions have reviewed consider no further significant accounting effects the tax returns filed by the Entity related to income could arise from the final outcome of the above tax, minimum presumed income tax and other taxes mentioned proceedings other than those disclosed (mainly gross turnover tax). As a result, there are in the accompanying consolidated Financial claims pending at court and/or administrative levels, Statements. either subject to discussion or appeal. The most significant claims are summarized below: 37.2. Other claims On the other hand, before merging with and into the a) AFIP´s Challenges against the income tax returns Entity, Banco Privado de Inversiones (BPI) had a filed by former Banco Bansud SA (for the fiscal years pending class action styled “Adecua v. Banco since June 30, 1995, through June 30, 1999, and of Privado de Inversiones on ordinary proceedings”, File the irregular six-month period ended December 31, No. 19073/2007, before Commercial Court No. 3 in 1999) and by former Banco Macro SA (for the fiscal and for the City of Buenos Aires, Clerk’s Office No. 5, years ended since December 31, 1998, through whereby it was required to reimburse to its clients December 31, 2000). the life insurance amounts allegedly overcharged to amounts payable, as well as to reduce the amounts The matter under discussion that has not been charged in this regard in the future; this legal resolved as yet and on which the regulatory agency proceeding was concluded upon the abovemenbases its position is the impossibility of deducting tioned merger because BPI complied in full with the credits that have collateral security, an issue that terms of the court-approved agreement reached has been addressed by the Federal Administrative with Adecua before answering the complaint. Tax Court and CSJN in similar cases, which have However, in March 2013, when BPI had already been issued resolutions that are favorable to the Entity’s merged with and into the Entity, the trial court position. resolved to amend the terms of the agreement and ordered the reimbursement of amounts of money to b) Ex-officio gross turnover tax assessments in a larger number of clients as compared to the progress and/or adjustments pending resolution by number arising from the terms approved by the the tax authorities of certain jurisdictions. court in due time. Such resolution was appealed by the Entity as BPI’s surviving company. The appeal c) On February 20, 2018, the AFIP required the Entity was dismissed by the Court of Appeals, which to amend the returns in connection with Employer’s abrogated both the trial court decision and the Contributions for the period between November, court-approved agreement, thus ordering the Entity 2012 to December, 2016, or otherwise explain the to answer the complaint. This gave rise to the filing reasons why it had applied the tax rate set forth in of an extraordinary appeal against such decision, as Section 2b) of Presidential Decree No. 814/01 (text as well as the subsequent filing of a complaint for the per Section 9 of Law No. 25,453). On March 14, 2018, extraordinary appeal denied. It is currently pending the Entity submitted a detailed explanation of the with the Argentine Supreme Court. grounds supporting its position. As of the date hereof, the Entity has not received an answer from Moreover, the Entity is also subject to three lawsuits AFIP. In the understanding of the Entity´s managefiled with consumers’ associations for the same ment and its tax and legal advisors, no amount for purpose: a) Adecua v. Banco Macro on ordinary Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 291 proceedings, File No. 20495/2007, pending with should be allocated to the Legal or Statutory Commercial Court No. 7 in and for the City of Reserve. Therefore, the next Shareholders’ meeting Buenos Aires, Clerk’s Office No. 13; b) Damnificados shall apply 3,145,849 of the Retained Earnings to Financieros Asociación Civil Para Su Defensa et al v. increase such reserve fund. Banco Macro on summary proceedings, File No. 37729/2007, pending with National Commercial b) Pursuant to Law No. 25,063, dividends to be Court No. 7 in and for the City of Buenos Aires, distributed in cash or in kind in excess of taxable Clerk’s Office No. 13; c) Unión de Usuarios y Conincome accumulated as of the end of the fiscal year sumidores v. Nuevo Banco Bisel on ordinary immediately preceding the payment or distribution proceedings, File No. 44704/2008, pending with date shall be subject to a 35% income tax withholdCommercial Court No. 26 in and for the City of ing as a one-time and final payment. For this Buenos Aires, Clerk’s Office No. 52. purpose, income to be considered in each year will result from adding dividends or earnings from other There are also other lawsuits filed by consumer corporations not computed in the calculation of protections associations in relation to the collection those earnings in the same tax period(s) to the of certain commissions and/or financial charges and earnings determined under application of Income certain withholdings made by the Bank to individuals Tax Law, and deducting the tax paid for the tax as Buenos Aires City stamp tax withholding agent. period(s) in which the earnings, or the related proportional amount, being distributed were In addition, there is an action that challenges the generated. This withholding shall not be applicable commission charged by the Entity up to December to earnings distributions payable in the fiscal years 2014 to its credit card customers for “purchases in beginning as of January 1, 2018. excess”, which consisted of a percentage on the amount exceeding the purchase limit. Such action is c) Through Communiqué “A” 6464, the BCRA entitled “Unión de Usuarios y Consumidores et al v. establishes the general procedure to distribute Banco Macro S.A. on Summary Proceedings”, File earnings. According to that procedure, earnings may No. 31958/2010, pending with Commercial Court only be distributed if certain circumstances are met No. 1 in and for the City of Buenos Aires, Clerk’s such as no records of financial assistance from the Office No. 1. Although we believe it is highly probable BCRA due to illiquidity or shortages in payments of we receive a favorable decision from the Court of minimum capital or minimum cash requirement First Instance, we are aware the Court of Appeals deficiencies and not being subject to the provisions has sustained the petitions filed for the same of sections 34 and 35 bis of the Financial Entities purposes against two other banking institutions. Act (sections dealing with tax payment and The Bank’s Management and its legal advisors restructuring agreements and reorganization of the consider no further significant accounting effects Entity), among other conditions listed in the abovecould arise from the final outcome of the above mentioned communiqué that must be met. mentioned proceedings other than those disclosed in the accompanying Financial Statements. In addition, profits may only be distributed to the extent there are positive results, after deducting, on 38. RESTRICTION ON PROFIT a nonaccounting basis, from retained earnings and DISTRIBUTION earnings reserves – other for future distribution of profits, (i) the amounts of the statutory and other a) According to BCRA regulations, 20% of income for earnings reserves which are mandatory, (ii) all debit the year plus/less prior-year adjustments and less balances of each one of the accounting items accumulated losses as for the prior year-end, if any, recognized in “Other Comprehensive Income”, (iii) Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 292 Annual Report | Banco Macro the income derived of the revaluation of property, d) Pursuant to CNV General Resolution No. 593, the plant and equipment, intangible assets and Shareholders’ Meeting in charge of analyzing the investment property, (iv) the positive net difference annual financial statements will be required to between the amortized cost and the fair value of decide on the application of the Entity’s retained government debt instruments and/or monetary earnings, such as the actual distribution of diviregulation instruments issued by the BCRA for those dends, the capitalization thereof through the delivery instruments recognized at amortized cost, (v) the of bonus shares, the creation of any reserves adjustments identified by the Superintendency of additional to the Legal or Statutory reserve fund or a Financial and Exchange Entities of the BCRA or by combination of any of any of the above. the independent external auditor and that have not been recognized in the accounting records and (vi) 39. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT AND certain franchises granted by the BCRA. AdditionCORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK ally, no profit distributions shall be made out of the MANAGEMENT TRANSPARENCY POLICY profit originated as a result of the first-time application of the IFRS, which profit shall be included as a As financial institutions, the activities of Banco special reserve, the amount of which as of DecemMacro SA and Banco del Tucumán SA are governed ber 31, 2018 is 3,475,669 and is recognized in by the Financial Entities Act No. 21,526, and suppleRetained Earnings. mentary rules and regulations, and BCRA standards. Moreover, they adhere to the good banking practices As of December 2018, the Entity shall make the laid out in BCRA’s Communiqué “A” 5201 (Financial following adjustments to Retained Earnings: Entities Corporate Governance Guidelines), and i. Statutory Reserve Fund: 3,145,849 supplementary provisions. ii. all debit balances of each one of the accounting items recognized in “Other Comprehensive Income”: The Entity publicly trades its shares on the Buenos 527,241 Aires Stock Exchange (BCBA for its acronym in iii. the positive net difference between the amortized Spanish language) and, thus, it is subject to the cost and the fair value: 42,680 regulations issued by the CNV. iv. profit originated as a result of first-time application of the IFRS, included in special reserve fund: Through General Resolution No. 622/13, the CNV 3,475,669. established the minimum contents of the Corporate Governance Code, adding notions of good corporate Additionally, the maximum amount to be distributed governance to corporate management as guidelines shall not be over the minimum capital excess or recommendations that seek to provide transparrecalculating, exclusively for these purposes, the ency thereto. The CNV does not require that position in order to consider the above mentioned adjustments, among other issues. the recommendations be implemented, although it does require the Entity to explain the reasons why it Finally, the Entity must verify that, after completion decided not to adopt the good practices described in of the proposed profit distribution, a capital maintesuch resolution. Each year, the Entity publishes a nance margin equal to 3.5% of risk-weighted assets document called Corporate Governance Explanais kept, apart from the minimum capital required by tory Report together with the Annual Report to the law, to be integrated by level-1(Con1) ordinary Shareholders for the fiscal year. This report is capital, net of deductible items (CDCOn1). available on the Entity’s website and on that of such enforcement agency. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 293 This regulation reinforces the notions contained in The main guidelines under BCRA standards Capital Markets Law establishing principles such as contemplated in the revised text “Financial Entities “full disclosure”, “transparency”, “efficiency”, “investor Corporate Governance Guidelines”, and supplemenprotection”, “equal footing between investors” and tary provisions of the BCRA, are as follows: “protection of the stability of financial entities and financial intermediaries”. • Ownership structure On the other hand, as the Entity lists its shares on As of December 31, 2018, the Entity’s shareholders are: the NYSE, qualifying as a foreign private issuer, it is required to comply with certain corporate governance standards as established in section 303A of the NYSE’s Listed Company Manual, as amended. Shareholder’s Full Name/ Corporate Name Participating Interest Voting Interest Brito Jorge Horacio 16.59 18.55 Carballo Delfín Jorge Ezequiel 16.68 18.37 ANSES F.G.S. Law No. 26425 27.49 25.77 Other shareholders (Local Stock Exchanges) 10.47 10.35 Other shareholders (Foreign Stock Exchanges) 28.77 26.96 On the other hand, the shareholders of Banco del Tucumán SA are: Shareholder’s Full Name/ Corporate Name Participating Interest Voting Interest Banco Macro S.A. 99.95 99.95 Other 0.05 0.05 • Board of Directors and Senior Management Directors are nominated and appointed by the Shareholders’ Meeting. Once elected, the BCRA The Bank’s Board of Directors is currently made up must confirm the designation of the Directors, of 13 regular members. Members are renewed by expressly authorizing them to accept the designathirds and the appointed Directors remain in office tion, pursuant to the provisions as to experience and for three fiscal years. In the fiscal year 2016 particuknowledge, contained in rule CREFI 2-Creation, larly, due to the reorganization of the Board, some of Operation and Expansion –XVFinancial Entities them were appointed for shorter periods. Authorities. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 294 Annual Report | Banco Macro Name Position Delfín Jorge Ezequiel Carballo Chairman Jorge Pablo Brito Vice Chairman Carlos Alberto Giovanelli Regular Director Nelson Damián Pozzoli Regular Director José Alfredo Sánchez (*) Regular Director Martín Estanislao Gorosito (*)(**) Regular Director Constanza Brito Regular Director Guillermo Stanley Regular Director Mario Luis Vicens (*) Regular Director Juan Martín Monge Varela(*)(**) Regular Director Marcos Brito Regular Director Alejandro Eduardo Fargosi (*)(**) Regular Director Delfín Federico Ezequiel Carballo Regular Director Santiago Horacio Seeber Alternate Director Alejandro Guillermo Chiti (*) Alternate Director Fabián Alejandro De Paul (*) Alternate Director (*) Independent Director (**) Designated by ANSES-FGS In turn, the Board of Directors of Banco del appointed Directors remain in office for three Tucumán S.A. in turn is composed of six memfiscal years. Directors are nominated and bers. Members are renewed by thirds and the appointed by the Shareholders’ Meeting. Name Position Jorge Horacio Brito Chairman Delfín Jorge Ezequiel Carballo Vice Chairman Jorge Pablo Brito Regular Director Nelson Damián Pozzoli Regular Director Claudio Alejandro Cerezo Regular Director Marcos Brito Regular Director Ernesto Eduardo Medina Alternate Director María Milagro Medrano Alternate Director Ignacio Palma Alternate Director Constanza Brito Alternate Director Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 295 Directors must be morally suitable and have At present, six Directors are independent, pursuant experience in and knowledge of the banking to the provisions of the CNV rules and regulations business and comply with the requirements and the provisions of the Financial Entities Corpoestablished by the applicable rules and regulations rate Governance Guidelines issued by the BCRA. issued by the BCRA. Compliance with such requirements is evaluated at the time the ShareSenior Management is directed by a General holders’ Meeting submits its proposal for the Manager designated by the Board and includes as designation of Directors as well as, on a periodic well officers reporting directly to the general manbasis during their term of office. ager, as well as officers of three staff areas reporting directly to the Board. The table below shows the members and composition of Senior Management: Gustavo Alejandro Manriquez General Manager Brian Anthony Management Control & Strategic Planning Manager Martín Kaplan Commercial Banking Manager Ernesto Eduardo Medina Head of Human Resources Jorge Francisco Scarinci Head of Finance/ CFO and Investors Relations Francisco Muro Distribution & Sales Manager Ana María Magdalena Marcet Credit Risk Manager María Milagro Medrano Head of Institutional Relations & Customer Service Agustín Devoto Head of Investment Banking María José Perez Van Morlegan Head of Legal Department Alberto Figueroa Head of Comprehensive Risk Management Adrian Mariano Scosceria Head of Corporate Banking Ricardo Mendoza Alban Head of Operations & Technology Juan Domingo Mazzon Head of Government Banking • Committees The corporate by-laws state that the Board of well as appoint their members. The Entity currently Directors may establish such Committees as it features the following Committees: deems appropriate for the business of the Bank, as Committee Functions CNV Audit They are established in Capital Markets Law as supplementary. Internal Audit (1) Overseeing the proper operation of the internal control systems defined at the Bank through a periodic assessment thereof and contributing to improving the effectiveness of internal controls. Comprehensive Risk Management (2) It is in charge of monitoring Senior Management’s activities involving the management of credit, market, liquidity, operational, compliance and reputation risks, among others. It advises the Board of Directors on the Entity’s risks. Assets & Liabilities Setting out the Entity’s financial strategy, analyzing the markets and establishing the policies on assets and liabilities, management of market, liquidity, interest rate and currency risks. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 296 Annual Report | Banco Macro Committee Functions IT Systems (1) Overseeing the proper operation of the information technology environment and contributing to improving the effectiveness thereof. Credit (2) Approving credit transactions based on credit capacity. (2) Recovery Incumbent in defining payment arrangements exceeding the predetermined parameters, as well as reclassifying portfolio to be subject to legal proceedings or accounting derecognitions Employee Incentives (2) Ensuring the employee economic incentive system is consistent with the Entity’s culture, goals, long-term business, strategy and control environment. (2) Ethics & Compliance Ensuring the Entity has the proper means with which to promote correct decisionmaking and compliance with internal and external regulations. (2) Designations & Corporate Governance The Committee’s duties include those related to the process of renewing and replacing Senior Management members and the succession plans. It is also in charge of applying the Corporate Governance Code within the Entity and its subsidiaries. Anti-money Laundering (1) Planning and coordinating compliance with the policies established by the Board of Directors on the matter. (2) Financial Services User Protection The duties of this Committee include those related to ensuring the existence and maintenance of an appropriate financial services user protection process and customer service system. (1) Each of Banco Macro S.A. and Banco del Tucumán S.A. has their own committee. (2) Committees of Banco Macro S.A. with a consolidated management vision. •Code of Ethics The Entity’s goal is to build day-to-day relations on The Entity has adopted a Code of Ethics applicable mutual respect, trust and cordial treatment, both to directors and Senior Management and expects all between co-workers and bosses and vendors and of its representatives to act in accordance with the customers, conducting all activities in accordance highest levels of personal and professional integrity with the highest labor and personal ethical standards. in all issues related to their activities, to comply with the applicable laws, to discourage the commission Accordingly, the Code of Conduct is intended to of punishable acts and to comply with the Entity’s provide the standards and values all members of the Code of Conduct and further policies and proceBank must respect. The trust endowed by shareholddures that regulate the conduct of its employees. ers, customers and public in general depends to a This Code of Ethics supplements the Entity’s Code large extent of the compliance with such standards. of Conduct. • Ethics Line • Code of Conduct In line with these standards of ethical conduct, the The Entity promotes a work environment that will Entity has implemented for itself and its significant stimulate responsibility, effectiveness, commitsubsidiaries, Banco del Tucumán S.A. and Macro ment, results, loyalty, honesty, good communicaSecurities S.A., Macro Fondos SGFCI S.A. and tion and teamwork. Macro Fiducia S.A. an Ethics Line or complaints channel, managed by an independent third party, Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 297 ensuring the principles of anonymity and The most relevant variables involved in the determiconfidentiality. nation of remunerations are: Reports and complaints are received by the Ethics —— The responsibility level and complexity of the and Compliance Committee, who takes notice of positions them and of the resolution of the cases, according —— Employee’s competence and potential to established protocols. —— Employee’s performance and goals achieved —— Position with respect to the reference market • Branches —— Entity’s results The Entity has a broad network of branches throughout the entire country, featuring as of The Incentives Committee is in charge of ensuring December 31, 2018, 437 branches of Banco Macro the Entity’s employee financial incentive is consistent SA and 34 branches of Banco del Tucumán SA. with the culture, goals, the business in the long term, the strategy and the control environment of the • Subsidiaries Entity, and the prudent assumption of risks. The Entity carries out certain transactions through its subsidiaries, which are identified in Note 3 to the The Entity intends to compensate personnel accompanying consolidated Financial Statements. ensuring performance recognition, internal equity, external competitiveness, productivity, efficiency and • Business lines added value. The Entity’s business lines and transactions with trusts are mentioned in Notes 1 and 31 to the • Role of financial agent accompanying consolidated Financial Statements, The Bank acts as financial agent in the Provinces of respectively. Misiones, Salta and Jujuy. In addition, the controlled entity, Banco del Tucumán SA, acts as financial • Incentive practices agent of the Province of Tucumán and the MuniciThe Entity features a Remuneration Policy that palities of San Miguel de Tucumán and Yerba Buena. includes both the fixed and variable remuneration, the latter subject to process of assessment of goals • Corporate Sustainability Policy and competencies. The Entity is aware of the responsibility it has with the communities in which it operates. The Corporate The Variable Remuneration program, within the Sustainability department accompanies this scope of the Remuneration Policy, is in line with the commitment with development, driving and mission and values of the organization, its goals, the supporting policies and actions with social, environlong-term business sustainability, the strategy, the mental and economic impact. control environment and the prudent assumption of risks. Incentives are aimed at recognizing the This way it generates permanent dialogue situaoutstanding performance of employees according to: tions with the different departments and stakeholders or groups of interest, which are mainly intended —— Their contribution to the goals achieved to create social value and to develop policies —— Their performance in line with the mission and oriented to the development of a fair, solidary and values of the Organization. equitable country. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 298 Annual Report | Banco Macro The transmission of these Sustainability values shall agreements itself), the ordinary banking transacbe presented through our Integrated Report, as an tions (for example, relationship due to payment of important milestone to align the financial informasalaries) and those that for their minimum amounts tion, (in documents such as the Annual Report and imply no material risk. the Financial Statements) and its integration and consistency with Corporate Sustainability. These anticorruption practices, though oriented to transactions with the public sector, are as well • Anticorruption Policy applicable to transactions between private parties, In line with the Corporate Criminal Liability Act (No. this being an aspect specifically provided for in the 27401), the Board established for the officers and Code of Ethics and the Code of Conduct. employees of the Entity and its subsidiaries, the express prohibition to offer any payment or pay, or The Entity features an Anticorruption Policy and promise to pay or authorize any payment of cash Integrity Program. The Ethics and Compliance money or any other value item to a (public) official, in Committee shall be in charge of seeing to the order to obtain or retain a business. In addition, application of this Policy and submitting periodic these guidelines shall also apply to the private reports to the Board. sector. These guidelines are contained in the Code of Ethics for Directors and Senior Management • Transactions with related parties – Policy on Members and in the Code of Conduct for all conflict of interest employees. Furthermore, the Entity features a Code As an authorized financial institution, Banco Macro of Conduct applicable to Vendors. SA complies with the provisions and reporting requirements established in Financial and Foreign On the other hand, we are as well subject to rules Exchange Entities Act No. 21526 and the regulations and regulations of other jurisdictions containing issued by the regulatory agency (BCRA). similar prohibitions, particularly the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) since Banco Macro S.A. is a As established by law (Argentine Business Company foreign private issuer listing its shares in the NYSE Law No. 19550), specific applicable regulations and therefore is subject to the control and supervi(Capital Markets Law, as supplementary), profession of the SEC. sional accounting standards (Technical Resolution No. 21), IAS 24 and best practice recommendations, The group companies that intend to perform any the Entity reports on the transactions with related transaction which implies the participation of any parties in notes to the financial statements. Such public administration official or agency, a public transactions are carried out under usual market entity or public company, both of Argentina or from conditions. See also Note 12 to the consolidated abroad, shall previously disclose this information to Financial Statements and Note 12 to the separate the Board through the General Manager and inform Financial Statements. before closing the transaction, the agents and intermediaries who might be involved or participate Under current Argentine legislation, directors are in the transaction. The Entity features as well a required to perform their duties with the loyalty and guideline manual for the interaction with public diligence of a prudent business man. Directors are officials. jointly and severally liable to the Entity, the shareholders and third parties for a poor performance of The above described disclosure obligation shall not duties and infringements to the law, bylaws and apply to transactions arising from the provincial regulations, as the case may be, and are responsible financial agency agreements (excluding the master for repairing the damages caused by fraud, abuse of authority or negligence. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 299 The loyal duties of a director are considered to Entity resolved the creation of a Risk Management include: (i) the ban from using corporate assets and Committee and appointed a Head of Comprehenthe confidential information to which he/she may sive Risk Management. have access for personal purposes; (ii) the ban from taking advantage or, due to errors or omissions, Its duties include ensuring that an independent risk allowing a third party to take advantage of the management be established, establishing policies, Entity’s business opportunities, (iii) the obligation of procedures and measurement methodologies and acting as director only for the purposes established report systems which allow the identification, in the law, the Entity’s bylaws or the intention of the measurement and monitoring of the risk under its shareholders or the Board of Directors; and (iv) the charge and also, the duties of each organizational obligation of taking extreme care so that the acts level in the process. conducted by the Board of Directors have no direct or indirect effects against the Entity’s interests. The risk management process includes the definition of the exposure limits for each risk by the Board A director should notify the Board of Directors and of Directors, a follow-up on the exposure to each the Audit Committee about any conflict of interest limit by the persons in charge, the preparation of such director may have in a transaction proposal regular reports for the Comprehensive Risk Manageand should refrain from voting on the matter. ment Committee, a follow-up on the alerts and the implementation of action plans regarding the alerts • Public information and the guidelines for developing stress tests. The information related to corporate governance at the Entity is included within the transparency policy The system is supplementary with policies and contained in such precepts and, hence, is available procedures specific to each risk (Financial, Credit, to interested members of the public on the website Operational, Counterparty Credit, Country Risk, www.macro.com.ar (“Conocenos” – Relaciones con Securitization, Reputational, Compliance, Strategic Inversores) and, www.bancodeltucuman.com.ar Risks, among others). (“Información institucional e Inversores”) additionally, some guidelines are disclosed in other notes In addition, the Credit Risk Management area is in and exhibits to the accompanying Financial charge of interpreting, executing and guaranteeing Statements. Moreover, the Entity’s public informathe application of the General Credit Policy as tion is disclosed on the websites of the BCRA (www. approved by the Board of Directors, pursuant to the bcra.gob.ar) and the CNV (www.cnv.gob.ar). internal and external standards and regulations on the matter. Credit Risk Management reports In addition, the Entity publishes the Market Discifunctionally to the General Manager. pline Report, pursuant to the guidelines established by the BCRA for such information regime, in Comprehensive Risk Management accordance with the criteria of the Basle Banking The Comprehensive Risk Management area is Supervision Committee, which is available in the formed by the Compliance Department and the Entity’s website. Risk Management Department, in charge of the Financial Risk, Credit Risk and Operating and • Risk management Technology Risk areas. Within the framework of the Corporate Governance policy, the Board of Directors of the Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 300 Annual Report | Banco Macro The main procedures carried out by the Risk The results must serve to support decision-making, Management Department include: including strategic decisions adopted by the Board and the Senior Management. In this way they may: • Stress tests The process of stress test includes documenting and —— Estimate the level and trend of the relevant risks formalizing the program as well as the persons in and the effects thereof on capital needs. charge of carrying it out, the frequency of testing —— Evaluate the reasonability of the basic assumpand the validation of the system. It also contemtions used in the capital measuring system and the plates the Contingency Plan based on the test sensitivity of the results to changes in those results. The Risk Management Committee leads assumptions. and coordinates this application. —— Determine whether the Bank has sufficient regulatory capital to cover the different risks and if it • Economic Capital Calculation meets the capital sufficiency goals required. The Risk Management Department estimates the —— Consider its future capital requirements based economic capital for each one of the individual risks on the risk profile and, according thereto, introduce (Market, Liquidity, Interest Rate, Credit, Counterthe necessary adjustments into the strategic plan. party Credit, Concentration, Operational, Securitization, Strategic and Reputational) determined for the The essential elements of the capital evaluation Entity on a consolidated basis with its subsidiaries include: with the same scope as the regulation. The methods used to deal with subsidiaries are exactly the same. —— Policies and proceedings ensuring the risk management process. The economic capital sufficiency evaluation process —— A process connecting economic capital with risk is an integral part of the corporate governance and level. risk management culture of the entities. —— A process establishing capital sufficiency goals based on the risks, taking into account the strategic Quantified economic capital was implemented as approach and the business plan. a formal procedure, both currently and prospec—— An internal control process, in order to secure a tively, and is a tool used in the day-to-day managecomprehensive risk management. ment of risks, in preparing the Business Plan and the Stress Tests. The Entity actively uses guarantees to mitigate its credit risk. The methods used to measure the economic capital of each risk were documented and Excessive risk concentration: approved by the Management, pursuant to the internal rules on Corporate Governance and Risk To avoid excessive risk concentrations, the Entity’s Management. policies and procedures include specific guidelines to focus on keeping a diversified portfolio. The identified credit risk concentrations are controlled and managed accordingly. The selective coverage is used at the Entity to manage risk concentrations both in terms of relationships and industry. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 301 In addition, note that the Entity meets the provisions Minimum capital requirements: established by the BCRA as regards maximum assistance limits to given groups of debtors, in order The table below shows the minimum capital to atomize the portfolio, reducing credit risk requirements measured on a consolidated basis, concentration. effective for the month of December 2018, together with the integration thereof (computable equity) as The main types of risks that the Entity is exposed to of the end of such month: are those related to credit risk, liquidity risk, market risk, interest rate risk, foreign currency risk and operational risk. Description 12/31/2018 Minimum capital requirements 20,437,130 Computable equity 66,113,167 Capital surplus 45,676,037 The following are the policies and processes aimed —— Achieving an adequate portfolio segmentation at identifying, assessing, controlling and mitigating by type of customer and by economic sector; each one of the main risks: —— Boosting the use of the risk analysis and assessment tools that best adjust to the customer’s profile; Credit Risk —— Setting consistent standards for granting loans, The credit risk is the existing risk regarding the following conservative parameters based on the possibility for the Entity to incur a loss because one customer’s solvency, cash flows and profitability in or several customers or counterparties fail to meet the case of companies, and revenues and equity in their obligations. the case of individuals; —— Setting limits to individual powers for granting In order to manage and control the credit risk, the loans depending on the amount, promoting the Entity establishes limits regarding the amount of risk existence of specific committees that, according to it is willing to accept, so as to monitor the indicators their sphere of competence, will be in charge of with respect to such limits. defining assistance levels; —— Optimizing the quality of risks assumed, having The Board of Directors approves the Bank’s credit appropriate guarantees according to the loan term policy and credit assessment in order to provide a and the level for the risk involved; and framework for the creation of businesses to attain an —— Monitoring the loan portfolio and the level of adequate correlation between the risk assumed and customers’ compliance permanently. profitability. The Bank has procedure manuals that contain guidelines, the compliance with current Credit risk management implies the existence of a regulations and the prescribed limits. Such manuals structure having the necessary characteristics to are aimed at achieving the following goals: achieve the organizational goals in all stages of the credit cycle: admission, follow-up, monitoring and recovery. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 302 Annual Report | Banco Macro The risk assessment process varies depending on The resolutions of the Committees include the terms whether it’s about Corporate Banking customers or and conditions applicable to the assistance Consumer Banking customers. regarding amount, currency, terms, coverage with guarantees, follow-up provisions, etc. Committee For the assessment of customers of the Corporate decisions are based on debtor’s risk of non-perforBanking segment, the Entity features different mance and, only on secondary basis, on debtor’s systems and methods involving several responsible equity and risk mitigating factors of the transaction. levels and which become more complex according to the magnitude of the transactions, as to amounts As to credit risk assessment for Consumer Banking and type of assistance, weighted by terms and customers, assessment systems are based mainly on existing coverage. a qualification score and certain maximum indebtedness and installment/income relationship rules. When transactions exceed in amount the authorization instances by delegated powers or through the There are specific rules regarding debtor’s file decentralized risk applications/ systems, ratings are integration, in order to duly document the data approved at Credit Committees. The powers vested entered into the assessment systems. Credit risk on the different decisionmaking bodies are officers also define a credit power regime based on continuously reviewed, in order to adjust them to the the margins to be approved and –if applicablethe number of transactions the Bank faces and optimize admitted exceptions. the credit risk rating. The Bank features processes to detect interrelated The risk analysis of assistance discussed in Credit debtor groups that must be considered as a single Committees is performed at the Corporate Risk customer (economic groups) and to group risk Management Department: specialized risk analysts exposures with the same debtor or counterparty in prepare separate Risk Reports per customer or different credit facilities. Economic Group, which serve to support the credit decisions made by Committee members. Before credit rating approval, the Entity performs a series of controls in order to mitigate related credit Risk reports include –at leastinformation regarding risks, as well as to conform transactions to the the application of the loans and their repayment regulatory framework of technical relationships. source, debtor’s historical and current behavior and the economic group to which debtor belongs; The Entity features a formal, strong and well-defined debtor’s repayment capacity based on debtor’s cash process to manage loans experiencing any problem. flows; the guarantees that shall secure the obligaProceedings vary according to the type of portfolio tions, the ownership situation of such and the delinquency status. collaterals, enforcement possibilities and their To mitigate credit risk, the Entity requests the sensibility to changes in the economy; the market in granting of guarantees on the agreed financing. A which debtor operates and debtor’s position; particular area of the Credit Risk Management debtor’s equity, economic and financial position and Department is responsible for the administration of debtor’s possibility to access to loans. all guarantees received by the Entity, as well as of the periodic evaluation and update of the value thereof, in order to monitor the quality of risk mitigants. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 303 Classification of debtors: customer’s financial commitments. The Entity reviews the classification of customers included in As general classification and allowance policy, the this portfolio respecting the minimum regularity Entity adheres to the rules issued by the BCRA on established by the BCRA, which provides as general this matter, which provide for the classification of rule an annual review of such classification, growing debtors, grouping levels in decreasing order of to a semi-annual or quarterly frequency based on quality, in direct relation to the uncollectibility risk the increasing order of the debt. derived from different situations. On the total debt of each customer at the end of the Classification guidelines also vary depending on month, the Bank applies the following minimum whether they are commercial loans or consumer allowance rates, based on the rating level allocated loans/ home mortgages. to customer: The basic criterion to classify the commercial loans portfolio is the future payment capacity of Debtor category (Commercial Portfolio) With Senior A With Senior B Without Senior Guarantee Guarantee Guarantee 1 – Normal Situation/ Performing – Assistance w/Sen. A Guarantee 1% 1% 1% 2 a) Under observation 1% 3% 5% 2 b) Under negotiation or with refinancing agreements 1% 6% 12% 3 – With trouble 1% 12% 25% 4 – With high risk of insolvency 1% 25% 50% 5 – Irrecoverable 1% 50% 100% 6 – Irrecoverable under BCRA Standards 1% 100% 100% For the classification of consumer portfolio customNevertheless, for consumer portfolio customers, the ers with debts of up to AR $19.8 million, the BCRA Entity applies a more conservative criterion for the authorizes the Entity to follow a simplified method irrecoverable debtor category, since it includes in comparable to the consumer loan portfolio, based such category all consumer loan portfolios registeron days of arrears at the end of each month. ing more than 250 days of arrears: Debtor category (Consumer Portfolio and comparable) Arrears (BCRA) Arrears (Entity) 1 – Normal Situation Up to 31 days Up to 31 days 2 – Low Risk Up to 90 days Up to 90 days 3 – Medium Risk Up to 180 days Up to 180 days 4 – High Risk Up to 1 year Up to 250 days 5 – Irrecoverable More than 1 year More than 250 days Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 304 Annual Report | Banco Macro On the total debt of each customer at the end of the month, the Entity shall apply the following minimum provisioning levels, based on the category allocated to customer: Debtor category (Consumer Portfolio and comparable) With Senior A With Senior B Without Senior Guarantee Guarantee Guarantee 1 – Normal Situation/ Performing – Assistance w/Sen. A Guarantee 1% 1% 1% 2 – Low Risk 1% 3% 5% 3 – Medium Risk 1% 12% 25% 4 – High Risk 1% 25% 50% 5 – Irrecoverable 1% 50% 100% 6 – Irrecoverable under BCRA Standards 1% 100% 100% Pursuant to the Entity’s commitment to keep an Additional allowance policy: adequate coverage of allowances on the loan portfolio, the Entity performs periodic reviews of the Pursuant to the Entity’s commitment to keep an portfolio situation and of the Allowance Policy, adequate coverage of allowances on the loan applying –to the extent the Board deems appropriportfolio, the Entity performs periodic reviews of the ateprovisioning criteria exceeding the regulatory portfolio situation and of the Allowance Policy, minimum allowances. applying –to the extent the Board deems appropriateprovisioning criteria exceeding the regulatory Quantification of accounting allowances tends to minimum allowances. converge towards Expected Credit Loss (IFRS) criteria, since it is principally based on the recognition Even taking into account the temporary exception of expected losses on the basis of the consideration under BCRA’s Communiqué “A” 6114, the quantificaof the events that affect debtor’s credit risk at the tion of accounting allowances tends to converge time of the analysis thereof (among them, changes towards Expected Credit Loss (IFRS) criteria, since it in the economic environment and the estimated is principally based on the recognition of expected behavior of the portfolio according to such environlosses on the basis of the consideration of the events ment), instead of waiting for such loss to gradually that affect debtor’s credit risk at the time of the grow as the number of days in arrears increase. analysis thereof (among them, changes in the economic environment and the estimated behavior of the portfolio according to such environment), instead of waiting for such loss to gradually grow as the number of days in arrears increase. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 305 Portfolio quality In addition, the table below shows the analysis by The Entity presents in Exhibit B “Classification of aging of performing loans in arrears (in days): loans and other financing by situation and Guarantee received” to the accompanying Financial Statements, a breakdown of loans and other financing in classification levels and Guarantee received. 12/31/2018 Portfolio Type Arrears (in days) 0 to 31 32 to 90 91 to 180 181 to 360 More than 360 Commercial loans 98.8% 0.6% 0.5% 0.0% 0.0% Comparable loans 99.7% 0.2% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Consumer loans 100.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Total 99.5% 0.3% 0.2% 0.0% 0.0% 12/31/2017 Portfolio Type Arrears (in days) 0 to 31 32 to 90 91 to 180 181 to 360 More than 360 Commercial loans 99.5% 0.5% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Comparable loans 99.9% 0.1% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Consumer loans 100.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Total 99.8% 0.2% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 12/31/2016 Portfolio Type Arrears (in days) 0 to 31 32 to 90 91 to 180 181 to 360 More than 360 Commercial loans 99.5% 0.4% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Comparable loans 99.9% 0.1% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Consumer loans 100.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Total 99.8% 0.2% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% The following is an analysis of the Bank’s financial assets by activity before and after considering the guarantees received: Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 306 Annual Report | Banco Macro Banco Macro S.A. (consolidated information) Gross exposure as Net exposure as of Gross exposure as Net exposure as of of 12/31/2018 12/31/2018 (3) of 12/31/2017 12/31/2017 (3) Total portfolio (1+2+3) 184,739,516 155,323,402 136,585,709 115,473,070 1.Public Sector 1,778,236 1,778,236 1,898,650 1,898,617 2.Financial Sector 5,626,689 5,626,689 3,551,991 3,551,991 3.Private Sector 177,334,591 147,918,477 131,135,068 110,022,462 Crops, cattle and other agricultural activities 16,619,515 8,018,951 10,997,119 5,329,584 1-Crops 11,321,561 5,191,529 7,115,429 3,265,844 2-Stockbreeding 3,693,800 2,087,440 2,634,672 1,581,600 3-Other activities (1) 1,604,154 739,982 1,247,018 482,140 Manufacturing Industry 34,329,334 29,744,511 20,051,179 15,984,242 1-Production of food, beverage and dairy products 7,925,771 5,855,146 6,319,006 4,595,337 2-Production of oil and fat 2,190,307 2,166,800 1,135,045 1,090,790 3-Chemical and Pharmaceutical 3,522,524 3,135,910 1,136,218 933,604 4-Metallurgical 3,042,787 2,766,729 3,365,248 3,089,637 5Other industries (1) 17,647,945 15,819,926 8,095,662 6,274,874 Commercial Industry 12,808,913 8,823,596 10,946,278 7,161,135 1-Wholesale industry 8,036,937 5,359,754 6,036,460 3,745,140 2-Retail industry 3,677,846 2,703,036 3,434,122 2,341,145 3-Other activities (1) 1,094,130 760,806 1,475,696 1,074,850 Construction Industry 3,989,509 2,834,865 6,495,115 5,232,475 Personal Services 3,876,409 3,407,381 3,206,833 2,884,642 Transport Industry 2,454,523 10,065,019 2,830,378 1,197,000 Individuals 83,710,635 76,262,018 66,409,571 63,286,324 Mining and quarry operation 8,652,604 8,589,221 3,015,318 2,938,138 Electricity, gas, steam and air conditioning supply services 3,214,602 3,179,439 1,398,064 1,365,725 Other industries (2) 7,678,547 5,993,476 5,785,213 4,646,105 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 307 Banco Macro S.A. (individual information) Gross exposure as Net exposure as of Gross exposure as Net exposure as of of 12/31/2018 12/31/2018 (3) of 12/31/2017 12/31/2017 (3) Total portfolio (1+2+3) 170.779.307 142.345.038 125.749.816 105.274.552 1.Public Sector 1.769.577 1.769.577 1.891.922 1.891.922 2.Financial Sector 5.626.689 5.626.689 4.472.531 4.472.531 3.Private Sector 163.383.041 134.948.772 119.385.363 98.910.099 Crops, cattle and other agricultural activities 16.501.626 7.964.329 10.804.946 5.231.228 1-Crops 11.206.039 5.137.762 6.929.132 3.170.018 2-Stockbreeding 3.691.430 2.086.585 2.628.796 1.579.070 3-Other activities (1) 1.604.157 739.982 1.247.018 482.140 Manufacturing Industry 34.285.634 29.738.171 19.963.210 15.965.715 1-Production of food, beverage and dairy products 7.888.473 5.853.877 6.250.423 4.593.501 2-Production of oil and fat 2.190.308 2.166.800 1.135.045 1.090.790 3-Chemical and Pharmaceutical 3.519.860 3.133.423 1.129.495 927.709 4-Metallurgical 3.040.591 2.764.689 3.362.773 3.087.549 5Other industries (1) 17.646.402 15.819.382 8.085.474 6.266.166 Commercial Industry 12.709.982 8.753.928 10.786.084 7.039.176 1-Wholesale industry 8.004.080 5.343.783 5.971.095 3.703.950 2-Retail industry 3.617.540 2.654.064 3.375.120 2.292.125 3-Other activities (1) 1.088.362 756.081 1.439.869 1.043.101 Construction Industry 3.951.436 2.810.005 6.364.801 5.127.408 Personal Services 3.852.591 3.392.733 3.152.346 2.847.824 Transport Industry 2.420.511 1.044.138 2.706.116 1.163.227 Individuals 70.348.855 63.709.683 55.492.905 52.728.314 Mining and quarry operation 8.650.990 8.587.608 3.013.045 2.935.865 Electricity, gas, steam and air conditioning supply services 3.214.130 3.178.966 1.397.420 1.365.081 Other industries (2) 7.447.286 5.769.211 5.704.490 4.506.261 (1) Includes activities representing less than 1% of total financing. (2) Includes the economic sectors representing less than 1% of total financing. (3) The result of deducting from “Gross Exposure” the amounts of Guarantees Received for the financing facilities and other improvements received. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 308 Annual Report | Banco Macro Determination of maximum exposure to credit risk The table below shows the determination of the maximum exposure from the Entity’s financing assets by type of assets. Banco Macro S.A. Maximum Gross ExpoMaximum Net Exposure Maximum Gross Maximum Net (Consolidated Information) sure as of 12/31/2018 as of 12/31/2018 (1) Exposure as of Exposure as of 12/31/2017 12/31/2017 (1) Financial assets measured at fair value 59,683,940 59,683,940 38,611,704 38,611,704 Financial assets measured at amortized cost 92,109,427 92,109,427 44,353,161 44,353,161 Derivative financial assets 17,293 17,293 8,228 8,228 Loans and other financing 178,874,755 133,329,802 132,658,674 93,550,339 Banco Macro S.A. (individual information) Maximum Gross Maximum Net Exposure Maximum Gross Maximum Net Exposure as of as of 12/31/2018 (1) Exposure as of Exposure as of 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2017 (1) Financial assets measured at fair value 57,735,763 57,735,763 36,847,646 36,847,646 Financial assets measured at amortized cost 83,882,590 83,882,590 40,537,547 40,537,547 Derivative financial assets 14,555 14,555 7,664 7,664 Loans and other financing 165,209,389 120,826,251 122,173,846 84,033,984 (1) The result of deducting from “Gross Maximum Exposure” the amounts of Guarantees Received for the financing facilities and other improvements received. In turn, Exhibit R “Value correction for credit losses Collateral and other credit improvements – Allowance for uncollectibility risk” to the accompaThe table below shows the types of guarantees nying consolidated Financial Statements shows the received: allowances for uncollectibility risk at the beginning and at the end of the year, disclosing as well increases, reversals and charge off. Consolidated Information Fair Value 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 Pledges on time deposits 406,244 442,585 523,568 Deferred payment checks 3,439,059 4,080,323 2,268,792 Mortgage on real property 18,396,210 10,055,974 5,260,024 Pledges on vehicles and machinery 4,335,920 4,244,951 2,303,932 Pledges on personal property 741,408 757,750 547,744 Other 18,226,112 19,665,708 11,212,060 Total 45,544,953 39,247,291 22,116,120 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 309 Individual Information Fair Value 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 Pledges on time deposits 405,618 438,434 520,570 Deferred payment checks 3,405,936 3,943,307 2,046,263 Mortgage on real property 17,499,099 9,555,511 5,050,023 Pledges on vehicles and machinery 4,266,217 4,160,059 2,232,668 Pledges on personal property 741,408 757,750 547,744 Other 18,064,860 19,284,801 10,863,837 Total 44,383,138 38,139,862 21,261,105 Liquidity Risk Liabilities: to minimize the unintended effects of Liquidity risk is defined as the risk of imbalances illiquidity, deriving from the possible withdrawal of occurring between marketable assets and payable deposits and the repayment of interbank loans liabilities (“mismatches” between payments and taken, the Entity has implemented the following collections) that could affect the Entity’s ability to policies, the follow-up and control of which are meet all of its current and future financial obligaunder the charge of the Assets and Liabilities tions, taking into consideration the different currenCommittee: cies and settlement terms of its rights and obligations, without incurring significant losses. a) Giving priority to the attraction of retail deposits in order to have an atomized portfolio, avoiding the risk The Entity features policies regarding liquidity, the of concentrating the portfolio in a few investors. The purpose of which is to manage liquidity efficiently, level of retail deposits is expected to be at least 50% optimizing cost and diversification of funding of total deposits. sources, and maximizing the profit from placements through prudent management that ensures the b) The interest held in time deposit portfolio of necessary funds to allow the continuity of transacinstitutional investors (foreign investors, mutual tions and compliance with the rules and regulations funds, insurance companies and pension fund in force. managers) shall not exceed 15% of total liabilities. In order to reduce the liquidity risk deriving from the c) The certificates of deposit taken shall not exceed uncertainty that the Entity may be exposed to with 5% of total time deposit, or a fixed amount deterrespect to its capacity to honor the financial mined by the Entity. commitments assumed with its customers in due time and manner, a policy has been established, the d) No investor may have time deposit for an amount main aspects of which are as follows: exceeding 10% of the total deposit portfolio. Assets: a high-liquidity assets portfolio will be e) Finally, financial and interbank borrowing shall not maintained to cover at least 25% of total liabilities, exceed 20% of total liabilities. No institution can comprising deposits, the corporate bonds issued by exceed 50% of such limit. the Bank, the repo agreements taken and financial and interbank borrowing. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 310 Annual Report | Banco Macro In addition, the Entity implemented a series a risk In the event of a liquidity crisis, the Entity has a measurement and control tools, including the contingency plan that contemplates the following regular monitoring of liquidity gaps, separated by actions: currency, as well as different liquidity ratios, included “bi-monetary liquidity ratio”, “LCR” and “NSFR”, a) Sale of high-liquidity assets; among others. The Risk Management Department regularly b) Repo agreements with the BCRA with assets monitors compliance of the different levels set by the issued thereby, which are held in the Entity’s Board of Directors in relation to liquidity risk, which portfolio; include minimum levels of liquidity, maximum concentration levels allowed by deposit type and c) Limiting any new credit assistance; and customer type, among others. d) Requesting financial assistance from the BCRA in The Entity features policies regarding liquidity, the the event of illiquidity. Current BCRA rules set forth purpose of which is to manage liquidity efficiently, the criteria to grant financial assistance to financial optimizing cost and diversification of funding institutions in the event of illiquidity problems. sources, and maximizing the profit from placements through prudent management that ensures the The following table shows the liquidity ratios during necessary funds to allow the continuity of transacthe fiscal years 2018, 2017 and 2016, which arise tions and compliance with the rules and regulations from dividing net liquid assets, made up of cash and in force. cash equivalents, by total deposits. 2018 2017 2016 December, 31 55.40% 47.00% 45.68% Average 47.48% 46.20% 45.92% Maximum 57.08% 51.90% 53.69% Minimum 42.23% 40.84% 39.61% The Entity discloses in Exhibit D “Breakdown of sheet as a result of the adverse fluctuations in the loans and other financing by term” and Exhibit I market prices of different assets. “Breakdown of financial liabilities by residual term” to the accompanying consolidated Financial Market risks arise from interest rate, currency and Statements, the breakdown by contractual maturity, price positions, all of which are exposed to general of financial assets and liabilities, respectively. and specific market changes and changes in the price volatility such as interest rates, credit margins, Market Risk foreign currency exchange rates and prices of shares Market risk is defined as the possibility of suffering and securities, among others. losses in positions on and off the Entity’s balance Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 311 The Entity determines the market risk exposure In order to carry out the above mentioned simulaarising from the fluctuation in the value of portfolios tion, the Entity needs to have the Price historical of investments for trading, which result from series of those instruments that compose the changes in market prices, the Entity’s net positions portfolio. in foreign currency, and government and private Prices are corrected by purging the effects of coupon securities with normal quoted prices. payments and dividend payments, in the case of shares, in order to avoid affecting returns. These risks arise from the size of the Entity’s net positions and/or the volatility of the risk factors In this way the Entity obtains the prices of business involved in each financial instrument. days for each instrument between the valuation date and the oldest date, the latter to be estabThe Entity features Market Risk Management lished based on the days of history with which the Policies in which the Entity establishes the proceedEntity intends to calculate VaR. ings to monitor and control of risks derived of the variations in the quotes of financial instruments in Once the Entity has obtained the Price matrix, it order to optimize the risk-return relationship, making proceeds to calculate price variations (10-days use of the appropriate structure of limits, models returns since it is the established Holding Period) and management tools. In addition, the Entity occurred in the history during a period of time similar features proper tools and proceedings allowing the to the chosen holding period, for each instrument Risk Management Committee and the Assets and separately, obtaining the return matrix. Liabilities Committee to measure and administer this risk. With the return matrix, in order to generate the different simulations of prices of each of the “n” Risks to which those investment portfolios are instruments, the Entity multiplies the current price of exposed are monitored through historical simulation each instrument by the relevant returns. techniques of “Value at Risk” (VaR). The Entity applies the VaR methodology to calculate the In order to get the portfolio simulations, the Entity market risk of the main positions adopted and the multiplies instrument simulations by the position of expected maximum loss based on a series of each instrument in the portfolio and adds the assumptions for a variety of changes in market positions of all instruments for each date. conditions. Once all simulations are completed, the Entity The Entity calculates the economic capital by obtains the critical value of the portfolio, giving the market risk using the Value at Risk methodology, relevant percentage to confidence level chosen (99% using the historical simulation approach. confidence level). Finally, the Economic Capital by market risk is obtained as the difference between the current value of the portfolio and the critical value previously obtained. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 312 Annual Report | Banco Macro Interest Rate Risk For this purpose, the maximum potential loss in the The interest rate risk is defined as the possibility net economic value of the assets and liabilities that changes occur in the Entity’s financial portfolio is determined considering a period of three condition as a result of interest rate fluctuations months with a 99% confidence interval. with a negative impact on net financial income and its economic value. The EVM (Economic Value Model) is determined as the net sum of cash flows (losses) that the Entity can Within the framework of the interest rate risk generate, discounted at market interest rate curve management the Entity features a series of for each accounting item. If the market interest rate policies, procedures and internal controls included curve (used for the discount) is affected, the effect of in the Structural Risk Management Manual for this such variation impacts directly on the Economic kind of risk. Value of the Entity. Generally speaking, reports related to EVM seek to analyze the Entity’s longThe Entity calculates the risk of interest rate term solvency. mismatches by making a sensitivity analysis of changes in the net value of assets upon an interest It is noteworthy that the use of that approach does rate increase through the economic value approach not avoid losses beyond those limits in the event of with a VaR model. the most significant market changes. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the Entity’s VaR by type of risk is as follows: VaR of trading and investment portfolio 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Interest rate risk 6,262 3,754 Currency Exchange rate risk 182 37 Price risk 82 35 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 313 Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk On the other hand, the Entity implemented an The Entity is exposed to fluctuations in foreign operational risk management system that meets the currency exchange rates in its financial position and guidelines and provisions established by the BCRA in cash flows. The larger proportion of assets and its Communiqué “A” 5398, as amended, and under liabilities kept are related to US dollars. Communiqué “A” 5272 the BCRA provided for a minimum capital requirement under this description, The foreign currency position includes assets and effective as of February 1, 2012. liabilities reflected in pesos at the exchange rate as of the closing dates mentioned below. An instituThe operating risk management system is formed by: tion’s open position comprises assets, liabilities and memorandum accounts stated in foreign currency, a) Organizational structure: the Entity features an where an institution assumes the risk. Any devaluaOperational Risk Management department that is in tion / revaluation of those currencies would affect charge of managing operational risk and a Risk the Entity’s statement of income. Management Committee. Foreign currency transactions are performed at the b) Policies: the Entity has a “Policy for the Operational supply and demand exchange rates. The Entity’s Risk Management” approved by the Board of open position, stated in Argentine pesos by currency, Directors, which defines the main concepts, roles and is disclosed in Exhibit L “Foreign currency balances” responsibilities of the Board of Directors, the Operato the accompanying consolidated Financial tional Risk Committee, the Operational Risk and Statements. Technology Management and all the areas involved in the management of this risk. Operational Risk Operational risk is defined as the risk of loss arising c) Procedures: the Entity features a procedure for the from the inadequacy or failure of internal processes, “Gathering of events and losses from Operational human errors and/or internal system failures, or those Risk” that includes a process to gather the Operaoriginated by external events. This definition includes tional Events and Losses to register on a systematic the Legal Risk but excludes the Strategic Risk and basis the frequency, severity, category and other Reputational Risk. relevant aspects related to the events and losses from Operational Risk. Within such framework, the legal risk –which may occur from within the Bank or externallycomprises, d) The objective is to assess the Entity’s situation among other aspects, the exposure to penalties, upon occurrence of events, in order to better undersanctions or other economic consequences or results stand the Operational Risk profile and, if applicable, for failure to comply with any rule or regulation or take the necessary corrective actions. contractual obligations. In addition, the Entity features a procedure that establishes the guidelines to prepare risk self-assessments and, in the event of risks exceeding allowed tolerance levels, guidelines to establish risk indicators and action plans. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 314 Annual Report | Banco Macro e) Systems: the Entity features a comprehensive h) Stress tests: stress tests are a support tool to system that allows managing all Operational and manage risks and a supplement of the results Technology Risks. reported by the measurement models of the different risks, which in general show risk measuref) Database: The Entity has an operational risk event ments that are valid for “normal situations”. database prepared pursuant to the guidelines under They also are an instrument to evaluate the risk BCRA’s Communiqué “A” 4904, as supplementary. profile since they are used to quantify the potential impact in a situation of significant fluctuation of the g) Information systems to measure risks: The Risk variables affecting each risk. Stress tests are as well Management Department generates and sends, on used in the process of internal assessment of a quarterly basis, reports to the Board of Directors, economic capital sufficiency. the Risk Management Committee and the Senior Management. With such reports the Risk ManageStress tests are aimed at evaluating the Entity’s ment Department communicates the results of the financial vulnerability potential faced with the follow-up of the management of the main risks to sensibility of the main variables affecting each risk. which the Entity is exposed. Each report contains Generally, it is considered a variation of low probabilinformation on risk measurement, evolution, trends, ity of occurrence, but if materialized it may cause principal exposures, control of main limits and the significant excess of the tolerance limits established capital level required for each type of risk. for each risk. At the meeting of the Integral Risk Management Committee, the Risk Management Department i) Assessment of economic capital sufficiency: each shall submit for consideration the results of the year, the Entity calculates the economic capital for performance of such department and the reports those risks which, for their significance, may, issued during the period under analysis. The eventually, affect the Entity’s solvency. resolutions adopted by the Committee shall be At present, the Entity calculates the economic recorded in Minutes to be considered by the Board capital of the following risks: Credit, Concentration, of Directors, who shall subsequently approve, in this Market, Operational, Interest Rate, Liquidity and manner, the performance and risk level of the Concentration of Funding Sources, Securitization, analyzed period. Reputational and Strategic. Risk management is directly related to economic capital assessment. Thus, it is expected that with a better management and follow-up, the Entity will need to allocate less amount of capital. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 315 Based on the internal models developed, Banco the level of economic growth, among other issues. In Macro manages its risks, determines its risk profile addition, at a local level, there is an increase in the and calculates, therefore, the necessary capital to prices for other relevant economic variables, such as develop its activities and businesses, adjusting each salary costs, interest rates, quotes and prices of the risk to its relevant exposure level. main raw materials. j) Transparency: As a supplement to this Manual and Therefore, the Entity’s Management permanently as part of the Corporate Governance policy, the monitors any changes in the abovementioned Entity features an Information Policy aimed at situations in international and local markets, to allowing shareholders, investors and the market in determine the possible actions to adopt and to general to evaluate aspects of the Entity related to identify the possible impact on its financial situation capital, risk exposure, risk assessment procedures that may need to be reflected in the financial and capital adequacy. statements for future periods. 40. CHANGES IN THE ARGENTINE 41. EVENTS AFTER REPORTING PERIOD MACROECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT OF THE FINANCIAL AND CAPITAL SYSTEM No events occurred between the end of the reporting period and the issuance of the accompanying The international and local macroeconomic context consolidated Financial Statements that may generates a certain degree of uncertainty regarding materially affect the financial position or the profit its future progress as a result of political events and and loss for the period, not disclosed in the accompanying Financial Statements. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 316 Annual Report | Banco Macro DETAIL OF GOVERNMENT AND PRIVATE SECURITIES AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018, 2017 AND 2016 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Name Identification Fair Value DEBT SECURITIES AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS Del país Government securities Consolidation bonds in pesos 8° Series Maturity: 10-04-2022 2571 Debt Securities of Province of Río Negro in pesos Badlar Private + 500 basis points Maturity: 07-06-2020 32922 Federal government treasury bills in pesos Maturity 01-31-2019 5265 Federal government treasury bills in pesos Maturity 02-28-2019 5267 Debt Securities of Province of Buenos Aires in pesos Badlar Private + 370 basis points Maturity: 04-12-2025 92693 Federal government treasury bonds in pesos Maturity 10-03-2021 5318 Federal government treasury bonds in pesos adjustment by CER Maturity: 07-22-2021 5315 Federal government bonds in US dollars at 8.75% Maturity: 05-07-2024 5458 Federal government international bonds in US dollars at 7.5% Maturity: 04-22-2026 92584 Consolidation bonds in pesos 6° Series at 2% Maturity: 03-15-2024 2420 Federal government treasury bills in pesos Maturity 03-29-2019 5260 Other Subtotal local government securities 5431 Private securities Debt Securities in Financial Trust Consubond 80033 Debt Securities in Financial Trust Megabono S180 CA Maturity 12-24-2019 53887 Debt Securities in Financial Trust Agrocap 80032 Debt Securities in Financial Trust PVCRED S038 CA Maturity 08-12-2019 53927 Debt Securities in Financial Trust Consubond S149 CA Maturity 10-25-2019 53968 Debt Securities in Financial Trust Secubono 80029 Debt Securities in Financial Trust Chubut Regalías Hidrocarburíferas Maturity: 07-01-2020 36425 Debt Securities in Financial Trust Consubond S147 CA Maturity 12-26-2019 53893 Corporate bonds John Deere Credit Cía. Financiera S.A. C016 Maturity 04-06-2019 53406 Debt Securities in Financial Trust Secubono S180 Maturity 11-28-2019 53875 Corporate bonds Banco de Inversión y Comercio Exterior S.A. C006 Maturity 06-27-2020 52582 Corporate bonds Banco de la Provincia de Buenos Aires C2 Maturity 11-08-2019 32814 Other Subtotal local private securities TOTAL DEBT SECURITIES AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 317 EXHIBIT A Holdings Position 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 12/31/2018 Fair Value Level Book Balance Book Balance Book Balance Position without Options Final Position Options 1 169,663 105,882 100,130 169,663 169,663 2 122,869 281,881 122,869 122,869 1 120,690 153,460 153,460 1 103,193 103,193 103,193 1 82,429 82,429 82,429 2 79,622 79,622 79,622 1 77,240 7,133 77,240 77,240 1 61,833 8,934 61,833 61,833 2 55,358 852 55,358 55,358 1 48,396 4 22,288 48,396 48,396 1 45,155 45,155 45,155 276,401 323,313 146,378 394,087 394,087 1,242,849 720,014 276,781 1,393,305 1,393,305 3 377,725 377,725 377,725 3 165,980 165,980 165,980 3 130,735 130,735 130,735 3 112,600 112,600 112,600 3 111,017 111,017 111,017 3 79,203 79,203 79,203 3 48,366 34,932 48,366 48,366 3 39,576 39,576 39,576 2 38,451 38,451 38,451 3 34,635 34,635 34,635 98,603 10,779 254,110 232,479 44,921 254,110 254,110 1,392,398 366,014 55,700 1,392,398 1,392,398 2,635,247 1,086,028 332,481 2,785,703 2,785,703 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 318 Annual Report | Banco Macro DETAIL OF GOVERNMENT AND PRIVATE SECURITIES AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018, 2017 AND 2016 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Holdings Position 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 12/31/2018 Name IdentiFair Value Fair Value Book Book Book Position Options Final fication Level Balance Balance Balance without Position Options OTHER DEBT SECURITIES at fair value through other comprehensive income (OCI) Local Government securities Federal government bonds in US dollars at 5458 1 530,833 333,522 289,758 530,833 530,833 8.75% Maturity: 05-07-2024 Discount bonds denominated in pesos at 5.83% 45696 1 146,446 1,453 1,333,811 146,446 146,446 Maturity: 12-31-2033 International bonds of the Argentina Republic in 92208 1 81,630 81,630 81,630 US dollars at 7.125% Maturity: 06-28-2027 Consolidation bonds in pesos 8° Series Matu2571 49,726 111,090 rity: 10-04-2022 Secured bonds in pesos under Decree No. 2405 11,386 37,905 1579/02 at 2% Maturity: 02-04-2018 Treasury bills in US dollars – Maturity 03-20-2017 5199 789,545 Debt Securities of Province of Buenos Aires S. I 32831 342,237 Class II – Maturity: 12-06-2019 Federal government bonds in pesos Badlar 5454 140,888 Private + 250 basis points Maturity: 03-11-2019 Treasury bills of the Province of Neuquén Class 2 32829 140,219 S. II – Maturity: 06-06-2018 Treasury bills of the Province of Rio Negro Class 1 32835 1 94,139 S. VI – Maturity: 03-15-2017 Other 165,185 Subtotal local government securities 758,909 396,087 3,444,777 758,909 758,909 BCRA bills BCRA Liquidity Letters in pesos – Maturity: 011 15,546,415 15,546,415 15,546,415 04-2019 BCRA Liquidity Letters in pesos – Matu2 13,787,546 13,787,546 13,787,546 rity:01-08-2019 BCRA Liquidity Letters in pesos – Maturity: 011 12,404,850 12,404,850 12,404,850 02-2019 BCRA Liquidity Letters in pesos – Maturity: 011 7,926,384 7,926,384 7,926,384 03-2019 BCRA Liquidity Letters in pesos – Maturity: 011 5,404,713 5,404,713 5,404,713 07-2019 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 319 Holdings Position 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 12/31/2018 Name IdentiFair Value Fair Value Book Book Book Position Options Final fication Level Balance Balance Balance without Position Options BCRA Internal Bills in pesos – Maturity: 03-21-2018 46823 6,333,094 BCRA Internal Bills in pesos – Maturity: 01-17-2018 46821 6,066,602 BCRA Internal Bills in pesos – Maturity: 05-16-2018 46825 5,769,624 BCRA Internal Bills in pesos – Maturity: 04-1846824 5,626,984 2018 BCRA Internal Bills in pesos – Maturity: 02-21-2018 46822 5,346,681 BCRA Internal Bills in pesos – Maturity: 01-18-2017 46796 5,291,678 BCRA Internal Bills in pesos – Maturity: 02-15-2017 46786 2,724,328 Other 3,512,921 7,116,563 Subtotal BCRA bills Private securities 55,069,908 32,655,906 15,132,569 55,069,908 55,069,908 Corporate bonds Telecom Personal S.A. S4 – 51989 105,210 Maturity: 11-16-2018 Corporate bonds Telecom Personal S.A. S3 – 51988 52,159 Maturity: 05-16-2018 Corporate bonds Genneia SA C19 – Maturity: 51268 52,277 02-16-2017 Corporate bonds Albanesi SA C2 – Maturity: 51923 21,216 10-25-2018 Corporate bonds Ledesma SA C3 – Maturity: 50210 14,330 04-01-2017 Corporate bonds Integración Eléctrica Sur Arg. SA 51848 13,168 C4 – Maturity: 09-26-2017 Corporate bonds Banco Hipotecario S32 – Matu51072 10,531 rity: 05-30-2017 Corporate bonds Arcor SAIC C8 – Maturity: 50,495 6,257 06-15-2017 Subtotal local private securities 275,148 Government securities US Treasury Bills – Maturity: 01-03-2019 1 226,836 226,836 226,836 US Treasury Bills – Maturity: 01-02-2019 1 189,042 189,042 189,042 US Treasury Bills – Maturity: 01-15-2019 1 188,888 188,888 188,888 US Treasury Bills – Maturity: 01-18-2018 450,342 US Treasury Bills – Maturity: 01-11-2018 243,995 US Treasury Bills – Maturity: 01-12-2017 427,916 US Treasury Bills – Maturity: 01-05-2017 110,949 Subtotal foreign government securities 604,766 694,337 538,865 604,766 604,766 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 320 Annual Report | Banco Macro DETAIL OF GOVERNMENT AND PRIVATE SECURITIES AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018, 2017 AND 2016 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Name Identification Fair Value OTHER DEBT SECURITIES at fair value through other comprehensive income (OCI) Private securities 40792 Corporate bonds Chevron Corp. – Maturity: 03-03-2019 Corporate bonds Ford Motor Credit Corp. LLC – Maturity: 01-15-2020 Corporate bonds The Dow Chemical Corp. – Maturity: 05-15-2019 Corporate bonds Johnson & Johnson – Maturity: 07-15-2018 Corporate bonds Wal Mart Sotres – Maturity: 02-01-2019 Corporate bonds Microsoft Corp. – Maturity: 06-01-2019 Corporate bonds Shell Intl Fin. Maturity: 09-22-2019 Corporate bonds Celulosa Arauco – Maturity: 07-29-2019 Subtotal foreign private securities Total other debt securities at fair value through OCI Measured at amortized cost Local Government securities Federal government bonds in pesos – Fixed rate 26% Maturity: 11-21-2020 5330 7,165,102 Discount bonds denominated in pesos at 5.83% Maturity: 12-31-2033 45696 173,337 Secured bonds under Decree No. 1579/02 at 2% Maturity: 02-04-2018 2405 Federal government bonds in pesos at Badlar + 2.00 – Maturity: 03-28-2017 5459 Consadep Tucumán bonds in pesos – Series 1 – Maturity: 02-04-2018 2414 Subtotal local government securities Private securities Financial Trust Underwriting SAT SAPEM Maturity 10-01-2019 80033 Temporary Financial Trust Underwriting Consubond 80029 Temporary Financial Trust Underwriting Secubono 80028 Temporary Financial Trust Underwriting Garbarino 80031 Temporary Financial Trust Underwriting Accicom Préstamos Personales 80034 Temporary Financial Trust Underwriting Credicuotas Consumo 80032 Temporary Financial Trust Underwriting Agrocap 80034 Temporary Financial Trust Underwriting Mila 80034 Temporary Financial Trust Underwriting Best Consumer Directo 80034 Temporary Financial Trust Underwriting Best Consumer Finance 80034 Other Subtotal local debt securities Total other debt securities at amortized cost TOTAL OTHER DEBT SECURITIES Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 321 Holdings Position 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 12/31/2018 Fair Value Level Book Balance Book Balance Book Balance Position without Options Final Position Options 18,584 17,030 18,677 36,326 16,977 16,781 16,736 16,840 8,941 18,584 148,308 56,433,583 33,764,914 19,539,667 56,433,583 56,433,583 7,991,383 7,991,383 7,991,383 157,044 117,453 189,036 189,036 4,270 21,276 100,728 2,881 8,148,427 121,723 124,885 8,180,419 8,180,419 2,749 7,571 11,008 2,749 2,749 360,364 281,057 110,554 124,628 68,070 51,041 61,841 50,223 15,359 46,482 32,955 25,647 32,136 32,086 25,646 211,407 2,749 817,128 730,947 2,749 2,749 8,151,176 938,851 855,832 8,183,168 8,183,168 64,584,759 34,703,765 20,395,499 64,616,751 64,616,751 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 322 Annual Report | Banco Macro DETAIL OF GOVERNMENT AND PRIVATE SECURITIES AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018, 2017 AND 2016 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Name Identification Fair Value EQUITY INSTRUMENTS at fair value through profit or loss Local Mercado Abierto Electrónico SA 80020 C.O.E.L.S.A 80021 Argentina Clearing SA 80022 Sedesa 80012 Mercado a Término Rosario SA 80017 Laboratorios Richmond SACIF 80014 Provincanje SA Sanatorio Las Lomas SA Proin SA 80016 El Taura SA 80024 Siderar SAIC 80011 Aluar Aluminio Argentino 80015 Other Subtotal local equity instruments Foreign Banco Latinoamericano de Comercio Exterior SA 80025 Sociedad de Telecomunicaciones Financieras Interbancarias Mundiales 80026 Subtotal foreign equity instruments Total equity instruments at fair value through profit or loss TOTAL EQUITY INSTRUMENTS TOTAL GOVERNMENT AND PRIVATE SECURITIES Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 323 EXHIBIT A Holdings Position 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 12/31/2018 Fair Value Level Book Balance Book Balance Book Balance Position without Options Final Position Options 3 25,078 20,747 3,819 25,078 25,078 3 4,826 3,048 1,356 4,826 4,826 3 4,569 3,217 2,393 4,569 4,569 3 3,975 3,909 3,492 3,975 3,975 3 3,663 2,569 1,890 3,663 3,663 1 1,256 2,363 1,256 1,256 3 758 542 1,008 758 758 3 600 404 298 600 600 3 513 513 320 513 513 3 185 185 185 185 185 106,936 78,791 349 241,159 202,724 349 349 45,772 278,656 403,212 45,772 45,772 1 4,777 3,688 3,408 4,777 4,777 3 969 315 248 969 969 5,746 4,003 3,656 5,746 5,746 51,518 282,659 406,868 51,518 51,518 51,518 282,659 406,868 51,518 51,518 67,271,524 36,072,452 21,134,848 67,453,972 67,453,972 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 324 Annual Report | Banco Macro CONSOLIDATED CLASSIFICATION OF LOANS AND OTHER FINANCING EXHIBIT B BY SITUATION AND GUARANTEE RECEIVED AS OF DECEMBER 2018, 2017 AND 2016 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 COMMERCIAL PORTFOLIO In normal situation 70,071,286 48,364,751 34,766,790 With Senior “A” guarantees and counter-guarantees 2,554,501 3,822,852 2,545,541 With Senior “B” guarantees and counter-guarantees 8,453,117 7,594,429 5,297,800 Without Senior guarantees or counter-guarantees 59,063,668 36,947,470 26,923,449 Subject to special monitoring 213,632 299,221 27,887 Under observation With Senior “A” guarantees and counter-guarantees 3,226 6,042 With Senior “B” guarantees and counter-guarantees 68,007 66,613 18,875 Without Senior guarantees or counter-guarantees 41,805 226,566 9,012 Under negotiation or refinancing agreements With Senior “A” guarantees and counter-guarantees 43,592 Without Senior guarantees or counter-guarantees 57,002 Troubled 633,432 37,164 50,039 With Senior “A” guarantees and counter-guarantees 3,441 With Senior “B” guarantees and counter-guarantees 179,598 22,971 50,039 Without Senior guarantees or counter-guarantees 453,834 10,752 With high insolvency risk 283,394 144,001 137,431 With Senior “A” guarantees and counter-guarantees 1,223 729 1,882 With Senior “B” guarantees and counter-guarantees 182,130 86,437 61,374 Without Senior guarantees or counter-guarantees 100,041 56,835 74,175 Irrecoverable 6,500 7.372 With Senior “B” guarantees and counter-guarantees 813 Without Senior guarantees or counter-guarantees 6,500 6,559 Subtotal Commercial Portfolio 71,201,744 48,851,637 34,989,519 CONSUMER AND MORTGAGE LOAN PORTFOLIO Performing 108,845,927 85,407,541 55,204,350 With Senior “A” guarantees and counter-guarantees 2,959,968 2,140,761 771,053 With Senior “B” guarantees and counter-guarantees 14,552,408 7,272,856 2,573,886 Without Senior guarantees or counter-guarantees 91,333,551 75,993,924 51,859,411 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 325 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 Low risk 2,074,849 1,050,600 555,222 With Senior “A” guarantees and counter-guarantees 48,130 7,823 1,486 With Senior “B” guarantees and counter-guarantees 192,993 32,681 20,699 Without Senior guarantees or counter-guarantees 1,833,726 1,010,096 533,037 Medium risk 1,420,894 647,332 443,357 With Senior “A” guarantees and counter-guarantees 16,916 1,447 3,188 With Senior “B” guarantees and counter-guarantees 79,214 13,672 7,676 Without Senior guarantees or counter-guarantees 1,324,764 632,213 432,493 High risk 961,047 479,925 317,466 With Senior “A” guarantees and counter-guarantees 13,707 496 2,099 With Senior “B” guarantees and counter-guarantees 39,126 18,106 20,486 Without Senior guarantees or counter-guarantees 908,214 461,323 294,881 Irrecoverable 234,151 148,425 92,508 With Senior “A” guarantees and counter-guarantees 1,260 With Senior “B” guarantees and counter-guarantees 26,998 18,375 18,222 Without Senior guarantees or counter-guarantees 205,893 130,050 74,286 Irrecoverable under BCRA standards 904 249 210 Without Senior guarantees or counter-guarantees 904 249 210 Subtotal Consumer and Mortgage Loan Portfolio 113.537.772 87,734,072 56,613,113 Total 184,739,516 136,585,709 91,602,632 This exhibit reports the contractual figures as established by the BCRA. Reconciliation with the consolidated balance sheet is shown below. 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 Loans and other financing 178,874,755 132,658,674 88,390,646 + Allowances for loans and other financing 4,160,745 2,666,738 1,839,422 + IFRS adjustment (Amortized cost and fair value adjustment) 257,071 298,538 244,608 + Debt Securities in Financial Trusts – Measured at amortized cost 2,749 Corporate bonds 362,425 486.144 Guarantees granted and contingent liabilities 1,444,196 599,334 641,812 Total computable items 184,739,516 136,585,709 91,602,632 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 326 Annual Report | Banco Macro CONSOLIDATED CONCENTRATION OF LOANS AND OTHER EXHIBIT C FINANCING AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018, 2017 Y 2016 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 Number of Customers Cutoff % of total Cutoff % of total Cutoff % of total balance portfolio balance portfolio balance portfolio 10 largest customers 19,431,965 10,52 10,886,705 7,97 6,363,324 6,95 50 next largest customers 22,338,631 12,09 11,082,657 8,11 9,003,785 9,83 100 next largest customers 13,694,432 7,41 7,511,713 5,50 5,580,023 6,09 Other customers 129,274,488 69,98 107,104,634 78,42 70,655,500 77,13 Total (1) 184,739,516 100,00 136,585,709 100,00 91,602,632 100,00 (1) See reconciliation in Exhibit B. CONSOLIDATED BREAKDOWN OF LOANS AND OTHER FINANCING EXHIBIT D BY LOAN TERMS AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Terms to Maturity Item Matured Up to Over 1 Over 3 Over 6 Over 12 Over 24 Total Portfolio 1 month month and months months and months and months up to 3 and up to 6 up to 12 up to 24 months months months months Non-financial government 156,275 403,613 434,592 745,089 968,517 323,784 3,031,870 Financial sector 1,097,205 1,733,758 1,205,293 1,698,740 598,110 22,143 6,355,249 Non-financial private sector and 1,896,929 52,337,082 23,411,664 25,455,967 30,819,902 35,342,048 69,687,361 238,950,953 foreign residents Total 1,896,929 53,590,562 25,549,035 27,095,852 33,263,731 36,908,675 70,033,288 248,338,072 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 327 CONSOLIDATED BREAKDOWN OF LOANS AND OTHER FINANCING BY LOAN TERMS AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2017 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Terms to Maturity Item Matured Up to Over 1 Over 3 Over 6 Over 12 Over 24 Total Portfolio 1 month month and months months and months and months up to 3 and up to 6 up to 12 up to 24 months months months months Non-financial government sector 51,827 225,501 183,337 543,855 982,347 876,255 2,863,122 Financial sector 892,707 452,162 715,857 767,396 1,009,635 259,275 4,097,032 Non-financial private sector and 889,510 36,721,574 18,795,821 17,988,857 20,395,038 30,679,594 53,884,831 179,355,225 foreign residents Total 889,510 37,666,108 19,473,484 18,888,051 21,706,289 32,671,576 55,020,361 186,315,379 CONSOLIDATED BREAKDOWN OF LOANS AND OTHER FINANCING BY LOAN TERMS AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2016 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Terms to Maturity Item Matured Up to Over 1 Over 3 Over 6 Over 12 Over 24 Total Portfolio 1 month month and months months and months and months up to 3 and up to 6 up to 12 up to 24 months months months months Non-financial government 748,521 127,713 384,876 142,487 272,196 230,432 1,906,225 sector BCRA Financial sector 404,396 516,771 488,482 389,927 255,790 74,260 2,129,626 Non-financial private sector and 542,275 29,757,384 13,015,559 12,247,535 13,861,833 19,345,839 25,649,597 114,420,022 foreign residents Total 542,275 30,910,301 13,660,043 13,120,893 14,394,247 19,873,825 25,954,289 118,455,873 This Exhibit discloses future contractual cash flow fall, including interests and accessories to be accrued until contract maturity. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 328 Annual Report | Banco Macro CONSOLIDATED INFORMATION ON INTEREST IN OTHER EXHIBIT E COMPANIES AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018, 2017 AND 2016 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Shares and/or Participating Interests Name Class Unit Nominal Value Votes per Share Number In supplementary service companies Associates and joint ventures Local Prisma Medios de Pago SA (1) Common 1 1 1,141,503 Joint Ventures (UTE) Subtotal Local Companies Total Associates and joint ventures Total supplementary service companies In other companies Associates and joint ventures Local Macro Warrants SA Common 1 1 50,000 Subtotal Local Companies Total Other Associates and joint ventures Total interest in other companies (1) See Note 13. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 329 Issuer Information Latest Financial Statements Data Amount Amount Amount Main Business Year-end date Capital Shareholders’ Income for the 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 Activity Equity Year/ Period 142,600 67,583 Processing 12-31-17 15,000 2,511,180 2,432,494 services 108,031 75,520 56,001 Management of tax services 108,031 218,120 123,584 108,031 218,120 123,584 108,031 218,120 123,584 792 827 684 Warrant 09-30-18 1,000 15,841 3,308 issuance 792 827 684 792 827 684 108,823 218,947 124,268 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 330 Annual Report | Banco Macro CONSOLIDATED CHANGES IN PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT EXHIBIT F AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Depreciation for the period Item Cost Useful life Additions Disposals Accumulated Disposal Of the Year Year-end Residual Beginning of estimated in Depreciation value at fiscal year years year-end At cost Cost measurement Land & Buildings 5,291,944 50 2,856,372 779,441 422,212 177,032 95,697 340,877 7,027,998 Furniture and facilities 375,248 10 275,681 6,309 143,554 11 38,992 182,535 462,085 Machinery and equipment 1,046,933 5 585,627 116,728 571,215 210,637 781,852 733,980 Vehicles 117,949 5 38,465 16,825 78,659 14,150 20,692 85,201 54,388 Miscellaneous 1,122 40 13 1,095 34 1,129 20 Works in progress 2,576,980 1,556,054 3,408,811 724,223 Total Property, plant 9,410,176 5,312,239 4,328,127 1,216,735 191,193 366,052 1,391,594 9,002,694 and equipment (1) CONSOLIDATED CHANGES IN PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2017 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Depreciation for the period Item Cost Useful life Additions Disposals AccumuDisposal Of the Year Year-end Residual Beginning of estimated in lated value at fiscal year years Depreciation year-end At cost Cost measurement Land & Buildings (2) 5,196,988 50 106,315 11,359 321,302 5,293 106,203 422,212 4,869,732 Furniture and facilities 326,737 10 48,511 109,394 34,160 143,554 231,694 Machinery and equipment 802,855 5 246,633 2,555 415,800 2,548 157,963 571,215 475,718 Vehicles 97,879 5 24,977 4,907 67,003 4,296 15,952 78,659 39,290 Miscellaneous 1,100 22 1,061 34 1,095 27 Works in progress 1,718,413 904,321 45,754 2,576,980 Total Property, plant 8,143,972 1,330,779 64,575 914,560 12,137 314,312 1,216,735 8,193,441 and equipment (1) Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 331 CONSOLIDATED CHANGES IN INVESTMENT PROPERTY AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Depreciation for the period Item Cost Useful life Additions Disposals AccumuDisposal Of the Year Year-end Residual Beginning of estimated lated value at fiscal year in years Depreciation year-end At cost Leased property 50 90,485 8,027 100 8,127 82,358 Other investment property 658,974 50 303,503 763,881 19,965 18,680 6,065 7,350 191,246 Total investment property(1) 658,974 393,988 763,881 27,992 18,680 6,165 15,477 273,604 CONSOLIDATED CHANGES IN INVESTMENT PROPERTY AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2017 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Depreciation for the period Item Cost Useful life Additions Disposals AccumuDisposal Of the Year Year-end Residual Beginning of estimated lated value at fiscal year in years Depreciation year-end At cost Other investment property (2) 566,067 50 237,781 144,874 17,945 9,052 6,817 15,710 643,264 Total investment property 566,067 237,781 144,874 17,945 9,052 6,817 15,710 643,264 (1) During the year 2018, this accounting item registered transfers to and from Property, plant and equipment and/or non-current assets held for sale. (2) As of December 31, 2016, the cost attributed to the Entity’s real property items totals 6,978,789 and the adjustment for the same accounting item amounted to 4,560,495. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 332 Annual Report | Banco Macro CONSOLIDATED CHANGES IN INTANGIBLE ASSETS EXHIBIT G AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Depreciation for the period Item Cost Useful life Additions Disposals AccumuDisposal Of the Year Year-end Residual Beginning of estimated in lated value at fiscal year years Depreciation year-end At cost Licenses 344,671 5 256,269 494 195,765 3 66,425 262,187 338,259 Other intangible assets 1,206,227 5 754,508 72,968 527,111 297,898 825,009 1,062,758 Total intangible assets (1) 1,550,898 1,010,777 73,462 722,876 3 364,323 1,087,196 1,401,017 CONSOLIDATED CHANGES IN INTANGIBLE ASSETS AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2017 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Depreciation for the period Item Cost Useful life Additions Disposals AccumuDisposal Of the Year Year-end Residual Beginning of estimated in lated value at fiscal year years Depreciation year-end At cost Goodwill – 56,205 56,205 35,596 56,205 20,609 Business combination Licenses 185,272 5 159,399 68,926 120,162 189,088 155,583 Other intangible assets 861,872 5 346,826 2,471 411,912 2,469 124,345 533,788 672,439 Total intangible assets 1,103,349 506,225 58,676 516,434 58,674 265,116 722,876 828,022 (1) During the year 2018, there were some transfers between different accounting items of this kind that originated differences between balances at year-end for one year and balances at the beginning of the next one, without implying any changes in the total amount of this accounting item. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 333 CONSOLIDATED DEPOSIT CONCENTRATION EXHIBIT H AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018, 2017 AND 2016 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 Number of customers Outstanding % of total Outstanding % of total Outstanding % of total balance portfolio balance portfolio balance portfolio 10 largest customers 19,840,988 8,34 9,022,672 6,26 7,222,118 6,45 50 next largest customers 17,271,242 7,26 8,056,114 5,59 7,316,128 6,54 100 next largest customers 10,956,612 4,60 4,988,300 3,46 4,255,954 3,80 Other customers 189,885,577 79,80 122,062,091 84,69 93,068,605 83,21 Total 237,954,419 100,00 144,129,177 100,00 111,862,805 100,00 CONSOLIDATED BREAKDOWN OF FINANCIAL LIABILITIES EXHIBIT I FOR RESIDUAL TERMS AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Over 24 months Item Up to 1 month Over 1 month Over 3 months Over 6 months Over 12 months Over 24 Total and up to 3 and up to 6 and up to 12 and up to 24 months months months months months Deposits 198,459,625 33,817,014 7,493,854 1,310,113 64,511 15,985 241,161,102 From the non-financial 17,319,378 1,670,962 639,754 46,091 206 19,676,391 government sector From the financial sector 148,275 148,275 From the non-financial private 180,991,972 32,146,052 6,854,100 1,264,022 64,305 15,985 221,336,436 sector and foreign residents Derivative instruments 1,019 350 1,369 Repo transactions 164,667 164.667 Other financial institutions 164,667 164.667 Other financial liabilities 15,140,459 18,645 9,221 13,064 20,085 140,505 15,341,979 Financing received from BCRA 425,053 918,813 1,083,024 470,177 87,151 125,173 3,109,391 and other financial institutions Issued corporate bonds 362,534 584,698 734,105 1,441,379 7,387,182 10,509,898 Subordinated 510,412 510,412 1,020,824 21,757,164 23,798,812 corporate bonds Total 214,553,357 34.754.472 9,681,559 3,037,871 2,633,950 29,426,009 294,087,218 This Exhibit discloses future contractual cash flow fall, including interests and accessories to be accrued until contract maturity. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 334 Annual Report | Banco Macro CONSOLIDATED BREAKDOWN OF FINANCIAL LIABILITIES EXHIBIT I FOR RESIDUAL TERMS AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2017 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Term to maturity Item Up to 1 month Over 1 month Over 3 months Over 6 months Over 12 months Over 24 Total and up to 3 and up to 6 and up to 12 and up to 24 months months months months months Deposits 122,715,208 19,819,279 2,777,820 538,046 28,735 7,852 145,886,940 From the non-financial 11,487,052 1,149,425 319,233 1,131 17,565 12,974,406 government sector From the financial sector 81,359 81,359 From the non-financial private 111,146,797 18,669,854 2,458,587 536,915 11,170 7,852 132,831,175 sector and foreign residents Derivative instruments 23,107 23,107 Repo transactions 2,688,093 2,688,093 Other financial institutions 2,688,093 2,688,093 Other financial liabilities 10,399,981 21,720 10,720 16,518 25,559 163,965 10,638,463 Financing received from 927,410 91,695 11,605 15,967 34,289 94,109 1,175,075 BCRA and other financial institutions Issued corporate bonds 404,300 404,300 808,600 6,642,069 8,259,269 Subordinated corporate 266,082 271,935 543,869 11,316,764 12,398,650 bonds Total 136,760,249 19,932,694 3,470,527 1,246,766 1,441,052 18,224,759 181,076,047 This Exhibit discloses future contractual cash flow fall, including interests and accessories to be accrued until contract maturity. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 335 CONSOLIDATED BREAKDOWN OF FINANCIAL LIABILITIES EXHIBIT I FOR RESIDUAL TERMS AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2016 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Term to maturity Item Up to 1 month Over 1 month Over 3 months Over 6 months Over 12 months Over 24 Total and up to 3 and up to 6 and up to 12 and up to 24 months months months months months Deposits 93,953,798 17,277,573 1,752,894 314,926 9,514 3,643 113,312,348 From the non-financial govern7,115,083 2,189,871 266,598 86,676 117 9,658,345 ment sector From the financial sector 55,866 55,866 From the non-financial private 86,782,849 15,087,702 1,486,296 228,250 9,397 3,643 103,598,137 sector and foreign residents Derivative instruments 1,095,634 1,095,634 Repo transactions Other financial institutions 1,095,634 1,095,634 Other financial liabilities 5,755,622 480,634 6,909 6,868 10,826 147,157 6,408,016 Financing received from 85,882 49,164 90,378 14,207 9,867 12,780 262,278 BCRA and other financial institutions Issued corporate bonds 1,696,838 1,696,838 Subordinated corporate 213,978 213,978 427,955 9,763,723 10,619,634 bonds Total 100,890,936 19,504,209 2,064,159 549,979 458,162 9,927,303 133,394,748 This Exhibit discloses future contractual cash flow fall, including interests and accessories to be accrued until contract maturity. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 336 Annual Report | Banco Macro CONSOLIDATED CHANGES IN PROVISIONS EXHIBIT J AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Decreases Item Balance, beginning Increases Charge off Applications 12/31/2018 of fiscal year For administrative, disciplinary and 718 718 criminal penalties Other 694,201 1,103,870 17,424 735,471 1,045,176 Total provisions 694,919 1,103,870 17,424 735,471 1,045,894 CONSOLIDATED CHANGES IN PROVISIONS AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Decreases Concepto Balance, beginning Increases Charge off Applications 12/31/2017 of fiscal year For administrative, disciplinary and 9,110 0 8,062 330 718 criminal penalties Other 325,897 718,703 56,048 294,351 694,201 Total provisions 335,007 718,703 64,110 294,681 694,919 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 337 CONSOLIDATED FORIGN CURRENCY BALANCES EXHIBIT L AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018, 2017 AND 2016 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 Total by currency Items Total US dollar Euro Real Other Total Total Headquarters & Local Branches ASSETS Cash and bank deposits 42,745,328 42,491,761 175,662 18,635 59,270 21,049,391 21,394,875 Debt securities at favor value through profit or 388,276 388,276 50,860 12,788 loss Derivative instruments 564 Other financial assets 1,545,982 1,545,982 875,422 376,008 Loans and other financing 46,040,211 46,040,211 18,771,033 10,137,360 Non-financial public sector 80 80 Other financial institutions 480,324 480,324 175,116 94,834 Non-financial private sector and foreign 45,559,807 45,559,807 18,595,917 10,042,526 residents Other debt securities 1,217,229 1,217,229 1,092,925 1,916,324 Financial assets delivered as guarantee 929,442 926,839 2,603 246,958 98,977 Investments in equity instruments 5,746 5,746 4,003 149,801 Investments in associates and joint ventures 1 78 TOTAL ASSETS 92,872,214 92,616,044 178,265 18,635 59,270 42,091,157 34,086,211 LIABILITIES Deposits 71,357,886 71,357,861 25 31,150,622 23,299,436 Non-financial public sector 2,295,035 2,295,035 3,926,989 852,177 Other financial institutions 100,200 100,200 45,895 27,972 Non-financial private sector and foreign 68,962,651 68,962,626 25 27,177,738 22,419,287 residents Other financial liabilities 2,618,946 2,575,391 42,962 593 1,382,688 965,308 Financing from BCRA and other financial 2,598,810 2,598,810 887,321 131,361 institutions Issued corporate bonds 1,684,636 Subordinated corporate bonds 15,288,390 15,288,390 7,565,759 6,376,537 Other non-financial liabilities 34,948 34,948 49,067 2,239 TOTAL LIABILITIES 91,898,980 91,855,400 42,987 593 41,035,457 32,459,517 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 338 Annual Report | Banco Macro CONSOLIDATED CREDIT ASSISTANCE TO RELATED PARTIES EXHIBIT N AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018, 2017 AND 2016 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) High insolvency risk/ High risk Item Performing Not matured Matured Irrecoverable 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 Loans and other financing Overdrafts 153,893 153,893 8,012 8,094 Without Senior guarantees or counter-guarantees 153,893 153,893 8,012 8,094 Documents 332,342 332,342 148,597 103,336 With Senior “A” guarantees and counter-guarantees 11,560 11,560 6,160 7,263 Without Senior guarantees or counter-guarantees 320,782 320,782 142,437 96,073 Mortgage and pledge 37,918 37,918 20,797 16,313 With Senior “B” guarantees and counter-guarantees 34,641 34,641 20,053 16,165 Without Senior guarantees or counter-guarantees 3,277 3,277 744 148 Personal 642 642 119 1,220 Without Senior guarantees or counter-guarantees 642 642 119 1,220 Credit cards 74,497 74,497 40,353 24,177 Without Senior guarantees or counter-guarantees 74,497 74,497 40,353 24,177 Other 538,025 6,746 544,771 134,820 163,910 With Senior “B” guarantees and counter-guarantees 7,153 7,153 Without Senior guarantees or counter-guarantees 530,872 6,746 537,618 134,820 163,910 Total loans and other financing 1,137,317 6,746 1,144,063 352,698 317,050 Debt securities 83,561 Equity instruments 25 475 Eventual commitments 374 374 59,696 23,986 Total 1,137,691 6,746 1,144,437 495,980 341,511 Provisions 4,355 2,567 3,797 85 10,804 3,948 3,578 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 339 CONSOLIDATED CATEGORIES OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND EXHIBIT P LIABILITIES AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Fair value hierarchy Item Amortized Fair value Fair value through Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 cost through OCI profit or loss Obligatory measurement FINANCIAL ASSETS Cash and bank deposits Cash in hand 10,696,465 Financial institutions and correspondents 63,613,775 Other 455,799 Debt securities at favor value through profit or loss 2,635,247 982,116 362,079 1,291,052 Derivative instruments 17,293 13,732 3,561 Other financial assets 2,586,448 413,136 321,968 91,168 Loans and other financing Non-financial public sector 1,775,507 Other financial institutions 5,573,806 Non-financial private sector and foreign residents Overdrafts 18,048,532 Documents 25,159,657 Mortgages 15,852,595 Pledges 4,367,045 Personal 57,516,829 Credit Cards 29,429,548 Financial leases 448,159 Other (1) 20,703,077 Other debt securities 8,151,176 42,646,037 13,787,546 Financial assets delivered as guarantee 6,605,764 56,433,583 150,456 150,456 Investment in equity instruments 51,518 6,110 45,408 TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS 270,984,182 56,433,583 3,267,650 44,120,419 14,153,186 1,427,628 (1) Includes total provisions to non-financial private sector and foreign residents. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 340 Annual Report | Banco Macro CONSOLIDATED CATEGORIES OF FINANCIAL ASSETS EXHIBIT P AND LIABILITIES AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Fair value hierarchy Item Amortized cost Fair value Fair value through Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 through OCI profit or loss Obligatory measurement FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Deposits Non-financial public sector 19,354,087 Financial sector 148,275 Non-financial private sector and foreign residents Checking accounts 24,374,567 Savings accounts 68,695,090 Term deposits and term investments 118,033,715 Other 7,348,685 Derivative instruments 1,369 593 776 Repo transactions Other financial institutions 164,469 Other financial liabilities 15,318,513 Financing from BCRA and other financial 2,998,010 institutions Issued corporate bonds 6,377,311 Subordinated corporate bonds 15,288,390 TOTAL FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 278,101,112 1,369 593 776 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 341 CONSOLIDATED CATEGORIES OF FINANCIAL ASSETS EXHIBIT P AND LIABILITIES AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2017 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Fair value hierarchy Item Amortized Fair value Fair value through Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 cost through OCI profit or loss Obligatory measurement FINANCIAL ASSETS Cash and bank deposits Cash in hand 6,761,426 Financial institutions and correspondents 27,484,927 Other 1,315,221 Debt securities at favor value through profit or loss Derivative instruments 1,086,028 422,868 627,319 35,841 Repo transactions 8,228 800 7,428 Other financial institutions 1,419,808 Other financial assets 1,789,433 Loans and other financing 483,246 321,495 161,751 Non-financial public sector 1,883,581 Other financial institutions 3,239,514 Non-financial private sector and foreign residents Overdrafts 9,465,269 Documents 17,640,795 Mortgages 8,312,777 Pledges 4,154,244 Personal 48,425,246 Credit Cards 24,780,938 Financial leases 593,973 Other (1) 14,162,337 Other debt securities 937,713 Financial assets delivered as guarantee 4,644,633 33,766,052 33,590,407 175,645 Investment in equity instruments 2,989,411 4,308 2,989,411 4,308 TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS 177,011,835 282,659 246,885 35,774 TOTAL ACTIVOS FINANCIEROS 177.011.835 36,755,463 1,864,469 37,571,866 814,700 233,366 (1) Incluye el total de previsiones al sector privado no financiero y residentes del exterior. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 342 Annual Report | Banco Macro CONSOLIDATED CATEGORIES OF FINANCIAL ASSETS EXHIBIT P AND LIABILITIES AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2017 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Fair value hierarchy Item Amortized cost Fair value Fair value through Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 through OCI profit or loss Obligatory measurement FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Deposits Non-financial public sector 12,890,701 Financial sector 81,359 Non-financial private sector and foreign residents Checking accounts 20,778,610 Savings accounts 44,531,793 Term deposits and term investments 61,602,409 Other 4,244,305 Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 6,450 6,450 Derivative instruments 23,107 7,169 15,938 Repo transactions Other financial institutions 2,688,093 Other financial liabilities 10,561,203 Financing from BCRA and other financial 1,174,111 institutions Issued corporate bonds 4,712,216 Subordinated corporate bonds 7,565,759 TOTAL FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 170,830,559 29,557 13,619 15,938 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 343 CONSOLIDATED CATEGORIES OF FINANCIAL ASSETS EXHIBIT P AND LIABILITIES AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2016 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Fair value hierarchy Item Amortized cost Fair value Fair value through Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 through OCI profit or loss Obligatory measurement FINANCIAL ASSETS Cash and bank deposits Cash in hand 4.871.152 Financial institutions and correspondents 31.114.016 Other 991 Debt securities at favor value through 332.481 168.287 164.194 profit or loss Derivative instruments 9.721 9.721 Repo transactions Other financial institutions 19.124 Other financial assets 941.218 164.295 164.295 Loans and other financing Non-financial public sector 1.585.481 BCRA Other financial institutions 1.713.170 Non-financial private sector and foreign residents Overdrafts 9.096.110 Documents 11.458.137 Mortgages 4.192.014 Pledges 2.290.809 Personal 30.300.667 Credit Cards 18.730.621 Financial leases 374.145 Other (1) 8.649.492 Other debt securities 855.832 19.539.667 2.638.867 16.900.800 Financial assets delivered as guarantee 2.489.665 838.366 362.663 1.201.029 Investment in equity instruments 406.868 301.178 18.289 87.401 TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS 128.682.644 20.378.033 1.276.028 4.473.656 17.093.004 87.401 (1) Includes total provisions to non-financial private sector and foreign residents. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 344 Annual Report | Banco Macro CONSOLIDATED CATEGORIES OF FINANCIAL ASSETS EXHIBIT P AND LIABILITIES AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2016 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Fair value hierarchy Item Amortized cost Fair value Fair value through Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 through OCI profit or loss Obligatory measurement FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Deposits Non-financial public sector 9.468.055 Financial sector 55.867 Non-financial private sector and foreign residents Checking accounts 17.686.171 Savings accounts 27.884.095 Term deposits and term investments 48.301.297 Other 8.467.320 Repo transactions Other financial institutions 1.095.634 Other financial liabilities 6.341.674 Financing from BCRA and other financial 260.458 institutions Issued corporate bonds 1.684.636 Subordinated corporate bonds 6.376.537 TOTAL FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 127.621.744 CONSOLIDATED BREAKDOWN OF PROFIT OR LOSS EXHIBIT Q FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2018 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Items Net financial income/(expense) Obligatory measurement 12/31/2018 For measurement of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Profit/(loss) from government securities 473,759 Profit/(loss) from private securities 284,705 Profit/(loss) from derivative financial instruments Forward transactions 212,878 Profit/(loss) from other financial assets 171,527 Profit/(loss) from investment in equity instruments 44,659 Profit/(loss) from sale or disposal of financial assets at fair value (121,838) TOTAL 1,065,690 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 345 CONSOLIDATED BREAKDOWN OF PROFIT OR LOSS EXHIBIT Q FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2018 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Interest and adjustment for the application of the effective interest rate of financial assets measured Net financial income/ at amortized cost (expense) Items 12/31/2018 Income from interest received From cash and bank deposits 25,007 From government bonds 791,337 From corporate bonds 175,526 From loans and other financing Financial sector 1,228,809 Non-financial private sector Overdrafts 5,631,760 Documents 3,328,909 Mortgages 4,259,681 Pledges 581,898 Personal 20,718,653 Credit cards 7,060,816 Financial leases 163,890 Other 4,476,174 From repo transactions BCRA 22,656 Other financial institutions 393,913 TOTAL 48,859,029 Expenses for interests paid For deposits Non-financial private sector Checking accounts 632,610 Savings accounts 349,331 Term deposits and term investments 22,246,724 For financing by BCRA and other financial institutions 127,258 For repo transactions Other financial institutions 184,669 For other financial liabilities 52,332 For issued corporate bonds 1,506,677 For subordinated corporate bonds 832,312 TOTAL 25,931,913 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 346 Annual Report | Banco Macro CONSOLIDATED BREAKDOWN OF PROFIT OR LOSS EXHIBIT Q FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2018 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Interest and adjustment for the application of the effective interest rate of financial Income OCI assets measured at fair value through OCI for the year Items 12/31/2018 12/31/2018 From debt government securities 16.718.353 (527.371) Total 16.718.353 (527.371) Income from commissions received Commissions related to obligations 8.220.550 Commissions related to credits 3.340.493 Commissions related to loans commitments and financial guarantees 1.069 Commissions related to securities 83.491 Commissions related to trading and foreign exchange transactions 243.371 Total 11.888.974 Expense for commissions paid Commissions related to transactions with securities 208 Other Commissions paid for ATM exchange 324.055 Expenses for check books and clearing houses 176.068 Credit card and foreign trade commissions 255.576 Total 755.907 CONSOLIDATED BREAKDOWN OF PROFIT OR LOSS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2017 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Items Net financial income/(expense) Obligatory measurement 12/31/2017 For measurement of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Profit/(loss) from government securities 244,311 Profit/(loss) from private securities 99,424 Profit/(loss) from other financial assets 75,233 Profit/(loss) from investment in equity instruments 199,725 Profit/(loss) from measurement of financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Profit/(loss) from derivative financial instruments Forward transactions (26,262) TOTAL 592,431 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 347 CONSOLIDATED BREAKDOWN OF PROFIT OR LOSS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2017 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Interest and adjustment for the application of the effective interest rate Net financial income/(expense) of financial assets measured at amortized cost Items 12/31/2017 Income from interest received From cash and bank deposits 13,676 From corporate bonds 169,508 From loans and other financing Financial sector 503,361 Non-financial private sector 0 Overdrafts 2,707,814 Documents 1,873,030 Mortgages 811,409 Pledges 504,631 Personal 14,468,894 Credit cards 4,434,272 Financial leases 106,204 Other 2,772,495 From repo transactions BCRA 612,391 Other financial institutions 43,351 TOTAL 29,021,036 Expenses for interests paid For deposits Non-financial private sector Savings accounts 117,921 Term deposits and term investments 9,189,016 For financing by BCRA and other financial institutions 44,706 For repo transactions Other financial institutions 112,795 For other financial liabilities 26,265 For issued corporate bonds 496,203 For subordinated corporate bonds 459,622 TOTAL 10,446,528 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 348 Annual Report | Banco Macro CONSOLIDATED BREAKDOWN OF PROFIT OR LOSS EXHIBIT Q FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2017 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Interest and adjustment for the application of the effective interest rate of financial Income OCI assets measured at fair value through OCI for the year Items 12/31/2017 12/31/2017 From debt government securities 5,573,682 21,846 Total 5,573,682 21,846 Income from commissions received Commissions related to obligations 6,088,901 Commissions related to credits 2,876,592 Commissions related to loans commitments and financial guarantees 3,211 Commissions related to securities 64,056 Commissions related to trading and foreign exchange transactions 153,460 Total 9,186,220 Expense for commissions paid Commissions related to transactions with securities 286 Other Commissions paid for ATM exchange 285,935 Expenses for check books and clearing houses 139,092 Credit card and foreign trade commissions 257,360 Total 682,673 VALUE CORRECTION FOR CREDIT LOSSES – CONSOLIDATED EXHIBIT R ALLOWANCE FOR UNCOLECTIBILITY RISK AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Decreases Item Balance, beginning Increases Charge off Applications 12/31/2018 of fiscal year Other financial assets 6,071 1,850 131 1,835 5,955 Loans and other financing 2,666,738 3,100,127 40,961 1,565,159 4,160,745 Other financial institutions 31,251 25,571 4,701 52,121 Non-financial private sector and for0 eign residents Overdrafts 139,833 201,391 7,209 51,517 282,498 Documents 202,505 193,753 1,546 40,464 354,248 Mortgages 152,116 153,332 14,208 18,487 272,753 Pledges 74,380 29,647 3,929 22,574 77,524 Personal 1,207,483 1,495,470 267 981,988 1,720,698 Credit card 590,483 575,386 1,005 350,020 814,844 Financial leases 6,487 273 1,190 0 5,570 Other 262,200 425,304 6,906 100,109 580,489 TOTAL PROVISIONS 2,672,809 3,101,977 41,092 1,566,994 4,166,700 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 349 VALUE CORRECTION FOR CREDIT LOSSES – CONSOLIDATED ALLOWANCE FOR UNCOLECTIBILITY RISK AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2017 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Decreases Item Balance, beginning Increases Charge off Applications 12/31/2017 of fiscal year Other financial assets 5,640 1,041 594 16 6,071 Loans and other financing 1,839,422 1,742,836 22,285 893,235 2,666,738 Other financial institutions 17,256 14,470 475 31,251 Non-financial private sector and foreign residents Overdrafts 134,725 34,751 1,038 28,605 139,833 Documents 126,158 94,496 5,098 13,051 202,505 Mortgages 74,824 86,406 2,557 6,557 152,116 Pledges 41,816 34,690 432 1,694 74,380 Personal 814,709 983,364 11,324 579,266 1,207,483 Credit card 442,883 367,306 196 219,510 590,483 Financial leases 3,994 2,535 42 0 6,487 Other 183,057 124,818 1,123 44,552 262,200 TOTAL PROVISIONS 1,845,062 1,743,877 22,879 893,251 2,672,809 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 350 Annual Report | Banco Macro Name of Signing Auditor Norberto M. Nacuzz Auditing Firm Pistrelli, Henry Martin y Asociados S.R.L Report for the fiscal year ended 31 December 2018 001 CONDENSED SEPARATE INTERIM BALANCE SHEET AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018, 2017 AND 2016 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Items Notes Exhibits 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 ASSETS Cash and Cash Equivalents P 68,178,537 32,473,987 32,992,475 Cash in hand 9,319,226 5,951,218 4,208,880 Central bank of the Republic of Argentina (BCRA) 46,046,332 21,939,645 26,666,365 Other Local and Foreign Entities 12,370,152 3,267,903 2,116,239 Other 442,827 1,315,221 991 Debt Securities at fair value through profit or loss AyP 2,150,737 975,371 275,386 Derivative Financial Instruments 8 P 14,555 7,664 9,721 Repo transactions 4 P 1,419,808 19,124 Other Financial Assets PyR 2,263,655 1,523,930 743,194 Borrowings and Other Financing B, C, D, P y R 165,209,389 122,173,846 81,475,324 Non-financial Public Sector 1,768,254 1,876,968 1,581,955 Other Financial Entities 5,573,806 4,191,661 1,713,170 Non-financial Private Sector and Foreign Residents 157.867.329 157,867,329 116,105,217 78,180,199 Other Debt Securities AyP 62,654,466 33,611,201 17,974,087 Financial Assets delivered as security 5 P 6,323,938 7,344,011 3,462,469 Investments in Equity Instruments AyP 47,020 36,885 337,309 Investment in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures E 4,888,171 3,662,374 3,081,485 Property, Plant and Equipment F 8,512,492 7,735,258 6,794,513 Intangible Assets G 1,591,857 810,509 573,121 Other Non-financial Assets 629,239 1,183,156 950,232 Non-current Assets held of Sale 13 804,017 199,890 94,588 TOTAL ASSETS 323,268,073 213,157,890 148,783,028 LIABILITIES Deposits H, I y P 219,761,923 132,716,174 102,498,623 Non-financial Public Sector 11,729,037 9,504,522 5,964,863 Financial Sector 148,269 81,357 55,861 Non-financial Private Sector and Foreign Residents 207.884.617 207,884,617 123,130,295 96,477,899 Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 6,450 Derivative Financial Instruments 8 1,369 23,107 Repo Transactions 4 IyP 164,469 2,688,093 1,095,634 Other Financial Liabilities IyP 14,128,235 9,808,877 5,895,687 Financing received from the BCRA and Other Financial IyP 3,297,393 1,173,840 260,266 Entities Corporate Bonds 34 IyP 6,388,191 4,712,216 1,745,851 Current Income Tax Liabilities 2,712,536 3,642,484 1,544,046 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 351 Subordinated Corporate Bonds 34 IyP 15,288,390 7,565,759 6,376,537 Provisions 15 J 969,754 595,995 251,366 Deferred Income Tax Liabilities 19 254,957 416,850 1,280,028 Other Non-financial Liabilities 5,454,286 3,273,022 2,864,297 TOTAL LIABILITIES 268,421,503 166,622,867 123,812,335 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY Share Capital 27 K 669.663 584.563 Non-capitalized Contributions 669,663 399.499 Adjustment to Shareholders’ Equity 669,663 4.511 Earnings Reserved 21,995,937 20.363.386 14.384.820 Retained Earnings 3,475,669 2,799,084 2,990,757 Other accumulated Comprehensive Income 543,086 204,560 65,711 Income for the Fiscal Year 15,729,243 10,065,358 6,540,832 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 54,846,570 46,535,023 24,970,693 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 323,268,073 213,157,890 148,783,028 The accompanying Notes 1 to 40 to the separate Financial Statements and Exhibits A to L, N to R are an integral part of these Separate Financial Statements. SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENT OF INCOME FOR THE FISCAL YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2018 AND 2017 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Items Notes Exhibits 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Income from interest received Q 61,050,533 31,313,363 Expense for interest paid Q (23,887,540) (9,697,229) Net Income from interest 37,162,993 21,616,134 Income from commissions received 20 Q 11,045,994 8,564,154 Expense for commissions paid Q (654,160) (610,289) Net Income from commissions received 10,391,834 7,953,865 Subtotal (Net Income from interest + Net Income from commissions) 47,554,827 29,569,999 Net Income from recognition of financial instruments at fair value Q 683,473 335,287 through profit or loss Loss/(Profit) from sold assets at amortized cost (4,489) 10,603 Difference in quoted prices of gold and foreign currency 21 (1,631,953) 1,320,161 Other operating income 22 2,251,636 1,064,444 Charges for bad debt (2,476,364) (1,486,591) Net Operating Income 46,377,130 30,813,903 Employee benefits 23 (9,384,547) (7,019,607) Administration expenses 24 (6,165,227) (4,189,616) Depreciation of Property, Plant and Equipment (677,506) (534,990) Other Operating Expenses 25 (9,315,198) (6,154,096) Operating Income 20,834,652 12,915,594 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 352 Annual Report | Banco Macro Income from associates and joint ventures 1,344,042 1,430,586 Income before tax on continuing operations 19 22,178,694 14,346,180 Income tax on continuing operations (6,449,451) (4,280,822) Net Income from continuing operations 15,729,243 10,065,358 Net Income for the year 15,729,243 10,065,358 SEPARATE PROFIT PER SHARE FOR THE FISCAL YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2018 AND 2017 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Items 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Net Profit attributable to Parent’s shareholders 15,729,243 10,065,358 PLUS: Potential diluted earnings per common share Net Profit attributable to Parent’s shareholders adjusted as per diluted earnings 15,729,243 10,065,358 Weighted average of outstanding common shares for the period 661,141 629,531 PLUS: Weighted average of the number of additional common shares with dilution effects Weighted average of outstanding common shares for the period adjusted as per dilution effect 661,141 629,531 Basic earnings per share 23,7911 15,9887 SEPARATE STATEMENT OF OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE FISCAL YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2018 AND 2017 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Items Notes Exhibits 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Net Income for the year 15,729,243 10,065,358 Items of Other Comprehensive Income that will be reclassified to profit or loss Foreign currency translation differences in financial statements conversion 732,813 137,148 Foreign currency translation differences for the period 732,813 137,148 Profit or loss for financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (310,225) 56,022 (FVOCI) (IFRS 9 (4.1.2)(a) Income for the period from financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) Q (443,179) 79,019 Income Tax 132,954 (22,997) Interest in Other Comprehensive Income of associates and joint ventures accounted for using (84,062) (54,321) the participation method Income for the period from interest in Other Comprehensive Income of associates and joint (84,062) (54,321) ventures accounted for using the participation method Total Other Comprehensive Income that will be reclassified to profit or loss of the period 338,526 138,849 Total Other Comprehensive Income 338,526 138,849 Total Comprehensive Income 16,067,769 10,204,207 Total Comprehensive Income attributable to the owners of the parent Company 16,067,769 10,204,207 The accompanying Notes 1 to 40 to the separate Financial Statements and Exhibits A to L, N to R are an integral part of these Separate Financial Statements. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 353 SEPARATE STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Capital Non-capital Other Comprehensive Earnings Reserved Social ContribuIncome tions Changes Notes Outstanding Treasury Stock Equity Accumulated Other Statutory Other Retained Total Shares Stock Issuance Adjustforeign currency Earnings ShareholdPremium ments translation ers’ Equity difference Balance at the 669,663 12,428,461 4,511 137,148 67,412 4,994,932 15,368,454 12,864,442 46,535,023 beginning of the fiscal year Total Comprehensive Income for the year Net profit for the 15,729,243 15,729,243 year Other 732,813 (394,287) 338,526 Comprehensive Income for the year Distribution of retained earnings as approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting dated 27 April 2018 Statutory Reserve 1,877,755 (1,877,755) 0 Cash Dividends (3,348,315) (3,348,315) Other(1) 7,511,018 (7,511,018) 0 Treasury Stock 27 (28,948) 28,948 (4,407,907) (4,407,907) Balance at the 640,715 28,948 12,428,461 4,511 869,961 (326,875) 6,872,687 15,123,250 19,204,912 54,846,570 end of the year Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 354 Annual Report | Banco Macro SEPARATE STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) CapitalNon-capital Other Comprehensive Earnings Reserved Social ContribuIncome tions Changes Notes Outstanding Treasury Stock Equity Accumulated Other Statutory Other Retained Total ShareShares Stock Issuance Adjustforeign currency Earnings holders’ Premium ments translation Equity difference Balance at the 584,563 339,499 4,511 65,711 3,686,472 10,698,348 9,531,589 24,970,693 beginning of the fiscal year Total Comprehensive Income for the year Net profit for the 10,065,358 10,065,358 year Other Compre137,148 1,701 138,849 hensive Income for the year Distribution of retained earnings as approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting dated 28 April 2017 Statutory Reserve 1,308,460 (1,308,460) Cash Dividends (701,476) (701,476) Other(1) 5,371,582 (5,424,045) (52,463) Capital Increase 27 85,100 12,028,962 12,114,062 as approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting dated 28 April 2017 Balance at the end 669,663 12,428,461 4,511 137,148 67,412 4,994,932 15,368,454 12,864,442 46,535,023 of the year (1) Reserve fund for future distribution of profits. As of 2017, it includes Shareholders’ Personal Asset Tax. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 355 The accompanying Notes 1 to 40 to the separate Financial Statements and Exhibits A to L, N to R are an integral part of these Separate Financial Statements. SEPARATE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE FISCAL YEARS ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 AND 2017 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Items Notes 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Income for the period before Income Tax 22,178,694 14,346,180 Adjustments to obtain cash flows from operating activities: Amortization and depreciation 677,506 534,990 Charges for bad debts 2,476,364 1,486,591 Foreign currency translation difference (7,914,367) (198,589) Other adjustments 1,445,587 (1,803,544) Net increase/ decrease from operating assets: Debt Securities at fair value though profit and loss (1,195,781) (689,155) Derivative financial instruments (6,891) 2,057 Repo transactions 1,419,808 (1,400,684) Borrowings and other financing Non-financial public sector 108,714 (283,318) Other financial entities (1,382,145) (2,478,488) Non-financial private sector and foreign residents (44,238,476) (39,423,307) Other debt securities 6,732,117 (10,490,828) Financial assets delivered as security 1,020,073 (3,881,542) Investments in equity securities (10,135) 300,424 Other assets (1,758,706) (1,472,965) Net increase/ decrease from operating liabilities: Deposits Non-financial public sector 2,224,515 3,539,659 Financial sector 66,912 25,496 Non-financial private sector and foreign residents 84,754,322 26,652,396 Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss (6,450) 6,450 Derivative financial instruments (21,738) 23,107 Repo transactions (2,523,624) 1,592,459 Other liabilities 8,576,734 8,255,838 Income Tax payments (6,361,903) (3,737,510) TOTAL CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES (A) 66,261,130 (9,094,283) Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 356 Annual Report | Banco Macro SEPARATE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE FISCAL YEARS ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 AND 2017 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Items Notes 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Payments: Acquisition of PPE, intangible assets and other assets (1,844,008) (1,854,738) TOTAL CASH USED IN INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (B) (1,844,008) (1,854,738) CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Payments: Dividends (3,348,315) (753,939) Acquisition or redemption of the Company’s own assets (4,407,907) Unsubordinated corporate bonds (2,441,269) (2,171,204) Financing from local financial entities (323,249) Subordinated corporate bonds (773,358) (442,935) Changes in non-controlling interests with no control loss (456,757) Proceeds/ Income: Issuance of additional shares of stock 12,114,062 Unsubordinated corporate bonds 3,206,999 4,604,398 Central Bank of the Republic of Argentina 10,852 3,005 Financing to local financial entities 862,828 TOTAL CASH USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES (C) (8,533,004) 14,216,215 EFFECT OF EXCHANGE RATE FLUCTUATIONS (D) 15,575,399 1,371,434 TOTAL CHANGES IN CASH FLOWS NET INCREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (A+B+C+D) 71,459,517 4,638,628 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE BEGINNING OF THE YEAR 26 51,788,928 47,150,300 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE END OF THE YEAR 26 123,248,445 51,788,928 The accompanying Notes 1 to 40 to the separate Financial Statements and Exhibits A to L, N to R are an integral part of these Separate Financial Statements. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as of 31 December 2018 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) 1. CORPORATE INFORMATION Banco Macro SA (hereinafter, the Entity), is a stock economies, as well as to individuals, strengthening corporation (sociedad anónima), organized in the in this way its goal to be a multi-services bank. In Republic of Argentina that offers traditional banking addition, through its subsidiaries Banco del products and services to companies, including those Tucumán S.A., Macro Bank Limited (an entity companies operating in regional Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 357 organized under the laws of Bahamas); Macro 2. OPERATIONS OF THE BANK Securities S.A., Macro Fiducia S.A. and Macro Fondos S.G.F.C.I.S.A. Note 2 to the consolidated Financial Statements includes a detailed description of the agreements Macro Compañía Financiera S.A. was created in that relate the Entity and its subsidiary Banco del 1977, as a non-banking financial institution. In May Tucumán to the provincial and municipal 1988, it received the authorization to operate as a Governments. commercial bank and it was incorporated as Banco Macro S.A. Subsequently, as a result of the merger Additionally, and as mentioned in paragraph 2.4 to process with other entities, it adopted other names the consolidated Financial Statements, the Entity (among them, Banco Macro Bansud S.A.) and since acquired shares of Banco del Tucumán S.A., in the August 2006, Banco Macro S.A. amount of 456,757. This transaction was recorded in this separate Financial Statements under the The Bank´s shares have been publicly listed on the purchase method. The difference between the Bolsas y Mercados Argentinos (BYMA) since consideration paid and the application of the November 1994, as from March 24, 2006 they are purchase method on the Financial Statements of listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). such Entity determined the reporting of a turnover of Additionally, on October 15, 2015 they were autho210,927. rized to list on the Mercado Abierto Electrónico SA (MAE). On the other hand, the Board of Banco Macro S.A., on October 17, 2018, resolved, among other issues to Since 1994, Banco Macro SA’s market strategy was perform all the necessary acts aimed at the reorganimainly focused on the regional areas outside the zation by merger of Banco Macro S.A. and Banco del City of Buenos Aires. Following this strategy, in 1996, Tucumán S.A. (see Note 2 to the consolidated Banco Macro SA started the process to acquire Financial Statements). entities and assets and liabilities during the privatization of provincial and other banks. 3. BASIS FOR THE PREPARATION OF THESE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND APPLICABLE In 2001, 2004, 2006 and 2010, the Entity acquired ACCOUNTING STANDARDS the control of Banco Bansud S.A., Nuevo Banco Suquía S.A., Nuevo Banco Bisel S.A. and Banco On February 12, 2014 the Central Bank, through Privado de Inversiones S.A., respectively. Such Communiqué “A” 5541 established the general entities merged with and into Banco Macro S.A. in guidelines towards conversion to the IFRS issued by December 2003, October 2007, August 2009 and the International Accounting Standards Board December 2013, respectively. In addition, during the (IASB) for preparing financial statements of the year 2006, Banco Macro S.A. acquired the control of entities under its supervision, for the annual fiscal Banco del Tucumán S.A. years beginning on January 1, 2018 as well as those of interim-periods. On March 8, 2019, the Board of Directors approved the issuance of these separate Financial Additionally, through Communiqués “A” 6114, the Statements. Central Bank set specific guidelines within the scope of such convergence process, among which it defined (i) the transitory exception to the application of section 5.5 “Impairment” of the IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments” (sections B5.5.1 to B5.5.55) up to the fiscal years beginning as of January 1, 2020; and (ii) Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 358 Annual Report | Banco Macro in order to calculate the effective interest rate of Going concern assets and liabilities so requiring it for the measureThe Management of the Entity made an assessment thereof, pursuant to IFRS 9, up to December ment of the Entity’s ability to continue as a going 31, 2019, the Bank may transitorily make a global concern and concluded that it has the resources to estimate of the calculation of the effective interest continue in operation for the foreseeable future. In rate on a group of financial assets or liabilities with addition, the Management has no information of similar characteristics which shall be applied such any material uncertainty that could cast doubts on effective interest rate. To the date of the present the Entity’s ability to continue as a going concern. separate Financial Statements the Bank is in the Therefore, the accompanying separate Financial process of determining and quantifying the effect Statements were prepared on a going concern the application of section 5.5 “Impairment” menbasis. tioned in (i) above will have. Finally, through Communiqués “A” 6323 and 6324 and supplementary Subsidiaries rules, the Central Bank defined the minimum chart As mentioned in Note 1, the Bank performs certain of accounts and the provisions applicable to the transactions through its subsidiaries. preparation and presentation of the financial statements of financial entities for the fiscal years Subsidiaries are all the entities controlled by the beginning on January 1, 2018, respectively. Bank. As described in Note 3 to the consolidated Financial Statements, a Company controls other As of December 31, 2018 all conditions have been entity when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable met for the Entity’s separate Financial Statements returns from its continuing involvement with such for the year ended such date to incorporate the other entity, and has the ability to use its power to inflation adjustment provided under IAS 29 “Finandirect the operating and financing policies of such cial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies”. other entity, to affect the amounts of such returns. Nevertheless, for the reasons expressed under As provided under IAS 27 “Consolidated and section “Unit of Measure” in this note, financial Separate Financial Statements”, investments in entities are temporarily unable to apply the above subsidiaries were accounted for using the “equity mentioned standard. method” described in IAS 28. When using this method, investments are initially recognized at cost, The accounting policies comply with the IFRS and such amount increases or decreases to presently approved and are applicable to the recognize investor’s interest in profits and losses of preparation of this separate Financial Statements as the entity after the date of acquisition or creation. provided for in the IFRS as approved by the BCRA under its Communiqué “A” 6114. As a general rule, Share in profits and losses of subsidiaries and the Central Bank does not admit the early applicaassociates are recognized in the line “Income from tion of any IFRS, unless it establishes any provision subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements” in the contrary. the Statement of income. Ownership interest in other comprehensive income of subsidiaries is Note 3 to the consolidated Financial Statements accounted for in the line “Income for the period for present a detailed description of the basis for the interest in other comprehensive income of subsidiarpresentation of such financial statements and the ies, associates and joint arrangements accounted main accounting policies applied and the relevant for using the participation method”, in the statement information of subsidiaries. All that is explained of other comprehensive income. therein shall apply to the accompanying separate Financial Statements. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 359 Transcription in the Books of Accounts In order to carry out the above mentioned restateTo the date of the accompanying separate Financial ment, the Entity shall use a series of indexes Statements, the same are in the process of being prepared and informed on a monthly basis by the transcribed in detail as of 31 December 2018, in the Federación Argentina de Consejos Profsionales de Bank’s Inventory and Balance Sheet Book. Ciencias Económicas (FACPCE). That series of indexes combines the consumer price index (CPI) Unit of Measure published by the Instituto Nacional de Estadísticas y The IFRS require that financial statements of any Censos (INDEC) from January 2017 (base month: entity whose functional currency is the currency of a December 2016) with the internal wholesale price hyperinflationary economy be restated in a homogindex (WPI) published by the INDEC through that enous currency. In order to achieve uniformity as to date, computing for the months of November and the identification of an economic environment of December 2015 –in respect of which there is no this kind, IAS 29 provides certain guidelines, available information from the INDEC on the including but not limited to the following, which development of the WPIthe variation recorded in consist of (i) analyzing the behavior of population, the CPI of the City of Buenos Aires. prices, interest rates and wages faced with the development of price indexes and the loss of the Taking into consideration the above-mentioned currency’s purchasing power, as a qualitative index, in the fiscal years ended 31 December 2018 indicator, and (ii) as a quantitative feature, which, in and 2017, the inflation rate amounted to 47.64% and practice, is the mostly considered condition, 24.79%, respectively. verifying whether the cumulative inflation rate over three years approaches or exceeds 100%. Although However, under Communiqué “A” 6651 of the BCRA, in recent years the general level of prices experifinancial entities shall start to apply the restatement enced a significant growth, the cumulative inflation method of financial statements in conformity with rate over three years in Argentina had remained IAS 29 from the fiscal years beginning January 1, below 100%. However, due to different macroeco2020. nomic factors, triennial inflation in 2018 surpassed that percentage, while the federal government’s Failure to report the changes in the currency’s targets and other available projections indicate that general purchasing power under highly inflationary this trend will no reverse in the short term. economies may distort the accounting information and, therefore, this situation must be taken into Therefore, according to IAS 29, the Argentine account when interpreting the information reported economy is currently regarded as hyperinflationary by the Entity in the accompanying separate and the entities under the control of the BCRA, who Financial Statements including its balance sheet, its are obliged to apply the IFRS as adopted by the statement of income and statement of cash flows. BCRA through its Communiqué “A” 6114 and whose functional currency is the Argentine peso, should The effects of the application of IAS 29 are summarestate their financial statements to reflect the rized below: effects of inflation in conformity with IAS 29. Such restatement shall be made as if the Argentine (a) Financial statements must be adjusted so as to economy would have been always hyperinflationary; consider the changes in the currency’s general using a general price index that reflects the changes purchasing power, so that they are expressed in the in the currency’s purchasing power. current unit of measure at the end of the reporting period. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 360 Annual Report | Banco Macro (b) In summary, the restatement method under IAS (vi) The restatement of non-monetary assets in 29 is as follows: terms of the measuring unit current at the end of the reporting period without an equivalent adjustment (i) Monetary items (those with a fixed nominal value for tax purposes, gives rise to a taxable temporary in local currency) are not restated in as much as they difference and to the recognition of a deferred tax are already expressed in terms of the measuring unit liability, whose contra-account is recognized. When current at the closing date of the reporting period. In in addition to the restatement, there is a revaluation an inflationary period, keeping monetary assets of non-monetary assets, the deferred tax derived generates loss of purchasing power and keeping from the restatement is recognized in income for the monetary liabilities generates an increase in period, and the deferred tax derived from the purchasing power, provided such items are not revaluation (amount exceeding revaluation value subject to an adjustment method somehow over restatement value) is recognized in other compensating such effects. The net monetary gain comprehensive income. or loss shall be included as income for the period for which it is reported. (vii) Income and expenses are restated from the date when they were recorded, except for those profit or (ii) Assets and liabilities subject to adjustments under loss items that reflect or include in their determinaspecific agreements shall be adjusted in accordance tion the consumption of assets carried at the with such agreements. purchasing power of the currency as of a date prior to the recording of the consumption, which are (iii) Non-monetary items carried at the current value restated based on the date when the asset to which of the end date of the reporting period shall not be the item is related originated; and except also those restated to be presented in the balance sheet, but profit or loss items originated from comparing two the restatement process must be completed in order measurements expressed in the purchasing power of to determine in terms of homogenous unit of currency as of different dates, for which it is necesmeasure the income derived from such non-monesary to identify the compared amounts, restate tary items. them separately, and compare them again, but with the restated amounts. (iv) Non-monetary items carried at historical cost or at the current value of a date prior to the end of the (viii) At the beginning of the first year of application of reporting period are restated using coefficients that the restatement method of financial statements in reflect the variation recorded in the general level of terms of the current measuring unit, the equity prices from the date of acquisition or revaluation to components, except for reserved earnings and the closing date of the reporting period, then undistributed retained earnings, shall be restated in comparing the restated amounts of such assets with conformity with IAS 29, and the amount of undistribthe relevant recoverable values. Depreciation charges uted retained earnings shall be determined by the of property, plant and equipment and amortization difference between net assets restated at the date charges of intangible assets recognized in profit or of transition and the other components of opening loss for the period, as well as any other consumption equity expressed as indicated above, once all of non-monetary assets will be determined on the remaining equity components are restated. basis of the new restated amounts. To the date of the accompanying separate Financial (v) When activation of financial costs applies to Statements, the Entity is in the process of quantifynon-monetary assets, the portion of these costs ing the effect that the application of IAS 29 would compensating creditor for the effects of inflation have on the Entity’s financial position, but we shall not be capitalized. estimate such effects are significant. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 361 First-time adoption of IFRSs under Required Reconciliations Communiqué “A” 6114 issued by the BCRA Note 3 to the condensed consolidated interim • Reconciliation of equity as of December 31, 2016 Financial Statements explains the convergence (date of transition) process under Central Bank Communiqué “A” 6114, as well as the exceptions and exemptions used, situations applicable to the Entity separately. In addition, the following are the reconciliations required by such Communiqué issued by the BCRA. Previous BCRA Standards Adjustments & Reclassifications Balance under Communiqué “A” 6114 Total Assets 144,421,205 4,361,823 148,783,028 Total Liabilities 122,315,307 1,497,028 123,812,335 Equity 22,105,898 2,864,795 24,970,693 Description Balance as of 12/31/2016 Under previous BCRA Standards 22,105,898 Adjustments & Reclassifications Debt securities and investment in equity instruments 23,473 Loans and other financing (233,010) Investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 342,505 Property, plant and equipment and investment property 4,262,884 Other non-financial assets 51,313 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities (1,280,028) Other non-financial liabilities (341,878) Corporate bonds 31,560 Other adjustments 7,976 Total adjustments 2,864,795 Total Equity under BCRA’s Communiqué “A” 6114 24,970,693 • Reconciliation of equity as of December 31, 2017. Previous BCRA Standards Adjustments & Reclassifications Balance under Communiqué “A” 6114 Total Assets 211,023,163 2,134,727 213,157,890 Total Liabilities 167,892,616 (1,269,749) 166,622,867 Equity 43,130,547 3,404,476 46,535,023 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 362 Annual Report | Banco Macro Description Balance as of 12/31/2017 Under previous BCRA Standards 43,130,547 Adjustments & Reclassifications Debt securities and investment in equity instruments 17,175 Loans and other financing (275,056) Investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 193,921 Property, plant and equipment and investment property 4,243,595 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities 62,760 Other non-financial assets (416,850) Corporate bonds (472,709) Other non-financial liabilities 51,579 Other adjustments 61 Total adjustments 3,404,476 Total Equity under BCRA’s Communiqué “A” 6114 46,535,023 • Reconciliation of income and other comprehensive income for the year ended December 31, 2017. Reconciliation of income for the year ended Net Income for the Year Other Comprehensive Comprehensive 12/31/2017. Income Income Under previous BCRA Standards 9,388,772 Income from interest received (45,241) Expenses for interest paid 20,019 Income from commissions received (19,188) Net Income from measuring financial instruments at fair (45,965) value through OCI Employee benefits (99,511) Depreciation of Property, plant and equipment Other operating expenses (66,000) Income from associates and joint ventures (84,295) (54,321) Reclassification for share issuance expenses 275,754 Foreign currency translation differences (137,148) 137,148 Income from financial instruments at fair value through 56,022 OCI Other adjustments (8,015) Income Tax 886,176 Total adjustments & reclassifications 676,586 138,849 Balance under BCRA’s Communiqué “A” 6114 10,065,358 138,849 10,204,207 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 363 • Explanatory notes to the adjustments on 4. REPO TRANSACTIONS transition to IFRS The main adjustments on transition to the stanIn the normal course of business, the Entity arranged dards established by BCRA’s Communiqué “A” 6114 repo transactions. A detail of these transactions is affecting equity as of December 31, 2016 (date of included in Note 4 to the consolidated Financial transition) and as of December 31, 2017, and the Statements. separate income and other comprehensive income for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, are 5. FINANCIAL ASSETS DELIVERED AS explained in Note 3 to the consolidated Financial GUARANTEE Statements. As of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, the Entity The proportional equity value of the subsidiaries was delivered as guarantee the following financial recalculated according to the equity method under assets: IAS 28 “Investments in associates and joint ventures”. • New pronouncements New pronouncements are described in Note 3 to the consolidated Financial Statements. Carrying Amount Description 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 For transactions with the Central Bank 5,330,580 3,750,952 1,902,862 For equity forward contracts 182,448 2,993,719 1,201,029 For guarantee deposits 810,910 599,340 358,578 Total 6,323,938 7,344,011 3,462,469 The Entity’s Management considers there shall be Changes in allowances for loan losses as of Decemno losses due to the restrictions on the above listed ber 31, 2018 are disclosed in Exhibit R “Value correcfinancial assets. tion for credit losses – Allowance for uncolectibility risk” in the accompanying consolidated Financial 6. LOSS ALLOWANCE – ALLOWANCE FOR Statements. UNCOLLECTIBILITY RISK OF LOAN AND OTHER FINANCING LOSSES The table below presents the Entity’s changes in allowances by portfolio category: Commercial Loans Consumer Loans Total As of December 31, 2017 570,763 1,899,540 2,470,303 Increases 511,485 2,356,264 2,867,749 Reversals 26,768 10,916 37,684 Charge-off 76,136 1,349,068 1,425,204 As of December 31, 2018 979,344 2,895,820 3,875,164 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 364 Annual Report | Banco Macro Commercial Loans Consumer Loans Total As of December 31, 2016 430,968 1,231,785 1,662,753 Increases 165,810 1,470,097 1,635,907 Reversals 16,632 2,124 18,756 Charge-off 9,383 800,218 809,601 As of December 31, 2017 570,763 1,899,540 2,470,303 On the other hand, the table below shows the composition of the net uncollectibility charge, generated by loans and other financing: 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Uncollectability charge 2,476,364 1,486,591 Repaid loans (Other operating Income) 261,025 300,012 The method to determine the allowance for letters of credit and documentary credits. Although uncollectibility risk of Loans and other financing is these transactions are not recognized in the balance explained in Notes 3 (section “Accounting judgsheet, since they imply a possible obligation or ments, estimates and assumptions”) and 39 to the liability for the Entity, they expose the Entity to consolidated Financial Statements. additional credit risk to those recognized in the balance sheet and are, therefore, an integral part of 7. CONTINGENT TRANSACTIONS the total risk of the Entity. In order to meet specific financial needs of customAs of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, the Entity ers, the Entity’s credit policy also includes, among maintains the following contingent transactions: others, the granting of guarantees, securities, bonds, 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 Overdraft and unused agreed credits (*) 634,288 743,856 291,945 Guarantees granted (*) 940,990 444,969 447,368 Liabilities for foreign trade transactions 256,788 90,274 163,308 Total 1,832,066 1,279,099 902,621 (*) Includes transactions not included in the financial sector debtors standard. As to Overdraft and unused agreed credits, it includes 221,220, 488,146 and 100,938, for the years 2018, 2017 y 2016, respectively. As to Guarantees granted, it includes 166,650, 191,176 and 158,986, for the years 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 365 Risks related to the contingent transactions described The following tables show the notional values of above have been evaluated and are controlled within these instruments, expressed in thousands of US the framework of the Entity’s credit risk policy dedollars, in the currency of origin. Notional values scribed in Note 39 to the consolidated Financial indicate the number of pending transactions at year Statements. end and are not indicative of either the market risk or the credit risk. Additionally, the Entity presents the 8. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS fair value of the derivative financial instruments recognized as assets or liabilities in the Balance The Entity performs derivative transactions for sheet. Changes in fair values were accounted for in trading purposes. In Note 8 to the consolidated profit or loss, the breakdown of which is disclosed in Financial Statements, the Entity discloses the Exhibit Q “Breakdown of profit or loss”. reasons and types of derivative financial transactions performed by the Entity. 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 Derivative Assets Notional Fair Notional Fair Notional Fair Value Value Value Value Value Value Foreign currency forward 24,867 14,555 11,700 7,664 7,900 9,721 purchase contracts without delivery of underlying asset Total derivatives held for trading 24,867 14,555 11,700 7,664 7,900 9,721 Derivative Liabilities Foreign currency forward 1,100 1,369 44,500 23,107 purchase contracts without delivery of underlying asset Total derivatives held for trading 1,100 1,369 44,500 23,107 9. FAIR VALUE QUANTITATIVE AND The Management has applied its best judgement to QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES estimate the fair value of its financial instruments. A technique to make such estimate implies certain Note 9 to the consolidated Financial Statements inherent fragility level. To conclude, the fair value describes the methods and assumptions used to may not indicate the net realizable value or liquidadetermine the fair value, both of the financial tion value. instruments recognized at fair value as of those not accounted for at such fair value in the accompanyFair value hierarchy ing separate Financial Statements. In addition, the The Entity uses the following hierarchy to determine Entity discloses the relevant information as to and disclose the fair value of financial instruments, instruments included in Level 3 of the fair value according to the valuation technique applied: hierarchy. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 366 Annual Report | Banco Macro Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) observable in which the input data is related to the asset or active markets to which the Entity has access to the liability comparable accounting items. Nevertheless, measurement date for identical assets or liabilities. if such adjustments are based on non-observable The Entity deems markets are active only if there are input data which are material for the entire meaenough trading activities as to volume and liquidity surement, then the Entity classifies instruments as of identical assets or liabilities and if there are Level 3. binding and enforceable price quotes available to the closing date of each reporting period. Level 3: Valuation techniques for which the data and variables having a significant impact on the Level 2: Valuation techniques for which the data determination of the fair value recognized or and variables having a significant impact on the disclosed are not based on observable market determination of the fair value recognized or information. disclosed are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. Such data includes Exhibit P “Categories of Financial Assets and quotes for similar assets or liabilities in active Liabilities” presents the hierarchy in the Entity’s markets, quotes for identical instruments in inactive financial asset and liability fair value measurement. markets and observable data different from Price quotes, such as interest rates and implicit volatility, Below we present the reconciliation between the credit differentials and yield curves. Besides, it may balances at the beginning and the end of the period be necessary adjust Level 2 input data depending of the financial assets and liabilities Fair values using on specific factors of assets or liabilities, such as the valuation techniques based on the Bank’s own condition and location of the asset, the extent to assumptions, as of December 31, 2018 and 2017: Fair values using valuation techniques based on the Bank’s own assumptions (level 3) December 31, 2018 Description Debt Securities Other Financial Investments in Assets Equity Instruments Balance at the beginning 35,841 161,751 33,197 Transfers to Level 3 Transfers from Level 3 Profit and Loss (200,279) (92,022) 9,046 Purchases, sales, issuance and settlement 1,455,490 21,439 Balance at end of period 1,291,052 91,168 42,243 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 367 Fair values using valuation techniques based on the Bank’s own assumptions (level 3) December 31, 2017 Description Debt Securities Other Financial Investments in Assets Equity Instruments Balance at the beginning 45,834 14,741 Transfers to Level 3 Transfers from Level 3 Profit and Loss 5,661 18,771 Purchases, sales, issuance and settlement (15,654) 161,751 (315) Balance at end of period 35,841 161,751 33,197 Instruments measured as level 3, include mainly Changes in fair value levels debt securities and certificate of participation in The Entity monitors the availability of information in financial trust, for which, the construction of fair the market to evaluate the classification of financial values was obtained based on the Entity’s own instruments into the fair value hierarchy, as well as assumptions that are not easily observable in the the resulting determination of transfers between market. The most significant assumption was the levels 1, 2 and 3 at each period end. placement cutoff rate of such instruments in the market at the end of the period, used to determine As of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, the Entity the actual value of cash flows. Any increase (dehas not recognized any transfers between levels 1, 2 crease) in these assumptions, considered separately, and 3 of the fair value hierarchy. would derive in a higher or lower fair value. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 368 Annual Report | Banco Macro Financial assets and liabilities not recognized at fair value The following table shows a comparison between the fair value and the carrying amount of financial instruments not measured at fair value as of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016: 12/31/2018 Carrying Amount Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Fair Value Financial Assets Cash and bank deposits 68,178,537 68,178,537 68,178,537 Other financial assets 2,172,487 2,172,487 2,172,487 Loans and other financing 165,209,389 175,685 150,201,015 150,376,700 Other debt securities 7,358,084 173,337 7,158,360 7,331,697 Financial assets delivered as guarantee 6,173,482 6,141,490 31,992 6,173,482 249,091,979 76,665,851 7,366,037 150,201,015 234,232,903 Financial liabilities Deposits 219,761,923 99,926,237 119,925,037 219,851,274 Other repo transactions 164,469 164,469 164,469 Other financial liabilities 14,128,235 13,962,137 166,522 14,128,659 Financing received from the BCRA and other 3,297,393 2,532,284 731,729 3,264,013 financial entities Issued corporate bonds 6,388,191 4,992,566 4,992,566 Subordinated corporate bonds 15,288,390 12,260,778 12,260,778 259,028,601 116,585,127 18,151,595 119,925,037 254,661,759 12/31/2017 Carrying Amount Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Fair Value Cash and bank deposits 32,473,987 32,473,987 32,473,987 Repo transactions 1,419,808 1,419,808 1,419,808 Other financial assets 1,362,179 1,362,179 1,362,179 Loans and other financing 122,173,846 477,188 119,183,156 119,660,344 Other debt securities 931,280 945,655 945,655 Financial assets delivered as guarantee 4,350,292 4,350,292 4,350,292 162,711,392 40,551,921 477,188 119,183,156 160,212,265 Financial liabilities Deposits 132,716,174 72,265,769 60,523,556 132,789,325 Other repo transactions 2,688,093 2,688,093 2,688,093 Other financial liabilities 9,808,877 9,615,817 198,870 9,814,687 Financing received from the BCRA and other 1,173,840 1,176,126 1,176,126 financial entities Issued corporate bonds 4,712,216 4,432,977 4,432,977 Subordinated corporate bonds 7,565,759 84,569,679 7,710,790 7,710,790 158,664,959 13,518,763 60,523,556 158,611,998 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 369 12/31/2016 Carrying Amount Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Fair Value Financial Assets Cash and bank deposits 32,992,475 32,992,475 32,992,475 Repo transactions 19,124 19,124 19,124 Other financial assets 743,194 743,194 743,194 Loans and other financing 81,475,324 477,464 79,877,385 80,354,849 Other debt securities 841,943 841,943 841,943 Financial assets delivered as guarantee 2,261,440 2,261,440 2,261,440 118,333,500 36,858,176 477,464 79,877,385 117,213,025 Financial liabilities Deposits 102,498,623 54,202,915 48,367,480 102,570,395 Other repo transactions 1,095,634 1,095,634 1,095,634 Other financial liabilities 5,895,687 5,762,900 135,477 5,898,377 Financing received from the BCRA and other 260,266 259,583 259,583 financial entities Issued corporate bonds Subordinated corporate bonds 1,745,851 1,466,612 1,466,612 Financial liabilities 6,376,537 5,994,056 5,994,056 117,872,598 61,061,449 7,855,728 48,367,480 117,284,657 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 370 Annual Report | Banco Macro 10. LEASES As disclosed in Note 10 to the consolidated Financial The following table shows the reconciliation Statements, the Entity performs financial lease between the total gross investment of financial transactions, as lessor and operating lessee. leases and the current value of the minimum payment receivables for such: 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 Total Investment Current Value of Total Investment Current Value of Total Investment Current Value of Minimum Payments Minimum Payments Minimum Payments Up to 1 year 316,489 242,223 342,304 239,208 238,068 172,812 From 1 to 5 years 253,416 211,005 447,729 360,750 292,892 205,480 More than 5 years 175 172 2,601 2,598 569,905 453,228 790,208 600,130 533,561 380,890 As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, income for Entity’s branches operate. Such lease contracts non-accrued interests totaled 116,677 and 186,708, have an average term of 2 to 10 years. respectively. Future minimum payments for these operating lease Additionally, the Entity entered into commercial contracts are as follows: contracts for the lease of real property, in which the 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 Up to 1 year 266,758 152,652 125,770 From 1 to 5 years 316,029 212,357 192,849 More than 5 years 27,050 609,837 365,009 318,619 11. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES AND 12. RELATED PARTIES JOINT VENTURES A related party is any person or entity that is related The Bank’s interests on associates and joint to the Entity: ventures are disclosed in Note 11 to the consolidated Financial Statements. For further information, see —— has control or joint control of the Entity; Exhibit E “Detailed information on interests in other —— has significant influence over the Entity; companies”, within the separate Financial —— is a member of the key management personnel Statements”. of the Entity or of a parent of the Entity; —— members of the same group; —— one entity is an associate (or an associate of a member of a group of which the other entity is a member). Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 371 Key management personnel are those persons the Risk Management Committee, Asset and having authority and responsibility for planning, Liability Committee and Senior Credit Committee. directing and controlling the activities of the Entity, As of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, the baldirectly or indirectly. The Entity considers as key ances and income for the transactions executed with management personnel, for the purposes of IAS 24, related parties are as follows: the members of the Board of Directors and the Senior Management members who participate in • Information as of December 31, 2018: Main Subsidiaries Banco del Macro Bank Macro Associates Key Other Total Tucumán S.A. Securities Management related ASSETS Cash and bank deposits 583 583 Other financial assets 2,504 25,276 20,660 48,440 Loans and other financing(2) Documents 331,265 331,265 Overdraft 6 3,505 143,936 147,447 Credit cards 286 17,012 50,948 68,246 Leases 5,746 1,407 7,153 Personal loans 1,003 1,003 Mortgage loans 51,559 51,559 Other loans 232,670 232,670 Guarantees granted 391,699 391,699 Other non-financial assets 83.178 83,178 Total Assets 2,504 583 114,492 20,660 73,079 1,151,925 1,363,243 LIABILITIES Deposits 13 311,073 1,774,149 4,859,377 589,610 7,534,222 Other financial liabilities 101,232 29 514 101,775 Financing received from BCRA and 301,742 301,742 other financial entities Corporate bonds issued 11,231 11,231 Subordinated Corporate bonds 46,605 46,605 Total Liabilities 301,742 13 322,304 1,875,381 4,859,406 636,729 7,995,575 INCOME Income from interest received 372,476 1,803 57,887 432,166 Expense for interest paid (58,997) (3,277) (191,973) (394,840) (24,220) (673,307) Income from commissions received 9 521 112 21 5,592 6,255 Other operating income 27,280 27,280 (4) Administration expenses (9,473) (9,477) (2) Other operating expenses (1,191,868) (26,062) (1,217,930) Total Income 340,764 (2,756) (1,383,729) (393,016) 3,724 (1,435,013) (1) The maximum balance of Loans and other financing as of Decem(2) This income is mainly generated by credit and debit card processber 31, 2018 for Banco del Tucumán S.A., Macro Bank Limited, Macro ing costs charged by Prisma Medios de Pago S.A. Securities S.A., Associates,Key Management Personnel and Other related parties is 2,550,000.0, 7,216.0, 79,066 and 1,533,270, respectively Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 372 Annual Report | Banco Macro • As of December 31, 2017 Main Subsidiaries Banco del Macro Bank Macro Associates Key Other Total Tucumán S.A. Securities Management related ASSETS Cash and bank deposits 13,106 13,106 Debt securities at fair value through 83,561 83,561 profit or loss Other financial assets 1,378 1,378 Loans and other financing Other local financial entities 952,147 952,147 Documents 151,191 151,191 Overdraft 632 7,198 7,830 Credit cards 295 10,063 23,865 34,223 Leases 6,973 2,157 9,130 Personal loans 17 17 Mortgage loans 13,526 13,526 Other loans 147,295 147,295 Guarantees granted 443 53,792 54,235 Total Assets 953,525 13,106 7,711 24,238 469,059 1,467,639 LIABILITIES Deposits 16 108,378 937,658 1,102,027 324,582 2,472,661 Other financial liabilities 80,020 11 153 80,184 Subordinated corporate bonds 29,509 29,509 Total liabilities 16 108,378 1,017,678 1,102,038 354,244 2,582,354 INCOME Income from interest received 28,621 2.057 3,058 61,595 95,331 Expense for interest paid (10,263) (257) (139,560) (3,082) (4,930) (158,092) Income from commissions received 12 250 75 21 4,220 4,578 Expense for commissions paid (14) (14) Other operating income 21,608 2 674 22,284 Administration expenses (41) (13,042) (13,083) (1) Other operating expenses (15.957) (638.267) (24,243) (678,467) (3) Total Income 39,937 (255) (12,976) (777,752) 23,586 (727,463) (1) This income is mainly generated by credit and debit card processing costs charged by Prisma Medios de Pago S.A. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 373 • As of December 31, de 2016 Main Subsidiaries Banco del Macro Bank Macro Associates Key Other Total Tucumán S.A. Securities Management related ASSETS Cash and bank deposits 11,269 11,269 Debt securities at fair value through 51,565 51,565 profit or loss Other financial assets 47 47 Loans and other financing Documents 99,786 99,786 Overdraft 4,617 12,039 16,656 Credit cards 53 7,720 11,275 19,048 Leases 8,036 1,168 9,204 Personal loans 647 647 Mortgage loans 4,759 4,759 Other loans 739,784 739,784 Guarantees granted 885 14,365 15,250 Total Assets 47 11.269 8.974 17.743 929,982 968,015 LIABILITIES Deposits 17 134,778 12,581 1,067,165 445,400 1,659,941 Other financial liabilities 41,000 10 7,415 48,425 Issued Corporate bonds 61,215 68,642 129,857 Subordinated corporate bonds 213,681 213,681 Other non-financial liabilities 196 196 Total Liabilities 61,428 134,778 53,581 1,067,175 735,138 2,052,100 INCOME Income from interest received 612 3,658 4,689 17,649 26,608 Expense for interest paid (22,454) (86) (117,756) (9,077) (11,408) (160,781) Income from commissions received 16 143 101 25 4,052 4,337 Expense for commissions paid (141) (141) Other operating income 17,220 2 627 17,849 Administration expenses (9) (5,263) (5,272) Other operating expenses (151) (426,961)(1) (22,243) (449,355) Total Income (4,615) (84) 4,136 (544,616) (4,363) (17,213) (566,755) (1) This income is mainly generated by credit and debit card processing costs charged by Prisma S.A. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 374 Annual Report | Banco Macro Transactions generated by the Entity with its Total remunerations received as salary and bonus by subsidiaries and other related parties to it for the key management personnel as of December 31, transactions arranged within the scope of the usual 2018, 2017 and 2016, totaled 94,630, 64,409 and and ordinary course of business, were performed in 30,807 respectively. normal market conditions, both as to interest rates and prices and as to the required guarantees. In addition, fees received by the Directors as of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 amounted to The Entity does not have loans granted to Directors 581,862, 421,033 and 205,822 respectively. and other key management personnel secured with shares. Additionally, the composition of the Board of Directors and key management personnel is as follows: 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 Board of Directors 14 13 12 Senior Management members of the 10 10 10 key management personnel 24 23 22 13. NON-CURRENT ASSETS HELD FOR SALE 15. PROVISIONS Non-current assets held for sale as of December 31, This item includes the amounts estimated to face a 2018 are disclosed in Note 13 to the consolidated liability of probable occurrence, which in case it Financial Statements. occurs, would originate a loss for the Entity. 14. BORROWING COSTS E Exhibit J “Changes in Provisions” presents the changes in provisions during the fiscal years ended Borrowing costs as of December 31, 2018 are December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016. disclosed in Note 14 to the consolidated Financial Statements. The expected terms to settle these obligations are as follows: 12/31/2018 Within 12 Beyond 12 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 months months For administrative, disciplinary and 718 718 718 9.110 criminal penalties Other(*) 302,787 666,249 969,036 595,277 242,256 302,787 666,967 969,754 595,995 251,366 (*) Includes mainly provisions established for lawsuits, summary proceedings, enforcement proceedings and other legal actions pending resolution. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 375 In the opinion of the Management of the Bank and 16. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS PAYABLE its legal advisors, there are no other significant effects than those disclosed in the accompanying The table below presents the amounts of employee Financial Statements, the amounts and settlement benefits payable as of December 31, 2018, 2017 and terms of which have been recognized based on the 2016: current value of such estimates, considering the probable settlement date thereof. Short-term employee benefits 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 Salaries, gratifications and social security 770,056 672,307 407,366 contributions Vacation accrual 765,281 499,833 381,841 Total short-term employee benefits 1,535,337 1,172,140 789,207 The Bank has not long-term employee benefits or 17. ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL ASSETS TO BE post-employment benefits as of December 31, 2018, RECOVERED AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES TO 2017 and 2016. BE SETTLED The following tables show the analysis of the balance of financial asset and liabilities the Bank expects to recover and settle as of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016: 12/31/2018 Without Up to 1 Over 1 month Over 3 Over 6 Total up to Over 12 Over 24 Total over 12 due date month & up to 3 months months 12 months months months months months & up to 6 & up to 12 & up to 24 months months months Assets Cash and bank 68.178.537 deposits Debt securities at fair 826.682 144.631 167.469 210.324 1.349.106 262.339 539.292 801.631 value through profit or loss Derivative instruments 13.098 1.457 14.555 Other financial assets 1.354.255 736.564 7.585 99.041 843.190 66.210 66.210 Loans and other 1.198.862 48.478.892 19.587.555 18.958.627 19.694.045 106.719.119 16.954.808 40.336.600 57.291.408 financing(1) Other debt securities 55.069.908 708.839 55.778.747 6.496.164 379.555 6.875.719 Financial assets 6.141.490 182.448 182.448 delivered as guarantee Investments in equity 47.020 instruments Total Assets 76.920.164 105.307.592 19.741.228 19.933.976 19.904.369 164.887.165 23.779.521 41.255.447 65.034.968 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 376 Annual Report | Banco Macro 12/31/2018 Without Up to 1 Over 1 month Over 3 Over 6 Total up to Over 12 Over 24 Total over 12 due date month & up to 3 months months 12 months months months months months & up to 6 & up to 12 & up to 24 months months months Liabilities Deposits 97,057,501 84,739,321 30,045,179 6,701,818 1,149,317 122,635,635 56,092 12,695 68,787 Derivative instruments 1,019 350 1,369 Repo transactions 164,469 164,469 Other financial 13,944,505 17,924 8,206 11,525 13,982,160 18,973 127,102 146,075 liabilities Financing received 722,674 907,790 1,054,312 442,273 3,127,049 62,921 107,423 170,344 from BCRA and other financial entities Corporate bonds 236,792 69,847 306,639 6,081,552 6,081,552 issued Subordinated 165,070 165,070 15,123,320 15,123,320 Corporate bonds Total Liabilities 97,057,501 99,808,780 30,970,893 7,999,603 1,603,115 140,382,391 137,986 21,452,092 21,590,078 12/31/2017 Without due date Total up to 12 months Total over 12 months Assets Cash and bank deposits 32,473,987 Debt securities at fair value through profit or loss 113,181 862,190 Derivative instruments 7,664 Repo transactions 1,419,808 Other financial assets 1,060,386 463,544 Loans and other financing(1) 847,585 84,046,983 37,279,278 Other debt securities 33,611,201 Financial assets delivered as guarantee 4,350,292 2,993,719 Investments in equity instruments 36,885 Total Assets 37,708,749 123,252,942 38,605,012 Liabilities Deposits 69,069,176 63,615,497 31,501 Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 6,450 Derivative instruments 23,107 Repo transactions 2,688,093 Other financial liabilities 9,638,710 170,167 Financing received from BCRA and other financial entities 1,045,442 128,398 Corporate bonds issued 118,356 4,593,860 Subordinated Corporate bonds 80,004 7,485,755 Total Liabilities 69,069,176 77,215,659 12,409,681 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 377 12/31/2016 Without due date Total up to 12 months Total over 12 months Assets Cash and bank deposits 32,992,475 Debt securities at fair value through profit or loss 31,956 243,430 Derivative instruments 9,721 Repo transactions 19,124 Other financial assets 539,667 203,527 Loans and other financing(1) 512,311 58,657,543 22,305,470 Other debt securities 17,974,087 Financial assets delivered as guarantee 2,261,475 1,200,994 Investments in equity instruments 337,309 Total Assets 36,103,570 78,433,092 22,752,427 Liabilities Deposits 46,192,528 56,297,921 8,174 Repo transactions 1,095,634 Other financial liabilities 5,767,548 128,139 Financing received from BCRA and other financial entities 238,659 21,607 Corporate bonds issued 1,745,851 Subordinated Corporate bonds 67,429 6,309,108 Total Liabilities 46,192,528 65,213,042 6,467,028 (1) Amounts under “without due date” correspond to past due portfolio. 18. DISCLOSURES BY OPERATING SEGMENT of temporary differences between the carrying amount of an asset or liability and its tax base, and The Bank has an approach of its banking business its subsequent recognition in profit or loss for the that is described in Note 18 to the consolidated fiscal year in which the reversal of such differences Financial Statements. occurs, considering as well the possibility of using tax losses in the future. 19. INCOME TAX Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities in the This tax shall be recognized following the liability Balance sheet are as follows: method, recognizing (as credit or debt) the tax effect 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 Deferred tax assets Loans and other financing 968,473 765,431 367,970 Allowances for contingencies 256,507 178,798 87,978 Provisions and employee benefits 236,041 165,223 143,036 Other financial assets 793 12,222 7,517 Debt securities 4,702 Total deferred tax assets 1,461,814 1,126,376 606,501 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 378 Annual Report | Banco Macro 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 Deferred tax liabilities Property, plant and equipment 1,115,184 1,108,577 1,498,909 Intangible assets 376,755 239,108 215,128 Investment in associates and joint ventures 40,970 96,027 61,477 Other financial and non-financial liabilities 183,862 99,514 111,015 Total deferred tax liabilities 1,716,771 1,543,226 1,886,529 Net deferred tax liabilities 254,957 416,850 1,280,028 Changes in net deferred tax liabilities as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are summarized as follows: 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Net deferred tax liabilities at beginning of year 416,850 1,280,028 Profit for deferred taxes recognized in total comprehensive income(*) 194,802 863,178 Other tax effects 32,909 Net deferred tax liabilities at year end 254,957 416,850 (*) For changes in fiscal year 2017, the Entity included the effect of the rate change, under the tax reform described in Note 3.13.a) to the accompanying consolidated Financial Statements. The income tax recognized in the Statement of The table below shows reconciliation between Income and in the Statement of Other Comprehenincome tax and the amounts obtained by applying sive Income differs from the income tax to be the current tax rate in Argentina to the carrying recognized if all income were subject to the current amount of profit: tax rate. 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Carrying amount of profit before income tax 22,178,694 14,346,180 Applicable income tax rate 30% 35% Income tax on carrying amount of profit 6,653,608 5,021,163 Net permanent differences and other tax effects (204,157) (740,341) Total income tax 6,449,451 4,280,822 As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the effective income tax rate is 29.1% and 29.8%, respectively. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 379 20. INCOME FROM COMMISONS RECEIVED Description 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Performance obligations satisfied in one act (1) 11,019,104 7,996,301 Performance obligations satisfied over certain time period 26,890 567,853 11,045,994 8,564,154 (1) Includes mainly account maintenance fees, agreements and credit card commissions 21. DIFFERENCE IN QUOTED PRICES OF GOLD AND FOREIGN CURRENCY Description 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Translation of foreign currency assets and liabilities to pesos (2,945,746) 849,438 Income from foreign currency Exchange 1,313,793 470,723 (1,631,953) 1,320,161 22. OTHER OPERATING INCOME Description 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Derecognition or substantial changes in financial liabilities 594,424 Services 587,350 439,639 Other adjustments and interest from other receivables 219,997 64,141 Sale of investment property and other non-financial assets 161,058 19,915 Initial recognition of loans 45,493 Sale of property, plant and equipment 38,753 3,548 Other 604,561 537,201 2,251,636 1,064,444 23. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Description 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Remunerations 7,081,481 5,405,838 Social Security Contributions 1,383,605 990,341 Compensations and bonuses to employees 692,649 433,488 Employee services 226,812 189,940 9,384,547 7,019,607 24. ADMINISTRATION EXPENSES Description 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Taxes 819,921 649,998 Maintenance, conservation and repair expenses 815,178 537,221 Fees to Directors and Syndics 661,168 394,758 Security services 641,740 485,438 Electricity and communications 526,545 309,441 Other fees 520,331 326,169 Leases 306,835 206,574 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 380 Annual Report | Banco Macro Advertising and publicity 302,414 222,429 Representation, travel and transportation expenses 90,646 67,103 Insurance 48,476 33,544 Description 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Stationary and office supplies 45,824 36,000 Hired administration services 6,949 9,980 Other 1,379,200 910,961 6,165,227 4,189,616 25. OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES Description 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Gross turnover tax 5,125,366 3,064,773 Charges for other provisions 1,031,170 640,351 Deposit Guarantee Fund contributions 281,862 196,366 Donations 75,789 82,406 Insurance claims 52,866 31,801 Initial loan recognition 66,000 Other 2,748,145 2,072,399 9,315,198 6,154,096 26. 26. ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES IN THE —— Operating activities: are the normal revenueSTATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS producing activities of the Entity as well as other activities that cannot be qualified as investing or The Statement of Cash Flows presents the changes financing activities. in cash and cash equivalents derived from operating activities, investing activities and financing activities —— Investing activities: are the acquisition, sale and during the period. For the preparation of the Statedisposal by other means of long-term assets and ment of Cash Flows the Entity adopted the indirect other investments not included in cash and cash method for Operating Activities and the direct equivalents. method for Investment Activities and Financing Activities. —— Financing activities: are activities that result in The Entity considers as “Cash and cash equivalents” changes in the size and composition of the Sharethe item Cash and deposits in banks and those holders equity and liabilities of the Entity and that financial assets that are readily convertible to known are not part of the operating or investing activities. amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. The table below presents the reconciliation between For the preparation of the Statement of Cash Flows the item “Cash and cash equivalents” in the the Entity considered the following: Statement of Cash Flows and the relevant accounting items of the Balance sheet: Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 381 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 Cash and deposits in banks 68,178,537 32,473,987 32,992,475 Debt securities at fair value 20,415 9,585 Other debt securities 55,069,908 19,294,526 14,148,240 123,248,445 51,788,928 47,150,300 27. CAPITAL STOCK 28. DEPOSIT GUARANTEE INSURANCE The composition of the Bank’s capital stock is Note 29 to the consolidated Financial Statements disclosed in exhibit K “Composition of capital stock” describes the Deposit Guarantee Insurance System to the accompanying separate Financial Statements. and the scope thereof. Banco Macro S.A. holds an 8.300% interest in the capital stock according to the Additionally, Note 27 to the consolidated Financial percentages disclosed by Communiqué “B” 11816 Statements presents the changes in the Bank’s issued by the BCRA on February 28, 2019. capital stock. 29. RESTRICTED ASSETS As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the following Entity´s assets are restricted: Item 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Debt securities at fair value through profit or loss and other debt securities Discount bonds in pesos regulated by Argentinean legislation, maturing 2033 securing the 108,633 98,541 regional economies Competitiveness Program – BID loan No. 3174/OC-AR Discount bonds in pesos regulated by Argentinean legislation, maturing 2033 used as security in 92,659 117,454 favor of Sedesa(1) Discount bonds in pesos regulated by Argentinian legislation, maturing 2033 securing the secto64,703 8,704 rial Credit Program of the Province of San Juan. Production investment financing fund. Discount bonds in pesos regulated by Argentinian legislation, maturing 2033, for minimum 14,620 13,139 counterpart required for Agents to act in the new categories contemplated under Resolution No. 622/13, as amended, of the CNV. Discount bonds in pesos regulated by Argentinean legislation, maturing 2033 securing a BID 6,609 8,869 loan of Province of San Juan No. 2763/OC-AR. Central Bank of Argentina Internal Bills in pesos, maturing 02-21-18 as of December 31, 2017, for 53,059 the performance of forward foreign currency transactions. Central Bank of Argentina Internal Bills in pesos, maturing 02-21-2018 as of December 31, 2017, 9,647 securing the operation through negotiation secured transaction Segment as the main counterparty of the MAE. Secured bonds under Presidential Decree No. 1579/2002 as security for a loan received from 4,270 Banco de Inversión y Comercio Exterior SA (Bice). Other private and public securities 2,331 Subtotal debt securities at fair value through profit or loss and other debt securities 287,224 316,014 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 382 Annual Report | Banco Macro Item 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Other financial assets Sundry debtors – foreclosure within the scope of the claim filed by the DGR against the City of 827 827 Buenos Aires for differences on gross turnover tax Subtotal Other financial assets 827 827 Loans and other financing non-financial private sector and foreign residents Interests derived from contributions made as protector (2) 10,000 90,000 Subtotal Loans and other financing 10,000 90,000 Financial assets delivered as guarantee Special guarantee checking accounts opened in Central Bank for transactions related to the elec5,330,580 3,750,952 tronic clearing houses and similar entities Guarantee deposits related to credit and debit card transactions 715,022 592,890 Future contracts for repo transactions 182,448 2,993,719 Other guarantee deposits 95,888 6,450 Subtotal Financial assets delivered as guarantee 6,323,938 7,344,011 Other non-financial assets Real property related to a call option sold 73,006 222,023 Subtotal Other non-financial assets 73,006 222,023 Total 6,694,995 7,972,875 (1) As replacement for the preferred shares of former Nuevo Banco Bisel SA to secure to Sedesa the price payment and the fulfillment of all the obligations assumed in the purchase and sale agreement dated May 28, 2007, maturing on August 11, 2021. (2) In order to keep tax benefits related to these contributions, they must be maintained between two and three years from the date they were made. The same correspond to the following risk funds: Risk fund Los Grobo SGR and Risk fund of Avaluar as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 and Risk fund of Intergarantías SGR and Risk fund Garantizar SGR as of December 31, 2017. Additionally, as of December 31, 2016, the amount of Corebono). The assets managed for these trusts are restricted assets was 3,877,051. mainly related to securitizations of consumer loans. Trust securities are placed once the public offering is 30. TRUST ACTIVITIES authorized by the CNV. Upon expiry of the placement period, once all trust securities have been Note 31 to the condensed consolidated interim placed on the market, the Entity recovers the Financial Statements describes the different trust disbursements made, plus an agreed-upon comagreements according to the business purpose pensation. If after making the best efforts, such trust sought by the Entity, which may be summarized as securities cannot be placed, the Entity shall retain follows: the securities subject to underwriting. 30.1 Financial trusts for investment purposes Additionally, the Entity’s portfolio of financial trusts Debt securities include mainly prepayments towards for investment purposes is completed with listed the placement price of trust securities of the final fiduciary values of financial trusts (Consubond, financial trusts under public offerings, made by the PVCRED, Best Consumer Directo, Credimas, Entity through underwriting agreements (ConsubGarbarino, Chubut Regalías Hidrocarburíferas, ond, Garbarino, Accicom, Agrocap II Secubono and Secubono Megabono and Credicuotas consumo) Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 383 and Certificates of participation (Saenz Créditos, 31. COMPLIANCE WITH CNV STANDARDS Gas Tucumán and Arfintech). Considering Banco Macro SA’s current operations, As of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, debt and according to the different categories of agents securities and certificates of participation in financial established by CNV (revised text under General trusts administrated by the Entity for investment Resolution No. 622, as amended), the Entity is purposes total 1,380,994, 1,003,312 and 719,918, registered with this agency as agent for the custody respectively. According to the latest accounting of collective investment products of mutual funds information available as of the date of issuance of (AC PIC FCI for their acronyms in Spanish language), the accompanying separate Financial Statements, comprehensive clearing and settlement agent and the corpus assets of the trusts exceed the carrying trading agent (ALyC and AN – comprehensive, for amount in the related proportions. their acronyms in Spanish language), financial trustee Agent (FF for its acronym in Spanish 30.2 Trusts created using financial assets language ) and Guarantee Entity (in the process of transferred by the Entity being registered). In Note 32.3 to the accompanying As of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, according consolidated Financial Statements the Entity to the latest accounting information available as of discloses the shares in Mutual Funds subscribed by the date of issuance of the accompanying separate third parties and the assets held by the Entity in Financial Statements, the assets managed through custody in its capacity as Depositary Company. Macro Fiducia SA of this type of trusts amounted to 69,444, 116,387 and 58,633, respectively. Additionally, the Bank’s shareholders’ equity exceeds the minimum amount required by this regulation, 30.3 Trusts guaranteeing loans granted by amounting to 29,000, as well as the minimum the Entity counterpart required of 20,000, which the Bank As of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, considering paid-in with government securities as described in the latest available accounting information as of the Note 29 to the accompanying separated Financial date of the accompanying separate Financial Statements and with funds deposited with the Statements, the assets managed by the Entity BCRA in the accounts number 00285 and 80285 amount to 269,507, 328,268 and 451,569, held by the Entity in such institution. respectively. In addition, Note 32.2 to the condensed consoli30.4 Trusts in which the Entity acts as trustee dated interim Financial Statements presents the (Management) general policy of documents in custody, describing As of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, considering which information has been disclosed and delivered the latest available accounting information as of the to third parties for custody. date of the accompanying separate Financial Statements, the assets managed by the Entity amounted to 1,480,540, 1,302,687 and 1,396,421, respectively. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 384 Annual Report | Banco Macro 32. 32. ACCOUNTING ITEMS THAT IDENTIFY THE COMPLIANCE WITH MINIMUM CASH REQUIREMENTS The items recognized by the Entity to constitute the minimum cash requirement effective for December 2018 are listed below, indicating the balances as of month-end of the related items: Description Banco Macro S.A. Cash and deposits in other banks BCRA’s accounts balances 46,046,332 Other debt securities BCRA liquidity bills computable for minimum cash requirements 18,800,520 Government bonds computable for minimum cash requirements 7,158,360 Financial assets delivered as guarantee Special guarantee accounts with the BCRA 5,330,580 Total 77,335,792 33. PENALTIES APPLIED TO THE FINANCIAL 34. ISSUANCE OF CORPORATE BONDS ENTITY AND SUMMARY PROCEEDINGS INITIATED BY THE BCRA Note 37 to the consolidated Financial Statements describes liabilities for corporate bonds recognized Note 34 to the consolidated Financial Statements by the Entity as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, describes the penalties applied and the proceedings under the terms and values therein expressed. filed by the BCRA against the Entity, classified as follows: Additionally, as of December 31, 2016, the Entity —— Summary proceedings filed by the BCRA recognized Class A subordinated resettable —— Penalties applied by the BCRA corporate bonds for 6,376,537 and Class 2 non—— Penalties applied by the UIF subordinated corporate bonds for 1,745,851 The Bank’s Management and its legal advisors 35. ACCOUNTING ITEMS OUTSIDE THE consider no further significant accounting effects BALANCE SHEET could arise from the final outcome of the above mentioned judicial proceedings other than those In addition to the expressed in Note 7, the Entity disclosed in the accompanying Financial recognizes different transactions outside its balance Statements. sheet, pursuant to the BCRA standards. The table below shows the balances of the most significant accounting items outside the balance sheet as of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016: Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 385 Description 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 Senior guarantees and other guarantees received (1) 44,383,138 38,139,862 21,261,105 Custody of government and private bonds and other assets held by third parties 63,662,007 70,772,660 41,094,883 Deposited checks pending clearance 1,680,896 1,266,305 1,134,949 Outstanding checks to be paid 3,224,266 2,032,128 1,852,989 (1) For guarantees delivered to secure loan transactions and other financing, under applicable rules and regulations in force. 36. TAX AND OTHER CLAIMS 38. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK 36.1. Tax claims MANAGEMENT TRANSPARENCY POLICY Note 37.1. to the consolidated Financial Statements Note 39 to the consolidated Financial Statements describes the most relevant claims pending describes the Entity’s main guidelines as to capital resolution and filed by AFIP and the tax authorities management and corporate governance transparof the relevant jurisdiction. ency policy. The Entity’s Management and its legal advisors 39. CHANGES IN THE ARGENTINE consider no further significant accounting effects MACROECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT OF THE could arise from the final outcome of the above FINANCIAL AND CAPITAL SYSTEM mentioned proceedings other than those disclosed in the accompanying Financial Statements. The international and national macroeconomic environment in which the Entity operates and the 36.2 Other claims impact on it is described in Note 40 to the consoliNote 37.2. to the consolidated Financial Statements dated Financial Statements. describes the most relevant claims pending resolution and filed by the different consumer´s 40. EVENTS AFTER REPORTING PERIOD associations. No events occurred between the end of the reportThe Entity’s Management and its legal advisors ing period and the issuance of the accompanying consider no further significant accounting effects consolidated Financial Statements that may could arise from the final outcome of the above materially affect the financial position or the profit mentioned proceedings other than those disclosed and loss for the period, not disclosed in the accomin the accompanying Financial Statements. panying separate Financial Statements. 37. RESTRICTION ON PROFIT DISTRIBUTION Note 38 to the consolidated interim Financial Statements describes the main legal provisions regulating the restriction on profit distribution. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 386 Annual Report | Banco Macro DETAIL OF GOVERNMENT AND PRIVATE SECURITIES AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018, 2017 AND 2016 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Name Identification DEBT SECURITIES AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS Local Government securities Consolidation bonds in pesos 8° Series Maturity: 10-04-2022 2571 Debt Securities of Province of Río Negro in pesos Badlar Private + 500 basis points Maturity: 07-06-2020 32922 Federal government treasury bills in pesos Maturity 10-03-2021 5318 Federal government treasury bonds in pesos adjustment by CER Maturity: 07-22-2021 5315 Federal government bonds in US dollars at 8.75% Maturity: 05-07-2024 5458 Federal government international bonds in US dollars at 7.5% Maturity: 04-22-2026 92584 Consolidation bonds in pesos 6° Series at 2% Maturity: 03-15-2024 2420 Federal government bonds in pesos – Badlar Private + 200 basis points – Maturity: 04-03-2022 5480 Par bonds in pesos Maturity. 12-31-2038 45695 Federal government bonds in US dollars at 8.00% Maturity 10-08-2020 5468 Discount bonds denominated in pesos at 5.83% Maturity: 12-31-2033 45696 Federal government bonds in pesos – Badlar Private + 2.00 basis points – Maturity: 03-28-2017 5459 Other Subtotal local government securities 5431 Private securities Debt Securities in Financial Trust Consubond 80033 Debt Securities in Financial Trust Megabono S180 CA Maturity 12-24-2019 53887 Debt Securities in Financial Trust Agrocap 80032 Debt Securities in Financial Trust PVCRED S038 CA Maturity 08-12-2019 53927 Debt Securities in Financial Trust Consubond S149 CA Maturity 10-25-2019 53968 Debt Securities in Financial Trust Secubono 80029 Debt Securities in Financial Trust Chubut Regalías Hidrocarburíferas Maturity: 07-01-2020 36425 Debt Securities in Financial Trust Consubond S147 CA Maturity 12-26-2019 53893 Debt Securities in Financial Trust Secubono S180 Maturity 11-28-2019 53875 Temporary Financial Trust Underwriting Accicom 80031 Public utility bonds 80019 Other Subtotal local private securities TOTAL DEBT SECURITIES AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 387 EXHIBIT A Holdings Position 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 12/31/2018 Fair Value Fair Value Level Book Balance Book Balance Book Balance Position without Options Final Position Options 1 169,663 105,882 100,118 169,663 169,663 2 122,869 281,881 122,869 122,869 2 79,622 79,622 79,622 1 66,862 7,133 66,862 66,862 1 61,833 8,934 61,833 61,833 2 55,358 852 55,358 55,358 1 48,396 4 22,288 48,396 48,396 1 38,419 292 38,419 38,419 1 36,656 38,677 3,248 36,656 36,656 1 34,844 337 34,844 34,844 1 2,274 89,691 88,164 119,960 119,960 28,150 135,420 194,045 24,016 168,190 168,190 852,216 719,406 274,306 1,002,672 1,002,672 3 377,725 377,725 377,725 3 165,980 165,980 165,980 3 130,735 130,735 130,735 3 112,600 112,600 112,600 3 111,017 111,017 111,017 3 79,203 79,203 79,203 3 48,366 34,932 48,366 48,366 3 39,576 39,576 39,576 3 34,635 34,635 34,635 3 32,716 32,716 32,716 3 1,226 909 1,080 1,226 1,226 164,742 220,124 164,742 164,742 1,298,521 255,965 1,080 1,298,521 1,298,521 2,150,737 975,371 275,386 2,301,193 2,301,193 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 388 Annual Report | Banco Macro Name Identification OTHER DEBT SECURITIES at fair value through other comprehensive income (OCI) Local Government securities Discount bonds denominated in pesos at 5,83% Maturity: 12-31-2033 45696 International bonds of the Argentina Republic in US dollars at 7,125% Maturity: 06-28-2027 92208 Consolidation bonds in pesos 8° Series Maturity: 10-04-2022 2571 Treasury bills in US dollars – Maturity 03-20-2017 5199 Debt Securities of Province of Buenos Aires S, I Class II – Maturity: 12-06-2019 32831 Federal government bonds in pesos Badlar Private + 250 basis points Maturity: 03-11-2019 5454 Treasury bills of the Province of Neuquén Class 2 S, II – Maturity: 06-06-2018 32829 Treasury bills of the Province of Rio Negro Class 1 S, VI – Maturity: 03-15-2017 32835 Treasury bills of the Province of Neuquén in pesos– Maturity: 09-09-2020 32777 Federal government bonds in pesos at variable rate 2017 5477 Federal government bonds in pesos Badlar +2,00 Maturity: 03-28 Other Subtotal local government securities BCRA bills BCRA Liquidity Letters in pesos – Maturity: 01-04-2019 80007 BCRA Liquidity Letters in pesos – Maturity:01-08-2019 80010 BCRA Liquidity Letters in pesos – Maturity: 01-02-2019 80005 BCRA Liquidity Letters in pesos – Maturity: 01-03-2019 80006 BCRA Liquidity Letters in pesos – Maturity: 01-07-2019 80009 BCRA Internal Bills in pesos – Maturity: 03-21-2018 46823 BCRA Internal Bills in pesos – Maturity: 01-17-2018 46821 BCRA Internal Bills in pesos – Maturity: 05-16-2018 46825 BCRA Internal Bills in pesos – Maturity: 04-18-2018 46824 BCRA Internal Bills in pesos – Maturity: 02-21-2018 46822 BCRA Internal Bills in pesos – Maturity: 01-18-2017 46796 BCRA Internal Bills in pesos – Maturity: 02-15-2017 46786 Other Subtotal BCRA bills Private securities Corporate bonds Telecom Personal S,A, S4 – Maturity: 11-16-2018 51989 Corporate bonds Telecom Personal S,A, S3 – Maturity: 05-16-2018 51988 Corporate bonds Genneia SA C19 – Maturity: 02-16-2017 51268 Corporate bonds Albanesi SA C2 – Maturity: 10-25-2018 51923 Corporate bonds Ledesma SA C3 – Maturity: 04-01-2017 50210 Corporate bonds Integración Eléctrica Sur Arg, SA C4 – Maturity: 09-26-2017 51848 Corporate bonds Banco Hipotecario S32 – Maturity: 05-30-2017 51072 Corporate bonds Arcor SAIC C8 – Maturity: 06-15-2017 50495 Subtotal local private securities TOTAL OTHER DEBT SECURITIES AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH OCI Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 389 Holdings Position 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 12/31/2018 Fair Value Fair Value Level Book Balance Book Balance Book Balance Position without Options Final Position Options 1 144,844 1,332,536 144,844 144,844 1 81,630 81,630 81,630 49,726 111,005 789,545 342,237 140,888 140,219 1 94,139 69,752 52,285 23,483 19,286 226,474 49,726 3,115,375 226,474 226,474 1 15,546,415 15,546,415 15,546,415 2 13,787,546 13,787,546 13,787,546 1 12,404,850 12,404,850 12,404,850 1 7,926,384 7,926,384 7,926,384 1 5,404,713 5,404,713 5,404,713 6,333,072 6,045,824 5,769,624 5,626,984 5,341,770 5,291,677 2,529,734 3,512,921 5,920,210 55,069,908 32,630,195 13,741,621 55,069,908 55,069,908 105,210 52,159 52,277 21,216 14,330 13,168 10,531 6,257 275,148 55,296,382 32,679,921 17,132,144 55,296,382 55,296,382 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 390 Annual Report | Banco Macro Holdings Position 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 12/31/2018 Name IdentificaFair Fair Value Book Book Book Position Options Final tion Value Level Balance Balance Balance without Position Options Measured at amortized cost Local Government securities Federal government bonds in pesos – 5330 7,158,360 2 7,201,040 7,201,040 7,201,040 Fixed rate 26% Maturity: 11-21-2020 Discount bonds denominated in pesos at 45696 173,337 1 157,044 117,453 189,036 189,036 5.83% Maturity: 12-31-2033 Secured bonds under Decree No. 1579/02 2405 4,270 21,276 at 2% Maturity: 02-04-2018 Federal government bonds in pesos at 5459 100,728 Badlar + 2.00 – Maturity: 03-28-2017 Subtotal local government securities 7,358,084 121,723 122,004 7,390,076 7,390,076 Private securities Temporary Financial Trust Underwriting 80033 360,364 281,057 Consubond Temporary Financial Trust Underwriting 80029 110,554 124,628 Secubono Temporary Financial Trust Underwriting 80028 68,070 Garbarino Temporary Financial Trust Underwriting 80031 51,041 61,841 Accicom Préstamos Personales Temporary Financial Trust Underwriting 50,223 15,359 Credicuotas Consumo Temporary Financial Trust Underwriting 80032 46,482 Agrocap Temporary Financial Trust Underwriting 80034 32,955 25,647 Mila Temporary Financial Trust Underwriting 80034 32,136 Best Consumer Directo Temporary Financial Trust Underwriting 80034 32,086 Best Consumer Finance Temporary Financial Trust Underwriting 25,646 15,325 Credimas Temporary Financial Trust Underwriting 102,789 PVCRED Other 93,293 Subtotal local debt securities 809,557 719,939 Total other debt securities 7,358,084 931,280 841,943 7,390,076 7,390,076 at amortized cost TOTAL OTHER DEBT SECURITIES 62,654,466 33,611,201 17,974,087 62,686,458 62,686,458 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 391 Holdings Position 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 12/31/2018 Name IdentificaFair Fair Value Book Book Book Position Options Final tion Value Level Balance Balance Balance without Position Options EQUITY INSTRUMENTS at fair value through profit or loss Local Mercado Abierto Electrónico SA 80020 3 22,292 18,441 3,395 22,292 22,292 C.O.E.L.S.A 80021 3 4,826 3,048 1,356 4,826 4,826 Argentina Clearing SA 80022 3 4,569 3,217 2,393 4,569 4,569 Sedesa 80012 3 3,975 3,909 3,492 3,975 3,975 Mercado a Término Rosario SA 80017 3 3,663 2,569 1,890 3,663 3,663 Sanatorio Las Lomas SA 80014 3 600 404 298 600 600 Proin SA 80016 3 513 513 320 513 513 Provincanje SA 80024 3 379 271 504 379 379 El Taura SA 80011 3 185 185 185 185 185 Argencontrol SA 80015 3 179 184 138 179 179 Siderar SAIC 839 106,937 Petrolera Pampa S.A. 457 90,261 Other 93 141 122,484 93 93 Subtotal local equity instruments 41,274 32,882 333,653 41,274 41,274 Foreign Banco Latinoamericano de Comercio 80025 1 4,777 3,688 3,408 4,777 4,777 Exterior SA Sociedad de Telecomunicaciones Finan80026 3 969 315 248 969 969 cieras Interbancarias Mundiales Other Subtotal foreign equity instruments 5,746 4,003 3,656 5,746 5,746 Total equity instruments at fair value 47,020 36,885 337,309 47,020 47,020 through profit or loss TOTAL EQUITY INSTRUMENTS 47,020 36,885 337,309 47,020 47,020 TOTAL GOVERNMENT AND PRIVATE 64,852,223 34,623,457 18,586,782 65,034,671 65,034,671 SECURITIES Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 392 Annual Report | Banco Macro CONSOLIDATED CLASSIFICATION OF LOANS AND OTHER EXHIBIT B FINANCING BY SITUATION AND GUARANTEE RECEIVED AS OF DECEMBER 2018, 2017 AND 2016 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 COMMERCIAL PORTFOLIO In normal situation 69,702,689 48,622,186 34,128,374 With Senior “A” guarantees and counter-guarantees 2,542,734 3,795,181 2,538,782 With Senior “B” guarantees and counter-guarantees 8,381,277 7,426,689 5,119,268 Without Senior guarantees or counter-guarantees 58,778,678 37,400,316 26,470,324 Subject to special monitoring 213,632 298,886 27,887 Under observation With Senior “A” guarantees and counter-guarantees 3,226 6,042 With Senior “B” guarantees and counter-guarantees 68,007 66,613 18,875 Without Senior guarantees or counter-guarantees 41,805 226,231 9,012 Under negotiation or refinancing agreements With Senior “A” guarantees and counter-guarantees 43,592 Without Senior guarantees or counter-guarantees 57,002 Troubled 633,432 37,164 50,039 With Senior “A” guarantees and counter-guarantees 3,441 With Senior “B” guarantees and counter-guarantees 179,598 22,971 50,039 Without Senior guarantees or counter-guarantees 453,834 10,752 With high insolvency risk 277,016 143,881 137,431 With Senior “A” guarantees and counter-guarantees 1,223 729 1,882 With Senior “B” guarantees and counter-guarantees 180,785 86,437 61,374 Without Senior guarantees or counter-guarantees 95,008 56,715 74,175 Irrecoverable 4 Without Senior guarantees or counter-guarantees 4 Subtotal Commercial Portfolio 70,826,769 49,102,117 34,343,735 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 393 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 CONSUMER AND MORTGAGE LOAN PORTFOLIO Performing 95,744,514 74,624,457 48,698,468 With Senior “A” guarantees and counter-guarantees 2,949,577 2,129,722 767,733 With Senior “B” guarantees and counter-guarantees 13,676,510 6,847,800 2,483,434 Without Senior guarantees or counter-guarantees 79,118,427 65,646,935 45,447,301 Low risk 1,926,667 941,697 502,812 With Senior “A” guarantees and counter-guarantees 48,130 6,359 1,486 With Senior “B” guarantees and counter-guarantees 187,262 31,801 20,622 Without Senior guarantees or counter-guarantees 1,691,275 903,537 480,704 Medium risk 1,250,021 544,375 390,339 With Senior “A” guarantees and counter-guarantees 16,916 1,447 3,188 With Senior “B” guarantees and counter-guarantees 74,792 13,506 7,634 Without Senior guarantees or counter-guarantees 1,158,313 529,422 379,517 High risk 818,569 397,696 268,927 With Senior “A” guarantees and counter-guarantees 13,707 496 2,099 With Senior “B” guarantees and counter-guarantees 38,991 18,106 20,284 Without Senior guarantees or counter-guarantees 765,871 379,094 246,544 Irrecoverable 211,895 139,268 87,190 With Senior “A” guarantees and counter-guarantees 1,260 With Senior “B” guarantees and counter-guarantees 26,682 17,924 16,642 Without Senior guarantees or counter-guarantees 183,953 121,344 70,548 Irrecoverable under BCRA standards 872 206 210 Without Senior guarantees or counter-guarantees 872 206 210 Subtotal Consumer and Mortgage Loan Portfolio 99,952,538 76,647,699 49,947,946 Total 170,779,307 125,749,816 84,291,681 This exhibit reports the contractual figures as established by the BCRA. Reconciliation with the consolidated balance sheet is shown below: 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 Loans and other financing 165,209,389 122,173,846 81,475,324 + Allowances for loans and other financing 3,875,164 2,470,303 1,662,753 + IFRS adjustment (Amortized cost and fair value adjustment) 250,558 279,292 233,241 + Corporate bonds 226,598 277,666 Guarantees granted and contingent liabilities 1,444,196 599,777 642,697 Total computable items 170,779,307 125,749,816 84,291,681 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 394 Annual Report | Banco Macro CONCENTRATION OF LOANS AND OTHER FINANCING EXHIBIT C AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018, 2017 Y 2016 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 Cutoff % of total Cutoff % of total Cutoff % of total Number of Customers balance portfolio balance portfolio balance portfolio 10 largest customers 19,431,966 11.38 11,151,842 8.87 6,353,953 7.54 50 next largest customers 22,338,628 13.08 11,488,939 9.14 8,920,400 10.58 100 next largest customers 13,582,068 7.95 7,505,554 5.97 5,525,254 6.55 Other customers 115,426,645 67.59 95,603,481 76.02 63,492,074 75.33 Total (1) 170,779,307 100.00 125,749,816 100.00 84,291,681 100.00 (1) See reconciliation in Exhibit B. BREAKDOWN OF LOANS AND OTHER FINANCING EXHIBIT D BY LOAN TERM AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Terms to Maturity Item Matured Up to 1 Over 1 Over 3 Over 6 Over 12 Over 24 Total Portfolio month month and months months and months and months up to 3 and up to 6 up to 12 up to 24 months months months months Non-financial public sector 147,547 403,613 434,592 745,089 968,517 323,784 3,023,142 Financial sector 1,098,948 1,733,758 1,205,293 1,698,740 598,110 22,143 6,356,992 Non-financial private sector and foreign residents Total 1,844,588 49,760,432 21,985,020 23,678,562 27,665,062 30,337,330 60,455,954 215,726,948 1,844,588 51,006,927 24,122,391 25,318,447 30,108,891 31,903,957 60,801,881 225,107,082 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 395 BREAKDOWN OF LOANS AND OTHER FINANCING BY LOAN TERM AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2017 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Terms to Maturity Item Matured Up to 1 Over 1 Over 3 Over 6 Over 12 Over 24 Total Portfolio month month and months months and months and months up to 3 and up to 6 up to 12 up to 24 months months months months Non-financial public sector 51,131 219,501 183,337 543,855 982,347 876,255 2,856,426 Financial sector 1,844,657 450.276 710.764 755.578 1.005.476 228.185 4.994.936 Non-financial private sector and 847,585 34,163,062 17,642,583 16,550,145 18,000,025 26,527,720 46,828,878 160,559,998 foreign residents Total 847,585 36,058,850 18,312,360 17,444,246 19,299,458 28,515,543 47,933,318 168,411,360 BREAKDOWN OF LOANS AND OTHER FINANCING BY LOAN TERM AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2016 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Terms to Maturity Item Matured Up to 1 Over 1 Over 3 Over 6 Over 12 Over 24 Total Portfolio month month and months months and months and months up to 3 and up to 6 up to 12 up to 24 months months months months Non-financial public sector 747,993 124,713 384,876 142,487 272,196 230,432 1,902,697 Financial sector 403,961 453,069 486,055 384,924 239,092 52,674 2,019,775 Non-financial private sector and 512,311 27,908,295 12,322,113 11,244,077 12,270,971 16,758,463 22,362,248 103,378,478 foreign residents Total 512,311 29,060,249 12,899,895 12,115,008 12,798,382 17,269,751 22,645,354 107,300,950 This Exhibit discloses future contractual cash flow fall, including interests and accessories to be accrued until contract maturity. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 396 Annual Report | Banco Macro INFORMATION ON INTEREST IN OTHER COMPANIES AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018, 2017 AND 2016 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Shares and/or Participating Interests Name Class Unit Votes per Number Nominal Value Share In financial entities Controlled entities Local Banco del Tucumán SA Common 100 1 439,360 Subtotal Local companies Abroad Macro Bank Limited Common 1 1 39,816,899 Subtotal Foreign companies Total controlled companies Total in financial entities In supplementary service companies Controlled entities Local Macro Securities SA Common 1 1 12,776,680 Macro Fondos SGFCISA Common 1 1 6,475,143 Macro Fiducia SA Common 1 1 327,183 Subtotal local companies Total controlled supplementary service companies Associates and joint ventures Local Prisma Medios de Pago SA Common 1 1 1,141,503 Joint Ventures (UTE) Subtotal local companies Total supplementary service associates and joint ventures Total supplementary service companies Other companies Associates and joint ventures Local Macro Warrants S.A. Common 1 1 50,000 Subtotal local companies Total in other companies Total interest in other companies Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 397 EXHIBIT E Issuer Information Latest Financial Statements Data Amount Amount Amount Main Business Activity Year-end date Capital Shareholders’ Income for the 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 Equity Year/Period 2,444,921 1,787,137 1,851,964 Banking Entity 12-31-18 43,960 2,446,257 459,048 2,444,921 1,787,137 1,851,964 1,417,060 912,765 769,059 Banking Entity 12-31-18 86,501 1,417,060 654,904 1,417,060 912,765 769,059 3,861,981 2,699,902 2,621,023 3,861,981 2,699,902 2,621,023 834,927 681,437 292,348 Stock-exchange services 12-31-18 12,886 866,723 304,579 54,067 40,625 24,694 Mutual Fund Management 12-31-18 1,713 284,802 234,696 28,373 21,463 19,152 Services 12-31-18 6,567 23,521 351 917,367 743,525 336,194 917,367 743,525 336,194 142,600 67,583 Processing services 12-31-18 15,000 2,511,180 2,432,494 108,031 75,520 56,001 Management of tax services 108,031 218,120 123,584 108,031 218,120 123,584 1,025,398 961,645 459,778 792 827 684 Warrant issuance 09-30-18 1,000 15,841 3,308 792 827 684 792 827 684 4,888,171 3,662,374 3,081,485 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 398 Annual Report | Banco Macro CHANGES IN PROPERTY, PLANT AND EXHIBIT F EQUIPMENT AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Depreciation for the period Item Cost Useful life Additions Disposals AccumuDisposal Of the Year Year-end Residual Beginning estimated lated value at of fiscal in years Depreciayear-end year tion At cost Land & Buildings 4,885,709 50 2,819,803 744,440 397,490 176,473 87,121 308,138 6,652,934 Furniture and facilities 339,327 10 254,999 6,282 126,282 10 35,587 161,859 426,185 Machinery and equipment 939,919 5 554,843 116,583 509,167 189,832 698,999 679,180 Vehicles 109,825 5 34,399 16,681 75,696 13,940 18,445 80,201 47,342 Works in progress 2,569,113 1,539,596 3,401,858 706,851 Total Property, plant 8,843,893 5,203,640 4,285,844 1,108,635 190,423 330,985 1,249,197 8,512,492 and equipment (1) CHANGES IN PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2017 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Depreciation for the period Item Cost Useful life Additions Disposals AccumuDisposal Of the Year Year-end Residual Beginning estimated lated value at of fiscal in years Depreciayear-end year tion At cost Land & Buildings(2) 4,812,321 50 84,746 11,358 304,854 5,293 97,929 397,490 4,488,219 Furniture and facilities 302,023 10 37,304 94,493 31,789 126,282 213,045 Machinery and equipment 713,262 5 229,212 2,555 370,753 2,548 140,962 509,167 430,752 Vehicles 91,142 5 23,590 4,907 65,079 3,800 14,417 75,696 34,129 Works in progress 1,710,944 899,056 40,887 0 2,569,113 Total Property, plant and 7,629,692 1,273,908 59,707 835,179 11,641 285,097 1,108,635 7,735,258 equipment (1) Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 399 CHANGES IN INVESTMENT PROPERTY AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Depreciation for the period Item Cost Useful life Additions Disposals AccumuDisposal Of the Year Year-end Residual Beginning estimated lated value at of fiscal in years Depreciayear-end year tion At cost Leased property Other investment property 50 90,485 8,027 100 8,127 82,358 Total investment property(1) 634,771 50 258,330 755,495 19,306 18,680 5,464 6,090 131,516 Total propiedades de inversión (1) 634,771 348,815 755,495 27,333 18,680 5,564 14,217 213,874 CHANGES IN INVESTMENT PROPERTY AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2017 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Depreciation for the period Item Cost Useful life Additions Disposals AccumuDisposal Of the Year Year-end Residual Beginning estimated lated value at of fiscal in years Depreciayear-end year tion At cost Other investment property (2) 536,064 50 230,712 132,005 17,879 9,052 6,784 15,611 619,160 Total investment property 536,064 230,712 132,005 17,879 9,052 6,784 15,611 619,160 (1) During the year 2018, this accounting item registered transfers to and from Property, plant and equipment and/or non-current assets held for sale. (2) As of December 31, 2016, the cost attributed to the Entity’s real property items totals 6,635,147 and the adjustment for the same accounting item amounted to 4,262,884. CHANGES IN INTANGIBLE ASSETS AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018 EXHIBIT G (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Depreciation for the period Item Cost Useful life Additions Disposals AccumuDisposal Of the Year Year-end Residual Beginning estimated lated value at of fiscal in years Depreciayear-end year tion At cost Licenses 306,420 5 243,862 494 163,541 2 61,183 224,722 325,066 Goodwill 210,927 210,927 Other intangible assets 1,179,178 5 740,976 72,968 511,548 279,774 791,322 1,055,864 Total intangible assets (1) 1,485,598 1,195,765 73,462 675,089 2 340,957 1,016,044 1,591,857 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 400 Annual Report | Banco Macro CHANGES IN INTANGIBLE ASSETS AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2017 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Depreciation for the period Item Cost Useful life Additions Disposals AccumuDisposal Of the Year Year-end Residual Beginning estimated lated value at of fiscal in years Depreciayear-end year tion At cost Goodwill – Business combination 56,205 56,205 35,596 56,205 20,609 Licenses 161,355 5 145,065 54,331 1 102,534 156,864 149,556 Other intangible assets 843,745 5 335,432 398,257 119,967 518,224 660,953 Total intangible assets 1,061,305 480,497 56,205 488,184 56,206 243,110 675,088 810,509 (1) During the year 2018, there were some transfers between different accounting items of this kind that originated differences between balances at year-end for one year and balances at the beginning of the next one, without implying any changes in the total amount of this accounting item. DEPOSIT CONCENTRATION EXHIBIT H AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018, 2017 AND 2016 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 Number of customers Outstanding % of total Outstanding % of total Outstanding % of total balance portfolio balance portfolio balance portfolio 10 largest customers 17,296,726 7,87 8,879,036 6,69 6,187,859 6,04 50 next largest customers 15,385,676 7,00 6,701,842 5,05 6,415,928 6,26 100 next largest customers 10,281,792 4,68 4,617,386 3,48 3,954,135 3,86 Other customers 176,797,729 80,45 112,517,910 84,78 85,940,701 83,84 Total 219,761,923 100,00 132,716,174 100,00 102,498,623 100,00 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 401 BREAKDOWN OF FINANCIAL LIABILITIES EXHIBIT I FOR RESIDUAL TERMS AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Term to maturity Item Up to 1 Over 1 month Over 3 months Over 6 Over 12 Over 24 Total month and up to 3 and up to 6 months and months and months months months up to 12 up to 24 months months Term to maturity 182,738,073 31,261,800 7,363,772 1,293,292 61,860 15,985 222,734,782 From the non-financial government 10,262,572 1,021,797 639,422 46,091 206 11,970,088 sector From the financial sector 148,269 148,269 From the non-financial private sector 172,327,232 30,240,003 6,724,350 1,247,201 61,654 15,985 210,616,425 and foreign residents Derivative instruments 1,019 350 1,369 Repo transactions 164,667 164,667 Other financial institutions 164,667 164,667 Other financial liabilities 13,945,078 18,936 9,668 14,045 22,435 141,539 14,151,701 Financing received from BCRA and 724,436 918,813 1,083,024 470,177 87,151 125,173 3,408,774 other financial institutions Issued corporate bonds 362,870 585,301 735,047 1,443,264 7,394,296 10,520,778 Subordinated corporate bonds 510,412 510,412 1,020,824 21,757,164 23,798,812 Total 214,553,357 34,754,472 9,681,559 3,037,871 2,633,950 29,426,009 294,087,218 This Exhibit discloses future contractual cash flow fall, including interests and accessories to be accrued until contract maturity. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 402 Annual Report | Banco Macro BREAKDOWN OF FINANCIAL LIABILITIES FOR RESIDUAL TERMS AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2017 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Term to maturity Item Up to 1 Over 1 month Over 3 months Over 6 Over 12 Over 24 Total month and up to 3 and up to 6 months and months and months months months up to 12 up to 24 months months Deposits 113,423,914 17,903,144 2,517,574 525,834 27,666 7,458 134,405,590 From the non-financial government 8,897,189 419,219 242,413 963 17,565 9,577,349 sector From the financial sector 81,357 81,357 From the non-financial private sector 104,445,368 17,483,925 2,275,161 524,871 10,101 7,458 124,746,884 and foreign residents Liabilities at fair value with changes 6,450 6,450 through profit or loss Derivative instruments 23,107 23,107 Repo transactions 2,688,093 2,688,093 Other financial institutions 2,688,093 2,688,093 Other financial liabilities 9,601,982 21,720 10,720 16,518 25,559 163,965 9,840,464 Financing received from BCRA and 927,139 91,695 11,605 15,967 34,289 94,109 1,174,804 other financial institutions Issued corporate bonds 404,300 404,300 808,600 6,642,069 8,259,269 Subordinated corporate bonds 266,082 271,935 543,869 11,316,764 12,398,650 Total 126,670,685 18,016,559 3,210,281 1,234,554 1,439,983 18,224,365 168,796,427 This Exhibit discloses future contractual cash flow fall, including interests and accessories to be accrued until contract maturity. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 403 APERTURA DE PASIVOS FINANCIEROS POR PLAZOS REMANENTES AL 31 DE DICIEMBRE DE 2016 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Term to maturity Item Up to 1 Over 1 month Over 3 months Over 6 Over 12 Over 24 Total month and up to 3 and up to 6 months and months and months months months up to 12 up to 24 months months Deposits 86,801,634 15,016,867 1,669,383 311,924 8,678 3,413 103,811,899 From the non-financial government 4,904,400 851,853 209,803 86,529 117 6,052,702 sector From the financial sector 55,860 55,860 From the non-financial private sector 81,841,374 14,165,014 1,459,580 225,395 8,561 3,413 97,703,337 and foreign residents Repo transactions 1,095,634 1,095,634 Other financial institutions 1,095,634 1,095,634 Other financial liabilities 5,277,791 480,634 6,909 6,868 10,826 147,157 5,930,185 Financing received from BCRA and 85,690 49,164 90,378 14,207 9,867 12,780 262,086 other financial institutions Issued corporate bonds 1,758,053 1,758,053 Subordinated corporate bonds 213,978 213,978 427,955 9,763,723 10,619,634 Total 93,260,749 17,304,718 1,980,648 546,977 457,326 9,927,073 123,477,491 This Exhibit discloses future contractual cash flow fall, including interests and accessories to be accrued until contract maturity. CHANGES IN PROVISIONS AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018 EXHIBIT J (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Decreases Item Balances, beginning of fiscal year Increases Charge off Applications 12/31/2018 For administrative, disciplinary and 718 718 criminal penalties Other 595,277 1,031,170 14,119 643,292 969,036 Total provisions 595,995 1,031,170 14,119 643,292 969,754 CHANGES IN PROVISIONS AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2017 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Decreases Item Balances, beginning of fiscal year Increases Charge off Applications 12/31/2018 For administrative, disciplinary and 9,110 0 8,062 330 718 criminal penalties Other 242,256 640,352 34,034 253,297 595,277 Total provisions 251,366 640,352 42,096 253,627 595,995 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 404 Annual Report | Banco Macro COMPOSITION OF CAPITAL STOCK AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018 EXHIBIT K (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Shares Capital Stock Class Number Nominal Value Votes per Share Outstanding shares Treasury Stock(1) Paid-in Registered common stock A 11,235,670 1 5 11,236 11,236 Registered common stock B 658,427,351 1 1 629,479 28,948 658,427 Total 669,663,021 640,715 28,948 669,663 COMPOSITION OF CAPITAL STOCK AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2017 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Shares Capital Stock Class Number Nominal Value Votes per Share Outstanding shares Treasury Stock(1) Paid-in Registered common stock A 11,235,670 1 5 11,236 11,236 Registered common stock B 658,427,351 1 1 658.427 658,427 Total 669,663,021 669.663 669.663 COMPOSITION OF CAPITAL STOCK AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2016 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Shares Capital Stock Class Number Nominal Value Votes per Share Outstanding shares Treasury Stock(1) Paid-in Registered common stock A 11,235,670 1 5 11,236 11,236 Registered common stock B 573,327,358 1 1 573,327 573,327 Total 669,663,021 584,563 584,563 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 405 FORIGN CURRENCY BALANCES EXHIBIT L AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018, 2017 AND 2016 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 Total Total by currency Items Headquarters & US dollar Euro Real Other Total Total Local Branches ASSETS Cash and bank deposits 39,768,830 39,548,898 145,753 16,098 58,081 19,751,378 20,074,325 Debt securities at favor value through 332,797 332,797 50,860 12,734 profit or loss Other financial assets 1,375,996 1,375,996 681,269 333,169 Loans and other financing 45,803,582 45,803,582 18,651,478 10,105,068 Other financial institutions 480,324 480,324 175,116 94,834 Non-financial private sector and 45,323,258 45,323,258 18,476,362 10,010,234 foreign residents Other debt securities 81,630 81,630 46,482 937,900 Financial assets delivered as guar916,165 916,165 240,882 95,174 antee Investments in equity instruments 5,746 5,746 4,003 3,656 Investments in associates and joint 1,417,060 1,417,060 912,766 823,876 ventures TOTAL ASSETS 89,701,806 89,481,874 145,753 16,098 58,081 40,339,118 32,385,902 LIABILITIES Deposits 69,034,060 69,034,060 29,799,489 21,793,774 Non-financial public sector 2,008,915 2,008,915 3,794,318 536,942 Financial sector 100,200 100,200 45,895 27,972 Non-financial private sector and 66,924,945 66,924,945 25,959,276 21,228,860 foreign residents Other financial liabilities 2,142,161 2,098,690 42,878 593 1,182,283 876,089 Financing from BCRA and other finan2,598,810 2,598,810 887,321 131,361 cial institutions Issued corporate bonds 1,745,851 Subordinated corporate bonds 15,288,390 15,288,390 7,565,759 6,376,537 Other non-financial liabilities 29,566 29,566 45,920 61 TOTAL LIABILITIES 89,092,987 89,049,516 42,878 593 39,480,772 30,923,673 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 406 Annual Report | Banco Macro CREDIT ASSISTANCE TO RELATED PARTIES AS EXHIBIT N OF DECEMBER 31, 2018, 2017 AND 2016 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) High insolvency risk/ High risk Item Performing Not matured Matured 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 Loans and other financing Overdrafts 135,924 135,924 8,012 7,459 Without Senior guarantees or counter-guarantees 135,924 135,924 8,012 7,459 Documents 331,265 331,265 147,026 99,347 With Senior “A” guarantees and counter-guarantees 11,560 11,560 6,160 7,263 Without Senior guarantees or counter-guarantees 319,705 319,705 140,866 92,084 Mortgage and pledge 36,420 36,420 17,276 5,579 With Senior “B” guarantees and counter-guarantees 33,143 33,143 16,532 5,431 Without Senior guarantees or counter-guarantees 3,277 3,277 744 148 Personal 623 623 44 1,083 Without Senior guarantees or counter-guarantees 623 623 44 1,083 Credit cards 73,201 73,201 38,922 22,996 Without Senior guarantees or counter-guarantees 73,201 73,201 38,922 22,996 Other 236,283 6,746 243,029 1,102,909 170,606 With Senior “B” guarantees and counter-guarantees 7,153 7,153 9,130 9,035 Without Senior guarantees or counter-guarantees 229,130 6,746 235,876 1,093,779 161,571 Total loans and other financing 813,716 6,746 820,462 1,314,189 307,070 Debt securities 83,561 Equity instruments 25 475 Eventual commitments 374 374 59,696 23,986 Total 814,090 6,746 820,836 1,457,471 331,531 Provisions 8,137 6,408 14,545 3,873 3,092 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 407 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS EXHIBIT O AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019. (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Type of or Type of Purpose of the Underlying Type of Negotiation Originally Residual Weighted daily Amount (*) contract coverage transactions asset settlement environment agreed weighted average term performed counter-party weighted monthly settlement of monthly average term differences Futures Intermediation Foreign Daily settleMAE (over2 1 1 860,806 own account currency ment of differthe-counter ences electronic market) Forward Intermediation Foreign Maturity Over The 4 2 30 187,702 own account currency settlement of Counter – differences Resident in Argentina Non-financial sector Repo Intermediation Federal With delivery Other local 1 1 182,447 transactions own account government of underlying markets securities asset Options Intermediation Other With delivery Over The 32 32 71,458 own account of underlying Counter – asset Residents in Argentina Non-financial sector (*) Corresponds to the valuation of the traded underlying assets, disclosed in absolute terms. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 408 Annual Report | Banco Macro CATEGORIES OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND EXHIBIT P LIABILITIES AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Fair value hierarchy Item Amortized Fair value Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 cost through OCI through profit or loss Obligatory measurement FINANCIAL ASSETS Cash and bank deposits Cash in hand 9,319,226 Financial institutions and correspondents 58,416,484 Other 442,827 Debt securities at favor value through profit or loss 2,150,737 591,483 268,202 1,291,052 Derivative instruments 14,555 10,994 3,561 Repo transactions Other financial assets 2,172,487 91,168 91,168 Loans and other financing Non-financial public sector 1,768,254 Other financial institutions 5,573,806 Non-financial private sector and foreign residents Overdrafts 17,985,397 Documents 25,114,299 Mortgages 14,903,168 Pledges 4,299,766 Personal 46,929,627 Credit Cards 27,464,655 Financial leases 453,228 Other (1) 20,717,189 Other debt securities 7,358,084 55,296,382 41,508,836 13,787,546 Financial assets delivered as guarantee 6,173,482 150,456 150,456 Investment in equity instruments 47,020 4,777 42,243 TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS 249,091,979 55,296,382 2,453,936 42,266,546 14,059,309 1,424,463 (1) Includes total provisions to non-financial private sector and foreign residents. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 409 Fair value hierarchy Item Amortized Fair value Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 cost through OCI through profit or loss Obligatory measurement FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Deposits Non-financial public sector 11,729,037 Financial sector 148,269 Non-financial private sector and foreign residents Checking accounts 23,136,926 Savings accounts 65,816,143 Term deposits and term investments 111,954,950 Other 6,976,598 Derivative instruments 1,369 593 776 Repo transactions Other financial institutions 164,469 Other financial liabilities 14,128,235 Financing from BCRA and other financial institutions 3,297,393 Issued corporate bonds 6,388,191 Subordinated corporate bonds 15,288,390 TOTAL FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 259,028,601 1,369 593 776 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 410 Annual Report | Banco Macro CATEGORIES OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND EXHIBIT P LIABILITIES AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2017 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Fair value hierarchy Item Amortized Fair value Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 cost through OCI through profit or loss Obligatory measurement FINANCIAL ASSETS Cash and bank deposits Cash in hand 5,951,218 Financial institutions and correspondents 25,207,548 Other 1,315,221 Debt securities at favor value through profit or loss 975,371 422,260 517,270 35,841 Derivative instruments 7,664 800 6,864 Repo transactions Other financial institutions 1,419,808 Other financial assets 1,362,179 161,751 161,751 Loans and other financing Non-financial public sector 1,876,968 Other financial institutions 4,191,661 Non-financial private sector and foreign residents Overdrafts 9,410,690 Documents 17,496,215 Mortgages 7,737,161 Pledges 4,048,917 Personal 39,696,505 Credit Cards 23,021,212 Financial leases 600,130 Other (1) 14,094,387 Other debt securities 931,280 32,679,921 32,504,276 175,645 Financial assets delivered as guarantee 4,350,292 2,989,411 4,308 2,989,411 4,308 Investment in equity instruments 36,885 3,688 33,197 TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS 162,711,392 35,669,332 1,185,979 35,920,435 704,087 230,789 (1) Includes total provisions to non-financial private sector and foreign residents. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 411 Fair value hierarchy Item Amortized Fair value Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 cost through OCI through profit or loss Obligatory measurement FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Deposits Non-financial public sector 9,504,522 Financial sector 81,357 Non-financial private sector and foreign residents Checking accounts 19,622,581 Savings accounts 41,984,454 Term deposits and term investments 57,548,362 Other 3,974,898 Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 6,450 6,450 Derivative instruments 23,107 7,169 15,938 Repo transactions Other financial institutions 2,688,093 Other financial liabilities 9,808,877 Financing from BCRA and other financial institutions 1,173,840 Issued corporate bonds 4,712,216 Subordinated corporate bonds 7,565,759 TOTAL FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 158,664,959 0 29,557 13,619 15,938 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 412 Annual Report | Banco Macro CATEGORIES OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND EXHIBIT P LIABILITIES AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2016 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Fair value hierarchy Item Amortized Fair value Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 cost through OCI through profit or loss Obligatory measurement FINANCIAL ASSETS Cash and bank deposits Cash in hand 4,208,880 Financial institutions and correspondents 28,782,604 Other 991 Debt securities at favor value through profit or loss 275,386 261,751 13,635 Derivative instruments 9,721 9,721 Repo transactions Other financial institutions 19,124 Other financial assets 743,194 Loans and other financing Non-financial public sector 1,581,955 Other financial institutions 1,713,170 Non-financial private sector and foreign residents Overdrafts 9,059,250 Documents 11,222,509 Mortgages 3,956,698 Pledges 2,215,880 Personal 25,243,638 Credit Cards 17,352,211 Financial leases 380,890 Other (1) 8,749,123 Other debt securities 841,943 17,132,144 2,604,061 14,528,083 Financial assets delivered as guarantee 2,261,440 838,366 362,663 1,201,029 Investment in equity instruments 337,309 240,677 96,632 TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS 118,333,500 17,970,510 985,079 4,307,518 14,551,439 96,632 (1) Includes total provisions to non-financial private sector and foreign residents. Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 413 Fair value hierarchy Item Amortized Fair value Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 cost through OCI through profit or loss Obligatory measurement FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Deposits Non-financial public sector 5,964,863 Financial sector 55,861 Non-financial private sector and foreign residents Checking accounts 16,692,516 Savings accounts 26,020,530 Term deposits and term investments 45,499,293 Other 8,265,560 Repo transactions Other financial institutions 1,095,634 Other financial liabilities 5,895,687 Financing from BCRA and other financial institutions 260,266 Issued corporate bonds 1,745,851 Subordinated corporate bonds 6,376,537 TOTAL FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 117,872,598 BREAKDOWN OF PROFIT OR LOSS EXHIBIT Q FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2018 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Items Net financial income/(expense) Obligatory measurement 12/31/2018 For measurement of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Profit/(loss) from government securities 348,672 Profit/(loss) from private securities 169,206 Profit/(loss) from derivative financial instruments Forward transactions 212,878 Profit/(loss) from other financial assets 65,133 Profit/(loss) from investment in equity instruments 10,114 Profit/(loss) from sale or disposal of financial assets at fair value (122,530) TOTAL 683,473 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 414 Annual Report | Banco Macro Interest and adjustment for the application of the effective interest rate of financial assets measured at amortized cost Net financial Items income/(expense) 12/31/2018 Income from interest received From cash and bank deposits 24,905 From government bonds 791,335 From corporate bonds 169,889 From loans and other financing Financial sector 1,601,285 Non-financial private sector 0 Overdrafts 5,604,367 Documents 3,293,955 Mortgages 3,955,644 Pledges 565,133 Personal 17,046,512 Credit cards 6,509,741 Financial leases 166,301 Other 4,439,356 From repo transactions BCRA 21,248 Other financial institutions 393,913 TOTAL 44,583,584 Expenses for interests paid For deposits Non-financial private sector Checking accounts 632,610 Savings accounts 340,573 Term deposits and term investments 20,158,521 For financing by BCRA and other financial institutions 179,846 For repo transactions Other financial institutions 184,669 For other financial liabilities 52,332 For issued corporate bonds 1,506,677 For subordinated corporate bonds 832,312 TOTAL 23,887,540 Interest and adjustment for the application of the effective interest rate of financial Income for the year OCI assets measured at fair value through OCI 12/31/2018 12/31/2018 From debt government securities 16,466,949 (443,179) Total 16,466,949 (443,179) Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 415 Income from commissions received Income for the year 12/31/2018 Commissions related to obligations 7,569,971 Commissions related to credits 3,148,608 Commissions related to loans commitments and financial guarantees 1,069 Commissions related to securities 82,975 Commissions related to trading and foreign exchange transactions 243,371 Total 11,045,994 Expense for commissions paid Resultado del ejercicio 12/31/2018 Commissions related to transactions with securities 208 Other Commissions paid for ATM exchange 290,223 Expenses for check books and clearing houses 170,367 Credit card and foreign trade commissions 193,362 Total 654,160 BREAKDOWN OF PROFIT OR LOSS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2017 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Items Net financial income/(expense) Obligatory measurement 12/31/2017 For measurement of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Profit/(loss) from government securities 231,549 Profit/(loss) from private securities 49,174 Profit/(loss) from other financial assets 33,784 Profit/(loss) from investment in equity instruments 47,042 Profit/(loss) from measurement of financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Profit/(loss) from derivative financial instruments Forward transactions (26,262) Total 335,287 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 416 Annual Report | Banco Macro Interest and adjustment for the application of the effective interest rate of financial Net financial income/(expense) assets measured at amortized cost 12/31/2017 Income from interest received From cash and bank deposits 13,659 From corporate bonds 164,399 From loans and other financing Financial sector 527,937 Non-financial private sector Overdrafts 2,691,419 Documents 1,841,349 Mortgages 757,553 Pledges 486,997 Personal 11,975,078 Credit cards 4,045,079 Financial leases 107,847 Other 2,730,011 From repo transactions BCRA 512,429 Other financial institutions 43,351 TOTAL 25,897,108 Expenses for interests paid For deposits Non-financial private sector Savings accounts 112,877 Term deposits and term investments 8,434,287 For financing by BCRA and other financial institutions 48,504 For repo transactions Other financial institutions 119,214 For other financial liabilities 26,522 For issued corporate bonds 496,203 For subordinated corporate bonds 459,622 Total 9,697,229 Interest and adjustment for the application of the effective interest rate Income for the year OCI of financial assets measured at fair value through OCI 12/31/2017 12/31/2017 From debt government securities 5,416,255 79,019 Total 5,416,255 79,019 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 417 Income from commissions received Income for the yea 12/31/2017 Commissions related to obligations 5,633,474 Commissions related to credits 2,710,052 Commissions related to loans commitments and financial guarantees 3,211 Commissions related to securities 63,957 Commissions related to trading and foreign exchange transactions 153,460 Total 8,564,154 Expense for commissions paid Income for the year 12/31/2017 Commissions related to transactions with securities 286 Other Commissions paid for ATM exchange 258,888 Expenses for check books and clearing houses 133,540 Credit card and foreign trade commissions 217,575 Total 610,289 VALUE CORRECTION FOR CREDIT LOSSES –ALLOWANCE FOR EXHIBIT R UNCOLECTIBILITY RISK AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Decreases Item Balance, beginIncreases Charge off Applications 12/31/2018 ning of fiscal year Other financial assets 4,916 1,850 1,835 4,931 Loans and other financing 2,470,303 2,867,749 37,684 1,425,204 3,875,164 Other financial institutions 31,251 25,571 4,701 52,121 Non-financial private sector and foreign 0 residents Overdrafts 138,311 198,938 6,822 51,517 278,910 Documents 200,750 193,380 807 40,368 352,955 Mortgages 146,296 148,407 13,466 18,487 262,750 Pledges 73,070 28,738 3,681 22,365 75,762 Personal 1,055,897 1,284,557 267 842,878 1,497,309 Credit card 557,682 565,559 905 349,489 772,847 Financial leases 6,487 268 1,188 0 5,567 Other 260,559 422,331 5,847 100,100 576,943 TOTAL PROVISIONS 2,475,219 2,869,599 37,684 1,427,039 3,880,095 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 418 Annual Report | Banco Macro VALUE CORRECTION FOR CREDIT LOSSES –ALLOWANCE FOR EXHIBIT R UNCOLECTIBILITY RISK AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2017 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) Decreases Item Balance, beginning of Increases Charge off Applications 12/31/2017 fiscal year Other financial assets 4,147 785 16 4,916 Loans and other financing 1,662,753 1,635,907 18,756 809,601 2,470,303 Other financial institutions 17,256 14,470 475 31,251 Non-financial private sector and foreign 0 residents Overdrafts 133,644 34,186 914 28,605 138,311 Documents 123,881 93,633 3,713 13,051 200,750 Mortgages 70,570 83,687 1,404 6,557 146,296 Pledges 40,717 34,283 236 1,694 73,070 Personal 683,837 882,346 11,324 498,962 1,055,897 Credit card 406,779 367,306 191 216,212 557,682 Financial leases 3,994 2,534 41 0 6,487 Other 182,075 123,462 458 44,520 260,559 TOTAL PROVISIONS 1,666,900 1,636,692 18,756 809,617 2,475,219 Signed as related Signed as related to our report dated 03/08/2019 to our report dated 03/08/2019 PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN Y ASOCIADOS SRL BY THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE CPCECABA Tº 1 Fº 13 Norberto M. Nacuzzi Alejandro Almarza Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Partner Regular Syndic Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo Certified Public Accountant UBA Certified Public Accountant UBA & Tax Department Chairman CPCECABA T° 196 F° 142 CPCECABA T° 120 F° 210 Financial Statements 419 Independent Auditors’ Report to the Consolidated Financial Statements To the Directors of BANCO MACRO S.A. CUIT: Auditors’ Responsibility 30-50001008-4 3. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Legal Domicile: Avenida Eduardo Madero 1182 financial statements mentioned in paragraph 1 Ciudad Autónoma de Buenos Aires based on our audit. We carried out our work pursuant to the auditing standards provided for in I. Report on financial statements Technical Resolution No. 37 of FACPCE and the “Minimum standards on external audits” issued by Introduction the BCRA. Such standards require that we comply 1. We audited the accompanying consolidated with the ethical standards, as well as that we plan financial statements of BANCO MACRO S.A. (the and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assur“Entity”), and its controlled companies which ance that the financial statements are free of include: (a) the consolidated balance sheet as of material misstatement. December 31, 2018, (b) the consolidated Statement of Income and of other comprehensive income, the An audit comprises the application of procedures to statement of changes in shareholders’ equity and obtain judgmental evidence regarding figures and the the statement of cash flows for the fiscal year ended information disclosed in the financial statements. The on such date, and (c) a summary of the relevant procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgaccounting policies and other supplementary ment, including the assessment of risks of material information. misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or irregularities. When assessing the risks, Responsibility of the Board and the Managethe auditor considers the internal control existing in ment of the Entity in connection with the the Entity, as to all that is relevant for the preparation financial statements and presentation of the financial statements, in order 2. The Board and the Management of the Entity are to design the appropriate audit procedures and not to responsible for the preparation and reasonable express an opinion on the efficiency of the Entity’s presentation of the financial statements mentioned in internal control system. An audit also includes paragraph 1 in accordance with accounting reporting assessing the accounting principles used and framework established by the Central Bank of the significant estimates made by the Board and Republic of Argentina (“BCRA”), that, as described in Management of the Entity, as well as evaluating the Note 3 to the financial statements mentioned in overall financial statement presentation. paragraph 1, is based on the International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”), as such standards We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis were issued by the International Accounting Stanfor our opinion. dards Board and adopted by the Federación Argentina de Consejos Profesionales de Ciencias EconómiOpinion cas (“FACPCE”), and with the exceptions (i) of 4. In our opinion, the financial statements referred to paragraph 5.5 “Impairment” of the IFRS 9 “Financial above present fairly, in all material respects, the Instruments”, and (ii) of the International Accounting financial position of BANCO MACRO S.A. and its Standard (“IAS”) No. 29 “Financial Reporting in subsidiaries as of December 31, 2018, as well as the Hyperinflationary Economies”, which were temporarily results of its operations and its cash flows for the excluded by the BCRA from the accounting frameyear then ended in conformity with the accounting work applicable to financial entities. The Board and reporting framework of the BCRA mentioned in the Management of the Entity are as well responsible paragraph 2. for the internal control they may deem necessary to allow the preparation of the consolidated financial statements free of significant distortions, whether due to errors or irregularities. 420 Annual Report | Banco Macro Emphasis on certain aspects disclosed in the II. Report on other statutory and regulatory financial statements requirements 5. We draw the attention to the information contained in the following notes to the financial statements 7. In compliance with current legal requirements, we mentioned in paragraph 1: further report that: (a) Note 3. “Basis for the Preparation of these Financial (a) The financial statements mentioned in paragraph 1 Statements and Applicable Accounting Standards”, have been transcribed into the “Inventory and paragraph entitled “Applicable Accounting Standards” Financial Statements” book of BANCO MACRO S.A. in which the Entity informs it is in the process of and, in our opinion, were prepared in all material quantifying the effect that the application of section respects, in conformity with the applicable provisions 5.5. “Impairment” of the IFRS 9 “Financial Instruof the Argentine Business Company Law and the CNV ments”, transitorily excluded by the BCRA from the (Argentine Securities Commission) regulations. accounting framework applicable to financial entities, would have on the accompanying financial state(b) The separate financial statements of BANCO ments. This issue does not modify the opinion exMACRO S.A. for the year ended December 31, 2018 pressed in paragraph 4 above, but must be taken into arise from books kept, in the formal aspects thereof, in account by those using the IFRS for the interpretation conformity with current regulations and in accordance of the financial statements mentioned in paragraph 1. with the provisions of CNV Resolutions Nos. 1032/EMI and 1996/EMI dated March 17 and May 20, 2004, (b) Note 3. “Note 3. “Basis for the Preparation of these respectively, except as mentioned in note 3 to such Financial Statements and Applicable Accounting financial statements “Basis for the Preparation of Standards”, paragraph entitled “Unit of Measure”, in these Financial Statements and Applicable Accountwhich (a) the Entity explains that although as of ing Standards”, paragraph “Transcription in the Books December 31, 2018 the Entity meets the conditions of Accounts”. provided in IAS 29 for the restatement of financial statements in homogenous currency, Communiqué “A” (c) As of December 31, 2018, the liabilities accrued as 6651 of the BCRA temporarily does not allow such employee and employer social security contributions restatement; (b) the Entity describes the main impacts to the Integrated Pension Fund System, as recorded in that the application of IAS 29 would have , and the Entity’s books, amounted to AR $166,980,590, indicates that although the Entity is in the process of none of which was due and payable as of that date. quantifying the effects the application of IAS 29 would have on the accompanying financial statements, it (d) During the year ended December 31, 2018, we estimates the same would be material, and (c) the invoiced fees for auditing services rendered to Entity alerts that failure to report the changes in the BANCO MACRO S.A., which represent 98% of total currency’s general purchasing power under highly invoicing to the Entity for any item, 72% of total inflationary economies may distort the accounting auditing services invoiced to the Entity and its information and, therefore, this situation must be taken subsidiaries, and 72% of total invoicing to the Bank into account when interpreting the information and its subsidiaries for any item. reported by the Entity in the accompanying Financial Statements including its balance sheet, its statement Autonomous City of Buenos Aires, March 8th, 2019 of income and statement of cash flows. This issue does not modify the opinion expressed in paragraph 4 above, but we expressly state that although the PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN accompanying financial statements have been Y ASOCIADOS S.R.L. prepared in order to achieve a reasonable presentation C.P.C.E.C.A.B.A. Vol. 1 – Fo. 13 in conformity with the accounting reporting framework established by the BCRA, the practices of such reporting framework as to unit of measure do not allow the Entity to achieve a reasonable presentation in conformity with the professional accounting standards. NORBERTO M. NACUZZI Partner Additional Issues Certified Public Accountant (U.B.A.) 6. We have issued a separate report on the Financial C.P.C.E.C.A.B.A. Vol. 196 – Fo. 142 Statements of BANCO MACRO S.A. to the same date and for the same period indicated in paragraph 1 above. Financial Statements 421 Independent Auditors’ Report to the Separate Financial Statements To the Directors of BANCO MACRO S.A. CUIT: Auditor’s Responsibility 30-50001008-4 3. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Legal Domicile: Avenida Eduardo Madero 1182 financial statements mentioned in paragraph 1 Ciudad Autónoma de Buenos Aires based on our audit. We carried out our work pursuant to the auditing standards provided for in Technical Resolution No. 37 of FACPCE and the I. Report on financial statements “Minimum standards on external audits” issued by the BCRA. Such standards require that we comply Introduction with the ethical standards, as well as that we plan 1. We audited the accompanying separate financial and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurstatements of BANCO MACRO S.A. (the “Entity”), ance that the financial statements are free of which include: (a) the separate balance sheet as of material misstatement. December 31, 2018, (b) the separate Statement of Income and of other comprehensive income, the An audit comprises the application of procedures to statement of changes in shareholders’ equity and obtain judgmental evidence regarding figures and the the statement of cash flows for the fiscal year ended information disclosed in the financial statements. The on such date, and (c) a summary of the relevant procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgaccounting policies and other supplementary ment, including the assessment of risks of material information. misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or irregularities. When assessing the risks, Responsibility of the Board and the Managethe auditor considers the internal control existing in ment of the Entity in connection with the the Entity, as to all that is relevant for the preparation financial statements and presentation of the financial statements, in order 2. The Board and the Management of the Entity are to design the appropriate audit procedures and not to responsible for the preparation and reasonable express an opinion on the efficiency of the Entity’s presentation of the financial statements mentioned internal control system. An audit also includes in paragraph 1 in accordance with accounting assessing the accounting principles used and reporting framework established by the Central significant estimates made by the Board and Bank of the Republic of Argentina (“BCRA”), that, as Management of the Entity, as well as evaluating the described in Note 3 to the financial statements overall financial statement presentation. mentioned in paragraph 1, is based on the International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”), as We believe that our audits provide a reasonable such standards were issued by the International basis for our opinion. Accounting Standards Board and adopted by the Federación Argentina de Consejos Profesionales de Opinion Ciencias Económicas (“FACPCE”), and with the 4. In our opinion, the financial statements referred to exceptions (i) of paragraph 5.5 “Impairment” of the above present fairly, in all material respects, the IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments”, and (ii) of the financial position of BANCO MACRO S.A. and its International Accounting Standard (“IAS”) No. 29 subsidiaries as of December 31, 2018, as well as the “Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Econoresults of its operations and its cash flows for the mies”, which were temporarily excluded by the year then ended in conformity with the accounting BCRA from the accounting framework applicable to reporting framework of the BCRA mentioned in financial entities. The Board and the Management paragraph 2. of the Entity are as well responsible for the internal control they may deem necessary to allow the Emphasis on certain aspects disclosed preparation of the consolidated financial statements in the financial statements free of significant distortions, whether due to errors or 5. We draw the attention to the information conirregularities. tained in the following notes to the financial statements mentioned in paragraph 1: 422 Annual Report | Banco Macro (a) Note 3. “Basis for the Preparation of these Financial (a) The financial statements mentioned in paraStatements and Applicable Accounting Standards”, graph 1 have been transcribed into the “Inventory paragraph entitled “Applicable Accounting Standards” and Financial Statements” book of BANCO MACRO in which the Entity informs it is in the process of S.A. and, in our opinion, were prepared in all material quantifying the effect that the application of section respects, in conformity with the applicable provisions 5.5. “Impairment” of the IFRS 9 “Financial Instruof the Argentine Business Company Law and the ments”, transitorily excluded by the BCRA from the CNV (Argentine Securities Commission) regulations. accounting framework applicable to financial entities, would have on the accompanying financial state(b) The financial statements mentioned in paraments. This issue does not modify the opinion exgraph 1 above arise from books kept, in the formal pressed in paragraph 4 above, but must be taken into aspects thereof, in conformity with current regulaaccount by those using the IFRS for the interpretation tions and in accordance with the provisions of CNV of the financial statements mentioned in paragraph 1. Resolutions Nos. 1032/EMI and 1996/EMI dated March 17 and May 20, 2004, respectively, except as (b) Note 3. “Note 3. “Basis for the Preparation of these mentioned in note 3 to such financial statements Financial Statements and Applicable Accounting “Basis for the Preparation of these Financial Standards”, paragraph entitled “Unit of Measure”, in Statements and Applicable Accounting Standards”, which (a) the Entity explains that although as of paragraph “Transcription in the Books of Accounts”. December 31, 2018 the Entity meets the conditions provided in IAS 29 for the restatement of financial (c) As of December 31, 2017, as stated in note 31 to statements in homogenous currency, Communiqué the financial statements mentioned in paragraph 1 “A” 6651 of the BCRA temporarily does not allow such above, the Entity carries shareholders’ equity and a restatement; (b) the Entity describes the main impacts counterpart in eligible assets that exceed the that the application of IAS 29 would have , and minimum amounts required by relevant CNV indicates that although the Entity is in the process of regulations for these items. quantifying the effects the application of IAS 29 would have on the accompanying financial statements, it (d) As of December 31, 2018, the liabilities accrued as estimates the same would be material, and (c) the employee and employer social security contributions Entity alerts that failure to report the changes in the to the Integrated Pension Fund System, as recorded currency’s general purchasing power under highly in the Entity’s books, amounted to AR $166,980,590, inflationary economies may distort the accounting none of which was due and payable as of that date. information and, therefore, this situation must be taken into account when interpreting the information (e) During the year ended December 31, 2018, we reported by the Entity in the accompanying Financial invoiced fees for auditing services rendered to Statements including its balance sheet, its statement BANCO MACRO S.A., which represent 98% of total of income and statement of cash flows. This issue does invoicing to the Entity for any item, 72% of total not modify the opinion expressed in paragraph 4 auditing services invoiced to the Entity and its above, but we expressly state that although the subsidiaries, and 72% of total invoicing to the Bank accompanying financial statements have been and its subsidiaries for any item. prepared in order to achieve a reasonable presentation in conformity with the accounting reporting framework Autonomous City of Buenos Aires, March 8th, 2019. established by the BCRA, the practices of such reporting framework as to unit of measure do not allow the Entity to achieve a reasonable presentation in PISTRELLI, HENRY MARTIN conformity with the professional accounting standards. Y ASOCIADOS S.R.L. C.P.C.E.C.A.B.A. Vol. 1 – Fo. 13 Additional Issues We have issued a separate report on the Financial Statements of BANCO MACRO S.A. to the same date and for the same period indicated in paragraph 1 above. NORBERTO M. NACUZZI Partner II. Report on other statutory Certified Public Accountant (U.B.A.) and regulatory requirements C.P.C.E.C.A.B.A. Vol. 196 – Fo. 142 7. In compliance with current legal requirements, we further report that: Financial Statements 423 MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE No. 618 In the City of Buenos Aires, this 8th day of the month Those present at the meeting comment on the of March 2018, at 4:15 pm, meet at the principal different aspects regarding the above described place of business of BANCO MACRO S.A. the documents pointing out that they have included in regular members of the Supervisory Committee of the examination of such Financial Statements the the Company, Messrs. Alejandro Almarza and compliance with audit planning for the period under Carlos Javier Piazza, and express that the Accounanalysis, as well as the exchange of opinions at the tant Jorge R. Pardo shall not attend the meeting meetings held in that connection with the indepenpursuant to the letter transcribed at the end hereof. dent auditors of the accounting and auditing firm Pistrelli, Henry Martin y Asociados S.R.L. and the Mr. Almarza opens the meeting and expresses that analysis of the work done by the latter. this meeting is aimed at discussing the following: Additionally, all accounting and legal controls • the separate balance sheet for the year ended 31 provided for under Sect. 294 of Law No. 19550 have December 2018 of BANCO MACRO S.A. and the been complied with. related separate statement of income and other comprehensive income, statement of changes in In line with such work, on the date hereof the Shareholders’ Equity and statement of cash flow Supervisory Committee has requested the Balance and cash equivalents for the year ended on such Sheet Book of the Company and has verified the date and the notes, exhibits and additional informatranscription of the Financial Statements for the year tion submitted by the Company for our audit, ended 31 December 2018 on pages 183 to 381 of Book No. 32 officially stamped on 06/02/2016 under • the consolidated balance sheet for the year ended Number 33800-16. 31 December 2018 of BANCO MACRO S.A. and the related consolidated statement of income and other At this point, it is time for the Supervisory Committee comprehensive income, statement of changes in to consider the Financial Statements for the year Shareholders’ Equity and statement of cash flow ended 31 December 2018, since such Financial and cash equivalents for the year ended on such Statements have been revised and all enquiries and date and the notes, exhibits and additional informaclarifications have already been made to the tion submitted by the Company for our audit, and Company. • the Report of the Supervisory Committee for such The members of the Supervisory Committee submit Financial Statements. for consideration the draft of the relevant Report of the Supervisory Committee, which they proceed to read and transcribe in the present minutes as follows: 424 Annual Report | Banco Macro Supervisory Committee’s Report To the Shareholders of 3. The separate and consolidated financial stateBANCO MACRO S.A. ments have been prepared by the Company in Avenida Eduardo Madero 1182 accordance with the accounting principles estabCiudad Autónoma de Buenos Aires lished by the Central Bank of the Republic of Argentina (BCRA), which, as mentioned in Note 3 to the 1. In compliance with the legal, regulatory and accompanying financial statements, is based on the statutory provisions in force we have received for International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”), consideration the separate financial statements of as such standards were issued by the International BANCO MACRO S.A. for the year ended 31 DecemAccounting Standards Board and adopted by the ber 2018, and the relevant separate statement of Federación Argentina de Consejos Profesionales de income and other comprehensive income, changes Ciencias Económicas (“FACPCE”), and with the in shareholders’ equity, and cash flow statements exceptions (i) of paragraph 5.5 “Impairment” of the and its equivalents for the fiscal year ended on such IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments”, and (ii) of the Internadate and the notes and exhibits complementing tional Accounting Standard (“IAS”) No. 29 “Financial such financial statements. In addition, we have Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies”, which received the consolidated financial statements for were temporarily excluded by the BCRA from the the year ended on such date of BANCO MACRO accounting framework applicable to financial entities. S.A. together with its subsidiaries. The above listed The Board and the Management of the Entity are as documents are the responsibility of the Company’s well responsible for the internal control they may Board of Directors. Our responsibility is to inform on deem necessary to allow the preparation of the such documents based on the work described in the consolidated financial statements free of significant next paragraph. distortions, whether due to errors or irregularities. 2. We carried out our audit in accordance with the 4. In our opinion, the financial statements of BANCO auditing standards in force and applicable in the MACRO S.A., referred to in paragraph 1, present Autonomous City of Buenos Aires. Those standards fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of require that we perform the audit pursuant to the the Company and the consolidated financial auditing standards in force, and verify the consisposition of BANCO MACRO S.A. with its subsidiaries tency of the revised documents with the information as of 31 December 2018 as well as the results of its on the corporate resolutions and actions shown in operations, the changes in shareholders’ equity and the minutes, and the conformity of such decisions cash flows for the fiscal year ended on such date, in and actions with the law and bylaws, as to the conformity with the rules established by the BCRA formal and documentary aspects thereof. In order to described in paragraph 3. perform our audit we have taken into account the audit performed by the independent auditors 5. Without modifying the conclusion expressed in Pisterlli, Henry Martin y Asociados SRL, who issue paragraph 4 above, we draw the attention to Note 3 their report dated 8 March 2019 signed by the firm’s to the financial statements mentioned in paragraph partner and Certified Public Accountant, Mr. 1 above: Norberto M. Nacuzzi, in accordance with the a) in which the Entity informs it is in the process of auditing standards in force and applicable in the quantifying the effect that the application of section Autonomous City of Buenos Aires. Since it is not the 5.5. “Impairment” of the IFRS 9 “Financial Instruresponsibility of syndics to control the administration, ments”, transitorily excluded by the BCRA from the the review did not include the criteria and business accounting framework applicable to financial decisions taken by the different Company departentities, would have on the accompanying financial ments, such issues being the exclusive responsibility statements. of the Board. We believe that our audit provides reasonable and appropriate basis for our opinion. Financial Statements 425 b) In paragraph “Unit of Measure”, in which (a) the b) we performed the other legality controls provided Entity explains that although as of December 31, for under section 294 of Law No. 19550, which we 2018 the Entity meets the conditions provided in IAS consider necessary pursuant to the circumstances, 29 for the restatement of financial statements in including among other controls, the audit of the homogenous currency, Communiqué “A” 6651 of the creation and survival of the directors’ guarantees, BCRA temporarily does not allow such restatement; having no objections in this respect, (b) the Entity describes the main impacts that the application of IAS 29 would have , and indicates that c) the financial statements of BANCO MACRO S.A. although the Entity is in the process of quantifying arise from the accounting records of the Entity, the effects the application of IAS 29 would have on which are kept, as to its formal aspects, in conforthe accompanying financial statements, it estimates mity with the legal rules in force and the regulatory the same would be material, and (c) the Entity alerts provisions of the B.C.R.A., except for the transcription that failure to report the changes in the currency’s of the detailed inventory which is in its way as general purchasing power under highly inflationary mentioned in note 3. economies may distort the accounting information and, therefore, this situation must be taken into d) we have no material objections or comments on account when interpreting the information reported the information included under note 34 to the by the Entity in the accompanying Financial accompanying separate financial statements for the Statements including its balance sheet, its stateyear ended 31 December 2018, as to the requirement of income and statement of cash flows. We ments established by the CNV regarding the expressly state that although the accompanying Minimum Assets Requirement and Counterparty. financial statements have been prepared in order to achieve a reasonable presentation in conformity with e) pursuant to the provisions of General Resolution the accounting reporting framework established by No. 622 issued by the CNV, on the independent the BCRA, the practices of such reporting framework nature of external auditors and on the quality of the as to unit of measure do not allow the Entity to auditing standards applied thereby and of the achieve a reasonable presentation in conformity with Entity’s accounting principles, the independent the professional accounting standards. auditors’ report referred above includes the representation regarding the application of the auditing 6. In addition, in compliance with the legal and principles in force, which include the independence regulatory provisions in force, we inform the requirement, and contains no reserves as to the following: application of such principles, except as expressly a) the Board’s annual report to which we have no provided for in paragraph five of such report, objections to make as to the issues within the scope regarding the application of the rules issued by the of our supervisory functions, being all statements B.C.R.A. over the professional accounting principles. regarding future events the responsibility of the Board. In addition, we have reviewed the Report on Autonomous City of Buenos Aires, March 8th, 2019. compliance with the Code of Corporate Governance, attached as an exhibit to the Annual Report and prepared by the Management in conformity with General Resolution No. 606/2012 issued by the Argentine Securities Exchange Commission (CNV for its acronym in Spanish language). As a result of our review there has been no evidence of any aspect that may make us believe that such Exhibit contains any material errors or has not be prepared, in all material aspects, in accordance with the provisions of such General Resolution issued by the CNV. 426 Annual Report | Banco Macro After a brief discussion, the Supervisory Committee Banco del Tucumán S.A. On the other hand, I have resolves to approve the Supervisory Committee’s not had the work papers of the independent auditor Report that shall be signed after the approval of the in order to issue an opinion on such financial financial statements for the fiscal year ended statements. By virtue of the above, apart from not December 31, 2018 by the Board, provided such being able to attend the above mentioned meeting approval is given without making material changes. of the Supervisory Committee and of the Board of Directors, I shall abstain from giving an opinion on The Supervisory Committee further authorizes the all that such meeting is to discuss. Accountant Alejandro Almarza to sign this Report on behalf of the Supervisory Committee. Sincerely, Next follows the letter sent by the Accountant Jorge R. Pardo to the Supervisory Committee: Buenos Aires, March 7th 2019 To the President of the Supervisory Committee of Jorge R. Pardo Banco Macro S.A. Dear Sir, I write to you in order to inform that, pursuant to C/c Secretary of the Board of Banco Macro S.A. commitments previously undertaken with other listed companies, in which I act as regular member There being no further issues to discuss, the meeting of the Supervisory Committee, I will not be able to is adjourned at 14:45 pm. attend the meeting of the Supervisory Committee and of the Board of Directors of Banco Macro S.A. to be held on March 8th. Please be further advised that I have not received the material sufficiently in advance in order to be able to revise and analyze all Alejandro Almarza the documents which shall support the reports on Regular Syndic the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2019 and the merger with Carlos Javier Piazza Regular Syndic Financial Statements 427 PROFIT DISTRIBUTION PROPOSAL FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2018 (Figures expressed in thousands of pesos) RETAINED EARNINGS (1) 34,327,951 To Statutory Reserve Fund (3,145,849) To Special Reserve Fund “First-time Adoption of IFRS” (3,475,669) Adjustments (Section 2.3. Revised Text “Profit Distribution”) (2) (42,680) SUBTOTAL 1 27,663,753 Adjustments (Section 2.1. Revised Text “Profit Distribution”) (2) (527,241) SUBTOTAL 2 27,136,512 DISTRIBUTABLE AMOUNT (3) AND (4) 26,001,632 DISTRIBUTED PROFITS To Optional Reserve Fund 19,607,655 To Cash Dividends Outstanding Common Shares ($ 10 on 639,398) 6,393,977 DISTRIBUTED EARNINGS 26,001,632 UNDISTRIBUTED EARNINGS 0 Includes Optional Reserve fund for future profit distribution of 15,123,039 See Note 38.c). The profit distribution shall be admitted provided the minimum average cash payment –either in pesos or foreign currencyis not below the relevant requirement to the last closed position or projected position considering the effect of the profit distribution. Relates to the lower amount between the Subtotal 2 and that arising from calculating the excess of computable capital over required minimum capital as of December 31, 2018, also considering the restrictions further described in Note 38, as provided under BCRA’s rule regarding “Profit Distribution”. Relates to the shares outstanding to the date of issuance of this Financial Statements. Daniel H. Violatti Gustavo A. Manriquez Delfín Jorge Head of Accounting General Manager Ezequiel Carballo and Tax Department Chairman Graphic Design Tholön Kunst, Comunicación visual Printing House Latingráfica Photography Rodrigo Vergara MACRO.COM.AR
