INVESTING IN OUR COMMUNITIES Non profit arm of The Little Engineer ® “The Lifetime Mission Education” To build high impact social interventions that continuously promote access to Foundation Who all in STEM education and women empowerment are Vision I we? s the non-profit arm of The Little Engineer, an award-winning initiative that provides a customTo give equal rights and access to tailored hands-on learning activities all in the educational sector, through TLEF is a foundation that deploys and courses in Science, Technology, delivering products, services and class innovative and inspiring programs Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) solutions for public and private schools focused on exposing young minds to to supplement traditional learning for in the STEM field throughout lebanon. STEM while ensuring quality education students aged 6 to 12. we aim to expose the largest number for all, equal opportunities for remote and of kids in rural areas to the latest rural areas, environmental awareness We believe that Quality Education is the innovations and technological tools and women empowerment.” catalyst for positive change in every society. needed to excel in this broad field. To empower women through provision We support educators in transforming We have two programs of management support and capacity education by developing the talent -Women Entrepreneurship Program building skills to generate revenues of youth in order to expose them to (WEP). for themselves through the delivery alternative subjects and career paths -Public School Program (PSP) of STEM workshops and to provide while encouraging them to positively measurable, sustained change in their impact the environment and their Together, We create change communities. communities. WE BELIEVE IN Core Values Leadership: The Courage to shape a better future Collaboration: Leverage collective genius Integrity: Be real Accountability: If it is to be, it's up to me Passion: Committed in heart and mind Diversity: As inclusive as our brands Quality: What we do, we do well Aquired Skills “Innovation” “Teamwork” “Critical Thinking” “Communication” “Problem Solving” “Perseverance” WHY STEM IN RURAL AREAS? There is a growing vulnerability among youth in the majority of rural areas in Lebanon. The lack of curricula updates and STEM training for the teachers, as OUR RESwell as a lack of resources and budgets allocated to schools in remote rural areas and the increasing livelihood challenges leads more children to dropout of schools. Moreover, there is PONa debilitating lack of career choices for the majority of kids in rural areas. When asked were they see their life heading in SIBILITY the future, they answer out a lack choice Giving equal educational opportunities their inclination to enroll in the Lebanese to learners in rural and peri-urban army. That is why influenced by all the areas by delivering hands-on STEM Our emphasis is to prepare learners above, TLE foundation decided to invest in nurturing young minds providing them Activities and courses in private and public schools through TLE Foundation to the real world. We adopt a practical learning approach that provide youth, Social Empower Shaping Better Equal Capacity with skills that will resonate throughout their entire life. Women Empowerment Program and Public School Program. the future workforce of tomorrow, with critical applied skills. Impact Women Youth Future Rights Building Practical Learning: Uniquely inclusive, practice-oriented education. Curriculum: Custom developed class solutions which Unique address different ages platform: The combination of Robotics, Renewable Internationally Energy makes the blend of these What technologies delivered by one scientific awarded institute a unique experience. differentiates us ? We equip our learners with job-ready Accredited: By International Accreditation skills and develop them into self-directed We believe in knowledge that has an lifelong learners with exceptional social Organization (IAO) in the US. impact on our society. awareness and values. Dedicated R&D Research & Development Department We have a unique platform through our We help women and youth realize main pillar namely The Little Engineer® a better future that is sustainably to empower young minds and introduce rewarding and enriching to our society them to science. as a whole. Why are we doing it ? We are committed to the 2030 UN, Sustainable Development Goals SDGs promising to work towards a more sustainable world where no one is left behind, and where our present way of life supports an equally good or even better life for future generations. How are we going to do it ? * Train youth and women to serve their communities in rural areas rather than hunting for Jobs in big cities * Build the skills of women in remote areas and engage them in businesses. * Replicate this winning initiative all over Lebanon with the support of the CSR Program, sponsors or grants. * Develop the capacities of women and youth to invest in their communities * Share our business skills and technical skills with women to excel in their regions * Foster the economy and create job opportunities in remote areas. * Promote Intrapreneurship: Educate women to run a business and improve their life style. Our Regional Strategic Partners Airbus Foundation Program exposed more than 5000 learners in more than 15 countries on Space and Aviation programs. ” 15 More than COUNTRIES ” Jordan, UAE, KSA, Bahrain, Oman, Qatar, Egypt, Morocco, Algeria, Nigeria, Kenya, Ethiopia, South Africa, India, Sri lanka, Singapore. all over the world DONATE To EDUCATE Local Strategic Partners AZADEA Foundation Tailored Full Workshops Courses Club in Train The Schools Trainers Try Me School Visits Sessions Looking for sponsors and Participants are exposed to a robotic strategic partners to fund our activity allowing them to unleash the the programming stage to complete all activities. skills of their scientific potential and to missions. Let us expand more and more this be ready for the challenges of future Young people will have the opportunity experience and discover the capacities societies. to experiment new technologies through Envirothon competition Promoting 250 Students from: of our youth. Let us offer them equal Connected learners, have to hands-on activities. “Use of technology for environmental Eastwood College Mansourieh Shakib Areslan Public School chances, equal opportunities, by construct, contemplate and construct New horizons shall be opened for solutions” with 8 Go Green activites Makassed Abu Baker el Siddik Omar Zeanni Public School launching more sustainable projects. their model before moving forward to them. celebrating Earth Day. Lycee Patriatchal Rabwe Uruguay Public School Omar Farrukh High School for Girls The Little Engineer's Robotics Lab MD, was an event of spectacular Opening at the Omar Farrukh High innovation, stimulating young girls to come. Thus, this project will be School for Girls from grades 7 to12 with technological sustainable for years and it will fulfill its wonder. promise of delivering STEM for girls of The Little Engineer joined forces with The project began with the “train different age groups. Omar Farrukh High School for Girls to the trainers” (TTT) program, and those On the other hand, TLE is always on open the first Robotics Lab at a public trainers are now ready to deliver their the move to expand this educational school in Lebanon. The opening own sessions to all current students experience so that it will include more sponsored by Omar Usamah Farrukh at the school and for generations schools! INPLAN INPLAN Little Engineer Security on the Road School Visit Statistical Study Quobayat School Visit 100.00% 88.89% 89.22% 90.00% 85.29% 82.35% 82.35% 79.41% 80.00% 70.00% 66.67% 66.67% 66.67% 62.75% 60.00% 55.56% 50.00% 44.44% 40.00% 30.00% 20.00% 10.00% 7.84% 0.00% 0.00% Interested on Sciences Previous Experience in Workshop Affected Did you learn Would you like to Do you consider Do you like and Technology Robotics your decision in something new participate in similar improving your skills Programming choosing your major workshop in the in Science and future technology Female Male INPLAN – German company providing Participants were exposed to a Before starting our workshop 53 % of a software solution for port managementSecurity on the Road activity allowing learners had no ideas about their future sponsors a scientific activities at public them to unleash the skills of their scientific major. After the workshop 66% were school at QuobayatNorth of Lebanon potential and be ready for the challenges more certain. (140 km from Beirut) of future societies. The Numbers talk! APPLIED MEDICAL AppliedMedical Little Engineer Security on the Road School Visit Statistical Study – Tripoli & Bourj el Barajneh School Visit 100% 90% 92% 80% 86% 88% 87% 82% 81% 70% 80% 73% 69% 60% 61% 50% 56% 55% 40% 30% 20% 10% 2% 10% 0% Interested in Previous experience Did the worshop Did you learn Would you like to Do you consider Do you like Science and in Robotics affected your something new participate in improving your programming technology decision in choosing similar workshop in skills in Science and your major the future Technology Female Male Applied Medical sponsors scientific Before starting our workshop 34 % The Numbers talk! Security on the Road public school of learners didn’t have a decision about Let us expand more and more this visits at Tripoli for girls and Bourj el their future major. After the workshop experience and discover all around Barajneh for boys. 56% identified potential areas of study. Lebanon the capacities of our youth. ALFANAR 5 Rural women from Chouf selected for training Team provided with a combination of STEM and Team provided with business training an introduction to local private schools Portion of fees go to savings and network of other potential clients Women’s team have a sustainable income Royalty fee paid to TLE Women’s Team provides training to children from rural private schools for a fee Alfanar venture philanthropy invested in The WEP pilot project aims to test the The public school selected for the PSP both Women Empowerment (WEP) and deployment of STEM activities in Chouf pilot is the Bikfaya high school where Public School (PSP) Programs. The pilot area. This is a social franchising model Grade 7 to 12 learners (ages 13-18) can project was launched in October 2017. where the franchise fee is waived as a be exposed to the two 90-minute STEM Five women have been trained to launch gesture to empower and support women workshops on robotics and renewable the program. in the rural areas. energy. 360 students will be exposed. MAZRAAT EL CHOUF The Lifetime Education Foundation, through its women empowerment program (WEP) in Chouf, began receiving students at its offices in the National Library, Baakleen. In addition, several workshops are being delivered at a number of public schools in collaboration with the municipalities of Wirhanieh, Ammatour, Barouk, Mazraat el Chouf, Batloun and Municipalities. Mrs Nora Jumblatt the Ain Qani Women Association. More attended the first workshop and gave workshops are set to be delivered in the an encouraging and supportive speech coming year with several municipalities to learners, the WEP team, other and associations. The local community municipalities’ representatives, the is providing the WEP program with a Makhateer and community members. lot of support and the learners are reacting to the delivered material with The Lifetime Education Foundation, a lot of enthusiasm and passion while CEO and Founder, Rana El Chemaitelly the post workshop evaluations show reaffirmed during her speech at the that students share a strong interest in workshop’s opening ceremony that STEM and Robotics. the WEP program seeks no profit, the trained women who are delivering At Mazraat el Chouf, three and charges only a nominal fee to the workshops but also to reach the consecutive workshops were delivered cover the trainers’ expenses. She also largest number of learners and to offer in collaboration with its municipality stressed that the main objective of them the educational tools needed for and the Federation of Chouf Souayjani the program is not only to empower formulating solutions to local problems. SONBOLA To provide refugees and vulnerable To empower and inspire young To empower teachers through STEM Oct 2016 – Jan 2017: Training of Sonbola young boys and girls with quality and refugees and vulnerable learners to literacy and teachings and contribute June – Sept, 2016: Sonbola and TLE teachers, kick-off and implementation Feb 2017: Official launching of STEM relevant education. To sensitize young commit to education and pursue in improving their technical and Exclusive partnership to develop a of pilot program with 50 children (boys For Refugees. STEM education is vital refugees and powerless learners to STEM-related vocations or careers. professional skills. special tailored Robotics program for and girls) and registration of STEM for for the post-confilct and reconstruction STEM-related knowledge and skills. Syrian refugee children. Refugees for copy rights. phase in Syria RYMCO School visits to RYMCO Chiyah 3 hours of Hands-on Minds-on Activities Maintenance, Logistics, Sales, Marketing showroom automotive industry for featuring Manufacturing, Automation, and Customer relations youth Robotics, Programming, Preventive Class capacity: 60 Learners MOUNA BOUSTROS 25 students aged 16+ from 5 public The training will address 1 school Human-like dancing robot competition schools, together with 20 teachers who at a time hosting, 2 teachers and 5 to between schools then begins. are fully trained on how to assemble and 10 learners who are considered team This program can be brought forth to program the robot will be introduced to leaders in their schools. another 5 schools in its second year, the competition's criteria. investing in another hundred learners. TOUCH Digital Education Platform IOT 3 programming languages in parallel; with effective and tangible outcomes that A collaboration with Touch to promote connect basic electronics to the www in their famous automotive tool named VINLI. order to manage and automate a 21st First course in lebanon that introduces century lifestyle. Girls In STEM Looking for sponsors and strategic partners to fund our activities. Promote STEM education as well as Information and Communications Technology (ICT) skills to young girls. Reduce the digital gender divide. Encourage young women to join the growing digitally-enabled sectors. Support the technology startup ecosystem in Lebanon Young girls will have the opportunity to experiment with new technologies through hands-on activities. New horizons shall be opened for them. 2017 Partnering Project 1-Select the area. 2Hosting location. with us We are looking for partners, who 3Define the budget. 4Recruit 5 women. 5Train the trainers. aspire to align with our mission and 6Delegate and monitor. We are actively seeking like-minded We can tailor our STEM workshops to operation and/or your CSR and sustainability vision to sponsor this initiative to invest 7Report to donors. partners to pool resources, competencies the public school or student community goals objectives. Together we can change in women in rural areas and to replicate 8Move to a new area with the support and expertise for efficiency, to have a of your choice with your preferred leaning the future of our youth by exposing them TLE® initiative all over Lebanon and help of the 5 trained women. sustainable social impact. objectives, depending on your sector of promising career opportunities women invest in their communities. 9And the productive cycle continues. Rana El Chemaitelly Founder of The Little Engineer® & The Lifetime Education Foundation Awards & Beirut, Lebanon Recognitions: W ith a background in mechanical engineering and management, Rana the Mediterranean in 2010. In 2011, The Foundation main pillar TLE ® has won many international awards and recognitions: created The Little Engineer, she was selected for the U.S. State an “edutainment” center for engaging Department’s International Visitor 2010 MIT Arab Business Plan Competition young minds in science, technology, Leadership Program and won the engineering and mathematics through Cartier Women’s Initiative Award for 2010 MED VENTURES Award hands-on learning activities to unleash the MENA region. In 2012 Rana won their full potential in pre-engineering the Green Mind Award and in 2013, 2011 Cartier Women Intiative Award skills while highlighting robotics, The Little Engineer signed a strategic renewable energies, aviation and space partnership with Airbus Middle East to and for their significance working deliver regional workshops for youth. 2012 Winner of the News globe Award in parallel on youth leadership and In 2016, she partnered with Airbus presentation skills. The Little Engineer Foundation to expand her social 2012 Green Mind Award-Education Category works with ministries of education programs at the global level starting in in the Middle East and North Africa Africa. She is a VV GROW fellow, and 2013 Airbus Scientific Collaboration Program (MENA) region to integrate the program was part of VV100 in 2016 .In May in school curricula. 2017, she participated in the global 2015 Vital Voices Grow fellow Ambassador program in Charlotte. For The Little Engineer initiative Rana is committed to being a voice of and business plan, Rana was change in the Arab world by investing 2016 Vital Voices 100 recognized as one of MENA's most in young minds and preparing future promising entrepreneurs in 2009 by leaders for the challenges. At the 2017 Vital Voices / Global Ambassador Massachusetts Institute of Technology. same time, she is working to empower She was awarded the “Coup de women in her community, country and 2017 TechWomen Coeur Femme” by Medventures for around the world. What We Do Address: Sodeco Square, Block A, L02 | Tel: 01 611 604 w w w. t h e l i t t l e e n g i n e e r. c o m 71 88 09 10
