Integrated solutions for a better life 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction About this Report Characteristics of the Report Contents This is an integrated report which introduces the system and activities for value creation at Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction. This report includes the business strategies and activities of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction as well as economic, environmental, and social responsibilities and their outcomes. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction publishes this integrated report each year to be utilized as a communications channel with stakeholders. Criteria for Writing the Report This report has been written in accordance with the Core Option of the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Standards, and third-party verification has confirmed that the requirements have been met. We are also applying the UNGC Communication on Progress (COP) principle. The status of the detailed application of GRI Standards can be found in the GRI Index in the Appendix. Period and Scope of Reporting This report was written based on financial and non-financial performance from Jan. 1 to Dec. 31, 2018, and important items which may influence decision-making by stakeholders include the performance of the first half of 2019. For some of the quantitative outcomes, data collected over 3 years was reported in order to confirm trends, while financial outcomes were recorded based on K-IFRS. Also, if any information suggested in previous reports has been revised or re-written, detailed information can be found in the footnotes. The scope of reporting covers 100% of CEO Message 02 the headquarters as well as domestic and international projects, and activities and performances of overseas subsidiaries have been included as needed. Company Profile 04 Verification of the Report To increase reliability and enhance the quality of this report, non-financial information Business Strategy & Portfolio was verified by an independent, external agency. As for financial information, an Business Strategy & Portfolio for Sustainable Growth 08 accounting audit was performed by an independent audit corporation, and the Strengthening of New Growth Portfolio 09 report reflects these results. The verification results can be found in the verification Strengthening the Competitiveness of Existing Businesses 22 statement in the Appendix. Additional Information Commitments to Sustainability This report is to be published and distributed in Korean and English, and may SDG Alignments 44 also be downloaded in PDF format from the website of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction (www.doosanheavy.com). For any inquiries regarding this report, 2030 SDG Commitments 46 please refer to the contact information provided at the bottom of the page. SDG Highlights 48 CSR Management Cover Story Governance 52 Ethics Management 54 Green Management 56 Integrated solutions Health & Safety 60 for a better life Talent Management 64 2018 두산중공업 통합보고서 Shared Growth 69 Customer Satisfaction 72 Social Contribution 74 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction maintains a consistent and representative design by utilizing the square, our brand identity motif, which clearly expresses our Appendix present and future competitiveness. We express confidence in our business portfolio Stakeholder Engagement 80 transformation through images, such as gas turbines and wind turbines, which will form the foundations of the new energy age that we are entering. Materiality Assessment 81 Risk Management 82 Website www.doosanheavy.com Performance Summary 83 Address 22 Doosan Volvo-ro, Seongsan-gu, Changwon-si, Third Party’s Assurance Statement 96 Gyeongsangnam-do GRI Content Index 99 Phone 055-278-3058 Team in charge Credo/CSR Team Contents Doosan Group Introducing the Doosan Group Doosan Credo CSR Value System Our belief and philosophy Korea's Longest-Running Company As Korea's very first modern corporation, Doosan has undergone several transformations in its long 123-year Doosan Proud Global Doosan history. From its humble beginnings as the Park Seung-Jik Store in 1896 in the neighborhood of Baeogae, Aspiration what is now Jongno 4-ga in Seoul, Doosan has ceaselessly strived to transform and develop itself over the Doosan Credo To Rank Among the Global 100 Most Sustainable past century. Corporations by 2025 CSR Goal *Based on the announcement of World Economic Forum World-Recognized ISB (Infrastructure Support Business) Leader (Davos Forum) The Doosan Credo is a set of prescribed principles developed from Doosan is a brand name recognized worldwide in the power industry for its first-class competitiveness, Doosan's philosophy and unique way of doing business, which have CSR Mission Supporting Responsible and Sustainable Growth and it is also expanding its foothold as global leader in the seawater desalination sector, backed by its been the foundation of Doosan's success for the past century. The outstanding technology and performance. In addition, Doosan maintains the highest standards for Doosan Credo includes nine core values. It is integral to every aspect of construction equipment, such as skid steer loaders and attachment equipment. While boasting of as many People-centric our company and people, a standard that clearly guides our decisions as seventeen product lines known for their world-class quality. Having as many as seventeen product lines and the way we conduct business. It is by realizing these values that known for their world-class quality and superior technologies, Doosan has solidified its status as market Doosan can accomplish its ultimate goal. The Doosan Credo consists of Reliable Operations leader in the ISB industry, which covers sectors such as power generation, seawater desalination and Doosan's Aspiration and Core Values. CSR Pillars construction machinery. Responsible Engagement Rewriting the History of a World-Class Brand CEO Message 02 Doosan is active in 15 countries centering around 23 affiliates. Never satisfied with its remarkable Company Profile 04 CSR Value Creation performance record, the company continues on its journey of ceaseless development, while the provision Aspiration of differentiated products and services that engender pride and trust in customers catalyzes Doosan's growth as a global enterprise together with its customers. 1. Nurture a culture of respecting human rights Business Strategy & Portfolio Business Strategy & Portfolio for Sustainable Growth 08 Doosan's ultimate goal is to create a 'Proud Global Doosan.' It represents our vision that all of our employees and stakeholders will not only 2. Fair employment Strengthening of New Growth Portfolio 09 Group Vision Strengthening the Competitiveness of Existing Businesses benefit from Doosan but also take pride in their association with us. 22 We will become a Proud Global Doosan through people-oriented management and the establishment We envision every employee being proud as a member of Doosan; every 3. Establish a safe work environment of processes that live up to world-class standards, which is the source of our global competitiveness. customer recognizing and appreciating our high quality goods and Commitments to Sustainability services and every shareholder taking pride in the fair and high levels of 4. Enhance fair operations and supply chain CSR SDG Alignments 44 profit that we generate. 2030 SDG Commitments 46 5. Green management and climate change mitigation/ adaptation SDG Highlights 48 Proud CSR Priorities People-oriented Global Doosan Establishment of management as the business processes 6. Strengthen product/ service responsibility CSR Management source of our global that live up to competitiveness global standards Core Governance 52 7. Incorporate business value to sophisticate Values community involvement activities Ethics Management 54 Green Management 56 8. Reinforce disclosure of corporate information (CSR) Health & Safety 60 Doosan people practice the nine core values of the Doosan Credo wherever they operate, every day, in order to build a Proud Global Talent Management 64 Doosan. These values guide our business conduct, the manner in which 9. Implement businesses that create CSR value Shared Growth 69 Overview of Affiliates we treat one another, and the way we work with all of our partners. Customer Satisfaction 72 Doosan's nine core values are as follows. 10. Improve CSR performance monitoring Social Contribution 74 Doosan Doosan Corporation Electro-Materials | Doosan Corporation Industrial Vehicle | Doosan Corporation Mottrol | Co., Ltd. Doosan Corporation Retail | Doosan Corporation Fuel Cell | Doosan Corporation Bio | Doosan Digital Innovation Develop strong CSR governance (execution system/ Enabler commitment of management and employees) Appendix Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction | Doosan Mecatec | Doosan Bobcat | Doosan Engineering & Construction | Safety Technology The 9 Core Values Stakeholder Engagement 80 Doosan ISB1) Social DLS2) | Doosan Infracore | Doosan Robotics | Doosan Mobility Innovation People and the and Profit Affiliates Responsibility Doosan (People, Cultivating People, Integrity and Transparency, Materiality Assessment 81 Group Environment Innovation CSB3) Oricom | Hancom | Doosan Magazine | Doosan Bears | Doosan Cuvex | Neoplux Values Inhwa, Customers, Technology and Innovation, Profit, Integrity and Cultivating Social Responsibility, Safety and Environment) Risk Management 82 Customers Harmony Transparency people Performance Summary 83 Global CSR Initiative (UN SDGs · ISO 26000 · UN Affiliated Demand of Society Doosan Yonkang Foundation | Doosan Art Center | DLI4) Global Compact · GRI) Third Party’s Assurance Statement 96 Organizations GRI Content Index 99 1) Infrastructure Support Business 2) Doosan Logistics Solution 3) Consumer & Service Business 4) Doosan Leadership Institute 02 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction 03 CEO Message Dear Esteemed Stakeholders, Large-sized gas turbines, which are presently being developed with We at Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction thank you for your continued commercialization planned for 2021, are nearing the prototype production support and encouragement. I am extremely delighted to report to all of stage. We will soon proceed with a demonstration at a domestic combined you on the changes and accomplishments that Doosan Heavy Industries & cycle power plant, and for wind power, we have been selected as the Construction has been pursuing through this year’s integrated report. prime contractor for a government 8MW offshore wind energy project and are set to complete development by 2022. In the domestic and overseas Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is striving for change power generation markets, opportunities for the service business such as and innovation in today’s rapidly changing global market O&M on existing power plants are expected to gradually increase, and environment. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction continues to expand its services Amidst the continuing trend of low growth in the global power generation into wind energy and water. In addition, we will actively seek opportunities market, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is devoted to restructuring to take part in hydrogen and 3D printing technology, which are highly the business portfolio we have been pursuing, expanding into new related to our existing businesses, and turn them into our new growth businesses and strengthening the profitability and competitiveness of our drivers. Simultaneously, we will accelerate our digital transformation in all existing businesses. Last year, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction areas of business and continue to improve our competitiveness across the officially commenced the Samcheok POS Power project, and was selected entire value chain of the company through the commercialization of digital as the preferred bidder for Indonesia’s Jawa 9 and 10 1,000MW power solutions, as well as the introduction of integrated design, RPA (Robotic plants and also signed a construction contract for a thermal power plant Process Automation) and AI technology. with Van Phong Power Company Limited, a Vietnamese power generation company. New achievements have come from Japan and Oman as well. We ask for your continued interest and support in the efforts of We entered the Japanese market for the first time by winning an order Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction to improve social value for a biomass-fired power plant located in Sodegaura, Japan. As our and the world. first entry into Oman, we participated as a developer in the Sharqiyah Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction will fulfill ESG (Environmental, Seawater Desalination project. Also, our internally developed digital social, and governance) regulations, preemptively meet industry standards, solutions were applied to a 4,000MW power plant operated by Sasan and fully comply with principles of sustainability in every sector. We seek Power, India's largest IPP(Independent Power Producer), while DTS, our to solve the issues facing society and, naturally, through our commitment gas turbine service-specializing subsidiary located in the United States, to implementing the 2030 UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) signed a long-term service agreement with a local IPP through which the with projects related to sustainable energy and clean water, we aim to position of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction in the American gas contribute to the betterment of society and the world. Furthermore, to turbine aftermarket has been further reinforced. In line with demands meet this period of change, we will continue with our transformation into for corporate social responsibility, we have also constantly stepped up an organization that promotes creativity through dialogues built on the our efforts for effective energy and carbon management. We have also basis of mutual trust between labor and management, employees, and our sought to contribute to local communities and also facilitated our entry supply chains. into overseas markets by working together with our partner companies. We ask our stakeholders for your continued interest in and undivided As a result, we received the Korean Green Climate Award and earned support for the ceaseless endeavors of Doosan Heavy Industries & the highest grade in the Shared Growth Index, and we have also been Construction in the realization of a sustainable society. continuously enlisted in DJSI Korea, being recognized for our achievements in sustainable management both internally and externally. We will realize tangible accomplishments and continuous business growth based on our fundamental competitiveness and portfolio of new growth. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is pursuing a shift in its business portfolio to place more emphasis on gas turbines, new and renewable energy and the services business in line with changes in the managerial environment, of which we have already accomplished tangible outcomes. Chairman & Chief Executive Officer Geewon Park 04 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction 05 Company Profile Global Leader in Power & Water Doosan History Global Leader in Power & Water, the vision of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction, represents Proud Revenue our commitment to becoming the market leader in the global power generation and water Growth into a Global Unit: KRW 100 million business. Based on the Doosan Credo, which portrays our aim to build Doosan into a proud and Global Company Doosan 147,611 innovative leader that provides customers with life-enriching services, we seek to offer the best of technology, cost competitiveness, quality products and services, scalable sales and profitability, Operating profit Unit: KRW 100 million talent cultivation and an optimal corporate culture. By establishing our position as a global leader, Growth and Development 2001~ we will lead the market change in response to rapidly changing global technology trends and 10,016 2001 • Privatization and change of the company name to Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. become an advanced global company. 2006 • Acquisition of Mitsui Babcock Energy No. of Employees Overview of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Beginning 1981~ 2009 • Acquisition of Skoda Power Unit: persons Date of Establishment September 20, 1962 and Challenge 2000 1982 • Groundbreaking of the Changwon • Completion of Doosan Vina Manufacturing Plant 7,294 in Vietnam Plant (the world's largest) Representative Directors Geewon Park, Hyounghee Choi, Yeonin Jung 2011 • Acquisition of AE&E Lentjes Area of Business Machinery and equipment manufacturing • Securing of OEM technology in CFB boilers Korean Meisters Location of Headquarters: 22, Doosan Volvo-ro, Seongsan-gu, Changwon-si, Gyeongsangnam-do 1962~ • Acquisition of Chennai Works in India Unit: persons headquarters Seoul Office: 456, Gangnam-daero, Seocho-gu, Seoul 1980 • Acquisition of Enpure 31 1962 • Establishment of the Company • Announcment  of the Doosan Credo 2016 • Acquisition of 1Energy Systems, a US energy storage system firm (currently Doosan GridTech) As of Dec 31, 2018 2017 • Acquisition of ACT (currently DTS), a gas turbine service company Global Network United States Poland Saudi Arabia Republic of Korea Doosan Heavy Industries America Katowice Office Doosan Power Systems Arabia Headquarters and the Changwon Plant Doosan HF Controls Riyadh Office Technology Research Institute Doosan ATS America Damman Water R&D Center Seoul Office Doosan GridTech Germany Doosan Turbomachinery Services Doosan Lentjes Kuwait Japan Pittsburgh Office Frankfurt Office Kuwait Office Doosan Heavy Industries Japan Newington Office United Arab Emirates United Kingdom Middle East Operation Center Doosan Power Systems Dubai Office Doosan Babcock Water Dubai Office Doosan Enpure India Abu Dhabi Office Boiler R&D Center Doosan Power Systems India New Delhi Office Switzerland Mumbai Office Kolkata Office Taiwan Doosan ATS Europe Chennai Office/Shop Taipei Office Czech Republic Doosan Skoda Power China Chile Thailand Shanghai Office Santiago Office Bangkok Office Beijing Office Romania Doosan IMGB Philippines Manila Office Turkey Vietnam Istanbul Office Doosan Vina DCS Vina Egypt Vietnam Operation Center Indonesia Cairo Office Hanoi Office Jakarta Office 06 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Strategy & Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 07 Business Strategy & Portfolio 01 08 Business Strategy & Portfolio for Sustainable Growth 09 Strengthening of New Growth Portfolio 22 Strengthening the Competitiveness of Existing Businesses 08 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Strategy & Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 09 Business Strategy Global Market Trend As was the case since 2017, new and renewable energy is forecasted to be the leading trend for the & Portfolio for global power market, and the demand for gas-fired power plants is expected to gradually rise again. Sustainable Owing to Korea's new energy transition plan, we expect to see more renewable energy and hydrogen economy opportunities being explored and detailed plans being set up in Korea. Furthermore, the Growth introduction of new business models are expected for the power market based on the convergence with ICT, such as Internet of Things (IoT), artificial intelligence and 3D printing technology. • Prolonged period of low growth • Expansion of distributed generation • Food and water shortage due to industrialization and • Accelerated Digital Transformation urbanization in developing countries • Full discussion of hydrogen economy • Acceleration of convergence with ICT in various industries Global Global Leader in Industry Trend Power & Water Trend Strategic Strengthening competitiveness of Strengthening of profitability and organizational Direction Strengthening of new growth portfolio existing business efficiency by improving business operations • Gas turbines • Equipment of plant and service • Strengthening of design competitiveness through • New and renewable energy • Plant EPC digital transformation Promotion • Development of digital solution technologies • Nuclear power • Improvement of production efficiency activities • Strengthening of manufacturing competitiveness • Optimization of market-based portfolio by region • Efficiency of business operation Business Strategy Direction Strengthening of new growth portfolio and competitiveness of existing business Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction concentrates its efforts on strengthening its new business portfolio by developing gas turbines, new and renewable energy, and digital solution technology as new growth engines to cope with rapid changes in the global power generation market which have arisen due to energy conversion policies around the world. We have achieved excellent results in our construction, EPC, and water businesses through the production and supply of thermal and nuclear power plants, seawater desalination plants, and wind power generators. Strengthening of profitability and organizational efficiency by improving business operations By continuously expanding the application of digital-based integrated design systems to minimize the quality failure costs, and by expanding the use of the Digital Factory in the mid and long term, thereby enhancing production efficiency and manufacturing competitiveness, we improve business operations. In addition, while the global economic downturn is prolonged, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction, which has a high current account deficit and debt ratio to GDP, strengthens its project management in major regions, and minimizes any risks that might be incurred in advance. We will maximize business profitability by strengthening organizational restructuring through portfolio conversion and design, production, and execution to improve and streamline business operations as a whole. 10 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Strategy & Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 11 New growth engine Gas Turbine With growing interest in eco-friendly power generation stemming from strengthened environmental regulations, global demand for gas turbines is expected to grow steadily along with new and renewable energy, with new orders exceeding 30GW/year. Under the Paris Agreement, the gas turbine market will grow more rapidly if greenhouse gas emissions are limited. Currently, all of the gas turbines for power generation used in Korea are imported from foreign countries, as gas turbine technology has only been mastered in a few advanced countries such as the US, Germany and Japan. Maintenance Service of US DTS Gas Turbine Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction selected high-capacity, high-efficiency gas turbines as a future new business in 2013 in response to demand for high-efficiency, eco-friendly power generation. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction completed the basic design in July 2017. Since finishing our detailed design in 2018, we have been working on the production of gas turbine primary products, and we plan to carry out a full speed full load test (FSFL) after the completion of large-scale assembly in 2019. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction completed the construction of a hot parts factory of an area size of approximately 5620m² in 2017, and has built in-house infrastructure such as a turbine shop and FSFL test facility for the production, inspection and repair of high temperature components, which are core parts of gas turbines. We are also equipped with various high-tech manufacturing equipment,such as 3D printing devices, which are applied to the core components of the combustor. The FSFL test facility was built to verify the performance and reliability of Doosan's GT, and is equipped with a real-time data acquisition system and over 3,500 sensors. We plan to use the successful demonstration the Gimpo cogeneration project in 2022 to advance into the domestic gas turbine market, currently heavily which depends on imports, as well as overseas market. 12 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Strategy & Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 13 Wind Power Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is concentrating its efforts on R&D and commercialization to cope with the overabundance of domestic and overseas energy conversion policies for new and renewable energy. In particular, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is accelerating the development of existing wind turbine technology while also building domestic and overseas onshore and offshore wind complexes. We plan to lead the domestic wind power generation market, having been selected as the prime contractor of a national development project for a 8MW offshore wind farm. 8MW offshore wind power generation system Providing a customized solution for each customer By performing comprehensive services in the field of wind power generation, including selection and review of the location of onshore and offshore wind farms, analysis of project feasibility study and provision of materials and equipment and EPC and O&M services we will establish ourselves as a Wind Power Total Solution Provider offering a customized solution for each customer. In 2011, we developed WinDS3000/91, the first 3MW wind turbine system in Korea. We have been supplying wind turbines for Yeongheung Wind Power Complex 2, and have received orders for Sangmyeong Onshore Wind Power (21MW) and Jeonnam Onshore Wind Power (42MW), thereby successfully establishing our domestic base. In 2015, we signed a contract to supply equipment for a KRW120 billion of offshore wind turbine project (60MW) off the southwest coast of Korea. In September 2017, we completed construction of the Tamra offshore wind turbine project (30MW) by EPC. In 2018, we also signed a 15year maintenance and repair contract for the offshore wind farm in the southwest. We are also diversifying our operations into businesses that can secure stable sales. We are continuously expanding our business overseas. In March 2018, we signed an agreement with the Vietnam Electricity Corporation (EVN) to build a 3MW offshore wind power complex linking the energy storage system (ESS) with the Vietnam General Construction Company CC1 (with a total of 105MW wind power). We are also promoting the establishment of overseas business bases, such as by signing business agreements for the development of power generation complexes. 14 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Strategy & Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 15 ESS In recent years, with the development of renewable energy technologies, distributed power generation such as solar power and wind power are drawing attention. The ESS business is expected to grow rapidly with an increase in the renewable energy market. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction acquired a US ESS S/W company in 2016 and actively pursued the market as an energy solution provider that can offset unstable power supply and reduce power purchase cost. Beacon ESS installation in California, USA In 2016, Doosan Group launched Doosan GridTech by acquiring 1Energy Systems, a company that had the core technology of ESS control system software, to enter the global energy storage system (ESS) market, including North America. Since then, Doosan GridTech's ESS control system technology and Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction's EPC capability have enabled the company to expand and accelerate the ESS business. In 2017, the company received a large-scale ESS project from LADWP, located in Los Angeles, USA. In 2018, Doosan GridTech successfully installed a 20MW/10MWh ESS near Bakersfield, California. We also continued to receive orders for the 5MWh Nabb and Atterbury projects from Duke Energy, a major utility company in North America, further strengthening the market presence in North America. As the policy to convert conventional energy into renewable energy continues in Korea, the company installed a 70MWh Demand Management ESS at Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction's Changwon Plant and the 10MWh SK Innovation Demand Management ESS in 2018. In 2018, our order receipts increased fourfold from the previous year to KRW 97.3 billion. Domestic and overseas ESS business growth will accelerate in 2019 due to the expansion of Doosan GridTech's software platform. 16 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Strategy & Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 17 Digital Innovation With the rapid progress of digital innovation in the business world accompanying the fourth industrial revolution, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction actively conducts research and development in various digital technology to cope with trends. In particular, the AI-based boiler combustion optimization and boiler tube management solution supplied to a 4,000MW power plant of Sansan Power, the largest private power generation company in India, was awarded the Pinnacle Award by SAP, the world's largest enterprise application software company, It was the first win as a Korean company in Pinnacle Award. In addition, we will develop operation and efficiency optimization solutions for seawater desalination, gas turbines, and wind power generation systems and will introduce them in sequence. Won SAP Pinnacle Award* 2019 First in Korea for a manufacturing company, not an IT company * Pinnacle Awards Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction won the award for outstanding value and achievement out of some 18,800 SAP's partner companies around the world. ISV (Independent Software Vendor) Partner (ISV Partner of the Year) '. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction promotes digital innovations in all of its business domains to stay in sync with the rapidly changing market environment. The company developed Prevision, a solution for power plant failure prediction, collaborated with Korea East-West Power in 2018 to stabilize plant operation using big data and plans to apply the solution to a wide range of customers. DHIC applied a combustion optimization solution to the Sasan project in India, which resulted in a 37% reduction in NOx emissions, and plans to build on this performance in expanding business to potential customers in emerging markets, such as Southeast Asia. For its desalination plant business, the company plans to develop an energy management system (EMS) to reduce the energy used by power plants and secure demonstration plants in the Middle East market to solidify its leading position in the desalination industry. Moreover, we conduct research and development in various digital solutions to optimize the operation and power generation efficiency of gas turbines that the company is currently in the localizing process. The company plans to develop and apply a wide range of solutions for the efficient operation of new and renewable energy by building wired and wireless networks in wind farms, which are continuously expanding, to implement an ICT convergent monitoring system for early online warning and data analysis, O&M management, and integrated controls. 18 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Strategy & Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 19 Operational Excellence An integrated design environment based on 3D models is being used and Industry 4.0 is being Manufacturing innovation that utilizes digital technology enhances competitiveness in quality, for Improved Business achieved in the heavy industries through Digital Factory, which combines digital technology with production costs and delivery, which will lead to improved profitability and help secure fundamental production sites to improve the competitiveness of the manufacturing industry. competitiveness for Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction. Operations Execution of production/ Production and quality 3D design Creation of design plans Material specification extraction Production plan work order manufacturing performance monitoring Integrated design Digital Factory Integrated Design System Digital Factory The integrated design system provides a work environment centered on standard design procedures Digital Factory is the unique smart factory of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction that defined for each team, as well as an environment in which all organizations and affiliates can visualizes, collects, and analyzes all sorts of production data using ICT technology, such as sensors perform 3D-based simultaneous design. It also offers an engineering database with various and automation equipment, to realize an optimized production process and environment. Since it functions and promotes projects to systematically manage the design data and can be utilized by was first established in June 2016, it has been conducting various tasks in the areas of automation non-design teams. Through this, we aim to strengthen our design competitiveness and reduce and digitalization and, in the midto long-term, the company aims to apply the Digital Factory costs from quality failure occurring due to design. in three stages throughout the entire production process to reinforce production efficiency and manufacturing competitiveness. Concept of integrated design Progress and roadmap of the Digital Factory Design Purchasing/production Step Step Step Securing fundamental Prevention of task competitiveness in 1 2 3 Improvement of design data flow Prevention of construction Improvement of design omission through efficiency through connection with interference issues in advance conformance with design plans and manufacturing through standard estimate ~2018.3 (Visualized) 2020~2021 (Connected) 2023~ (Optimized) previous and future design activities with real-time solutions calculation of volume through 3D process Industry 4.0 in the • Monitoring system-based operational status • Linking designs, production plans, • Simulation-based production planning production sector and waste elements orders and outcomes (quality) and management • Accumulating experience in successful • Sharing changes in real-time/ • Optimization based on big data analysis Design Implementation Implementation of Real-time 3D Automation of output Association with Digital Factory automation improving response speed estimation design system-based design simultaneous design (2D drawings/volume) Automation Discovering additional assignments, Achieving gradual advancement such Automation of unit attempting links and digital Design data 3D Modeling Data Document Item/BOM as remote operation connections among facilities BOM (Bill of Materials) information Digital Preparing basis to secure Improving operational flexibility Optimizing data-based production Drawing/3D shape visibility and data in the field through data connection operation Reference information Real-time accumulation of data and history management Progress and outcomes Securing conformance to estimate Capitalization of design data through real-time/ Securing of estimate propriety throughout the system Task automation has completed field application in 37 out of a total 51 cases centered on the 1st by utilizing the estimate database integrated saving of design data through timely sharing of current design data stage of unit automation, and achieved the expected effects. Task digitization is the stage in which a basic system is developed with the goal of securing visibility in the field of the 1st stage and a foundation to obtain data. In addition, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has established Progress and outcomes a work system capable of digitizing information and document quality and visible management After its establishment, the integrated design system has been applied to and is being utilized (production status and materials tracking) in the production process. Starting in January 2019, 14 in several EPC projects (10, as of May 2019), and is being used to estimate projects through systems have been utilized in everyday work. In addition, we introduced 'Digital Lean' activities to an integrated estimate planning system that utilizes the database and a standardized estimate optimize operational processes by utilizing data. As an example, we have secured cost reductions process. It has also continuously improved the work environment for turbine, generator, and Digital Factory at existing plants through virtual factory construction (process simulation) and have optimized boiler design in association with the Digital Factory. plans to increase the capacity of new plants (wind turbine, gas turbine). Future plans Future plans In 2019, we plan to internalize the integrated design process by changing management and focus We will continuously invest in core tasks of the Digital Factory and internalize an established on digital transformation activities in those operational aspects that can utilize the accumulated system, while consistently promoting manufacturing innovation through changes in the way we design data of other parts of the value chain. work and Digital Lean, an activity that eliminates waste and excess by utilizing digital technology such as IoT Connectivity, AI and Data Mining. 20 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business BusinessStrategy Portfolio• • Commitments Strategy&&Portfolio Sustainability •• CSR CommitmentstotoSustainability Management •• Appendix CSR Management 21 R&D of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction to Digital Services lead Future Business Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is strengthening its fundamental competitiveness by applying data analysis and ICT technology to its In addition, we are developing add-on service packages (DooCare, turbine vibration solutions, and more) targeting GT/ST with the operations, and is developing a new independent business model aim of expanding digital solution products. We are developing Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is continuing to pursue the transformation of its R&D portfolio along with new business/ by accumulating product differentiation that incorporates digital solutions for renewable energy and water O&M, too. Along with new technology acquisition strategies. In response to energy policy and environmental changes, R&D is focused on new and technology. Last year, we developed digital solutions and explored priorall this, we conducted TFT activity for the commercialization of AI, renewable energy, digital services, and future innovation technologies. We plan to secures the technological competitiveness to technologies in the field of digital plants. In 2019, we are focused on formed a company AI committee to seek out areas for technological prepare our future business and lead industrial trends. accelerating digital transformation through content enhancement. We development and potential business applications, commercialized AI are expanding our existing digital service package 1.0, which includes using digital solutions, and built an in-house AI ecosystem. combustion optimizer and a boiler tube monitoring system, to the GHECO thermal power plant and other plants. Status of Ongoing Digital Transformations at Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Renewable Energy Hydrogen Eco-friendly Facilities Under the direction of the current Government, policy moves to In 2016, we successfully completed the development of CDI (Capacitive • Establishment of Digital Factory Improvement introduce a hydrogen-based economy are on the rise, including De-Ionization) technology and secured a new eco-friendly water Strengthening fundamental competitiveness by applying • Establishment of bid document (ITB) review system of Operational data analysis, ICT technology to operations • Establishment of purchased product management and the announcement of a roadmap for a hydrogen-based economy. treatment technology which is not based on traditional reverse osmosis Excellence advanced logistics system Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is paying special attention (RO) membranes. This technology utilizes ions to significantly reduce to the field of hydrogen in response to these coming changes in the amount of chemicals used in conventional processes and improve • Customized fault prediction solution (PreVision) the future fuel mix and we are entering the market with a proposed the efficiency of cooling and circulating water treatments, thereby New Utilizing ICT technology to add value to existing products and • Turbine total operation service (DooCare) project targeting central / local governments. Additionally, the minimizing the negative environmental impact. We performed two Products/ create customer value •W ind turbine operation data analysis and digital Services company has formed a TFT (task force team) to analyze the value pilot evaluations for the Korea District Heating Corporation. After management system chain and key technologies in each field in preparation for the full testing a system with a commercial capacity of 500 tons/day, we will force of the emerging hydrogen industry and to establish strategies roll it out to 16 branches of the the Korea District Heating Corporation Development • Digital service commercialization for thermal power plant in India for securing fundamental technologies for Doosan Heavy Industries. by 2020 and expand the project to domestic co-generation plants. Evolving into an independent new business model by increasingly of New • Development of core parts using 3D printers We are considering moving into related fields by investing in either a In addition to our water treatment technology, we have developed differentiating products that incorporate digital technology Business • Customers' proposal for freshwater EMS solution large-scale hydrogen extraction and production facility or liquefaction our own EME (Electrostatic Mist Eliminator : a wet particulate matter technology, or exploring the hydrogen supply businesses and businesses electrostatic precipitator) technology and particulate matter integrated related to fuel cells/ renewable energy. We are also in the process of environmental facility (AQCS (Air Quality Control System) : EME + pursuing an energy self-sufficient island using our P2G business and NL-GGH (Non-leakage Gas-Gas Heater) + Advanced FGD integrated Status of ongoing strategies to secure new business and new technology clean energy hydrogen station business at Incheon International facility) we are currently applying these technologies to actual plants. Field Areas of Interest Status Airport. In April 2019, we signed an MOU with Changwon City and In the future, we will secure PQ by constructing and operating an • Large scale hydrogen extraction/production, liquefaction the Changwon Industry Promotion Agency to promote a hydrogen EME demonstration plant, and contribute to strengthening the Hydrogen economy technology and hydrogen supply business • Technological analysis and technology acquisition strategy based on value chain • Fuel cell/new and renewable energy project liquefaction and storage vessel development project. We will construct competitiveness of environmentally friendly facilities at standard the hydrogen liquefaction plant according to EPC standards. thermal power plants. Wind power generation • Re-powering • Establishment and execution of technical competitiveness of new & renewable • Large-scale wind power generation complex control system O&M (Operating & Maintenance) business • Development of digital service package for major power plant equipment • Expansion of line-up of existing digital solution products • Development of business solution for renewable energy and water O&M Digital solutions • New service business associated with new technology such (Operating & Maintenance) as AI • Operation of AI experts training program •Expansion of applied products such as GT service and defense, and 3D printing • Expansion of high value/high quality product application reinforcement of equipment/personnel • Development of technology and mass production technology for the production • Lightweight, high-strength materials for space/aerospace/ New materials of Korean launch vehicle Ti container defense applications • Feasibility review of aviation Ti material parts • Pilot Test Completed (20 tons/day, 100 tons/day) Eco-friendly water • Substitution of cogeneration/combined-cycle water •D  evelopment and demonstration of technology for commercialization treatment (CDI*) treatment system (500 tons/day) Fine dust reduction • Improvement of standard thermal power environment • Development of independent integrated environmental facilities solution equipment facilities (AQCS **) Signed MOU for hydrogen-hydrogen liquefaction and storage device development Signed MOU between Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction and Korea District project Heating Corporation for the commercialization of eco-friendly water treatment * CDI : Capacitive De-Ionization, Electro-absorption desalination technology technology ** AQCS (Air Quality Control System) : EME + NL-GGH + Advanced FGD integrated facility 22 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Strategy & Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 23 Strengthening the Power Plant & Service 2018 Business Performance Boilers 2019 Forecast and Business Strategies Large boiler orders are expected from Southeast Asia. In order to secure Competitiveness of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is a global corporation with original Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction won construction orders for cost competitiveness in the Southeast Asian market, we will transfer our technology and performance in boilers, turbines, and generators, all of which are Samcheok Thermal Power Plant Units 1 and 2 at KRW 3.5 trillion in 2018, production and design capabilities to Vina Vietnam and expand our market Existing Businesses essential equipment in power generation. Based on our outstanding technology, supplying boilers and AQCS. The Samcheok POSPower Plant will be a share in Southeast Asia by utilizing Vina personnel and production bases. coal-fired power plant with an ultra-supercritical pressure system that In addition, orders for 100-500MW boilers are expected to expand in we are successfully operating various power plant projects including coal-fired has a steam pressure of 246kg/cm2 or more and a steam temperature Europe, Japan, Indonesia, and the Philippines, and we plan to strengthen thermal power plants, combined cycle power plants, and nuclear power plants. of 593˚c or higher, which will increase power generation efficiency. In our capacity to design and manufacture medium-and small-sized boilers addition, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction made its first entry into such as CFB and biomass boilers. As the WtE (waste to energy) market is the Japanese power generation market by exporting core components expected to expand due to increased demand, we are planning to build of power plants to Sodegaura Biomass Power Plant in 2018. Doosan an optimized WtE business model. Since the AQCS market is expected to Sipat Thermal Power Plant in India Heavy Industries & Construction will supply its environmentally friendly grow steadily in the global environment, we will actively pursue domestic CFB (circulating fluidized bed) boiler and high efficiency steam turbine, and overseas markets based on our references. scheduled to be completed in June 2022. Based on the performance of the Sodegaura power plant, we will actively pursue the biomass power generation market, which is expected to grow continuously. Turbines/Generators Recently, interest in environmentally-friendly power generation has been As the demand for large steam turbines has been reduced due to the increasing as a solution to the problem of CO2 emissions and fine dust, changes in domestic energy policies and the Paris Climate Change which are emerging as global problems. Doosan Heavy Industries & Agreement, Doosan will increase the cost competitiveness of its Czech Construction has selected gas turbines as its key future growth engine, subdiary Doosan Skoda Power to boost market share and secure as the company expects to see an increase in the market demand for profitability by offering competitive smallto mid-sized steam turbines and combined cycle power plants. As such, the company completed the generators. In addition, we are devoting ourselves to the development of detailed design phase in 2018 and started on production in 2019. The gas turbines in order to cope with the demand for combined-cycle power plan is to complete the manufacturing, assembly and performance testing plants, which is expected to increase proportionately as coal-fired power of the gas turbines by the end of 2019. In addition, despite the downturn generation shrinks. We are working on the production of a gas turbine in the domestic coal-fired power generation market, we have succeeded for 2019, and are going to carry out performance tests after assembly in in winning orders for Samcheok POS Power Plants #1, 2 and STG for 2019. Following the successful demonstration of our gas turbine project, coal-fired power plants based on our existing experience and technology. we intend to expand our share of the domestic LNG power generation In addition, Skoda Power, a subsidiary in the Czech Republic, has entered market and advance into overseas markets. We will develop various gas the US turbine market for the first time, winning the US Steam Turbine turbine models in succession to expand into the 60Hz and 50Hz markets. supply project Lansing PJT. Services In 2018, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction successfully completed Demand for AQCS is growing in new markets, such as Russia, as is the the conversion of Yeongdong Thermal Power Plant Unit 1 into the first demand for R&M (Renovation & Modernization) services in Southeast and largest capacity biomass plant in Korea. In addition, in November Asia. The need for individual products replacements and maintenance 2018, we won an order for the fuel conversion of Yeongdong Thermal are increasing in Southeast Asia and Korea. In response, Doosan Heavy Power Plant #2 worth about KRW 70 billion. This project will convert the Industries & Construction will actively open up new markets through local 200MW Yeongdong Thermal Power Plant No.2, which was completed partnerships. We will take on more orders for individual products and in 1979, from coal fuel to biomass fuel. Doosan Heavy Industries & O&M through pre-sales using our OEM technology and various package Construction received orders for Yeongdong Thermal Power Plant 1 products utilizing our subsidiaries' capabilities. and 2 in succession as the demand for fuel conversion from aging coal2018 Highlights fired power plants was increasing. In addition, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction began development of digital technology-based power plant services in 2017 and completed development of a Boiler Digital • Won the supplier contract for Samcheok POS Power Plant Solution (BTMS, Combustion Optimization) in June 2018. A contract for • First exporting of power plant main components to Japanese market the pilot project of Sasan #1 in India was signed and the demonstration • Received order for Yeongdong #2 biomass fuel conversion project project will be completed in 2019. DTS, a gas turbine service subsidiary in • Signed a contract for demonstration of Digital Solution and started full-scale business the US, won a large gas turbine service project in 2019, and successfully • Strengthened business by entering the US Steam Turbine service market ventured into the Mexican market for the first time. In addition, it has strengthened its position in the US market by winning a long-term rotor • Completed development of service selling package service PJT in Michigan, USA. 24 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Introduction of Business Introduction of Business Boiler Major products and services Turbine | Generator • Pulverized coal-fired boiler (PC boiler) We retain competencies in design, manufarturing, and installation for the core components of boilers, • Lignite Boiler and since our first order intake for power generation equipment in 1976 (Yeongwol Combined Cycle • Oil Boiler Power), we have accumulated a proud history of order intake in thermal power generation that totals • Downshot Boiler • Circulating fluidized bed boiler (CFB Boiler) approximately 82GW. By acquiring Babcock in 2006, a company with original boiler technology, we were able to obtain the capabilities to design and produce boilers in-house, and a number of Major project portfolios our products, such as oil-fired boilers and 1000MW USC boilers, have been selected as top global products. Moreover, we acquired Lentjes of Germany to secure technical competencies in AQCS and • Rabigh PP2/Oil (Saudi, 700MW x 4) • Bulk Order II (India, 800MW x 5) CFB boilers, thus reinforcing of domestic and overseas capabilities in the equipment and materials • Shinboryeong #1,2 (South Korea, 1,000MW x 2) business. We currently operate design groups and production sites in Changwon, India (Doosan Power • Mong Duong II (Vietnam, 600MW x 2) Systems India), and Vietnam (Doosan VINA), and through efforts to improve the technology and cost • Vinh Tan #4 (Vietnam, 600MW x 2) competitiveness of subsidiaries under the management of headquarters, we continue to maximize the • Song Hau #1 (Vietnam, 600MW x 2) synergy of global operations. • Gangneung Anin #1,2 (South Korea, 1,000MW x 2) • Gosung Hai #1,2 (South Korea, 1,040MW x 2) • Samcheok POSPower #1,2 Boiler, Environmental Equipment (South Korea, 1,050MW x 2) • Sodegaura Biomass CFB (Japan, 75MW x 1) Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is a world-class turbine used to activate the generator for producing electricity. Starting with the and generator original equipment manufacturer that can design, Seocheon Thermal Power Plant's 200MW steam turbine in 1978, we now manufacture and install core power plant equipment such as steam supply steam turbines designed and manufactured in-house to more turbines, generators and heat exchangers/condensers. We provide steady than 50 countries around the world. In addition, we are developing power solutions that are optimized not only for new power plants Korea's first gas turbine as part of a national project. Generator is a key in Korea and abroad but also for the improvement of aging power component of power plants which generates electricity by turning the plants. Through ongoing technological development and innovation rotational force of the turbine into electromotive force. We are currently we are able to provide our customers with economical and high-quality producing generators, ranging from the 100MW to 1,500MW-class, for products. Turbine is a state-of-the-art machine. High-pressure steam large capacity steam turbines, gas turbines and diesel engines of 50 and generated from boilers, steam generators, or HRSGs (heat recovery 60 Hz. steam generator), rotates its blades, and the resulting rotational force is Major products and services Major project portfolios Steam turbines Generators Thermal exchangers • Shinboryeong #1, 2 TPP 1,019MW x 2 • Fadhili CHPP 176MW x 2 • DST-V (for industrial purposes) • DGen-A (air cooling) • Water Cooled Condenser • Shin Hanul $1, 2 NPP 1,455MW x 2 • Muara Tawar CCPP 150MW x 1, 250MW x 2 • DST-G10 (for industrial/ • Dgen-H (hydrogen cooling) • District Water Heater • Vinh Tan #4 (Vietnam, 600MW x 2) • Assuit & Cairo west 650MW X 2 power generation purposes) • Dgen-W (water cooling) • High & Low Pressure Heater • Gangneung Anin #1,2 (South Korea, • Boryeong 3 R&M 550MW x 1 • DST-G20 (for industrial / • DGen-N (water cooling, • MSR (Moisture Sperator & 1,000MW x 2) • Shin Kori #3,4 NPP 1,400MW x 2 power generation purposes) nuclear power) • Goseong Hai Thermal Power Plant #1,2 Reheater) • Samcheok  POSPower #1, 2, Boiler, • DST-S10 Single/Double TPP (1,040MW x 2) Environmental Facility (South Korea • Steam Jet Ejector casing (for power generation • Songhau TPP 600MW x 2 (1,050MW x 2) purposes) • Vent Steam Condenser • Hwaseong Dongtan 2 CHP 800MW X 1 • DST-S20 (for power • Air Cooled Condenser generation purposes) • DST-S30 (for power generation purposes) • DST-N (for nuclear power purposes) 26 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Strategy & Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 27 Introduction of Business 2018 Business Performance Service Major products and services Export of core equipment to Sodegaura power plant in Japan Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction first entered the Japanese power generation market by • R&M Based on our existing capabilities in new build sales, design, and PJT management, we began targeting • O&M (Operating&Maintenance) exporting core equipment to the Sodegaura biomass power plant in Japan. The contract for the design the power generation service market in 2017 for the performance improvement, repair, maintenance, • Fuel conversion and supply of equipment such as boilers and turbines ordered by Chiyoda Corporation of Japan was fuel conversion, etc., of power plants, and currently boast a range of domestic and overseas project • Diagnoses/evaluations concluded on November 2018 and based on the performance of this project, we are planning to push • Asset management references including the biomass fuel conversion of Yeongdong Thermal Power Plants #1 and 2, into the biomass market in Japan. • Digital Solution Eraring Power Station Upgrade Project (Australia), Bandel #5 R&M Project (India), and Morupule A • RMS (Remote Monitoring Service) Retrofit Project (Botswana). In addition, we are actively leveraging Doosan Babcock, which possesses Acquisition of contract for fuel conversion of Yeongdeong Thermal Power Plant #2 long-term experience and know-how acquired over the years on the service industry, thereby creating Major project portfolios Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction won a KRW 70 billion contract for fuel conversion of the organizational and personal synergy. Doosan Babcock also has a foothold in Europe and we operate • Eraring Power Station Upgrade (Australia, 660MW x 4) Yeongdong Thermal Power Plant #2, which was ordered by KOSEP in 2018. This is a project to convert regional hubs in the U.S. (DPSA), Middle East (DPSAr), and India (DPSI) to focus on not only the stable • Bandel #5 Plant R&M (India, 210MW x 1) the 200MW coal-fired power plant, which was built in 1979, into a biomass power plant. Doosan Heavy operation of and support for Korean power plants but also on extending our foundation for overseas • Morupule A Retrofit (Botswana, 30MW x 4) Industries & Construction plans to complete the project by replacing existing components, such as the businesses. In addition, we have developed a service package that provides digital-based services to • Sabarmati E&F (India, 110MW x 2) boilers, by June 2020. Lignite biomass, which will be used at the Yeongdong Thermal Power Plant after • Performance improvement construction for Boryeong customers in the power plant sector and concluded a pilot contract for Sasan #1 in India, completing Thermal Power Plant Unit 3 (516MW x 2) the fuel conversion is completed, can help reduce air pollutants such as sulfur oxides and nitrogen oxides the demonstration in 2019. In the future, we expect to maximize the performance and efficiency of • Biomass fuel conversion for Yeongdong Thermal Power by 65-75% compared to existing coal fuels and eliminate 1.35 million tons of CO2 per year. This will the power plants through digital solutions, which will provide customers with significant additional Plant Unit 1 (125MW x 1) contribute to improving the environment. • Biomass fuel conversion for Yeongdong Thermal Power profits. Plant Unit 2 (200MW x 1) Contract signing for digital solution demo project and full commencement of business Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has been promoting commercialization of our Digital Solution since 2017. As such, we developed a combustion optimization/boiler tube monitoring system, a key solution needed for the commercialization of our services package 1.0 in 2018. This technology is currently under trial at Sasan Plant #1 in India and is expected to be completed in April 2019. After the completion of the demonstration, additional consultations are underway the possible extension of the Sasan #1 contract and rolling this out to additional units. Based on our performance at Sasan, we plan Eraring Thermal Power Plant in Australia to expand our digital solution business to India, Vietnam, Indonesia and Chile. Entry into the North American steam turbine market and strengthening of our gas turbine business Skoda Power, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction's Czech subsidiary, concluded a contract for US Lansing PJT October 2018, achieving its first STG supply PJT in the US market. Lansing PJT won in 2018 is worth KRW 11 billion, and SKODA Power successfully won the orders for STG Scope by actively providing technical supports for the client. Doosan Turbomachinery Services (DTS) also acquired new gas turbine rotor supply and long-term rotor service PJTs from MCV, Michigan, USA. After recognizing the necessity of replacing MCV's rotor, DTS successfully won the order by proposing differentiated solutions such as new rotor replacement and extended rotor life. This PJT was awarded due to our gas turbine organization and support from Skoda Power, and we plan to further expand our gas turbine service business through our global network. Completion of Service Selling Package Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction completed its Selling Package in 2018 to provide systematic services to power generation customers. The Selling Package includes 8 Business Modules, about 90 tech solutions and six customer-oriented KPIs. The Selling package was produced in catalog form and posted on the official website of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction to provide an easy access to customers who are curious about the company's service business. 28 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Strategy & Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 29 Plant EPC Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has become a global EPC leader by maximizing customer satisfaction and providing total solutions based on its business portfolio, from power plants to general construction. 2018 Business Performance Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is promoting diversification into Mong Dung 2 Thermal Power Plant in Vietnam new markets and expansion of business areas based on its EPC performance capabilities. We have signed contracts for the transformation of the Grati combined-cycle thermal power plant, in 2016, conversion of the Muara Tawar combined-cycle power plant, in March 2017, and with JAWA 9 and 10 thermal power plants, in March 2019, thereby consolidating our position in Indonesia successfully. As a result of continuous efforts to expand into new markets and grow our business, we signed a contract with Sodegaura Biomass of Japan in November 2018 for the design and supply of equipment. In the domestic market, a consortium between Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction and POSCO E&C won an order for the 1,000 MW Samcheok Thermal Power Plant. In addition, large projects such as Song Hau1 in Vietnam and Fadhili in Saudi Arabia are under construction, and our EPC performance has been recognized. 2019 Forecast and Business Strategies As the proportion of coal-fired power plants is expected to decrease due to the trend of Powering Past Coal in the power generation market, EPC projects are expected to meet with difficulties. In response to this trend, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction will continue its efforts to enhance price competitiveness and competency in the combined-cycle power plant market, in which the scale of projects is expected to stay flat. In terms of our business portfolio, we plan to secure business opportunities through product diversification. We will continue to make incursions into new businesses including the biomass business, and maximize our potential to win contracts by expanding domestic construction business opportunities, especially those related to power generation projects such as the construction of nuclear power plants overseas, general construction, and projects related to national policy. In terms of implementation, we plan to reflect the successful experiences we had with Rabigh 2 in Saudi Arabia and Vinh Tan 4 in Vietnam, while enhancing competitiveness through advanced outsourcing of management and systematic operation of manpower. In addition, we will continue to be a leader in power plant EPC projects by integrating digital technology into power plant construction, reflecting the digital needs of customers. 2018 Highlights • Contracted with JAWA 9,10 thermal power plant in Indonesia • Received order for construction of Samcheok Thermal Power Plant Vinh Tan 4 Coal-fired Thermal Power Plant in Vietnam 30 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Strategy & Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 31 Gheco One thermal power plant, Thailand Major products and services Main Performance and Results of 2018 Rabigh 2 Thermal Power Plant, Saudi Arabia • Power plant Signed contract with JAWA 9, 10 thermal power plant in Indonesia · Thermal power plant We signed a contract to construct JAWA 9 and 10 thermal power plants, · Combined-cycle power plant totaling about KRW 1.9 trillion (Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., • General plant • Civil engineering Ltd.: KRW 1.6 trillion), which will be constructed in West Java, Indonesia. • Architecture The project will be executed with HK, a local state-owned construction company in consortium. Following the success of the Grati combined-cycle Major project portfolios power plant in 2016 and the Muara Tawar combined-cycle power plant in • Rabigh Power Plant No.2 TPP (Saudi Arabia): 700MW x 4 2017, the company is consolidating its position in the Indonesian market. • Mong Duong II TPP (Vietnam): 600MW x 2 The company will supply two 1,000MW class power plants that adhere to • Vinh Tan 4 TPP (Vietnam): 600MW x 2 global environmental standards, and will complete EPC in 2024. • Song Hau1 TPP (Vietnam): 600MW x 2 • Vinh Tan 4 Extension TPP (Vietnam): 600MW x 1 • Sipat TPP (India): 660MW x 3 Contract won for Samcheok Thermal Power Plant Project • Mundra TPP (India): 800MW x 5 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction won the order for the construction • Raipur TPP (India): 685MW x 2 of the Samcheok Thermal Power Plant, the fifth 1,000MW thermal power • Obra C TPP (India): 660MW x 2 plant in Korea. The total construction cost is about KRW 3.5 trillion, and • Jawaharpur TPP (India): 660MW x 2 • Gheco One TPP (Thailand): 700MW x 1 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction (KRW 1.8 trillion) will work in • Saemangeum TPP (Korea): 152MW x 2 consortium with POSCO E&C (KRW 1.7 trillion). The power plant will be • Samcheok TTP (Korea): 1,050MW x 2 built in Samcheok, Gangwon-do, and the total power generation capacity • UAE Jebel Ali M CCPP : 2,000MW will be 2,100MW (1,050MW X 2 units). Following the USC method, the • Qurayyah (Add-on) CCPP (Saudi Arabia): 1,330MW first is scheduled to will be completed in 2023 and the second unit in • Fadhili CCPP (Saudi Arabia): 1,519MW • Karabatan CCPP (Kazakhstan): 310MW 2024. At this time, we will have built a world-class eco-friendly power Jebel Ali M Combined Cycle Power Plant, UAE • Grati Add-on (Indonesia) plant and secured the construction of a unique domestic 1,000MW • Muara Tawar Add-on (Indonesia) thermal power plant. We will actively pursue overseas markets based on • Sodegaura Biomass (Japan): 75MW this achievement. • Hwaseong Dongtan CCPP (Korea): 800MW • Seoul Combined Cycle Power Plant(CCPP) (Korea) : 800MW • Shin Kori#3, 4 nuclear power plant construction (Korea) First entry into the Japanese power market • Shin Kori#5, 6 nuclear power plant construction (Korea) We signed a contract in November 2018 for the design and supply of core • Samcheok LNG #5, 6, 7 storage facility (Korea) equipment such as boilers and turbines for the Biomass power plant to be • Noibai-Laocai Highway (Vietnam) built in Sodegaura City, Chiba Prefecture, Japan. Doosan Heavy Industries • Incheon-Gimpo Expressway (Korea) & Construction will supply its own CFB (Circulating Fluidized Bed) boiler Major construction site achieves accident-free hours • Wonju-Gangneung railroad construction (Korea) and high efficiency steam turbine to the power plant. Biomass is a woodThe Fadhili construction site (15 million hours) and Jawaharpur • Samcheok Green Power ground work (Korea) • Suncheon Doosan We've (Korea) based fuel made from wood, grains and plants. It has been attracting construction site (6 million hours) have reached accident-free • Trimage (Korea) attention as an eco-friendly energy source because it contains almost no operational status. This is only possible without a single LTI (Lost • Doosan Alf-heim (Korea) sulfur oxide, which is the main cause of pollution, and its nitrogen oxide Time Incident) for a certain period after the start of construction. emissions are only about 30% those of coal. It is meaningful that this These achievements are the result of the steady development of contract has provided the basis for further advancement of the biomass autonomous safety activities with our partners based on a systematic power generation market and the conservative growth of the Japanese EHS (Environmental Health and Safety) system. power generation market. Introduction of Business Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction holds competency in EPC (Engineering, Procurement and Construction) with which we can execute the entire process, from power plant design and supply of equipment to construction and trial operation, and we have completed a number of successful domestic and overseas projects. Customer satisfaction is achieved by meeting performance, delivery period, and quality objectives and offering a comprehensive solution through the provision of indepth services from the initial stage to the completion of a project. We conduct various projects in domestic and overseas general plants, civil engineering, and construction industries based on our broad spectrum of experience and technology, and continue to lead changes in social infrastructure and residential environments. 32 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Strategy & Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 33 Water Plant As a global leader in the water industry, we offer a full range of solutions, from Jeddah RO Ph.3, Saudi Arabia Yanbu MED, Saudi Arabia seawater desalination to water treatment. 2018 Business Performance As a global leader in the water industry, we offer a full range of solutions, from seawater desalination to water treatment. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has solidified its position as a global water solution provider based on its stable technology and high customer trust despite difficulties in the global water market, leading to plant orders and efficiency demands. In particular, we won a privately-funded desalination project in Oman through equity participation, strengthened our position in the Middle East desalination market, and expanded our business scope to EPC and Developer. In the field of water treatment, we also signed a contract to supply large-scale water treatment facilities from the UK water service provider and completed a water treatment plant in Oman. In the water treatment field, we also reaffirmed the customer's trust in our technology and performance capabilities. 2019 Forecast and Business Strategies In 2019, it is expected that the seawater desalination market will continue to be focused mainly on privately-funded projects primarily in the Middle East, which is a major buyer. With the recent shift in orders from privatelyowned companies and aggressive sales activities of major competitors, competition in the market is expected to intensify, but Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction plans to secure competitiveness through pricing and technological development. In addition, we are actively participating in the private equity business and expanding to a long-term business linked to EPC, securing a stable source of income and, in particular, 2018 Highlights securing efficient plant operation technology using Digital Solution. By region, we plan to secure EPC orders through equity participation for • Received order for desalination plant in Oman large-scale privately-owned desalination projects in the Middle East, •W on contracts for eco-friendly water treatment facilities (mid-long term water treatment facilities in United Kingdom, including Saudi Arabia and Kuwait. In particular, we are continuing to zero-discharge waste water system in Southeast Asia) strengthen our competitiveness in efficient plant operation in conjunction Shuaibah Ph.3 Seawater desalination plant, Saudi Arabia with Digital Solution. In the Middle East and elsewhere, we expect to expand our business by focusing on new markets, such as Chile and Egypt. In addition, Doosan Enpure, a subsidiary in the UK, will accelerate the expansion of business through the acquisition of advanced water treatment facilities. 34 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Strategy & Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 35 Major products and services Main Performance and Results in 2018 • Seawater desalination plant Expansion of business area with order of desalination plant in Contract to supply a desulfurized wastewater ZLD system to a ·Reverse osmosis (RO) Oman and equity participation thermal power plant in Southeast Asia ·Multi-effect distillation (MED) ·Multi-stage flash (MSF) Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction won an order for the Sharqiyah By commercializing its internally-developed ZLD (Zero Liquid Discharge) • Water treatment & sewage and waste water treatment RO seawater desalination plant from OPWP. The company participated system, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction won bids for desulfurized plant in the construction of a seawater desalination plant as well as a joint wastewater ZLD projects at thermal power plants in Obra-C, India and ·Drinking water treatment, power plant and industrial water treatment venture with Japanese and Omani companies. Doosan Heavy Industries & Song Hau, Vietnam. This system is the most advanced eco-friendly facility ·Sewage treatment and reuse Construction is expanding its business scope to developer to develop and that can process not only suspended solids and heavy metal components ·Power plant and industrial waste water treatment operate a seawater desalination project. We can expect additional revenue filtered through existing water treatment facilities, but also nitrates and • Plant operation and maintenance for 20 years. With this order, Doosan Heavy Industries is consolidating selenium, which have become regulated elements around the world. • Sludge treatment and resource recycling plant its position by re-entering the Oman market following Sohar seawater Through this project, the thermal power plants are now capable of • Eco-friendly Zero Liquid Discharge treatment facilities • Pressure flotation equipment (Enflo-DAF™ ) desalination and Al Anab sewage treatment plants. purifying about 300m3 (Obra-C) and 312m3 (Song Hau) of desulfurized • Low-energy anaerobic MBR system (LENA MBR) water every day. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction's desulfurized • Large-capacity fiber filter (Doosan Fiber Filter) Order for a seawater desalination facility in Bahrain wastewater desalination system has been expanding into the Southeast Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction won an order for the BAPCO Asian market, following the Yeongheung Thermal Power Plant in Korea Major project portfolios MED desalination plant in Bahrain. We successfully supplied the Yanbu last year. • Shoaibah Ph.4, Saudi Arabia Ph.2 Exp. (the world's largest single-capacity MED facility) and the Marafiq • Yanbu Ph.3, Saudi Arabia MED seawater desalination plant in Saudi Arabia. With this order, Completed Al Ansab phase 2 sewage treatment plant in Oman • Yanbu MED, Saudi Arabia Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction secured MED technology and Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction successfully completed Phase 2 Water treatment facilities • Marafiq MED, Saudi Arabia • Ras Al Khair Ph.1 (Hybrid), Saudi Arabia competitiveness in the desalination market. of the Al Ansab sewage treatment plant in Oman. The Al Ansab project • Jeddah SWRO Ph.3, Saudi Arabia is the largest-capacity sewage treatment plant in the Middle East and • Shuaibah RO Expansion, Saudi Arabia Contract to supply a long-term water treatment system to a North Africa with an MBR (membrane bio reactor) and has proven its Introduction of Business • Shuaibah IWPP, Saudi Arabia UK-based water service company outstanding EHS capabilities by achieving 3 million hours of zero-accident • Sohaiba Ph.2, Saudi Arabia Possessing extensive of experience in supplying and operating seawater desalination and water Doosan Enpure, DHIC's overseas subsidiary, signed an 8-year agreement time after the commencement of construction. • Fujairah Ph.1 (Hybrid), United Arab Emirates treatment plants both in Korea and overseas, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction seeks the • Jebel Ali 'E', United Arab Emirates for water and sewer plant design, equipment supply, and construction maximum satisfaction of its customers through various business models that not only supply mere • Sharqiyah IWP RO, Oman and maintenance service in the midland region of the United Kingdom equipment and facilities, but also offer operation and maintenance services for private sector projects, • Sohar IWPP, Oman with Seven Trent Water, the water service utility in the Birmingham region. • Al Ahnsab STP, Oman including turnkey projects. • Ras Laffan B, Qatar • BAPCO MED, Kingdom of Bahrain Desalination equipment • Doha RO Ph.3, Kuwait Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is one of the world's top seawater desalination players, • Shuwaikh SWRO, Kuwait owning independent patents related to the reverse osmosis (RO) method, which uses membranes • Sabiya Ph.1&2, 3, Kuwait to filter out salt, and thermal technology that evaporates the source water then condensates vapor, • Az Zour South Ph.2, Kuwait • Shoaibah Pumping Station 'C', Kuwait both of which are key technologies in seawater desalination. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction • Benghazi, Libya has secured large-capacity facility technology for the RO method, which has recently been applied to • AMP 7 water treatment business, United Kingdom various large desalination facilities, and also possesses world-class technology and experience as the • Birmingham Resilience, United Kingdom leader of the field of thermal seawater desalination, represented by MSF (Multi-Stage Flash) and MED • Strongford THP, United Kingdom (Multi-Effect Distillation). • Horsley WTW, United Kingdom • Woodmansterne, United Kingdom • Bellozanne New STW Ph.3, United Kingdom Eco-friendly water treatment facilities • Northumbrian Water, United Kingdom Along with Doosan Enpure, a U.K.-based affiliate and an expert in fresh water and sewage treatment, • Southern and East Water, United Kingdom sludge treatment and the technology to turn sludge into energy, Doosan Heavy Industries & • Escondida Water Supply, Chile Construction possesses engineering competency and experience that encompass the entire field of • Obra-C ZLD, India • Song Hau ZLD, Vietnam water treatment. Through the advanced treatment technology utilizing membrane filtration and • Gijang SWRO, Republic of Korea evaporation that it has been accumulating in the seawater desalination business, Doosan Heavy • Yeoung-heung ZLD, Republic of Korea Industries & Construction supplies Reuse facilities and equipment tailored to different needs including the removal of specific harmful industrial substances, maintenance of rivers, landscaping, agricultural, industrial water, etc. Zero liquid discharge treatment facilities Based on our know-how from existing desalination facilities, we have succeeded in developing ZLD (zero liquid discharge), which can totally block or minimize the discharge of wastewater and produce highpurity reusable water. With this technology, desulferized wastewater from power plants at home and abroad is being supplied to the treatment industry, and we will expand its application in to the oil & gas market in the future. 36 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Strategy & Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 37 Nuclear Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is the world leader in major components 2018 Business Performance Forecast and Business Strategy for 2019 for nuclear equipment, having supplied the largest number in the world for the DHIC carries out projects to strengthen the safety of nuclear power plants In response to the government's policy to continue the energy conversion, past 30 years. We are recognized for the design and manufacturing technology in order to conform to the national energy conversion policy. These include DHIC is actively working to win major overseas nuclear power plant projects of the world's best nuclear power equipment, and will continue to make efforts the Hanul #1&2 Replacement Reactor Vessel Head project that uses highin countries like Czech Republic, Saudi Arabia, and India, as well as SMR to become a global leader in the nuclear power market by taking part in the quality products with enhanced materials and the latest technologies, (Small Modular Reactor) projects, such as NuScale in the United States development of projects and technology for small and medium-sized nuclear such as automatic welding, Hanul #3&4, and Hanbit #5&6 CEDM nozzle and SMART in Saudi Arabia. Orders for transport and storage containers power plants, transport/storage containers for spent nuclear fuel, nuclear preventive maintenance project to help to maintain the nuclear ecosystem (cask) project is expected to be delayed due to another review of postdismantling, etc. through joint project execution with small but competitive companies usage unclear fuel processing plans and approval issues. Nevertheless, based on the proven technologies. Moreover, despite the governmental DHIC plans to implement its commercialization program by participating decision to suspend the construction of all new nuclear power plants in new business and technological development to enhance the safety of in Korea, APR1400, which is Korea's nuclear reactor model, received to existing nuclear power plants and complete decommissioning. our advantages it’s exports the US NRC Standard Design Approval in recognition for its technology and safety. Nuclear power plant steam generators Nuclear power plant reactor vessel 2018 Highlights • APR 1400 Standard Design Approval obtained from US Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) • Signed cooperation agreement with NuScale Power of US for SMR(Small Modular Reactor) business • Participated in the UAE nuclear power plant maintenance project 38 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Strategy & Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 39 Casting & Forging Introduction of Business We have established a total production facility for the manufacturing and processing of essential materials for various Starting with Hanbit Nuclear Power Plant Units 1 and 2 in 1986, Doosan Major products and services Major project portfolios industries, including power generation, shipbuilding,steel Heavy Industries & Construction has been supplying major equipment and Major and auxiliary devices • Wolsong #2, 3, 4 (Korea): 700MWe x 3 and automotive. Furthermore, cast and forged products of machines to all Korean nuclear power plants. We have participated in • Nuclear reactors and internal structures • Hanbit #1, 2 & Hanul #1, 2 (Korea): 950MWe x 4 • Hanbit #3, 4, 5, 6 & Hanul #3, 4, 5, 6 & Shin Kori#1, outstanding quality have been supplied all over the world the development of OPR1000, the first-ever Korean model of a nuclear • Steam generators power plant, and have manufactured and supplied 12 units of OPR1000 • Nuclear reactor cooling pumps 2 & Shin Wolsong #1, 2 (Korea): 1,000MWe x 12 based on our excellent technology and deep experience. • Shin Kori #3, 4, 5, 6 & Shin Hanul #1, 2 (Korea): • Measurement control for nuclear power primary equipment thus far. Our technology and quality have also been plants 1,400MWe x 6 recognized worldwide for a contract with Qinshan Phase III 1 and 2, • Replacement Reactor Vessel Heads for Kori #1, 2 Providing an integrated package (Korea): 600 Mwe x 2 our first-ever major contract to supply steam generators for an overseas • Replacement Reactor Vessel Heads for Hanbit #3, 4 • Control rod actuator power plant, as well as for the supply of replacement steam generators to • Pressurizer (Korea): 1000 Mwe x 2 Sequoyah in the U.S. and AP1000 nuclear reactors and steam generators • Nuclear reactor upper structure • Replacement Reactor Vessel Heads for Hanul #1, 2 (Korea): 950 Mwe x 2 to China and U.S. The Barakah Nuclear Plant Units 1 through 4 in United • Nuclear fuel handling devices • Replacement Steam Generator for Kori #1 (Korea): • Primary reactor containment postArab Emirates, an order obtained as a part of Team Korea in 2010, were 600 Mwe x 1 tensioning system successfully supplied on time and within budget, and thus acknowledged • Replacement Steam Generators for Hanul #1, 2 • Condenser and thermal exchanger (Korea): 950MWe x 2 by international customers as a reliable and economical nuclear power • Pressure vessels and tanks • Replacement Steam Generators for Hanul #3, 4 plant model. With the development of a nuclear reactor cooling pump • Containment vessels for post-usage (Korea): 1,000MWe x 2 nuclear fuel and nuclear power plant measurement control system design and • Replacement STeam Generators for Hanbit #3, 4 (Korea): 1,000 Mwe x 2 production technology in 2012, the complete domestication of nuclear Service for operating nuclear power plants/measurement control • Replacement Steam Generators for Hanbit #5, 6 power plants has now been accomplished. All of the major equipment • Supply of replacement devices (Korea): 1,000 Mwe x 2 and machines have been manufactured and supplied beginning with Shin • Replacement Steam Generators for Sequoyah #1, 2 • Maintenance and non-destructive tests & Watts Bar #1, 2 (United States): 1,200MWe x 4 Hanul Unit 1 and 2, but we continue to expand our areas of participation • Upgrades and improvements • Replacement Reactor Vessel Heads for Arkansas in domestic and foreign service markets through the acceleration of • Technical support Nuclear One (ANO) #2 (United States): 890 MWe x 1 • Upgrading measurement control at • Replacement Reactor Vessel Heads for Palo Verde technical development in post-usage nuclear fuel transport/storage operating nuclear power plants #1, 2, 3 (United States): 1,300 MWe x 3 containers (casks) and nuclear power plant decommissioning. We aim • Replacement Reactor Vessel Heads for Waterford #3 to continuously develop technology and diversify our business areas in (United States): 1,160 MWe x 1 order to become a global leader in the nuclear power plant market, and • Replacement Reactor Vessel Heads for Virgil C. Summer #1 (United States): 971 MWe x 1 actively support the discovery of local companies and technical transfers • Vogtle #3, 4 and Virgil C. Summer #2, 3 (United 2018 Business Performance 2019 Forecast and Business Strategies for reinforced competency in of countries aiming to introduce nuclear States): 1,150MWe x 4 power plants. •Barakah #1, 2, 3, 4 (United Arab Emirates): Based on the trust of customers, we have maintained our existing business, Though the volume of the domestic power generation industry is expected 1,400MWe x 4 producing 100 million horsepower worth of crankshafts for vessels to decrease due to changes in domestic power source policies, major • Qinshan Phase III #1, 2 (China): 700MWe x 2 • Qinshan Phase II #3 (China): 600MWe x 1 even as the global economic slump caused a reduction of demand in frontline industries related to casting and forging such as shipbuilding, • Sanmen #1 & Haiyang #1 (China): 1,250MWe x 2 frontline industries. In the marine plant industry, we have become a major automotive and steel are forecast to grow thanks to a turnaround in the • Lufeng #1 Reactor Vessel Internal (China): player globally by utilizing our existing core competencies and we have economy. Thus, we aim to continuously maintain close-knit collaboration 1,250MWe x 1 achieved visible achievements by successfully supplying various products with major customers in shipbuilding, etc., to maintain our dominant through partnership with our customers. We have been recognized for position in existing markets while looking to grow our businesses through our technological power by delivering nuclear fuel transport and storage market expansion into overseas regions and the promotion of new Shin Hanul nuclear power plants containers (casks) to Europe. In addition, we have successfully advanced product businesses such as marine plants, which will lead to improved into the hydrogen market and the aerospace industry by supplying business portfolios. Also, we will continue to strengthen our fundamental materials developed with our own technology and have been recognized competitiveness by securing technology for new materials and processes for it. with high added value including high-efficiency, high-specification, and high-strength materials, as well as by developing solutions technology optimized for major processes. We plan to maximize the productivity and business performance of the world's greatest 17,000 ton forging press, which has been newly activated, in order to maintain our rank as the leading global casting and forging company. Work Roll Die steel 40 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Strategy & Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 41 Introduction of Business Key Performance Results & Accomplishments in 2018 The casting and forging business of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction started in 1973 and, based Major products and services Sustainable growth of the shipbuilding business on technical knowledge and production experience accumulated since the foundation, the company • Shell and head for nuclear power generation (Total marine engine crankshaft production achieves 100 million horsepower) manufactures and supplies castings and forgings products of the highest quality to its customers. Large• Runner and crown for hydroelectric power generation The marine engine crankshaft business, which started in 1993, achieved the feat of producing 100 scale steel, casting, forging, and machining shops boast the latest automation facilities, digital-converged • Turbine rotor and casting for thermal power generation million horsepower within the span of 26 years. This would be equivalent to 3,300 units of ship engines, process optimization systems and strict quality assurance based on various quality certifications. The • Wind power turbine generator materials which equates to 10 percent of the large-sized ships operating globally. This accomplishment was • Crankshaft for vessel engines steel mill contains a 100-ton electric furnace, has 250,000 tons of annual production capacity, and can achieved five years faster than that of competitors, owing to the company's continuous development • Offshore plant materials produce a maximum 650 tons of ingot. • Axial mooring shaft and rudder horn for vessels of technology and productivity improvements. As the global shipbuilding economy is showing signs of The casting factory possesses a 17,000-ton press, 140,000 tons of annual production capacity, and • Mold steel and tool steel for cars and electronic improvement, we plan to continuously satisfy our customers' demands of delivering products of the can produce more than 350 tons of large-sized cast products. As demand industries continue to products finest quality. • Roll for steel industry become more and more advanced, we aim to continue to secure a competitive edge through consistent • Shell for chemical engineering advancement equipment investments in the establishment of an optimum infrastructure that can help produce high added-value, • Large casting and forging materials for industrial use Increase in Orders from Offshore Plants highly functional metal materials such as remelting equipment related to high-purity steel production, (Increasingly winning contracts as parts supplier for world's largest offshore plant/ decommissioned thus seeking to create the greatest value for the customers. In addition, by discovering new products Major project portfolios ships and FPSO vessels) capable of securing external growth and profitability, we are aggressively enhancing our business The offshore plant business, which utilizes our existing core competencies, has been recognized for its • Shin Hanul Unit #3,4 nuclear power portfolio. Based on such capabilities, the company consistently exports products to China, Southeast • CASK nuclear power, Europe technological prowess in successfully supplying various products through partnership with major clients. Asia, Japan, Europe, and the U.S., and, after being acknowledged for its product manufacturing • Anin Thermal Power STG, Gangneung In addition, it has received additional orders for core components of dismantled vessels from the world's technology and competitiveness in exports by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy, currently owns • Soldier Pond Hydroelectric Power turbine, Canada largest offshore plant and successfully won a contract for supplying the components for a FPSO(floating the distinction of the world's best for 9 products including mold steel, crankshafts for vessels, work rolls, • 2MW wind power turbine, Japan production, storage and offloading) unit to an offshore plant in Europe. Based on our successful supply and low-pressure turbine rotor shafts. Shipbuilding/maritime of key components for offshore plants, we are seeing greater brand recognition in the offshore plant • 20000TEU ultra-large container ships for Daewoo market, and we expect the company to win even more orders. Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering • European semi-submersible crane vessel Development of a new growth engine and successful entrance into a new market Steel (Supply of hydrogen energy equipment tanks/aerospace industry materials) • POSCO board press roll • Rolling stand at VOESTALPINE Steel Mill in Australia We have completed the design of our own model of hydrogen energy equipment tanks developed with • Rolling stand of NUCOR steel mill, USA our own technology as a new growth engine. In addition, we have expanded product diversification 100-ton EAF 150-ton ESR 17,000 tons hydraulic 4,200 tons press to meet customer needs and plan to start mass production as the hydrogen energy market expands. Industry (max. 650-ton ingot) forging press In addition, we have successfully advanced into the hydrogen market and the aerospace industry by • USA LEHIGH HEAVY press facility • Cement ROTARY KILN supplying aerospace industry materials developed with our own technology, which we have been • FLSMIDTH crushing and grinding equipment at Chilean recognized for its technology. mines • Mold tool steels for cars and home appliances 42 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Strategy & Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 43 Commitments to Sustainability 02 44 SDG Alignments 46 2030 SDG Commitments 48 SDG Highlights 44 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Strategy & Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 45 SDG Alignments Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is strengthening its social responsibility management activities based on SDGs (sustainable development goals). Social responsibility management Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction selected 5 SDGs for the company by analyzing their relevance and importance to our business, and established Doosan Heavy Industries & activities are recognized as a major strategy for creating new business opportunities in accordance Construction's 2030 SDG Commitment with a focus on those areas. We plan to further strengthen with social and environmental changes and contributing to society. our activities as a global corporate citizen based on the 2030 SDG Commitment. Clean Water and Sanitation Materiality Social Needs Review of SDG Increase total water reserves through Assessment needs by business water industry region Association with business goals Sustainable Energy Ensure sustainable energy access through high-efficiency eco-friendly power generation technology SDG Commitments of Industry & Global Trends Advanced Doosan Heavy Industries Climate Change Action Setting 5 company trend and best practice & Construction Reduce greenhouse gas emissions through development of Major Goals analysis climate change response technology Association Good Health and Well-Being with social contribution Expand disease prevention and treatment through free goals medical treatment and payment for medicine Impact on Business Internal promotion Value activities and Quality Education Chain resource analysis Foster local talents through customized training for each growth phase 46 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Strategy & Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 47 2030 SDG Based on its business characteristics and sustainability activities, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has set up the following SDG commitments for itself in five key areas and is Commitments managing the related activities systematically. 1) Increase the size of water reserves; 2) Ensure access to sustainable energy; 3) Reduce greenhouse gas emissions; 4) Prevent diseases and expand access to treatment; and 5) Foster local talents. Link to SDGs Commitments Major Activities and Achievements in 2018 Future plans Commitment 1 SDG 6. By 2030, through our water project, we will increase total • Completion of seawater desalination plant in Yanbu, Saudi Arabia • Increasing production volume of fresh water through water reserves in the Arabian Peninsula by 10% (2 billion Production of 550,000 tons/day of water (Yanbu Ph.3) additional construction of large-capacity desalination facilities Increase Size Clean Water and Sanitation tons) compared to BAU and continuously expand the supply • Acquisition of 'No Desulfurization System for Desulfurized Wastewater' for eco-friendly • Managing eco-friendly water through additional supply of of Total Water Ensure the availability and sustainable of water resources in all regions around the world that face water treatment technology sewage and waste water treatment facilities Reserves management of water and sanitation for all water shortages. • Acquistion of UK water treatment project (Birmingham water treatment plant design/supply • Continuously developing water reuse technology of equipment, 2017) 6.1/6.3 • Acquisition of order for seawater desalination plant in Saudi Arabia • Acquisition of order for seawater desalination plant in Oman Commitment 2 SDG 7. With our high-efficiency, eco-friendly power generation • Energy Fuel Conversion Project to Reduce Carbon Dioxide Emissions: received order for fuel conversion of • Continuous expansion of offshore wind power business Ensure Access to technology, we will increase the amount of eco-friendly Yeongdong Thermal Power Plant #2 (conversion from existing coal fuel system to biomass fuel system) • Continuous acquisition of orders for ESS to respond to load Affordable and Clean Energy coal-fired thermal power supplied to emerging markets • Wind power: variations taking place due to expansion of new and renewable Sustainable Energy Ensure access to affordable, reliable, around the world by 6% (40GW) compared to BAU by 2030, Contract for maintenance and repair of offshore wind power demonstration complex in Southwest Sea energy sustainable and modern energy for all and by enhancing energy technology in high-efficiency gas Signing of MOU for 'Offshore Wind Power Project' with Korea Western Power Co. / Korea South-East • Development of gas turbines 7.1/7.2/7.3 turbines, wind power, ESS, etc., we will contribute to the Power Co. • Demonstration of hydrogen liquefaction plant diversification of the overall energy mix. • ESS: Construction of large energy storage system for power demand management (12MW/70MWh system in Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Changwon Plant) Commitment 3 SDG 13. By 2030, we will reduce the amount of greenhouse gas • Installation of 1.5MW + ESS 3MWh photovoltaics system in Changwon Plant parking lot • Steel supply part of steelmaking plant is smart, big data Reduce emissions that occur over the course of our business within • First in the industry to develop carbon emission facility real-time communication module NB-IOT management is used to reduce fuel costs by more than 30% Climate Change Action Korea by 20% (70,000 tons) compared to BAU, and continue system enabling, standardized response and contributing to emissions reduction through BIG DATA and plans are in place to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by Greenhouse Gas Take urgent action to combat climate to develop climate change response technology to reduce management 2020 Emissions change and its impacts greenhouse gases. • Completion of 12MW/70MWh large-scale energy storage system for power demand management • Overseas CDM project will be further explored, and 20,000 13.1 • Winning the 2018 Korea Green Climate Award tons of high-efficiency stoves will be deployed in 2020 to • Reduction of 5,500 tCO2 through OE and process enhancement activities at Changwon Plant develop 20,000 tons of overseas carbon credits through • Obtaining certification for the 2016-2018 Energy Champion site (selected as best place in the greenhouse gas reduction government review on energy efficiency and greenhouse gas reduction) Commitment 4 SDG 3. By 2030, we will provide basic medical supplies and support • Local treatment activities by Doosan Vina and Chung-Ang University Hospital (Vietnam) • Executing local medical community services and surgery Prevent Diseases local treatments for 80,000 members of minority groups Quang Ngai Province: 2,800 residents programs in Vietnam Good Health and Well-Being residing in impoverished areas of Vietnam and India, thus Internal Medicine, Family Medicine, Orthopedic Surgery, Pediatrics • Reviewing expanding health initiatives in new business areas of and Expand Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being contributing to the improvement of global health and Donation of medical equipment such as sterilizer and rehabilitation equipment to Quang Ngai Southeast Asia including Philippines and Indonesia Treatment for people of all ages sanitation. Women's Hospital 3.4 • Operation of a public elementary school health camp in Gurgaon by DPSI 100 elementary school students, including dental and vision screenings Commitment 5 SDG 4. By 2030, through the Youth Energy Project, a renowned • Doosan Class technical training collaboration between industry and university • Continuously operating vocational training consortium social contribution program, we will contribute to the -1  7 people recruited from 3 specialized high schools and 18 graduates employed (358 people recruited business group and Doosan Class technical training Foster Local Quality Education fostering of local talents by providing opportunities for and 196 people employed since 2011) • M.Y Dream youth career/engineer exploration classes, more Talents Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and career exploration tailored to each growth • Technical education and training for the unemployed than 1,000 students per year education and promote lifelong learning stage for as many as 50,000 marginalized children and -3  6 people completed welding/processing course and 33 people recruited for affirmative employment opportunities for all teenagers. (596 unemployed completed the training, 477 people recruited for affirmative employment) 4.4 • M.Y Dream youth career exploration classes -C  ompleted by 80 students from 4 middle schools in Changwon and 24 kinds of occupation group experiences (participation of 266 students from 14 middle schools in Changwon over 3 years) • M.Y Dream youth engineer exploration classes P articipation of 940 students from 14 shcools including observation-practice for 120 students from 4 schools, field trip-special lecture for 820 students from 10 schools • Local children's center themed programs Consists of 9 themed experiences including history, ecology, social science, and crafts 160 times, 1,500 children from 62 centers in Changwon and 4 centers in Seoul 48 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Strategy & Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 49 less harmful substances. High efficiency cook stoves increase heat efficiency, shorten the cooking SDG Highlights In order to achieve our SDGs, we are actively promoting our eco-friendly business portfolio, resolving social problems, and contributing to local communities. time and reduce smoke and carbon emissions. In 2019, we are making efforts to meet the UN's We will not only enhance the management of the social and environmental aspects of sustainable development goals by reducing fuel costs and greenhouse gas emissions through the our business operations, but will also identify projects that can contribute to our SDGs. supply of 35,000 high-efficiency cook stoves. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction expects to We will continue to promote disease prevention and treatment, and we will continue reduce greenhouse gas emissions by about 100,000 tons (equivalent to KRW 27 billion) through to pursue activities for local human resource development. the Cook Stove CDM project. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction was able to secure carbon credits from the United Nations and it is expected that the company will be able to exchange and Commitment 1 use such carbon credits domestically starting in 2021. As a global leader in the water industry, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction offers a full range of Increase the Size of solutions, from seawater desalination to water treatment. Notably, we completed the construction Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction's Myanmar Cook Stove CDM Project Implementation Plan Water Reserves of a desalination plant in Yanbu, Saudi Arabia, in 2018, supplying 550,000 tons per day of drinking December 2018 February-March 2019 October-November December 2020 June 2021 water and continuing the expansion of water resources in this area which suffers from limited water supplies. We strive to increase water reserves in the Arabian Peninsula with our successful bid for the Oman Seawater Desalination project. Doosan Enpure, a UK subsidiary of Doosan Heavy Industries & Investment Report Contracts & On-site Stove Installation Completed & Application for UN Application for Visits Funding Executed Carbon Credits Domestic Carbon Construction, has signed a contract to supply a sewage sludge -based biomass power plant, which * Cash Out (KRW 10 billion): Oct KRW 500 Credits million, Nov KRW 500 million is expected to be completed in 2019. Through heat treatment and pasteurization, the amount of sewage sludge is reduced. It is an eco-friendly facility that produces 1MW of household electricity and heat in the process of producing biogas. It is especially significant in that we have entered the Commitment 4 By 2030, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction will contribute to the prevention and treatment sewage sludge-to-energy market, an eco-friendly renewable energy industry, while going beyond Prevent Diseases and of diseases worldwide by improving the accessibility and health status of 80,000 underprivileged the existing desalination and water treatment plant businesses. Based on these technologies, we will Expand Treatment people in Vietnam and India. Doosan Vina, the Vietnamese subsidiary of Doosan Heavy Industries & strengthen our efforts in the eco-friendly water treatment field. Construction's, was awarded the Social Contribution Achievement Award by the Ministry of Health Commitment 2 of the Central Government of Vietnam together with Chung-Ang University Medical Center. This Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is striving to increase energy supplies in emerging Ensure Access to award was given in recognition of the medical services actively provided to the local residents over markets around the world with high-efficiency eco-friendly power generation technologies, and to Sustainable Energy the past decade from 2009 to the present year. Doosan Vina and Chung-Ang University Medical contribute to the diversification of the energy mix with high-efficiency gas turbine development, Center have been offering medical services and surgical treatment to severely ill patients in Vietnam wind power generation, and ESS. In 2018, we entered the overseas wind turbine market, with the ever since they signed a memorandum of understanding with the Quang Ngai government back in construction of an offshore wind power demonstration complex in Vietnam. In addition, we won 2009. Doosan Vina and Chungang Medical Center have provided medical services to approximately an order for a fuel conversion project at Yeongdong Thermal Power Plant Unit 2 to reduce carbon 28,000 Vietnamese residents this year. Of these, 94 patients with congenital heart disease, cataracts, dioxide emissions. We have been selected as the prime contractor for national projects to develop and obstetric and gynecological issues were treated in Vietnam. Twenty-three patients who had 8MW large capacity offshore wind power generation systems and are working hard to develop difficulties in local treatment were transported to Korea for surgery. In addition, in order to improve and distribute eco-friendly power generation technologies. We signed a contract in November the level of healthcare in Vietnam, we donated 52 medical items, including cataract surgery 2018 for the design and supply of core equipment such as boilers and turbines for the biomass equipment, physiotherapy equipment, and sterilizers. In addition, the Quang Ngai government, power plant to be built in Sodegaura City, Chiba Prefecture, Japan. Doosan Heavy Industries & Doosan Vina and Chung-Ang University Medical Center signed an agreement to promote the Construction will supply its own CFB (Circulating Fluidized Bed) boiler and high efficiency steam mutual development of medical care in 2016, and since then, they have invited six Vietnamese turbine to the power plant. Biomass is a wood-based fuel made from wood, grains and plants. doctors, including surgeons and obstetricians, to Korea for training. It contains almost no sulfur oxide, which is the main cause of pollution, and its nitrogen oxide emissions are only about 30% those of coal. It is meaningful that this contract has provided the basis for further advancement of the biomass power generation market and the conservative Commitment 5 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is officially operating the M.Y Dream (Make Your Dream) growth of the Japanese power generation market. Foster Local Talents Youth Engineer Experience Class, a social contribution program providing in-depth career exploration opportunities for young people in the Changwon area. Since its pilot in 2017, we have created a Commitment 3 In order to prevent global warming, countries submit voluntary greenhouse gas reduction targets program that will involve large numbers of people in 2018, as there is a constant call for expansion by Reduce Greenhouse through the Paris Agreement, which has introduced a governance system for combating climate the community and educational institutions. This program is designed to expand understanding of the Gas Emissions machinery industry as a whole through the role of plant engineers. Doosan M.Y. Dream Youth Engineer change. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is reducing greenhouse gas emissions through its Experience Class is a practical class on engineering careers where students visit Doosan Heavy Industries Changwon Plant's OE(Operational Excellence) activities and smart factory process improvements. & Construction's Changwon Plant to experience and learn about plant design, welding, and other The company has obtained certification from the 2016-2018 Energy Champion Site thanks to specialties from meisters in each field. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction employees voluntarily a variety of efforts, including contributions to reducing greenhouse gas emissions through big share talent to help local youths design their careers. Meanwhile, the company has been operating data management techniques including the development and application of the NB-IOT method, the M.Y. Dream Youth Career Experience Class since 2015, which is separate from the M.Y. Dream a first for the industry. In addition, in order to actively participate in the government energy Youth Engineer Experience Class. Through personalized career experiences organized in three career policy, we concluded the Green Growth Partnership with the Korea Energy Agency in 2019, and path stages, exploration, experience, and design, students experience over 30 different career groups have supported energy efficiency and greenhouse gas reduction projects for SMEs. As part of its nine times during a semester, and also have time to discuss the rewards and hardships of each field. greenhouse gas reduction project, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is supplying highDoosan Heavy Industries & Construction is operating this program in the free semester of the second efficiency stoves to low-income households in Myanmar with a supply of cooking tools that emit half of every year on a request basis from schools that are interested. 50 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Strategy & Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 51 CSR Management 0 3 52 Governance 54 Ethics Management 56 Green Management 60 Health & Safety 64 Talent Management 69 Shared Growth 72 Customer Satisfaction 74 Social Contribution 52 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Strategy & Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 53 Governance Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is making substantial efforts to establish Board of Directors Operation Composition of CSR Committee transparent governance by maintaining a majority of outside directors' and meeting Committee Leadership & Accountability Chairman independence requirements under commercial law when appointing outside directors. • For mutual monitoring between internal and outside directors, 4 outside Going forward, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction will continue to strengthen directors, accounting for 57% of the entire board, are appointed. Advisory Group Coordinator institutional fairness in the election and management of board members to lay the • Impartiality and transparency in electing outside directors at the general Strategy/Technology CSR Team foundation for transparent corporate management. shareholders' meeting are reinforced through recommendations made by Planning the Outside Director Candidate Recommendation Committee. Composition of the Board of Directors Effectiveness SubGovernance/ Composition of the Board of Directors as of April 30, 2019 committee Environmental Social Economic Position Name Major experiences • T o help increase the outside directors' level of understanding of the • As of April 2019, the board of directors is composed of a total of seven (Current) Chairman of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction company and professionalism, shop tours at headquarters and the Purchasing Geewon Park Champion EHS Executive HR Executive directors: 3 executive directors and 4 outside directors. (Current) CEO (Chairman of the Board) Changwon Plant are held for the appointed outside directors to brief them executive • To improve efficiency in managerial judgments and realize responsible (Current) Executive Vice President and Finance Management on the overview of the company. Hyounghee • EHS • HR • IR Executive Division Head of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction management, the role of the chairperson of the board is assumed by the directors Choi (Former) Executive Vice President of Doosan Infracore • From June 23 to June 26, 2017, all outside directors visited Doosan VINA, • Climate change • Social Contribution • Legal CEO. (Current) Executive Vice President and Management Division Head the local office in Vietnam, and Vinh Tan 4, a construction site for a power Category • Green Tech • Shared Growth • When electing a director, there are no restrictions on or discrimination Yeonin Jung of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction plant, to not only predict the market, understand the construction status • Purchase (Former) Overseas President of Doosan VINA against a specific gender, religion, academic background, race, ethnicity, and encourage workers, but also have the opportunity to improve their (Current) Chair Professor, Korea University disability, origin, etc. Dongsoo Kim1) (Current) Head of Institute for Future Growth understanding of overseas projects. Current Status of Stockholdings as of December 31, 2018 (Former) Chairperson of Fair Trade Commission Institutional investors Doosan Corp. (Current) Professor at Seoul National University(SNU) Business School Remuneration Operation of the Board Ickhyun Nam (Former) Director, Graduate School of Business, Seoul National • Remuneration of outside directors and internal directors is within the limits 20.16% 33.79% Outside University • Meetings of the Board of Directors may be convened and held by the CEO directors (Former) Policy Director, Executive Office of the President, Republic of directors' salaries approved by the general shareholders' meeting. of Korea • Information on salaries of individual executives including outside directors or a director appointed by the board. Daeki Kim (Former) Economic Administrator of Executive Office of the • They may also be held when more than one-third of the sitting directors President and the CEO is made public through business and audit reports. jointly announce a meeting's purpose, date, etc., and request an assembly. (Current) Lawyer of Kim and Chang Law Firm Junho Lee • To maintain fairness, the directors with conflicts of interest in regards to (Former) Judge of the Seoul District Court Relationship with Shareholders 1) Elected as outside director decisions made by the board will be restricted from their right to vote. • T o protect the rights of minority shareholders and independent Also, decisions of the board are reached by the attendance of the majority shareholders, relevant laws including the Commercial Act are recognized. Foreign investors Individuals and others Status of Board Meetings and Participation Rate of Outside Directors of the sitting directors and consent from the majority of the directors in attendance. Number of board meetings held • G eneral shareholders' meetings are held each year to report on the management status and hear the opinions of minority shareholders. 12.46% 33.59% 20 • The electronic voting system was introduced in 2017 to safeguard the voting rights of minority shareholders. Result of Electronic Voting System Status of Board Operation • Major information about management issues is made public transparently 15 Number of stocks • For important issues regarding corporate management including economic, through various communication channels including the corporate disclosure 1,000,211 12 system and company website. environmental and social aspects, the board shares details and opinions 11 1,000,000 and seeks solutions. 10 9 • Information related to the composition and operation of the board of CSR Committee 750,000 directors is posted on the company website, thus protecting the rights and interests of shareholders and any interested parties. 5 • Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction operates a CSR Committee to speedily respond to the latest global trends and regulations and hold in500,000 454,000 depth discussions on socially responsible management. Committees Under the Board Unit: times 0 • The CSR Committee is chaired by the CEO and has been restructured into 260,000 • For fast and efficient decision-making, committees have been established 2016 2017 2018 three main areas of the environment, society and governance. 250,000 internally by the board of directors as specified by the articles. Participation rate of outside directors 97.1 97.75 Operation of Electronic Voting and Unit: stocks Status of Committees under the Board 100 95.1 0 9 Postal Voting System Mar. 2017 Mar. 2018 Mar. 2019 shareholders' meeting shareholders' meeting shareholders' meeting 75 • The electronic voting system allows a shareholder to exercise his/her right to Outside Director Compared to total voting rights vote via a computer or a smartphone with internet access without having Candidate Audit Internal Trade Recommendation Committee Committee to physically attend a general shareholders' meeting. 0.75 50 Committee • Beginning with the 2016 annual general shareholders' meeting held in 0.77 March 2017, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction introduced and 0.50 implemented a electronic voting system to ensure the voting rights of 25 Nominates outside Performs audits on the Reviews and approves minority shareholders. director cadidates company's accounts transactions with • A postal voting system was introduced to ensure the voting rights of 0.25 0.38 to be elected at the and business related parties Unit: % 0 minority shareholders. 0.33 shareholders' meeting 2016 2017 2018 Unit: % 0 Mar. 2017 Mar. 2018 Mar. 2019 shareholders' meeting shareholders' meeting shareholders' meeting 54 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Strategy & Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 55 Ethics Management Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. is establishing a healthy corporate • Strengthen new business partners' compliance with ethical principles Reporting and monitoring culture based on ethical responsibilities that include honesty, transparency and · D oosan Heavy Industries & Construction and new business partners established a means of checking the risk of corruption • To easily report ethics violations from both inside and outside, a cyber impartiality throughout its corporate activities. We invigorate the law-abiding supporters reporting center and internal report box are in operation. · Introduction of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction's ethical principles system, strengthen activities to prevent any illegal activities in the management of the and violation reporting • For overseas subsidiries, an internal report system run by a third party has been company, and improve the enterprise system such as through institutional measures to • Compliance activities introduced to actively field reports of violations in matters regarding ethics. eradicate bribery among domestic and international companies for risk prevention. · D istributing and presenting personal check lists to executives and employees in order to strengthen compliance with anti-trust laws Unfair trading prevention education for employees prohibiting illegal cheating and bribery. Strategies for the Pursuit of Ethical Management Anti-Corruption Activities for Management 4,000 • Anti-corruption activities for overseas representatives 3,299 • Based on management's commitment to ethics management, we have Training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 2,730 ·Strengthening of compliance regulations to standard contract conditions 3,000 2,654 constructed infrastructure such as ethical principles, cyber reporting to prevent corruption in consultants/agents representing Doosan Heavy Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 systems, and operating organizations. No. of people subject to education person 7,728 6,969 6,611 Industries & Construction overseas. 2,000 • B ased on the enterprise system, we have developed plan execution, Employees No. of people who completed education person 7,550 6,701 6,404 · Strengthening of selection and management of consultants/agents by inspection, and measurement to improve the sense of ethics and prevent Percentage of education completion % 97.7 96.17 97 systemizing the contracting process. 1,000 unethical acts among employees. Total no. of suppliers companies 170 170 152 No. of suppliers that completed education companies 170 170 98 Ethics Management Pursuing Strategies Percentage of suppliers having completed 100 100 65 Unit: person 0 Suppliers % System for the Pursuit of Ethical Management Become a leading ethical company that can be respected, education 2016 2017 2018 No. of programs held time 4 0 1 Vison and instill pride through conformance to laws and No. of people who have received education person 680 0 0 Establishment of an Anti-corruption Management System principles for the fair operation of business CSR/ethics management education for the CEOs of business partners • In order to respond to the risks of corruption in a more proactive and preemptive manner, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction held a Establish the right path to increase the value of Preventative actions for conflicts of interest meeting for the introduction of ISO 37001, an anti-bribery management Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction along • According to the detailed regulation of its ethics principles, Doosan Heavy 200 system and an international standard. with the technology to improve global value Industries & Construction requires all employees who assume positions 160 Strategies • Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has received anti-corruption risk to pursue above Team Manager to submit unity of interest reports each year, in order 150 Improve sense of ethics Install a corporate culture assessment and diagnosis (from the Korean Foundation for Quality and Establish infrastructure to secure impartiality in performing tasks and to take proper measures if 106 and reinforce prevention in which compliance with for ethics management tasks entrusted to an individual within the company are financially and 98 Deloitte Anjin LLC). activities ethics is commonplace 100 • For the areas for improvement deduced from the results of the diagnoses, directly related to him/herself, his/her direct ascendants or descendants, we conducted activities for anti-corruption management (stipulating spouse or spouse's direct ascendants, immediate relatives, or a company or 50 Direction for the promotion of research security and ethics an organization in which he/she was previously employed, or if he/she is prohibition of receipt of bribes and conformance to ethical principles in placed under circumstances that would cause him/her difficulty in carrying Unit: company contracts with domestic and international trading partners). 0 • Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is also actively engaged in the System out the tasks in an unbiased manner. 2016 2017 2018 Establishing governance activities of UNGC Fair Player, to which it signed up in 2017. and strengthening operational system • We participated in a corporate anti-bribery management cooperation Compliance management at global worksites Status of internal reporting forum sponsored by Transparency International Korea and UNGC Korea • O ver the course of conducting an overseas business, compliance Local Overseas Association, and promoted anti-bribery management activities. Research regulations have been set up within contracts signed with representatives Security/ who are consigned with local tasks in order to prohibit any illegal and/or 60 9 Conforming to research Ethics Review Formation of a Research Security/Ethics Review Committee security and ethics at Committee Education manipulative actions. each stage of R&D that inspires the • For risk management related to ethics at global workplaces, a regular 45 0 • Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has formed a research security mind and prevents and strengthening cheating cooperation system is in operation with the compliance organizations at 11 and ethics review committee chaired by the CTO in order to strengthen its verification of Inspection Education 30 performance indices research ethics. international business partners. • With the Research Security/Ethics Review Committee as our center, we seek • S haring of knowledge and monitoring is carried out to reinforce 47 15 40 to establish research security and ethics inspection activities, thus setting competency in compliance. Enrollment in Ethics Percentage of Enrollment in 21 up an honest and transparent R&D atmosphere and preventing any illegal Training Training by Position•Type in 2018 Unit: case Prevent Unfair Trading and Support the Ethics Management of 0 activities in research. Unit: person Unit: % Business Partners 2016 2017 2018 97 97 97 Expansion Activities for an Ethical Culture 20,000 100 90 It has added clauses requiring conformity to the ethical standards and regulations in all contracts Status of Disciplinary Action in 2018 signed with business partners. Education on Law-Abiding and Ethics Local Overseas 15,000 75 • To encourage members to improve their sense of ethics, the company 12,502 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction plans to 4 12,308 Doosan Heavy requires all of its employees including new recruits and experienced recruits 12,289 Industries & Construction prepare measures to inspect the risk of corruption 1 • Employees at overseas offices and business partners in India, Vietnam, implements ethical standards of new business partners it deals with. 3 10,000 50 and regulations to strictly Europe and other countries to take training courses on ethical principles. prohibit the acceptance of It consistently performs education on Fair Trade Act bribes from business partners • Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction also conducts ethics education with whom it conducts any and Fair Transaction in Subcontracting Act for its 2 with timeliness (when the Improper Solicitation and Graft Act was enacted 5,000 25 form of transactions. employees to prevent any unfair transactions with business partners 0 in 2016, it immediately hosted educational courses for all employees on 1 2 prohibition of graft and bribery). It supports them to spread and helps them conform • T he company aims to preemptively deal with unfair transactions, for 0 0 to the ethical standards of Doosan Heavy Industries Unit: case 0 1 2016 2017 2018 Executives Office Shop floor New & Construction. which regulations have continued to become strengthened, by conducting workers technical employees/ Disciplinary action for Disciplinary action for education for its sales employees on the prevention of any unjust agreements. workers Experienced employees business partners 56 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Strategy & Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 57 Green Management Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has established a green management system to respond to and control environmental issues by actively reducing the environmental Best Practice Efficient use of resources Water risk management impacts of production processes and developmenting green technology, among many Creating profits through the sale of certified carbon • In an effort to reduce operational water at plants, Doosan Heavy Industries others. emissions secured through the reduction of greenhouse & Construction utilizes a monitoring system, which uniformly supplies gases water at a proper pressure, for constant management. • Certified carbon emissions representing a 2% reduction in energy usage • Starting in 2018, an inspection is performed daily on multi-use facilities were allocated by the government. while in company dormitories, cafeteria, restrooms and shower rooms • Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has performed activities to reduce where water is used every day, a proper temperature of warm water is Green Management System Response to Climate Change greenhouse gases by improving the efficiency of equipment within plants maintained and equipment such as decompression devices are installed to and eliminating elements where energy is being wasted. reduce 10% of the total usage. • D oosan Heavy Industries & Construction has established a green Responding to the emissions trading system (ETS) • 104,000 tons of certified emission reductions saved through such efforts • We will apply IoT technology to the water supply system, in which water is management strategies to identify environmental issues generated • Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has organized committees with were sold to Korea South-East Power in December 2017, generating a constantly stored through an internal storage tank, by 2020 to enhance the throughout business activities, from usage to disposal of resources, and is energy and greenhouse gas experts and executives to respond to the profit of about 2.5 billion KRW. system into one that directly supplies water to locations of use, and also devising fundamental solutions. emissions trading systems and conduct risk monitoring on climate change. plan to establish a system that can preempt and waste of water through • Based on detailed climate change risk factors and scenario analysis, we reduction of electricity costs consumed for the water supply as well as Green management strategies estimate greenhouse gas emissions and measure their financial burden. Improvement in energy efficiency immediate response to leaks or any abnormal phenomena. Proud Global Doosan • Taking into account the costs and benefits of ETS introduction, we derive • A variety of energy saving activities are being carried out, including waste priorities for each response plan and reflect this in management decision making. heat recovery, standby power shut-off, enhanced facility efficiency, and Rainwater Non-Discharge (Reusing) • We carry out goal management per BG to meet carbon emission quota replacement of LED lights. • D oosan Heavy Industries & Construction has combined its own water 20% reduction of GHGs by 2030 targets. • The establishment of an energy integration system which fuses big data treatment technology to establish a rainwater non-discharge (reusing) Mission 25% reduction of energy usage by 2020 • F or BG plant managers, we provide specialized training on energy and ICT technology (in progress, via three stages, and to be completed by system to fundamentally solve hazardous substance leaks. as of 2017 management and carbon emission rights and strengthen internal 2020). • Through this system, it has enabled the recycling of rainwater and under capabilities. • The integrated energy control system is scheduled to be established by emergency situations, the collection and processing of all the hazardous 2020 with a total investment of 10 billion KRW. substances. Support responsible and sustainable growth Reduction of Greenhouse Gas • The rainwater non-discharge (reusing) system was completed in December Goal • Once an energy control system with maximized efficiency is established, 6.7 • Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has formed a dedicated team to billion KRW in annual energy cost savings and a greenhouse gas reduction 2017 and went through an internal trial lasting until March 2018 before reduce greenhouse gas emissions in order to preemptively respond to the of 20,000 tons of CO2 are expected. beginning to recycle rainwater generated in the company's large cooling Strategic government's greenhouse gas policy, such as the pilot project for the target tower. assignment management system and the emission rights trading system. • We have improved factory facilities and conducted OE activities. 2020 Energy Integration System Construction Initiative • Secured carbon credits are sold through the Korean Exchange to produce Recycled and reused water Efficient · Improvement of energy efficiency income. Integration of Big Data technology and ICT technology use of resources · Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions 40,060 • We establish the plan to cut 20% of BAU by 2030. 40,000 • Construction of integrated control system for heating and Greenhouse gas emissions cooling supply 1st phase · Resources recycling ·A  fter completing construction in 2017, we reduced 30,000 25,900 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) Unit: tCO2eq (~2017) Efficient energy costs by KRW 740 million and emissions by 1,736 · Sewage recycling use of tons of CO2. 20,000 resources · Water risk management 2016 127,608 2017 126,586 • Construction of integrated control system for steam, 10,000 compressed air and water 5,474 · Reduction of pollutant emissions (air and water pollutants, wastes 2018 105,546 • Construction of integrated control system for electricity 2 phase-3 nd rd Unit: ton harmful chemical substances, etc.) 0 30,000 60,000 90,000 120,000 150,000 and gas 0 Operation phase · Reduction of energy usage · E nergy management system that maximizes efficiency 2016 2017 2018 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) Unit: tCO2eq (~2020) by automatically connecting to production and real-time remote control with a sensor and control device for each Amount of treated wastewater discharged 2016 150,881 · Establishment of a management structure for green products and energy source Green technology 2017 142,060 product · Link to business commercialization and strengthening of 400,000 technology performance management 2018 137,972 0 30,000 60,000 90,000 120,000 150,000 300,000 283,789 Total Unit: tCO2eq · Procurement of green products from business partners 191,985 Environmental 2016 278,489 200,000 responsibility · Protection the ecosystem 131,513 2017 268,646 100,000 2018 243,518 Unit: ton 0 0 50,000 100,000 150,000 200,000 250,000 * Limited to domestic sites 2016 2017 2018 58 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Strategy & Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 59 Minimizing Environmental Effects Water Pollutants Environmental Clean-Up in Masan Bay • In 2018, through practical business case training B/M, as well as other • About 400 tons of waste water comes into the waste treatment facility • A s a community engagement activity, Doosan Heavy Industries & environmental laws and regulations, three new environment managers Air pollutants each day and is processed with various physical and chemical treatment Construction has commemorated the annual Ocean Day and performed were deployed to worksites. They established an annual environmental • P eriodic pollution inspections are performed to check if additional methods including condensation, precipitation and filtration (maximum environment clean up underwater and by the shores of Masan Bay for 12 management plan at each site and an environmental management system pollutants are generated during production processes. processing capacity of 1,590 tons/day). consecutive years. such as the EHS management system (ISO 14001). • For 1, 3-Butadiene, which was designated as a new pollutant in December • The final treated water is controlled for 17 items in order to discharge less • M ore than 90 people from the Seongsan-gu Office and private 2017, we plan to acquire a licensing change, if needed, after investigating than 30% of the limit stated in the legally permitted emission criteria. organizations in Changwon as well as 20 divers from our in-house scuba Preservation of Biodiversity at Local and Overseas if it is discharged from environmental facilities. • A s a means to fundamentally solve potential leakage accidents of diving club participated to process 20 tons of waste nets, buoys and ropes. Construction Sites •W  e will set up a process to automatically generate legal daily logs from manually hazardous substances, we have installed a discharge route shutoff system • By conducting local surveys prior to the start of projects, Doosan Heavy written records on the operation of environmental facilities by utilizing sensors (a and rainwater zero-discharge system, which can collect and process all Industries & Construction notifies details on the living species to be pilot test for this process was conducted in 2016 to complete internal verification hazardous materials in emergency situations. Strengthening of Environment Management protected through environmental effect assessment reports and fulfills its and, by 2020 it will be applied extensively to all facilities). • T he sewage generated is directed into and additionally processed at Capacity at Construction Sites duty to execute measures to safeguard local ecosystems. • We have installed facility recognition sensors (beacons) in order to inspect comprehensive sewage treatment facilities run by Changwon, the local • To preserve the ecosystem and minimize changes to the environment in the the normal operation of environmental facilities in a more reliable manner, government, through sewage pipes. Improvement Training for Construction Site Environment construction phase, we perform periodic monitoring of the atmosphere, and also implemented inspections of the environmental facilities utilizing Management Capacity water quality, noise and vibrations, and share the results with ordering mobile devices and applications. Responding to Fine Dust Regulations • D oosan Heavy Industries & Construction Plant EPC BG conducted bodies for systematic management. • G eneral air quality and noise tests are conducted in nearby worksites • Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction controls the amount of emissions environment manager training for environment managers in domestic • As of 2018, living organisms controlled at three sites consist of a total of 10 each quarter to continuously monitor the changes in the impact that our 40% below the limit as stated in the legally permitted emission criteria. construction sites in 2018 to improve the environment manager's ability species, which are fauna. In Korea, we systematically control environmental worksites have on surrounding environments. • VOCs (Volatile Organic Compounds) removal facilities have been installed in order to maintain zero environmental accidents, set up an environment elements such as atmosphere, water quality, soil, noise, and vibration at six • We have acquired environmental liability insurance with a guaranteed for operation in all large painting facilities since 2015. management system and strengthen implementation capacity. project sites in an attempt to minimize the impact on the ecosystem. limit of 30 billion KRW ensure compensation for damages in case physical • We are adjusting and reducing the working time of our fine dust induction • In 2018, we conducted training on the evaluation of the EHS Management and/or property damages occurs to a third party due to the installation process, and also manage the operation continuously through the real-time System (ISO 14001) and on the waste disposal contribution system related Status of Environmental Regulation Violation and operation of environmental facilities such as air and water quality monitoring between the head office and the domestic construction site. to the Resource Circulation Law and response method. • There have been no violations, fines, dispute resolutions or environmental discharge facilities, thus minimizing the effect of environmental accidents • We continuously pay attention to trends in the government's detailed liabilities related to environmental regulation for three years. on surrounding areas. guidelines in order to prepare in advance, and when replacing aging OJT for New Environment Managers of Construction Sites facilities, long-term countermeasures on fine dust are established to reflect • D oosan Heavy Industries & Construction employs new environment More than 400 on-site air pollution control facilities environment-friendly conditions. managers to strengthen environmental management at each construction site and conducts an OJT program for environmental management in Waste Management accordance with the EHS Academy. • Air pollution management for air emission facilities and prevention facilities • To establish a culture of separate waste collection among employees, • Establishment of self-standards that are stronger than legal standards we currently carry out collection in accordance with the separate waste Biodiversity management at Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction construction sites (40% higher than legal emission standards) collection criteria, and separated waste is processed by certified waste Number of Region Project list Areas of primary control Details of managed species treatment companies after being transferred to storage sites through managed species Established a process for the systemic monitoring and exclusive means of collection. Fadhili Combined Heat and Soil: Sand Sea, Swamp 1 Amphibia: spiny-tailed Lizard classified as VU Saudi Power Plant management of environmental facilities • For all waste contracts, only companies that have been verified as suitable Arabia There is no influence on plants and animals to be managed under the EIA, Pilot test in 2016 -> Expansion of the entire facility by 2020 through early legal conformance assessments may participate in the Shoaiba RO Water: Red Sea X but there is a list of 25 plant species in all of Saudi Arabia. bidding process, an attempt to prevent in advance any issues regarding Turtle, whale, dolphin, fox, lizard (35), gazelle, camel, goat, bird Oman Sharqiyah RO Water: Sea 9 illegal processing of waste. (94 species including eagle, gull) • Development of a process that can automatically generate legal logs for The ecosystem types identified in the EIA are as follows, the operation of environmental facilities by using sensors • In 2018, 94% of the ordinary waste generated at the Changwon Plant was Soil: Grass/ forestland, coastal sandy plain Vinh Tan 4 X but there is no mention of management targets in the EIA Report. recycled, and about 943,000 tons of incinerated waste from a fire that Water: Sea (Cost of Cana) Plants 56, animals 53, fish species 76, occurred during construction of the Vinh Tan 4 Thermal Power Plant in Vietnam The following EIA types are identified in the EIA, but there are no types of plants to be Harmful Chemical Substances Vietnam was disposed of legally. managed under the EIA Report. no mention of controls on animals and species. Soil: Agricultural land (farm land) Song Hau 1 TPP X Plants (154 species): no precious plants species in the Red Book of Vietnam and the UICN • In order to manage all chemicals used at Doosan Heavy Industries & • We will continue to expand recycling in the future through the professional Water: River, canal (See Resources) Construction without administrative omission, we operate a monitoring recycling of waste refractories. Animals (53), fish species (35) system. The ecosystem types identified in EIA are as follows: the EIA Report mentions that there • T o fundamentally eliminate legal risks from the usage of hazardous Soil: Soil, Forest, Jungle are no categories of control (see Resources). The IUCN Risk of Extinction states that there Best Practice Obra C Water: Rihand River, Son River X are no flora and fauna. chemicals, we have replaced hazardous chemical substances currently used India Plants (255), animals (287), fish species (21) at the Changwon Plant with general chemicals. 2018 Korea Green Climate Award – No. 1 in company Soil: Agricultural land (farm land) or Jawaharpur X The EIA Report mentions that there are no categories of control category, Minister of Trade, Industry and Energy Award Non-agricultural land Changwon-Dongeup-GimhaeTrained 8 professional administrators who are able to • Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction received the Minister of Trade, Soil, Water 5 Korean buzzard, kestrel, Asiatic sparrow hawk, grey frog hawk, mandarin duck Hallim Route manage in-company chemicals Industry and Energy Award hosted by the National Assembly Forum on Samcheok Green Power #1, 2 Swamps 4 Otter, kestrel, mandarin duck, whooper swan Climate Change. I was selected No. 1 in the company category of the Changnyeong-Miryang Highway Soil, sky 6 Leopard cat, mandarin duck, Asiatic sparrow hawk, eagle, kestrel • Professional administrators dispatched to all work site before chemical '2018 Korea Green Climate Awards'. substances are handled • We focus on new and renewable energy projects, which include a land Shin Kori Nuclear Power #5, 6 Water 55 Conger eel, horse mackerel, Korean rockfish, thornback ray and sea wind power generation system and energy storage system. There is mention about management of land animals, land flora, marine biota, Korea • We contribute to the reduction of the country's greenhouse gas emissions and statutory protection species in the environmental effects evaluation. Jeokseong-Duil Road Soil, Water 8 Minimized the use of hazardous chemical substances, through technology to reduce the generation of NOx, a kind of environmental Wildcat (13), eagle, kestrel (42), salamander (13), macromia daimoji okumura (24), common Korean bitterling, spotted barbell, gobiobotia macrocephala (9) replace with regular chemical substances pollutant, and eco-friendly power plant combustion technology. There is mention about management of land animals, marine biota, • Since the establishment of our energy efficiency roadmap in 2013, we and statutory protection species in the environmental effects evaluation. • From 2016 to 2018, 12 hazardous chemical substances were replaced have conducted activities to improve facility efficiency and manage smart Bongdam-Songsan Highway Soil, Water 12 Wildcat, mandarin duck, goshawk, sparrowhawk, grey frog hawk, kestrel, eagle-owl, with regular chemical substances energy, receiving broad recognition for our contribution to the spread of black-capped kingfisher, salamander, narrow-mouthed toad, Korean frog, low-carbon corporate culture. yellow-spotted serpent, meat on short ribs 60 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Strategy & Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 61 Health & Safety Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction recognizes the health and safety protection of Zero accident hours achieved in construction projects employees as a major project to continuously manage. Thus, Doosan Heavy Industries & Classification Unit 2018 Category Description 2017 results Construction applies an advanced, scientific safety and health management system in local Local Jeju LNG Combined-cycle Power Plant hours 1,820,000 Making a video of the progress Performing risk assessments in and overseas worksites and consistently discovers potential elements of hazard and risks, Obra C, India hours 8,000,000 Video risk of work and discovering and which actual workers participate assessment improving risk factors during each by utilizing the videotaped work which are thoroughly and preemptively handled. In the future, Doosan Heavy Industries & Jawaharpur, India hours 6,000,000 process by the workers themselves situations: 92% Construction is planning to expand its support to interested parties such as business partners, Overseas Fadhili, Saudi Arabia hours 15,000,000 customers as well, employees and more so that interested parties can enjoy a comfortable Shoaiba Ro, Saudi Arabia hours 4,600,000 environment and healthy life. Doha RO, Kuwait hours 4,500,000 Selecting high-risk tasks Effects after execution (Unit: group) • Recognizing unsafe activities Health and Safety System • Regarding hazard risk facilities (cranes, etc.) at which major disasters may occur, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction achieved independently Changes in special precision diagnoses such as non-destructive inspection on parts where 6 disaster-free construction sites domestically and overseas. Work video • Understanding risk factors in habits each process Strengthening of health and safety system based on global stresses are concentrated are performed to secure the safety of the facilities. • Recognizing the ability to EHS management system • By reporting high-risk work plans and outcomes of safety activities at local prevent disasters of the same kind and overseas worksites weekly to executives, elements of potential danger • For domestic production sites, domestic and overseas construction sites, Establishment of a Safety Management Culture • Recognizing that the and service sites, we assess all hazardous risk factors of EHS, prepare are controlled. direction of improvement Improvement Checking measures, and thoroughly train all workers. Strengthening of autonomous execution of safety and and selfand discussing is realistic and increasing Reinforcement of safety and health inspection during execution • We perform continuous monitoring of this activity. health by business partners examination tasks • High participation rate of vulnerable periods field managers and workers • W e acquired ISO 14001 certification in 1998 and OHSAS 18001 • We executed a safety and health coexistence cooperation program for • Internal inspections were conducted via a checklist on peak processes and Review of • Image of positive activities certification in 2004 for advanced and scientific EHS management, and in business partners risk factors high-risk worksites as well as during holidays including New Year's Day, 2018 we changed to ISO 45001 to reinforce the leadership of managers • 53 business partners conducted autonomous risk assessment activities to Chuseok, and summer and winter vacations. and to strengthen employees' participation. discover and fix risk factors at worksites • Improvement measures and 28 special safety inspections were carried out • Through certification of risk assessment, we received the benefits of an to enhance the level of safety at sites that may have been overlooked. industrial accident insurance fee exemption and 25 companies acquired Emergency Response System Enhancement of Risk Process Management and KOSHA 18001 certification. Inspection Expand Effective Safety and Health Education • To provide mind enhancement education for presidents and supervisors of Operating a BCM (Business Continuity Management) system domestic and overseas business partners, we established an autonomous • Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has established its BCM system Management Safety Leadership Tour (MSLT) EHS Leadership education for executives and plant directors safety management system and strengthened voluntary improvement. to secure the safety of employees and their families under various disaster • To demonstrate commitment to the safety of executives and managers, and • Education programs are provided periodically to foster EHS Leadership. situations. to systematically implement Visual Safety Management by identifying and • F or production executives and plant directors on EHS participation, • With consideration of the characteristics of different worksites, a response Personal health and safety activities by workers solving problems at work sites, we conduct periodic MSLT for hazardous communication, risk management capabilities, etc. manual and processes have been created and training sessions in which all • Moving beyond health and safety activities mainly performed by managers processes and operations at manufacturing, construction and service • The company has made it obligatory to install safety experience facilities employees participate are held twice a year. and supervisors, we now allow the workers themselves to take the leading sites (BG director: more than once a month, executive: more than twice a at all local and overseas construction sites, conducting education for all employees since 2016. role in participating in and implementing such activities. month, field manager/factory manager: more than once a week). Performing emergency response training • In case of particularly dangerous construction sites, the site director conducts MSLT • A pool of professional safety experience facility provides training on the • We have organized detailed response measures for emergency situations proper use of the facilities. Crane and forklift drivers' license system to check the performance of TBM, operation of Golden Safety Time, management such as unexpected accidents or disasters. • As the transport or loading and unloading of heavy items by crane or of three major risks, results of weekly Site Cleaning Day, and compliance with 10 • Emergency drills (60 times) are performed on site. Expansion of education for the enhancement of work forklift represents a significant risks, our Changwon plant operates our own Golden Safety Rules. MSLT was implemented 942 times in 2018. • Considering the risk characteristics at different sites, the training is carried competency in safety and health crane and forklift licensing system for driving. out not only with the purpose of securing competency in initial responses • T raining to improve competency in safety and health work was • Workers must pass an internal qualification program to be able to work for the protection of human lives and property but also in the form of field implemented for all employees working at or related to construction sites on site and drive the aforementioned equipment, and program consists of exercises for potential earthquakes, fires and explosions, environmental (for the enhancement of EHS Mindset and Leadership). professional theory education and exercises to minimize any unstable and accidents, utility shutoffs, evacuation from office buildings, etc. unsafe activities of drivers. C  ompleted training safety and health leader class for 30 executives, team managers and site directors • For those who fail, another opportunity to take the test will be given only after enrolling in the education again. Completed training for 36 business partner site directors Performance of Health and Safety Management for Completed training for 324 local managers and supervisors Business Partners C  ompleted training for 264 Korean managers at 6 worksites overseas and 262 EHS staff at Doosan and its business partners Acquired A grade in the 2017 safety and health coexistence cooperation program Completed training for 62 local safety and health managers Pursued the safety and health coexistence cooperation program for 53 Completed training for 147 Seoul office employees business partners (49 internal, 4 outside) Through this program, 46 business partners conducted autonomous High-risk process management Development of safety education contents (video) risk assessment activities to discover and fix risk factors at worksites • To eliminate the major risks of falling or jamming, handling of heavy-loads • For the diversification of safety education contents, we have produced safety education videos and used them as EHS manuals for various workers Acqired KOSHA 18001 certification for 24 companies is conducted in accordance with the work plan. • Safety work procedure is enacted for easy utilization of heavy items. at domestic and overseas construction sites. In particular, we translated • Monthly specialization training is conducted to secure professional skills them into 5 languages for the education of overseas workers. and enhance the competency of workers. • Created Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction's 10 Golden Safety Rules • For work in high locations, a tag system is introduced at safety facilities of Construction Sites video along with experiential training on falling. • Created TBM Implementation Guide video to drive worker participation 62 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Strategy & Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 63 Conducting safety talks Overseas site security Operation of a smoking cessation program Sanitary Control • W e internally produce videos specialized for the company including • Crisis management and emergency care plans are in operation to protect • To promote the health of its employees and their families, Doosan Heavy • We conduct a sanitary diagnosis on the nine canteens within Changwon evacuation measures for emergency situations, response methods in the the personal safety for sojourning employees who are dispatched to Industries & Construction has operated a smoking cessation program through a professional sanitary diagnosis company three times per year in case of earthquakes, and an introduction to firefighting facilities and how overseas sites as well as their family members in case of war, terrorism, through which 231 people successfully stopped smoking over the past addition to more than six internal inspections. to use them. riots, epidemics, or natural disasters. three years. • A total epidemic prevention system has been established to ensure that our • We play them before any meeting or event, just like at a movie theater, and • We monitor the current status of overseas sites, and any issues in relevant • In 2018, training in Seoul was carried out for 15 people in five sessions in employees are free of infectious diseases, and in-company affiliated clinics all relevant information is provided via a smartphone application. countries receive constant communication so that necessary actions are taken. association with the Seocho-gu Community Health Center. It included a are in operation. training on how to quit smoking, individual counseling, and provision of Operation of an in-company fire department Workers at Workers in dangerous Those on short-term overseas sites countries business trips supplements. Prevention of infectious diseases and operation of in• We operate our own fire brigade to promptly respond during the golden time to fire accidents and emergency that may occur at the company. company affiliated clinics Healthcare programs for each recruitment cohort • We offer regular flu vaccinations for not only employees but also their • W e have 10 specialists with fire/emergency related majors and • F rom the entry of employees to their retirement, we offer a health families and members of business partners. qualifications, as well as 2 fire trucks and 1 ambulance. management program tailored to different age groups. • While conducting safety education for employees dispatched to or on Implementation of EHS work optimization at domestic and • International SOS • Understanding and • Travel Tracker • U pon joining the company and prior to being stationed for specific business trips to worksites overseas, we support vaccinations for malaria overseas construction sites • Monitoring of status of applying issues in advance • Securing safety by work, newly recruited employees are subject to not only a basic health and more prior to their departure in order to prevent endemic diseases overseas sites, etc. • Forming a plan to checking real-time • As reducing major disasters by half and the 52 hour work week are now examination but also medical treatment at large hospitals. prevalent in local regions. establish measures transport route government policy tasks, EHS work optimization measures that we pursued through collaboration • A ll employees have access to a mental health program that offers • Our medical staff including professional doctors visit overseas worksites with relevant teams counseling with professional counselors on stress and problems they face in have been implemented and are operating at domestic and overseas which lack proper medical infrastructure on a regular basis to assist in construction sites. their everyday lives. health management through counseling and on-site treatment. Health Management • An in-company clinic has been established where doctors, nurses, physical • Formal and customary but ineffectual EHS activities have been abolished or integrated and revised: provided simplified and standardized formatting. Health Management Program therapists and sports physicians are stationed to offer a one-stop treatment • Medical examination before service, medical prescriptions, physical treatment and sports treatment. • W e have simplified or abolished integrated safety inquiries (voluntary • We operate a Total Health Care Program for all of our employees, their dispatch (technician) New implementation on site) and converted them to TBM (Tool Box Meeting)families and subsidiaries' employees. • Hepatitis A vaccination (primary employees based activities (participation of Doosan/partner employees) using a safety and secondary) Status of vaccination and usage of affiliated clinics • A variety of healthcare programs to take care of physical and mental health • Seasonal influenza vaccination work binder. are being conducted such as diet improvement activities, aquarobics (every year) Vaccination for seasonal flu (including family) Unit: people • Optimization of construction and safety cycle: improved by carrying out classes, anti-smoking classes and medical counseling. • Acquisition of qualification for • Regular health examination on-site preventive activities and participation by class (by director, Doosan/ surgery expenses (employee, 2016 15,420 • Medical support is also provided to employees of Doosan, ordering bodies and • Office workers: general health spouse, and child) 1st year examination (once every 2 years) cooperation supervisor, and safety manager) from EHS system-based subsidiaries who currently work at overseas sites with poor medical facilities. • Large hospital consultation 2017 13,749 • Technical workers: special + operation service health examination (every year) • Minimization of receiving time for new workers/construction equipment: On-the-job training for new health managers and education • First aid training 2018 10,385 reduced training time and simplified attendance forms and inspection to improve competency in health work • EHS training before dispatch 0 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 procedures • Insurance for overseas travelers Traveling • We have been electing health administrators at our construction sites, and dispatches Vaccination against endemic diseases/type A influenza Unit: people • Improvement of formal risk assessment and simplification of integration overseas and in 2018, as on-the-job training program was conducted for 3 newly • Endemic and infectious disease 2016 238 of Permit To Work (PTW) forms: increased safety measures in safety work recruited health managers. vaccination • SOS service subscription procedures for each work group (minimization of risk assessment/PTW • The OJT program is for new health managers to benchmark cases of 2017 118 • Provision of safety guide for review time) • Use of comprehensive counseling success and failure of site health management by being deployed to welloverseas living center (Misodam) 2018 110 • W e secure safety work binders on-site to ensure immediate review • In-company clinic hot-line On duty managed sites before new sites. • On-site medical support service • Use of in-company clinics 0 50 100 150 200 compliance and step-by-step improvements during on-site patrols • The training is carried out to help managers apply real know-how to new • Medical expenses (surgery fee) (Configuration of safety work binder: Safety Work Procedures, PTW, JSEA, support Persons treated at affiliated clinics Unit: people sites. • Large-scale, and professional Risk Assessment, Lifting Plan, TBM Daily Log, Theme Checklist). hospital connection service 2016 19,520 • Comprehensive health Management of patients with musculoskeletal diseases • Participation in non-smoking examination • As a means of alleviating symptoms in musculoskeletal disease patients, • For those over 35 years old 5 year th class and aquarobic course 2017 13,415 or who have worked at the • Low-salt diet support therapy was carried out. company for five consecutive 2018 16,318 • We have hosted aquarobics classes every year since 2011, and 65 people years 0 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 participated in 2018. • Brain, cardiovascular and cancer • M oreover, results of efficacy analysis performed through VAS (Visual close examination 20th year • For those over 45 years old Analogue Scale) and isokinetic devices showed that more than 54% of the or who have worked at the participants experienced alleviation of pain. company for 20 consecutive years Safety work binders Management status of musculoskeletal disease patients • Support for comprehensive health examination discount After 80 retirement EHS performance evaluation at domestic and overseas 65 (for 3 years) construction sites 57 60 50 • We operate an EHS activity participation program in which all of our field employees participate, particularly the site directors, and it is reflected in 40 performance evaluation (10% of the KPI). 20 Unit: persons 0 2016 2017 2018 64 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Strategy & Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 65 Talent Management Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction recognizes human resources as an important Human Resource Information System HR Development System source of revenue for the growth and development of the company. We seek to discover talented individuals and establish a corporate culture in which they can unleash their Oversees employees' Leadership College Professional College autonomous learning utmost capabilities, while promoting in-house training programs to further employee & development Oversees the and HR operations HR operation of Aligned with Individual growth roadmap development and subsequently secure a competitive edge. Through improvements to overseas subsidiaries which are based the work environment, such as implementing the 52-hour work week, encouraging the Global One on objectives management System use of annual leave, and adopting the 5 days-a-week Casual Day dress code, Doosan Enhanced Functional Competency Training Programs & Heavy Industries & Construction has strengthened employees' work and life balance Enhanced functionality for deriving HR data and In-house Faculty Support and maximized production efficiency in 2018. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction • A s a means to strengthen the the functional competency of all our analyzing management indicators will continue with its efforts to improve the work environment in 2019 by enhancing employees, we have developed and implemented Learning Academies for the internal reporting culture and adopting a flexible work start & end time system Job Functions based on the value chain. in consideration of the time difference with overseas offices. We are also aiming to Doosan Heavy • Ea ch academy consists of a three-stage learning structure, Basic > Industries & Advanced > Expert, based on the capabilities required for each position strengthen work time management by adopting the PC-off system during off-hours. Construction and the level of seniority. HRIS • Employees may select and enroll in functional competency training that Principles of Talent Management Respecting the Human Rights of Employees suits their needs and level of competency accordingly. • All local and global worksites of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction • To provide practical educational content that is closely related to everyday The Desired Employee Traits Defined in Doosan People recognize employee's human rights as being crucial. Achieved standardization of human resources data, tasks, a handful of employees participate as lecturers to teach and share •  Doosan People refer to all the Doosan members, who are committed • We strictly prohibit the employment or forced labor of children and youth simplification of the HR process their professional knowledge and experiences. to contributing to the organization, and as such, continuously strive to under the age of 18 (in case a violation occurs, we immediately investigate • We aim to improve the quality of our in-house faculty and instill pride improve their competency. to take necessary measures). Competency evaluations of about 6,800 and in them by providing opportunities for them to develop speaking skills • Doosan People are those who regard our company's core values and desired 8,500 employees in Korea and overseas respectively • We also operate a human rights management program in an attempt to or paying lecture fees, and we are running various programs such as an employee traits as being of utmost importance and manifest them in their resolve human rights blind spots and are working to gradually expand it to annual Faculty Day event. everyday actions. The Global One System increases value through alignment of performance all of our global worksites. assessment, growth management, training, and recruitment Employee Training • We plan to develop and utilize a human rights investigation and selfUnit: hours Doosan People assessment tool to advance human rights management. Category 2016 2017 2018 Total no. of training hours 633,835 401,986 79,576 Officially filed complaints related to human rights1) 11.7 Fostering Talents Male 86.4 58 No. of training Female 87.2 128 22.7 Strategy for Fostering Talents hours per White Collars 15.5 60 56 person Blue Collars 5.4 • We believe that the greatest asset in a company's growth and development Harmony Total 82 53 12.2 50 is its people , and as such, we develop strategies based on the balanced 40 growth of talents instead of focusing on just a select few. 40 • We actively encourage various learning activities in workplaces to establish Genuine attention Continuously rising a self-initiated learning culture that enables voluntary improvement of one's and development viewpoint 30 competency. 20 14 Strategy for Fostering Talents 10 Unit: incidents 0 01 Expanding development opportunities to all employees 02 Providing training opportunities customized for each stage of growth 03 Development based on self-initiated learning 2016 2017 2018 • Instead of focusing on the development of only a few • Offering systematic learning opportunities considering • Providing Solution Book to promote efficient and Open communication Priority and focus 1) Including the number of reports from partners leaders, providing opportunities for equal growth to the individual's competency level based on position & systematic self-learning all employees work experience • Supporting various self-initiated learning programs • Reinforcing the 'Doosan Way' leadership training • Tiered learning content tailored to the employee's such as learning clubs and courses created by HR Development-Oriented Evaluations • Expanding management training programs to all competency level employees Diligent execution • Instead of an assessment for short-term compensation, we run an employees • Supporting advanced job training to prepare for job evaluation system focused on the long-term development of each • Establishing a 3-stage learning structure consisting rotations employee. of basic, advanced, and expert courses for improved functional competency • We understand the characteristic strengths and development needs of each Fair Selection of Talents individual employee and perform fact-based assessments on employees HR Development System • To recruit individuals with the desired traits, Doosan Heavy Industries & to satisfy the employee traits desired by Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction handpicks competent personnel every year through a strict Construction. Through this, we assist in the establishment of a detailed HR screening process for the selection of new recruits and experienced workers. development plan and Career Development Plan (CDP). • Recruiting is done in an open and fair manner without prejudice regarding • Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has improved its HR information academic background, age, gender, ethnicity, and/or region. system by setting up a consolidated HRIS (Human Resource Information Doosan Leadership College Doosan Professional College System). Fostering leaders who uphold Fostering experts equipped with a the Doosan Way fundamental competitive edge 66 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Strategy & Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 67 Innovative Leadership Development Programs Establishment of Advanced Corporate Culture Open Communication Survey Support of Club Activities • For executive-level employees who lead innovation, Innovation School is • The Open Communication Survey, where the top executives listen to • We support club activities for our employees’ work and life balance. (leisure Internalization of the Doosan Credo being offered to assist them with seeking new businesses and new growth questions and suggestions from employees and answer them directly, activities in various areas including sports, hobbies and self-development). •D  oosan executives and employees, led by leaders and CAs (change agents), engines for the company. is being implemented every month from April 2018. So far, over 3,200 • M ore than 2,000 employees are currently signed up in 51 clubs in implement the Doosan Credo, Doosan's very own philosophy and decision• W e are seeking to improve our skills for devising and implementing questions and suggestions have been received and it has become a Changwon, Seoul and Yongin. making criteria, in their work as they continuously strive to create results. countermeasures for issues encountered in our everyday work through the meaningful communication channel between the company and employees. • Every year, we identify outstanding examples of our core competitiveness, Innovation Workshop, which was set up to discover and materialize real business/scientific advancement, and our core values being practiced, and • The company responds to employees’ questions to appease their curiosity Consortium Education innovative items based on a thorough understanding of new trends and while also trying to share the company's vision by actively explaining the • W e operate national HR development consortium programs that are by sharing these examples throughout the company, we emphasize and advanced digital technology in the age of the fourth industrial revolution. business status and strategies. aimed at enhancing the technical competency of power sector customers, spread the Doosan Credo. • We plan to extend this curriculum to team managers and workers in the • W e also seek to improve the work environment of employees and business partners, and employees. digital field as well in 2019. We will continue to introduce innovative ways enhance work & life balance by actively accepting employee's constructive • Through such efforts, we are leading the shared growth between the Operation of Change Agents of doing business and spread the idea company-wide in order to deal with suggestions and ideas. company, customers, and business partners, and thereby achieving • T he CAs of each executive-led organization, act as a bridge of changes in business in a smarter, more agile manner. increased productivity through the enhancement of employees' technical communication between executives and employees and strive to secure a Total skills. working culture and organizational culture that upholds the Doosan Credo. number of Systems introduced through Questions Suggestions • T he CA continuously monitors whether its affiliated organization is participating surveys employees working in an effective manner based on the Doosan Credo and regularly • Introduction of Casual Day communicates the voice of the workers to the management and executives, • Introduction of a quarter day off and effectively leads the Doosan Credo efforts by promoting discussions system aimed at devising and implementing improvements. • Improvement of the compensation 1,883 1,267 1,290 package offered to domestic and overseas site workers • Improvement of congratulations and condolences system Establishment of Excellent Workplaces Retirement Assistance Program • C ustomized retirement support programs are provided for employees whose retirement is imminent, as well as their spouses, to guide them in STEPS Program the post-retirement phase. •We operate the STEPS (Strategic Thinking Enhancement Problem Solving) • T hey are composed of basic and intensive curriculums. Information on individual concerns is provided, and discussions and consulting are Meister System curriculum to improve employees' strategic thinking and logical problemsolving capabilities. supported especially near the time of retirement. • T he company selects and nurtures in-house ‘meisters’ to pass down •We provide a framework for all employees to solve problems based on their skills and expertise accumulated through decades of experience at the same process and standards, so when issues arise, we can increase Operation of Misodam production sites and to foster technical talents. productivity and reduce unnecessary costs by making quick and accurate • 19 meisters have been raised since 2014 and serve the role of improving • We have opened and are operating a general counseling center, Misodam, decisions. CEO-sponsored CA conference productivity through technical training and process standardization. an integrated center offering services ranging from mental care to legal • W e run a systematic curriculum aimed at technical competency and real estate counseling, as well as psychological, legal, and real estate Smart Office enhancement for our employees to help them grow as meisters. Learning & Development Process counseling for our employees. • W e encourage members to enjoy a work-life balance by improving • For psychological counseling services in particular, we conduct counseling productivity through the efficient use of work hours and the Smart Office related to oneself, family, and children’s education help improve employees' Fostering Technical Talents Meisters system (PC Off system, intensive work system, flexible work system). mental stability and maximize work efficiency. Basic Intensive Individual • To improve office productivity, we cultivate an effective and purposeful curriculum curriculum consulting reporting culture that is not tied to any form or formality. Counseling Center (Misodam) • 19 meisters have been raised for technical training and process standardization (2014-) Change in perception Establishment of Fine-tuning & Operation of the Smart Office system to Psychological Legal counseling Category Purpose Target Group 2018 Outcome of post-retirement life action plan Follow-up Care enhance employees' work-life balance counseling (once a month) Seeking shared (3 times a week) growth of large 673 people National human Current employees corporations and (637 current • Learning about • Basic traits • Individual consulting resource development and new recruits at Operation of Establishing a SMEs through employees, 36 new consortium program partner companies effectively utilizing • P rovision of •1 :1 consulting with a system to culture of office support for personnel recruits) work hours on development information experts improve office productivity weekdays Training Programs for Providing clients with Current employees of productivity improvement 159 people • Designing of future Power Sector Clients customer satisfaction power sector clients Financial counseling • S pecial lectures by (once a month) Functional subject area Technical training for competency Company's current • Intensive work hour system • Simplification of report 451 people current employees enhancement of employees 775 • Late hour overtime consultation generation and reporting current employees Number of sessions conducted at process • Flexible work hours psychology counseling center in 2018 • Minimization of meeting time 68 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Strategy & Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 69 Technology Management School • W e operate the Technology Management School, with a technical 13 Consecutive Years Free of Labor Dispute • We have established stable and rational labor-management relations based Shared Growth Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is building up its competitiveness through synergetic partnerships with its business partners. The company will foster shared growth management curriculum, to improve the competencies of the technical on strong mutual trust. with its business partners to establish a long-term cooperative system and is seeking to staff. • This has led to the settlement of negotiations without any complications for improve the effectiveness of partner management by adopting upgraded development • We promote a culture of communication by delivering a value-creating 13 consecutive years. business cycle and accounting knowledge and by conducting leadership programs that reinforce partners' competitiveness and assist with overseas market entry. programs. Labor-management communication and Engagement • Since 2014, training has been conducted with 1,575 people (76%) with a • Opportunities for employees to freely participate in the decision-making process are provided through corporate labor-management meetings, such Shared Growth Promotion System Reinforcing Competitiveness total of 58 waves being conducted thus far. as collective bargaining, the labor-management council and system & policy • D oosan Heavy Industries & Construction offers consulting services for Shared Growth Strategy its business partners to reinforce their competitiveness, and professional In-house University improvement committee. • Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction's managerial, quality management, consultants from an external consulting firm visit the company's business • In collaboration with Changwon National University, we are currently • We have prepared communication channels for the employees, such as and technology systems, including its technical capabilities and business partners to help deduce and execute assignments for improvement. running the Department of Energy Fusion Engineering to promote the an ombudsman office at each BG, to ensure our employees' opinions can systems, are being shared with business partners to further increase their • A total of 26 business partners have received such assistance since 2014. development and growth of the technical staff. be reflected in the company management. for each BG in order to actively competitiveness. Through these consultations, they experienced improvements in purchasing, • Employees who are interested can apply for undergraduate and transfer reflect our employees’ opinions in corporate management. • By establishing synergetic partnerships with its business partners, Doosan productivity and design, and also achieved an average cost reduction of courses and use weekdays and weekends to study. They will be obtaining a Overview of Employees Covered Under Collective Bargaining Heavy Industries & Construction has been playing a positive role in the 10.4%. degree in engineering upon graduation. Agreement local and national economy. • Participated in the Industrial Innovation Movement for the 5th year to • 86 employees have graduated thus far and 20 employees are currently support the competitiveness enhancement of 11 business partners in enrolled in the transfer curriculum. Total Number of Eligible Employees Unit: person Shared growth promotion strategies productivity innovation, and two of them won the Excellent Enterprise 2016 3,878 Award: Foster 200 or so strong global companies by 2020 · Taejun Industrial Co. (Minister of Trade, Industry and Energy Award), 2017 4,004 Develop a mutually-beneficial partnership system through which Ilwol Packaging & Logistics (Korea Commission for Corporate Partnership 2018 3,550 we can grow together with business partners Chairman Award) 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 • In addition to the ongoing program, the company conducted professional consulting for 11 business partners in 2017 regarding entry into the Number of Employees Who Signed Up for Union and Unit: person Vietnamese and Indian markets, which has resulted in five of them Labor-Management Council establishing local offices and beginning construction of factories. 2016 2,172 Capacity-Building Training 2017 2,166 • Providing opportunities to develop functional competencies for employees 2018 2,055 Facilitate Enhance technology• at our business partners, including those expected to be recruited. 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 growth productivity • T raining expenses are fully supported by Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction for our business partners and additional training allowances Percentage of Employees Who Signed Up for Union and Unit: % Labor-Management Council Doosan Heavy Industries Business are provided to encourage participation in training. & Construction partner • 633 employees from 95 affiliate companies participated in and were trained 2016 56.0 through the competency enhancement programs in 2018. 2017 54.1 Management Consulting and Quality Improvement Activities 2018 57.9 Building Up the Competencies of Business Partners for Partners 0 20 40 60 80 100 • Customized consulting is implemented by matching a business partner Shared Growth Academy in need of effective consulting with a retired Doosan Heavy Industries & • Shared Growth Academy' is a program devised to promote cooperation Construction executive who can share his expertise. between large corporations and small-to-medium sized partners and • In 2018, we completed management consulting for four business partners, to expand the culture of shared growth even to secondary and tertiary and consulting on the enhancement of quality control for an additional business partners. four business partners. Quality meisters of Doosan Heavy Industries & • Run by the government and the Korea Foundation for Corporation of Large Construction helped support the establishment of a quality system. and Small Business, Rural Affairs, over 100 employees from 98 business • In 2017, 13 meisters provided assistance for two business partners to partners participated in the event in 2018. contribute to their quality improvement. • Various information is shared to help partners build up their competitiveness. e.g. Necessity of CSR activities for sustainable development, special lecture on the common denominator between basketball and business management given by KISWEL Vice Chairman Hee-Am Choi, the former star basketball coach who became a successful entrepreneur, and presentations on EHS cooperation programs. • By providing the stage for discussions with each department, we get the chance to listen to our partner's voices directly and come up with solutions 70 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Strategy & Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 71 Establishment of a Culture of Shared Growth Supply Network Management Purchase status of local and overseas supply chains Policies regarding conflict minerals (size of the supply chain/purchase cost) • Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction publicizes its policies to eliminate Communication CSR Guideline of Business Partners the use of conflict minerals (tin, tantalum, tungsten, gold) when Classification 2018 • D oosan Heavy Industries & Construction Cooperative Association is a • Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has enacted and enforces the manufacturing its products to resolve any risks related to human rights consultative group launched for the fulfillment of shared growth and Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction CSR Guidelines for Business Korea 10,995 (KRW 1.68 trillion) violations or delivery practices (http://www.doosanheavy.com/kr/csr/ communication between Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction and its Partners, the fundamental criteria with which all of its business partners guideline/). business partners. must comply (http://www.doosanheavy.com/kr/csr/guideline/). • Though the act of extracting or mining minerals is not directly related to its • With Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Cooperative Association • These guidelines were written based on the 10 principles of the United Japan 164 (KRW 170.4 billion) areas of business, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction still implements at the center, long-term, productive cooperative relationships based on Nations Global Compact, which includes human rights, labor, environment, this system to fulfill its social responsibilities and to protect human rights mutual trust are established. and anti-corruption. throughout the value chain. China 148 (KRW 31.3 billion) • With the Cooperative Association, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction • Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction encourages all business partners to • The system related to conflict minerals is being executed through the implements various shared growth programs including competitiveness follow such criteria. application of company regulations related to the CSR guidelines for its reinforcement support, financial assistance, joint advancement overseas, Saudi Arabia 119 (KRW 132.8 billion) suppliers and diverse efforts are undertaken to listen to the opinions of Major contents of CSR guidelines for business partners and strengthened communication. interested parties. • To discuss major issues that arise between Doosan Heavy Industries & United States 353 (KRW 51.9 billion) Construction and its business partners, regular meetings are held as well as Human Health and safety, working conditions and wages, etc Responses to conflict minerals executive visits to the business partners. rights • Since 2012, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has maintained a process · In 2018, BG-specific meetings were held 13 times, the purchasing Italy 90 (KRW 14.2 billion) to determine country-of-origin and established a system to support it. Labor Freedom of association, child labor, forced labor, etc. executives including the CEO visited 23 business partners. • To verify the country of origin for each project, item categorization of · To spread the shared growth culture to secondary business partners, and original materials is requested to an external professional agency (customs identify and resolve problems, we visited 34 secondary business partners. Environment Environmental protection and pollution control Czech 12 (KRW 100 million) firms, etc.) to secure reliability. • The Win-Win Call Center is also being operated for consultations and • T hrough a simulation feature of the system, materials or companies feedback regarding difficulties, complaints, and recommendations from AntiPrevention of corruption, compliance with law Germany 294 (KRW 57.1 billion) necessary to satisfy the country of origin are selected and relevant business corruption business partners, while cultural events such as family festivals and family partners are required to submit country-of-origin verification documents. music concerts, hosted by Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction, are held Conflict • Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction revised the content of purchasing Conflict minerals, response status, etc. minerals Romania 10 (KRW 36 billion) for affiliate employees and their families. This is just a couple of examples contracts signed with suppliers to include the prohibition of conflict showing the many ways the company is using to communicate with its minerals, and had all of its suppliers comply. business partners. Others 1,069 (KRW 81.6 billion) Distributors of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Fair Trade Compliance Program Scrap iron , a primary raw material for mold tool steel • Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has selected strategic items and • A s a fair trade compliance organization, Doosan Heavy Industries & manufactured by Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction cooperation items by considering price, quality, delivery time, entry barriers, Major negative impacts on society and measures Construction has designated compliance administrators and compliance etc., and defines companies who maintain long-term supply relationships implemented within the supply chain managers for each BG and a team responsible for fair trade compliance. as business partners. • 7 country-of-origin determinations are made on average every month • To prevent any legal violations in advance, work processes and computer Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 • W hen selecting a new business partner, Doosan Heavy Industries & • We manage alloy additives added to the steelmaking process by suppliers systems have been improved. No. of suppliers that have been evaluated by identifying the origin of raw and subsidiary materials for manufacturing Construction performs an assessment of its financial and governance companies 743 324 376 • Education on fair trade and the shared growth mindset is carried out for for social impact products. structure through a credit evaluation, and the selection criteria include No. of suppliers that have been verified employees who work directly with the business partners. items of environment, safety, and fair trade. to actually or potentially have a negative companies 2 0 0 • Education on subcontract law especially is being implemented throughout • A company that has caused social or moral disturbance is strictly prohibited social effect the company and reinforces executing regulations on personnel transfer for from applying as a new affiliate, and the entire selection process is carried improvements based on the evaluation law breakers. % 100 100 100 out in an unbiased and transparent manner. results No. of corruption cases in which penalties case 4 2 1 Visiting secondary business partners Risk Management of Business Partners have been imposed on business partners • D oosan Heavy Industries & Construction conducts a business partner • Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction visited 34 secondary business registration assessment through which costs, delivery, quality, collaboration, partners, concluding a fair trade agreement between primary and CSR, environmental safety, etc., are evaluated based on annual transaction secondary business partners from October 22, 2018 to the end of results. November 2018. • Other items evaluated include credit rating, reputation and sales volume. • D uring the visits, we showed guidance on the SME factory support Companies exhibiting high risks as indicated by the evaluation results are business of small and medium enterprises of small venture business excluded from the pool of potential business partners. department and the meister's quality improvement support program of • An assessment is conducted by a representative or an auditor designated Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction. by Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction who visits the workplaces of • In addition, we listened to the difficulties and suggestions of secondary business partners and proposals for the shared growth of large business partners. corporations. We introduced shared growth support programs for partner • The assessment is conducted with a focus on the state of compliance with companies and suggested various issues. the CSR guideline, and business partners maintain all documents and data needed to prove their conformance to the guideline at all workplaces related to Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction. 72 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Strategy & Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 73 Customer Satisfaction Quality certifications Customer satisfaction management of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction aims to Changwon plant field trip invitation program for client companies assign innovative momentum to customer relations improvement by respecting and • We invite newly recruited and experienced employees of client companies • F or external confirmation of competitiveness in quality and to secure on field trips to Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction's Changwon Plant. customers' confidence, we acquired and maintained 61 external certifications listening carefully to customers' voices [VOC] , fulfilling customers' expectations [Wants] , and • In 2018, there were 2 field trips. in the fields of nuclear power, thermal power, and desalination. providing superior value to customers [Value], escaping one-dimensional meaning found in simple customer service. In 2019, we will develop and operate advanced information Status of technical exchange meetings by year Unit: times Status of external certifications Unit: cases management systems in order to improve customer satisfaction and reliability of quality. Category Types of certifications 2018 2016 23 Nuclear power project ASME N type, KEPIC 16 Thermal power/desalination/wind 2017 14 ASME U type, ISO 15 Trend of customer satisfaction surveys power businesses Activities to Improve Customer Satisfaction 2018 12 Others PED, KR, NK, BV, and etc. 30 • With customers as the priority of our corporate management, we promote 100 82.1 0 5 10 15 20 25 Total 61 78.5 77.1 service innovation to enhance customer value. 75 63.4 • Through diverse and systematic activities aimed at satisfying customers, Customer Communication Channels 50 Quality meisters including periodic customer satisfaction surveys, lifecycle management of supplied equipment, and the operation of technical support centers at 25 Technical support center for power generation companies • A s Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has turned out 21 power generation companies, we seek to continue positive partnerships. Unit: point Online customer technical support Meisters of National Quality and 10 Meisters of Korea, we have the 0 • We strive to provide more accurate and faster replies to the technical world best technicians in the welding, machining, non-destructive, Customer Satisfaction Survey 2007 2010 2013 2018 support requests of our customers, which are received online. steel making, and casting and molding fields [the Human Resources Best Practices of Customer Satisfaction • The time it takes to reply is gradually getting shorter from 12 days in 2013 Development Service of Korea and Korean Standards Association • Long-term customer satisfaction surveys to 4.6 days in 2017, and to 3.3 days as of 2018. Customer • Annual satisfaction surveys select technicians and engineers with the highest level of experience Satisfaction Receive Letter of Appreciation from Customer for Vinh Tan 4 • In order to provide better service, we have received customer satisfaction and skills in industries as Meisters.] • Continuous collection of VOC Survey Coal fired Thermal Power Plant. feedback for the answering service since 2018 (an average of 9.1 points out • The council formed by these meisters conducts various activities such • We received a letter of appreciation from EVN (Vietnam Electricity), of 10 in 2018). as talent development and support to strengthen the competitiveness Lifecycle the ordering client, for the successful completion of Vinh Tan 4 • Operation of expedited support team for power plant shut down Call center of business partners among others. management of supplied • Lifecycle management of supplied equipment project three months ahead of schedule. • Power plant remote control system • In the event of an emergency at a power plant, we operate a call system equipment • It was the first time since the company was awarded a letter of that can support urgently. Gold medal win in the National Quality Circle Team appreciation from EVN that they acknowledged our contribution to Technical • Along with online technical support, faster replies and assistance are offered. support centers • Online technical support the early operation of the power plant and the stabilization of the contest for 9 consecutive years • Call center at power Vietnamese electricity market. As a result, customer satisfaction is Number of cases received by year (over the past 5 years) • Trend analyses requested as technical support for each client generation creating a positive impact on future projects in Vietnam. • Gold prize (Presidential prize) at the 44th National Quality Circle Team companies company and provision of proper feedback 400 contest [the National Quality Circle Team contest is a prestigious 310 331 330 Technical • Technical exchange meetings by Visiting Establishment of customer management procedures 286 contest in which team members strive to innovate and improve the 300 cooperation • Technical cooperation agreements with power generation companies • In order to improve the needs of customers and interested parties, quality at industrial sites across the country.] with client • Inviting client companies for field trips to Doosan power plant 200 159 • The circle team Yeomyeong , Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction's companies facility in Changwon. customer management procedures have been prepared. • C ustomer inquiry and complaint procedure and customer satisfaction Power Service Quality Control Team 2, participated in the on-site 100 Establishment survey procedure documents for efficiently dealing with the needs and improvement category, announcing the theme of reducing lost time • Customer management procedures Unit: cases of customer dissatisfaction of customers in order to ensure customer satisfaction. 0 by improving the boiler module hardness testing method. Inspection • Customer inquiry and complaint processing procedures management 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 time was drastically shortened and the accuracy of the inspection was procedures • Customer satisfaction survey procedures Lifecycle management of supplied equipment improved by eliminating the inefficiency of the standard specimen Average number of days taken for a response Power plant remote-control service setting process. • Based on ICT, a remote-control system has been established to monitor 12 Customer Satisfaction Survey operational data of power plants in real-time. 8.2 Digitalization of quality information documents • To provide better services for its customers, Doosan Heavy Industries & 9 7.4 7.0 • Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has opened its RMSC (Remote Construction requests an external research agency to conduct customer • Through the launch of the DQMS (Doosan Quality Management System), Monitoring Service Center) and, through constant support operating 6 4.6 satisfaction surveys to measure the level of customer satisfaction regarding 3.3 we manage digital quality information and documents and have established systems such as real-time surveillance of operation data, can monitor the quality of its products and services. 3 a preventive quality management system. abnormalities. • Through these surveys, we listen to the customers' opinions and speedily Unit: days • By digitalizing quality information from all phases of the inspection plan 0 reflect them in the improvement of products and services. Category Details to the results, we have secured quality management provision visibility 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Operating a specially configured support team during peak power for the progress of quality management activities and enhanced quality Emergency Support Category Direction of customer satisfaction survey usage periods and generation emergencies to offer expedient execution capabilities and preventive quality control using real-time quality Team 1st (2007) Reinforcing rapid response system customer support Quality Management performance information. Previous 2nd (2010) Strengthening technical capabilities Lifecycle Providing service on supplied generation equipment until the (1st to 3rd) 3rd (2013) Reinforcing mutual exchanges and relations management of closing of the plant, and continuously offering lifecycle support for Quality policy Establishment of a new business quality system 2017 Model upgrade supplied equipment equipment whose assurance periods have elapsed. • D oosan Heavy Industries & Construction regards the provision of • In order to ensure the stable operation of new businesses (ESS, Digital Conducting Annual On-line Survey comprehensive customer satisfaction and contribution to the creation of Solution) in the renewable energy and plant service fields, a quality system 2018 · Continuously understanding trends in customer satisfaction Technical cooperation with client companies customer value as its greatest competitiveness in quality. has been implemented wherein quality control procedures that conform to · Securing talking points with customers Technical exchange meetings by visiting • To ensure the quality desired by customers and to guarantee no defects, we international standards are run in advance to prevent quality failure from Conducting Annual On-line Survey •  Technical exchange meetings by visiting are carried out by visiting client maintain a quality assurance system of the highest level that is organized, the start of business. 2019 · Continuously understanding trends in customer satisfaction companies to provide information on the latest technology and trends and systematic, and meets global standards. through expansion of customer targets share the data on the client's facility enhancement and operation. • All organizations and employees within the company strictly comply with • A form of proactive participation from client companies has been the base conditions required by the quality policies. encouraged through a combination of seminars and discussions. 74 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Strategy & Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 75 Social Contribution By proposing a blueprint to improve the future competitiveness of the community, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has become respected in local communities and, at the Talent Cultivation • Based on Doosan Group's talent-centered management philosophy, social same time, is striving to form a social contribution identity for Doosan of which all Doosan contributions to nurture the outstanding talents of the future is specified as People may be proud. By restructuring the social community service group and adjusting an area of focus. of social contribution programs, we aim to increase operational efficiency and focus our • C onsidering the nature of the engineering industry, we have a high competencies on more effective programs. Moreover, we will continue to discover and proportion of individuals from the fields of science and engineering. Therefore, we feel the importance of nurturing talents in engineering and promote policies centered on local communities, such as career path education and urban also concentrate on related social contribution activities. regeneration, and social contribution programs that meet the social needs, thus maintaining our network and contributions to the local community. Major achievements of talent cultivation in 2018 • Carrying out of themed programs for 1,500 children at local children's Social Contribution Strategy Social Contribution Committee centers • D oosan Heavy Industries & Construction has installed and operates a • Recruitment of 18 Doosan class student as technical workers Social contribution promotion system social contribution committee, which serves as the highest decision• Recruitment connection for 33 unemployed of technical education and • With the goal of increasing the future competitiveness of the community making group, to reinforce transparency of the donations provided to local training M.Y. Dream (Make Your Dream) Career Exploration Group and company value, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has three communities. for Youngsters basic principles: Business Oriented, Community Focused and Employee • T he social contribution committee is chaired by the head of the CSR • The Career Exploration Group for Youngsters is a program through which Engagement. Based on these, three domains of activity have been set up, Committee and it's members are executives of related departments who teenagers are encouraged to develop interests in different professions and Youth Energy Project talent cultivation, support for the underprivileged and community-based, come together to review public interest aspects and the suitability of ultimately determine their own career paths in advance. • Youth Energy Project is Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction's social and these promote a variety of social contribution activities for the local donations to local communities. • In line with implementation of the free semester system in middle schools, contribution program, which aims to support future talents to grow into community. • Each review comprehensively determines not only the transparency and a career education MOU was signed with Changwon Office of Education to self-reliant, balanced individuals with various abilities. propriety of the supported agencies but also whether or not the purpose install the program in middle schools in the city of Changwon. It comprises Operation of Social Volunteer Group • A ll programs included in the youth energy project are tailored to the and details of the donations comply with the company's direction in social three activity stages: career path exploration, experience and design. • The Social Volunteer Groups of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction, growth stage of the talent. contribution and are in the public interest. comprising 91% of our employees and totaling 5,300 members, Major programs of the Youth Energy Project M.Y. Dream ( Make Your Dream ) Youth Engineer participates in social contribution activities mainly in the Changwon and Composition of Social Experience Class Seoul areas by helping the marginalized members of our society. Contribution Committee Committee • The Youth Engineer Experience Class is a new experiential class that allows • A t the company level, we support the social contribution activities of Chair • Theme programs for local child CSR Committee centers Elementary teenagers to experience engineering jobs by utilizing the company's employees through policies such as matching grants, weekday volunteering Chairperson School • Matching tuition fees for engineering capabilities. activities, computer systems, and awards for outstanding volunteers. Students children from low-income • In 2018, 940 students from 14 middle schools in the Changwon area families • Supporting love-sharing participated in the first program. reference books • M.Y. Dream Career Exploration • Sponsorship for the KumkumMiddle Head of Legal Head of Group for Youngsters CFO Dda Orchestra School • Sharing the love through school Affairs CSR Students uniforms • Matching tuition fees for children from low-income families • Operating Doosan Class Social Contribution Promotion Strategy at meister high schools and High • Supporting love-sharing School reference books specialized high schools Students Talent cultivation in science and Focus areas engineering • Talent-centered management Talent • Scholarships for college students philosophy cultivation University from children’s care facilities. • Reflect the nature of the Students yee Engagem engineering business plo en Em t iness Orie n B us te d Youth Improvement Doosan in future Academic-industrial collaboration, Doosan Class Energy competitiveness of Community Local Children's Center theme programs the community and • Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has been providing support to • Since 2014, we have been operating 10 themed programs including history Project company value Blueprint engineers through the academic-industrial collaboration, Doosan class . Sustainable growth e Co Su Solve and prevent social exploration, ecological experience, woodwork, practical crafts, cooking as d un ppo • W e have formed academic-industrial collaborations with Changwon through local y-b s mm se de rt f issues through support nit mu ram unity Focu rp or t classes, social studies, science, and history education for 76 local children's community engagement Com prog riv h ileg e for the underprivileged Machine Industry High School, Busan Automotive High School and Sudo Su as pp ed centers in Seoul and Changwon with whom we have sisterhood relations. • Expand the local re or ta • Expand the scope of Electric Technical High School to provide technical and competency training ic a d rea • In 2018, we conducted 160 activities for each social volunteer group to community network Bas s support for the socially • Support economic and underprivileged tailored to Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction. contribute to the social development and emotional cultivation of 1,500 social growth • Contribute to solving • In 2018, 18 students from Doosan Class were recruited as a part of the social issues marginalized children. plan to acquire competent engineering talents. 76 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Strategy & Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 77 Provision of reference books to children's welfare facilities Clean House Offering a helping hand to seven farming villages Painting murals to improve the environment • Every semester, we provide reference books to 81 children's welfare facilities • Technical volunteer group consisting of talent-sharing employees. • Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has formed sisterhood relationships • D oosan Heavy Industries & Construction has been operating a mural with whom we maintain sisterhood relations for the purpose of improving • T hrough this program, house repair programs are implemented on a with 7 farming villages (Gwisan in Changwon, Janggi in Goseong, Misan in painting program in run-down residential areas and crime-prone districts to the practical learning abilities of marginalized children. regular basis to check electric equipment and perform papering and Haman and others), enabling employees to participate during farming and ensure safe paths for women, children and teenagers as well as to prevent • In 2018, we provided 11,612 reference books in two semesters for 2,031 painting for the underprivileged, farming villages and child welfare centers. harvesting seasons by lending a helping hand. various forms of crimes. This has been operated with the help of the police beneficiaries, and the total number of books that have been donated since • During the fall 2018 harvest, 450 Doosan employees along with members department and the city of Changwon. 2011 is about 70,000. Dasarang Dream of the Changwon Volunteer Service Organization Association visited the • In 2018, we transformed the underground pedestrian paths of Seoch• Dasarang Dream Program started in 2011 with the Korea National Red sister farm villages to assist with the kiwi and sweet persimmon harvest. gu, Seoul, Bongsan Village and the Wolyeong Elementary School walkway Youth Dream Up Project Cross Gyeongnam Branch to support underprivileged youth in the region. located in Ungnam-dong, Changwon, and Yeojwa-dong, Jinhae, into • For teenagers who have outstanding gifts and talents but cannot dream big • In 2018, we conducted community service in which we purchased daily mural streets. due to financial difficulties, we provide support through the Youth Dream necessities from a social company and packaged and delivered them to 300 Up Project hosted by ChildFund Korea. underprivileged households in the region. • We support five students in three sports – one in archery, two in shooting • We regularly donate and serve bread and noodles to children at welfare and two in Taekwondo – to enable them to pursue their dreams. facilities that are in sisterhood relations with the company. Support for the Underprivileged Community-Based • W e take the lead in social contributions that support better lives for • We seek community-based social contributions in which various interested underprivileged neighbors in our society, including children, youths, senior parties can join and grow together with the local community. citizens, and the disabled. • We continue to expand our cooperation network for the growth of local • We continue to expand the scope of targets to include more people from communities with various interested parties, such as local governments, marginalized classes located in the blind spots of welfare policies. NGOs, social welfare agencies, and farm villages. Major achievements of Support for the Underprivileged in Major community-based achievements in 2018 2018 • Talent sharing activities with local stakeholders including Changwon-si • 10 social welfare center programs targeted at the elderly, children, and were carried out 48 times. Firefighting safety experimental education with Safety Environmental clean-up youth were implemented. • Through farming village exchange activities, the income of 130 households Sharing Community Service Group • To prepare a clean environment in the local community and environmental • T he results of the performance measurement showed that the was increased by KRW 69 million. • The Safety Sharing Community Service Group , launched in 2017 to spread protection for the future generation, we perform environmental clean-up psychological and mental health of 90 beneficiaries improved to 81.3% a safety-first culture throughout local communities, consists of executives activities on a regular basis over a broad region including coasts, islands, post-treatment from the normal range of 53.6%. and employees with expertise in the fields of disaster response, firefighting rivers and mountains. safety, health and sanitation. • P articularly on the annual World Oceans Day, large-scale coastal and Kimchi Sharing Event • The community service group signed a social contribution agreement with underground cleaning is performed at Masan Bay near the Changwon • Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction conducts the 'Kimchi Sharing Programs associated with community welfare centers Changwon city and conducted education for children at children's welfare headquarters. Event' activity with the local community to share its love with neighbors • With an aim to reflect the needs of the local community, programs are centers and employees of social welfare centers twice a year from 2018. • Nearly 100 people, including members of the in-house scuba diving club, every year. planned with community welfare centers, which are in direct contact • The participants can learn what to do in the event of a disaster such as a employee volunteers and Changwon's private-public joint social volunteer • In 2018, about 400 people from civil servant family social volunteer groups, with socially marginalized groups in our society, to carry out volunteering fire or earthquake and theoretical training on first aid methods. They can groups participate every year. voluntary service organization associations and Danuri Social Volunteer activities in which our employees participate. Groups, consisting of multicultural families as well as business partners of experience how to use fire extinguishers and fire hydrants, how to perform • T ogether with six community welfare centers in Changwon and four Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction, participated in this event. CPR (cardiopulmonary resuscitation) and how to use an AED (automated in Seoul, emotional support and social development programs are in • Prepared 5,000 heads of kimchi at the Changwon headquarters, which external defibrillator) directly. operation for teenagers, senior citizens, the disabled and multicultural were delivered to nearly 3,000 people at Changwon child welfare centers, families. underprivileged groups, social welfare centers and multicultural households. 78 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Doosan Day of To fulfill its corporate social responsibilities and contribute to the local community's sustainable growth, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has been hosting the Doosan Day of Community Community Service Service since 2014, an event that draws the voluntary participation of all employees from all worksites. In 2018, we conducted various community service activities in Korea as well as overseas such as Clean Changwon with Doosan, a representative program jointly performed through an alliance of interested parties in private and government sectors, and dream furniture making . 9 countries, 31 business sites, 2,798 employees participated in 76 programs Korea (Seoul, Changwon) Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction United Kingdom Doosan Babcock·Enpure 39 programs including Clean Changwon (Seocho), with Doosan, dream furniture making, Clean House, Improving the environment at social welfare centers, farm village cultivation, mural paintings to improve the environment, and environmental clean-up. children's center and local schools, providing food supplies through a food bank Germany Doosan Lentjes Cleaning up the in Rhine River, improving the environment of elementary schools, food bank volunteering Czech Republic Doosan Skoda Power Facility reinforcement of local animal shelters, incubation facilities, elementary schools, and social welfare centers and environmental improvement Vietnam Doosan Vina School Day at sister elementary schools, clean house for local low-income families Appendix 04 80 Stakeholder Engagement 81 Materiality Assessment 82 Risk Management 83 Performance Summary 94 Independent Auditors' Report 96 Third Party’s Assurance Statement 98 Environmental Guidelines Doosan Power Systems India Saudi Arabia Doosan Power Systems Arabia, Oman United States Doosan HF Controls, Cleaning up the environment GridTech, DHT 99 GRI Content Index School Day at sister elementary schools, medical camp at local public elementary school Cleaning up the environment, food bank volunteering 101 UN Global Compact 101 Overview of Association Memberships 80 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 81 Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Assessment Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction defines shareholders, customers, employees, suppliers, local community, government, and competitors as primary Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction's performance report disclosed in the Integrated Report is centered around issues garnering much interest from our stakeholder groups. For active communication with them, various communication channels are in place and valuable opinions are directly considered for stakeholders and issues deemed as having a huge business impact. We have conducted a materiality assessment to ensure that this can all be reflected in corporate management. our decision-making, enabling us to effectively perform sustainability management. We referred to the GRI method of defining key issues for our materiality assessment, through which a total of 13 key issueswere identified. Group Definition Communication channel Frequency Group Definition Communication channel Frequency Shareholders Doosan Investment relations (IR) events Regularly Suppliers Tier 1 suppliers, Representative consultative groups Once a month Corporation, Conferences As needed Tier 2 suppliers Shared growth conference Once a year Foreign investors, Overseas NDRs As needed Tier 1 suppliers meeting on shared Quarterly Institutional (Non-Deal Roadshow) growth STEP 01 STEP 02 STEP 03 investors, Minority Tier 2 suppliers meeting on shared Once a year shareholders Identifying Sustainability Prioritizing Sustainability Selection of Final Issues and growth Customers Local public power Roadshows As needed Cooperation Council of Doosan As needed Issues Issues Validation generators, Local Technology briefings As needed Heavy Industries & Construction private power VOC (Voice of Customer) Always Cooperation Council of Operations Half yearly  eviewing international standard indices ·R · Internal and external stakeholder evaluations · Reviewing fairness and suitability of generators, Committee Participation in safety education for When held (GRI, DJSI, ISO 26000, etc.) to understand were conducted on the issue pools that were reports on 13 major issues Overseas clients local private power generators Government Central/local Korea Commission for Corporate At anytime issues of sustainable management derived, and were placed on a 5-point scale Technical exchange meetings and At anytime governments, Partnership · Determining the content of reports by after combining the media research and seminars Related Korea Foundation for Corporation At anytime  educing 30 issues by utilizing various issue ·D categorizing issues of business strategies organizations of Large and Small Business, Rural benchmarking results Technical support center (online) Always collection mechanisms such as internal data and sustainable management Affairs Power generation interruption Always review, media research and benchmarking · Mapping based on the degree of business special response team and call Fair Trade Commission As needed impact and level of stakeholder interest center Center for Large and Small Business As needed Customer satisfaction surveys Once a year Cooperation Employees Headquarter Industrial Safety and Health 4 times a year, Korea Environmental Industry & As needed employees, Committee at anytime Technology Institute Overseas branch Labor-Management Council Once a Health and Innovation Leader 16 times a offices' employees, Forum year quarter Sustainability Materiality Completeness Overseas Education for employees Once a week PSM Council Quarterly subsidiaries' dispatched to overseas worksites Voluntary agreement on fine dust 4 times a year Inclusiveness of stakeholders employees reduction Safety and health practical training Once a year Management status information Every quarter Changwon City Sustainable Once a year session Development Council Gyeongnam Climate Environment Half yearly Results of major issues deduced CTO discussion meeting At anytime Network Report boundary Communication with employees More than 10 Core issues GRI related to certified emissions times a year Maritime Policy Advisory Once a month Response to climate changes Internal External reduction Committee Creation of new growth engines Shareholders Firefighting Power Development Once a month such as new businesses Consultative groups of Social Once a month Achievement of stable results in orders obtained Volunteer Group Council Safety and health management Industrial safety Level of stakeholder interest ▶ Promotion Development of ecofriendly products and services at worksites and health Local Local residents, Social welfare center and local Once a month Gyeongsangnam-do & Changwon Once a year, of market diversification Minimization of City at anytime Creation of new Energy, Local Community Academia, research children's center connection environmental effects Response to climate changes Fostering of talents generated at worksites growth engine Discharge community institutes, NGOs program Competitors Power generation Council of Construction Safety Quarterly including new Reinforcement of product competitiveness Achievement of stable results in Doosan Day of Community Service Once a year facility Division projects Shareholders Pursuit of anti-corruption and ethics management orders obtained manufacturers, Construction Safety Workers' Quarterly Consultative groups of Social Once a Securing of financial Development of ecofriendly Product and Desalination Council Customers Volunteer Group of Doosan Heavy month, At structure soundness Strengthening of R&D competency products and services service and water Health administrators' Council Quarterly Industries & Construction anytime Indirect Local treatment plant Safety and health management at worksites Social Contribution Activities Community Communications Twice a year, Construction company CEO safety Once a year economic effect community companies Council (Woongnam-dong) At anytime and health leader meeting Strengthening of R&D Employees Customers Social Contribution Activities competency Relevant agencies for social At anytime, Construction Safety and Health Quarterly contribution activities as needed Officer / Department Head Meeting Securing of financial structure Shareholders soundness (Gyeongsangnam-do, Changwon, International Construction Twice a year Promotion of market beneficiary agencies) Association of Korea CounterShareholders diversification Gyeongnam corporate social Once a year Terrorism Council Training and contribution representatives Technology exchange meeting Once a year Fostering of talents education workshop Minimization of environmental Wastewater and Local Local social contribution council At anytime, effects generated at worksites waste community as needed Reinforcement of product Customers Offshore factory design research Twice a year competitiveness society Business impact ▶ Pursuit of anti-corruption and Anti-corruption Shareholders ethics management 82 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 83 Risk Management Performance Summary Economy Energy Our Approach Energy usage and purchase Largest contributions and expenditures Unit : KRW million Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction operates an integrated risk management system to effectively manage risk factors which may potentially be Category Items Unit 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 generated in the midst of business operations. Risk factors are categorized into financial, business, compliance and CSR risks and are being properly Donated to Amount Donated to Amount Donated to Amount LNG Nm3 39,648,695 39,438,558 36,538,336 LPG Nm3 196,049 171,407 145,076 managed by teams with expertise. Gyeongnam Center Large and Small Gyeongnam Center Gasoline (car) L 587,932 1,496,439 52,968 for Creative Economy 2,239 Business Cooperation 500 for Social Economy 50 NonDiesel (car) L 1,186,886 1,401,781 526,683 and Innovation Foundation and Entrepreneurs 2019 Goals Large and Small renewable LPG (car) Gasoline (generator) L L 12,582 6,119 4,237 5,186 Korea Technology Korean Nuclear raw We plan to continue to strengthen our comprehensive risk management and detect variabilities in the global economy in advance to avoid potential risk Business Cooperation 500 Finance Corporation 208 Society 15 Local materials Diesel (generator) L 1,206,014 1,427,849 2,365,004 Foundation Kerosene (Heating) L 16,750 304 178,520 factors while actively taking advantage of opportunities. Through company-wide education on risks not only for employees in charge of different risk types Korea Nuclear Gyeongnam Center Hi-sene L 4,825,713 4,540,953 3,613,753 but all employees, we aim to improve our level of risk management. Association for 367 for Social Economy 58 Other (anthracite) kg 21,600 617 International Total 47,708,340 48,482,145 43,425,526 and Entrepreneurs Cooperation Purchased Electricity Kwh 315,946,555 297,688,042 299,346,287 Korea Credit Korean Nuclear energy 312 30 LPG Nm3 6,822 Comprehensive Risk Management System business risks in domestic and international market environments in advance, Guarantee Fund 2015 World Water Society Korean Society of NonGasoline (car) L 1,297,610 manage the risks based on clear response criteria and procedures. Forum Organizing 250 Pressure 3 renewable Diesel (car) L 7,446,863 The types of risks at Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction are controlled Committee Vessels and Piping raw Gasoline (generator) L 3,986 Overseas and categorized into Financial Risk, Business Risk, and Compliance and CSR Compliance & CSR Risk * DHIC is not engaged in donation or supportive activities for political campaigns, political materials Diesel (generator) Total L 2,327,004 11,082,285 Risk, and executives and teams responsible for each risk factor are assigned for organizations, lobbyists or lobbyist organizations according to legal regulations in Korea and Purchased We recognize and manage various legal and non-financial risks related to the the Code of Conduct. Electricity Kwh 5,236,875 constant monitoring. It has set up a management system in which any issue energy environment, safety, human rights, information security, local community, generated is directly reported to the CEO, and for risks with significant impact * Calculated by excluding the 2016 and 2017 overseas construction sector etc. as Compliance and CSR Risks. An immediate response and management Total contributions on the company, the Board of Directors makes the final decisions. Four of the system has been set up centered on teams in charge of each risk, and a independent directors are experts on risks in different areas, and once elected, Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Amount of energy reduction sufficient amount of discussions are conducted through the CSR Committee Industry association, etc. KRW million 8,962 8,699 652 we provide relevant education to help them make optimal decisions based on Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 their understanding and expertise on laws, internal transactions, etc. related to to make proper decisions. * There is no donation record on lobby/interest group, election, legislation, and voting. Operation method improvement tCO2eq 737 Introduction of high efficiency equipment tCO2eq 3,730 1,872 1,412 economy, environment and society. Total tCO2eq 4,467 1,872 1,412 R&D spending Risk Analysis Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Cost and reduction of energy consumption CEO The company checks both business opportunities and risks through step-byR&D expenses KRW 100 million 1,932 2,242 2,019 Sales KRW 100 million 47,053 43,367 41,017 Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 step operating profit simulation over the course of a project. Standardized R&D spending as % of sales* % 4.11 5.17 5. 7 Fossil fuel MWh 283,690 278,129 225,287 checklists are used to analyze the impact on business and response measures, Electricity MWh 315,945 297,688 289,195 Head of Financial Head of * Calculated based on Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Headquarters Person Management Head of Strategic Management and the results of such analyses are reported to the CEO every month. Total MWh 599,635 575,817 514,482 in charge Planning Division Division Amount of energy usage TJ 5,158 5,026 4,577 Compliance Finance Sensitivity analysis by scenario including cost, Financial Risk Business Risk Energy cost KRW million 73,400 72,800 61,659 & CSR Risk cash flow, taxes, etc. Environment Amount of cost reduction KRW million 26,600 27,200 27,900 Accounting New markets/ Climate change Environment Establishing mid-to long-term reduction plans such as discharge Official notice businesses Environmental of greenhouse gas emissions, water scarcity, etc. as well as an Usage and recycling of raw materials Types of risks Liquidity/credit Quality pollution emergency response system In the case of environmental data, we collected data from domestic and overseas Water Safety and health Foreign exchange/ Others Utilization of a quality gate system on risks, human rights, workplaces, but we limited some data to within our domestic workplaces. Total water intake by source interest rates Shared growth transparent management, etc., which influence the performance Category Items Unit 2016 2017 2018 Information security Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Customers of a project (clarifying major risk factors in each stage and Scrap iron tons 134,461 114,308 110,589 Surface water tons 25,907 9,118 HR establishing appropriate response measures) Recovered iron tons 77,908 70,527 59,418 Underground water tons 110,251 98,509 5,052 Chip tons 12,363 11,471 10,226 Non-renewable Rainwater tons 40,000 40,000 18,000 Ferro alloy tons 7,318 6,369 5,952 Local Financial Risk Company wide Risk Management Culture Local raw materials Quicklime tons 8,934 7,412 6,997 Wastewater from another site tons 4,860 0 0 Fluorspar tons 950 949 404 Water supply system tons 1,928,555 1,580,307 1,232,864 We aim to minimize the financial risks as associated with accounting, finance, Internal education is implemented for all employees on management Lump coal tons 5,788 4,601 4,370 Total tons 2,109,573 1,718,816 1,265,034 banking, public announcements, etc. As a global corporation, we have established principles, processes, recurrence prevention, etc. for each risk type in an effort Renewable raw Rebar tons 0 0 934 Surface water tons 12,960 the Exchange Rate Risk Management Guideline in order to avoid currency risks materials Concrete tons 0 0 13,097 to propagate a risk management culture throughout the company. Also, Underground water tons 171,548 caused by exchange rate fluctuations while analyzing financial risks anticipated Non-renewable Overseas Scrap iron tons 833 Water supply system tons 91,207 financial compensation is provided to all employees under the CEO based on raw materials in the course of business and also actively managing them in accordance Overseas Total tons 275,715 their performance evaluated on the improvement of risks. Renewable raw Rebar tons 934 with response strategies. Such details are officially and publicly disclosed to materials Concrete tons 13,097 * Calculated by excluding the 2016 and 2017 overseas construction sector stakeholders in a transparent manner to improve the company's credibility. Total material usage tons 247,722 215,637 226,851 * Calculated by excluding the 2016 and 2017 overseas construction sector Business Risk Recycling of raw materials Any risks related to new markets and businesses, quality and intellectual property rights are recognized as business risks. We establish a preemptive Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Recycled raw Recovered iron tons 77,908 70,527 59,418 response system that encompasses risk factors in all stages of business from materials Chip tons 12,363 11,471 10,226 the procurement of raw materials to the provision and follow-up management Percentage % 36% 38% 33% of products and services in pursuit of business stability, and by recognizing 84 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 85 Recycled and reused water Rainwater discharge quality Society Performance evaluation and compensation Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 All employees are assessed using fair and transparent evaluation guidelines. Local Landscaping Water tons 40,060 25,900 0 COD mg/l 3.50 3.40 3.10 Employees Employees' evaluation and compensation differs by person as it is dependent SS mg/l 1.30 1.30 1.70 Overseas Landscaping Water tons 5,474 on the individual’s performance and competency level. No discrimination N-H mg/l 0 0 0 Overview of employees can be made based on personal differences, such as gender, religion and Cr mg/l 0 0 0 Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 academic background. Emissions to atmosphere Zn mg/l 0 0 0 Total no. of employees Person 7,728 7,610 7,294 Pb mg/l 0 0 0 Permanent Male Person 6,770 6,626 6,376 Amount of air pollutant emissions Per Fe mg/l 0.01 0.02 0.02 position Female Person 287 268 213 Compliance with laws and regulations employment Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 T-N mg/l 2.18 2.24 0.31 Contract Male Person 591 624 622 contract Legal actions for unfair trade practices VOC position Female Person 80 92 83 Kg 10,200 9,400 23,852 T-P mg/l 0.06 0.05 0.07 (volatile organic compounds) Male Person 167 134 139 Local Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 PM (particulate matter) Kg 36,700 30,110 22,060 Disabled Female Person 3 3 2 Amount of Legal actions for unfair trade practices case 2 2 0 NOx (nitrogen oxide) Kg 0 0 0 Amount of waste disposal Minority Total Person 170 137 141 emission by SOx (sulfur oxides) Kg 0 0 0 group Men of Male Person 173 159 162 type Category Item Unit 2016 2017 2018 POP (persistent organic Kg 0 0 0 national Female Person 6 5 5 Legal actions for unfair trade practices pollutants) Recycled tons 524 719 762 merit Total Person 179 164 167 Incinerated tons 422 373 363 Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 HAP (hazardous air pollutants) Kg 0 0 0 Permanent Hazardous Landfill tons 3,974 2,944 2,554 Per Total Person 305 384 339 Total amount of imposed fines case 3.6 100.6 0 waste position Others tons 3,052 9 0 Overseas employment Number of nonmonetaty sanctions case 0 Amount of hazardous chemical substances consumption Contract Total tons 7,972 4,044 3,679 contract Total Person 138 146 174 Number of lawsuits case 1 0 0 position Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Reused tons 269 0 0 No. substances type 5 2 2 Local Recycled tons 68,711 52,923 52,291 Amount of usage tons 405 195 190 Incinerated tons 1,442 1 0 New recruitment * Goal for replacement of hazardous chemical substances: 6 types (2016), 2 types (2017), 1 type (2018) Nonhazardous Landfill tons 4,747 11,401 3,081 Compliance with laws and regulations Unit 2016 2017 2018 Human rights and anti-corruption waste Stored at sites tons 0 0 60 Legal actions for unfair trade practices Person 300 Human rights and corruption risk assessment* Others tons 49,978 19,839 638 Female Person 34 Wastewater and waste Total tons 125,147 84,164 56,070 Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Total Person 334 Recycled tons 10 Total no. of workplaces ea 104 93 102 Amount of discharged wastewater Rate % 4.58 Fertilized tons 5 No. of workplaces that have been evaluated ea 86 93 102 Hazardous Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Incinerated tons 942,526 Percentage of workplaces % 83 100 100 waste Employee Turnover Deokdong Deokdong Landfill tons 1,351 * The number of workplaces is calculated including local and overseas workplaces, subsidiaries, Final wastewater Water Water Total tons 943,892 Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Masan Bay, etc. Overseas and construction sites. discharge site name Treatment Treatment Recycled tons 1 Male Person 86 43 199 Center Center tons Male (Statutory, Early Fertilized 44 Nonhazardous Corporate Person 128 134 213 Physiochemical Physiochemical Physiochemical Incinerated tons 36 Retirement) Official reporting of complaints related to human rights* Masan Bay, etc. treatment treatment treatment waste leavers Landfill tons 28,507 Female Person 14 7 25 method, etc. method, etc. method, etc. Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Total tons 28,588 Total Person 228 184 437 Amounts of treated Official reporting of complaints related to Turnover rate % 2.95 2.74 6.00 case 56 40 14 wastewater discharged tons 283,789 191,985 131,513 * Calculated by excluding the 2016 and 2017 overseas construction sector human rights Voluntary turnover (net turnover) Person 100 50 159 Local (A) * Includes the number of reports from business partners Voluntary turnover rate % 1.29 0.75 2.2 Final rainwater discharge site name Masan Bay, etc. Masan Bay, etc. Masan Bay, etc. Total environmental protection expenditures and investments Silt protector, Silt protector, Silt protector, Identified cases of corruption and mitigation measures Treatment method Total expenses regarding environment Parental leave etc. etc. etc. Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Rainwater discharge Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 tons 3,473,779 1,283,258 2,921,478 No. of identified cases ea 5 4 2 amount (B) Investment KRW million 3,000 1,900 2,815 Male Person 8 15 35 Employees on parental leave No. of employee disciplinary action case ea 3 2 3 Total amount of Waste disposal cost KRW million 1,293 1,092 1047 Female Person 44 33 34 No. of supplier disciplinary action case % 4 2 1 wastewater/rainwater tons 3,757,568 1,475,243 3,052,991 Waste Test & Analysis cost KRW million 5 5 5 Employees who return to work after Male Person 2 7 19 (A+B Waste recycling earning KRW million 425 649 911 parental leave Female Person 38 22 23 * Data that includes cases of supplier corruption, excludes overlapping cases involving workers Amounts of treated Other costs KRW million 1,480 1,254 1299 Male % 100 47 55 and suppliers Return rate wastewater discharged tons 62,193 Total KRW million 6,203 4, 900 6,077 Female % 100 67 68 (A) Employees who work continuously for Male Person 7 16 Rainwater discharge 12 months after parental leave and Overseas tons Eco-friendly purchasing Female Person 35 21 18 amount (B) return to work Total amount of Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Retention rate after return % 97 97 81 wastewater/rainwater tons 62,193 Purchased cost KRW million 25,864 9,756 8,841 (A+B) Environmental regulation violations Amount of hazardous chemical substances consumption Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Environmental regulation KRW million (penalty) 0 0 0 COD mg/l 10.07 12.38 9.63 violations Cases 0 0 0 SS mg/l 2.79 5.67 3.14 Troubleshooting Cases 0 0 0 N-H mg/l 0.10 1.20 1.10 Cr mg/l 0.001 0 0 Zn mg/l 0.02 0.03 0.01 Pb mg/l 0 0 0 Fe mg/l 0.03 0.21 0.07 T-N mg/l 4.12 3.87 2.68 T-P mg/l 0.08 0.15 0.05 86 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 87 Financial Performance Health & Safety Number of incidents Lost time incident rate (LTIR1)) Category Region Gender Male 2016 2017 2018 Our Approach Changwon 7 13 10 Manufacturing Plant Female 0 0 0 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction aims to proactively and speedily deal with changes in the global power generation market to create Category Region Gender 2016 2017 2018 Seoul Male 0 0 0 business outcome and seek sustainable growth. In addition to the reinforced acquisition of orders in the existing market, we strive to show business Changwon Male 1.02 1.54 1.25 Manufacturing Office Female 0 0 0 Plant Female 0 0 0 Local Office performance by expanding into new business areas and cultivating sustainable abilities. Suji, Male 0 0 0 Seoul Male 0 0 0 Dongtan Female 0 0 0 Office Female 0 0 0 Headquarters Local Office Construction Local Male 0 0 0 Suji, Dongtan Male Female 0 0 0 0 0 0 site construction Female 0 0 0 2019 Goals Headquarters Male 0 0 0 Construction Local Male 0 0 0 Office Branch We plan to enhance our business portfolio centered on new businesses including new and renewable energy, gas turbines, power generation Female 0 0 0 site construction Female 0 0 0 Overseas Construction Overseas Male 0 0 0 services, etc. and prepare a turning point by achieving its target of orders through new large EPC projects obtained in existing markets and also Male 0 0 0 Office Branch site construction Female 0 0 0 Female 0 0 0 advance into new markets such as Africa, Eastern Europe, and Middle East Asia. Overseas Sub total 7 13 10 Construction Overseas Male 0 0 0 Changwon Male 4 1 4 site construction Female 0 0 0 Manufacturing Plant Female 0 0 0 Sub total 0.22 0.36 0.30 Seoul Male 0 0 0 Changwon Male 1.80 0.48 2.09 Manufacturing Office Female 0 0 0 Plant Female 0 0 0 Local Office Suji, Male 0 0 0 Seoul Male 0 0 0 Business Dongtan Female 0 0 0 Office Female 0 0 0 Local Office partners Construction Local Male 4 4 7 Suji, Male 0 0 0 The amount of orders received on a consolidated management basis Quantitative financial data site construction Female 0 0 0 Business Dongtan Female 0 0 0 Male 0 0 0 in 2018 recorded KRW 4,644.1 billion, a reduced figure from KRW partners Construction Local Male 0.54 0.44 0.75 Office Branch Orders obtained Unit: KRW 100 million Female 0 0 0 site construction Female 0 0 0 Overseas 5,051 billion recorded in 2017 mainly due to the delay of some large Male 0 0 0 Construction Overseas Male 1 1 1 2016 90,534 Office Branch site construction Female 0 0 0 projects. Female 0 0 0 Overseas Sub total 9 6 12 2017 50,510 Construction Overseas Male 0.03 0.03 0.02 Total 16 19 22 Revenue based on consolidated financial statements in 2018 totaled site construction Female 0 0 0 KRW 14,761.1 billion, an increase of 7% (KRW 919.8 billion) from 2018 46,441 Sub total 0.15 0.10 0.17 0 20,000 40,000 60,000 80,000 100,000 Total 0.17 0.20 0.22 Social Contribution 2017, based on 18% of annual growth of Doosan Infracore. Operating On a consolidated management basis 1) LTIR: Lost Time Incident Rate, U.S. OSHA Total No. of Lost Time Accidents X 200,000 / [Total profit exceeded KRW 1 trillion due to the increase in operating profit Participation in community service activities Man-hours worked] at Doosan Infracore. In particular, sales growth continued thanks to Revenue* Unit: KRW 100 million 2) The Lost Time Incident standard is based on the US OSHA LTIR standard, which is based on a Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 loss incidence of one day or more. No. of activities Case 621 501 363 the growth of Heavy and Bobcat, and operating profit reached the 2016 132,492 3) We classified the accident rates that have been calculated by business into employees, business Participants Person 4,201 3,633 2,790 partners, domestic and overseas, and recalculated accident rates for the last 3 years based on Employee participation Participation rate % 60 53 42 highest operating profit. 2017 138,413 US OSHA LTIR, which is the most used internationally. Amount of community Total Hours 35,490 29,250 20,691 service hours Per person Hours 5.93 5.13 3.11 On a consolidated management basis in 2017, Doosan Heavy 2018 147,611 0 30,000 60,000 90,000 120,000 150,000 Industries & Construction recorded sales of KRW 5,477 billion, a Expenses in local community On a consolidated financial basis slight reduction from 2017, and operating profit increased to KRW Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 205.4 billion, an increase of by KRW 15.1 billion from 2017, and Operating profit Unit: KRW 100 million Cash KRW 100 million 91.3 88.9 8.4 Existing goods KRW 100 million 0.4 0.8 0.4 7,955 Expenses the operating margin also improved. This is due to the fact that the 2016 Operation expense KRW 100 million 2 1.2 0.5 Total KRW 100 million 93.7 90.9 9.3 construction of low-margin projects in the past has been completed 2017 9,134 Charitable donations KRW 100 million 19.2 16.2 0.3 and the construction of high-margin projects is actively in progress. Expense Investment into local KRW 100 million 62.2 67.5 8.9 2018 10,016 details community 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 Others KRW 100 million 12.3 7.2 0.1 In 2019, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is forecasting KRW On a consolidated financial basis Fostering of talent KRW 100 million 52.7 35.9 7.1 7.9 trillion in orders obtained, KRW 6 trillion in sales and KRW 237.2 Activity Supporting minority KRW 100 million 14.2 21.4 0.5 * This data has recalculated due to withdrawing sales of Doosan Engineering & Construction's boundary groups billion in operating profits on a consolidated management basis. Vietnam Office and completing withdrawing Doosan Engine, and may vary slightly from the Community-based KRW 100 million 26.8 33.6 1.7 We expect orders to be achieved by obtaining large domestic and figures made public through the 2017 comprehensive report. Participation in local community, impact assessment overseas projects, which had been postponed from 2018, and service Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 and equipment businesses. Sales is projected to be similar to that Regions in which local community growth programs % 29 30 30 of 2018 due to reduced order receipts and order backlogs in 2018, are run Local development program operation region while construction projects for orders received in 2018 are in full % 29 30 30 considering stakeholder needs swing. Operating profit is expected to improve compared to 2018 Operation of local community-wide consulting committees and processes, which includes minority % 29 30 30 through the full-scale progress of projects with relatively high profit groups Official community grievance handling process margins and cost reduction efforts. % 100 100 100 workplace 88 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 89 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position As of December 31, 2018 As of December 31, 2017 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries Unit: KRW Unit: KRW Items December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Items December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Assets Ⅱ. Non-current liabilities Ⅰ. Current assets 9,782,244,096,431 9,229,887,491,691 1. Debentures 7,091,870,561,376 6,649,823,755,291 1. Cash and cash equivalents 2,075,328,693,318 1,970,147,004,768 2. Long-term borrowings 2,053,032,588,038 2,600,066,685,462 2. Short-term financial instruments 392,294,778,458 237,662,748,168 3. Long-term asset-backed loan 3,043,437,044,686 2,062,073,719,593 3. Short-term investments in securities 35,673,839,601 133,975,273,587 4. Long-term other payables 248,788,085,785 197,479,161,174 4. Trade receivables 2,112,062,463,001 1,959,806,124,716 5. Defined benefit liabilities 30,921,614,985 31,625,142,612 5. Due from customers for contract work 1,917,549,497,427 1,969,815,782,428 6. Deposits received 611,283,884,965 678,559,199,568 6. Other receivables 305,858,455,081 257,069,973,971 7. Derivative financial liabilities 217,455,797,942 177,151,025,578 7. Prepayments 446,105,194,520 416,258,993,540 8. Firm commitment liabilities 48,643,743,663 107,297,507,265 8. Prepaid expenses 152,773,582,677 124,074,003,045 9. Deferred tax liabilities 22,221,330,722 49,450,153,167 9. Short-term loans 115,051,807,262 62,146,236,742 10. Estimated liabilities 373,209,052,064 302,709,107,586 10. Derivative financial assets 21,477,357,030 72,312,481,305 11. Other non-current liabilities 233,563,821,406 236,907,011,231 11. Firm commitment assets 9,022,592,449 6,166,652,593 Total liabilities 209,313,597,120 206,505,042,055 12. Inventories 1,891,576,145,991 1,737,966,743,195 Equity 18,596,482,003,126 18,396,370,067,135 13. Other current assets 307,469,689,616 282,485,473,633 Ⅰ. Equity attributable to Ⅱ. Non-current assets 15,032,667,467,135 15,732,430,635,496 owners of parent 2,804,847,577,636 3,386,808,328,894 1. Long-term financial instruments 5,201,067,000 31,136,772,418 1. Issued capital 650,255,065,000 596,836,515,000 2. Long-term investments in securities 197,745,438,521 199,055,580,136 2. Capital surplus 1,678,913,750,186 1,703,499,795,417 3. Share of investments in associates and joint ventures 100,927,082,338 78,667,176,602 3. Other components of equity (55,947,752,410) (44,828,871,791) 4. Long-term loans 717,958,268,334 1,021,175,375,224 4. ccumulated other comprehensive income (loss) 680,535,131,925 728,803,238,711 5. Property, plant and equipment 6,414,487,023,034 6,904,855,603,272 5. Retained earnings (148,908,617,065) 402,497,651,557 6. Intangible assets 6,683,116,364,942 6,475,671,479,962 Ⅱ. Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 3,413,581,982,804 3,179,139,731,158 7. Investment property 26,484,941,678 20,787,447,372 1. Hybrid equity instruments 333,286,268,697 8. Derivative financial assets 21,777,431,040 56,693,678,457 2. Other non-controlling interests 3,413,581,982,804 2,845,853,462,461 9. Firm commitment assets 14,695,425,682 2,716,940,181 Total equity 6,218,429,560,440 6,565,948,060,052 10. Guarantee deposits 326,955,808,824 363,203,456,821 Total liabilities and equity 24,814,911,563,566 24,962,318,127,187 11. Deferred tax assets 459,502,962,385 518,511,358,722 12. Other non-current assets 63,815,653,357 59,955,766,329 Total assets 24,814,911,563,566 24,962,318,127,187 Liabilities and equity Ⅰ. Current liabilities: 11,504,611,441,750 11,746,546,311,844 1. Trade payables 3,082,932,725,599 2,827,162,503,355 2. Short-term borrowings 2,840,071,599,658 3,765,146,758,496 3. Asset-backed loan 491,371,402,314 597,624,558,295 4. Other payables 539,550,236,467 601,142,200,157 5. Advanced receipts 80,537,056,518 180,452,579,927 6. Due to customers for contract work 1,236,549,335,742 833,253,858,439 7. Withholdings 36,879,557,787 72,662,589,044 8. Accrued expenses 592,800,027,139 437,855,294,885 9. Current tax liabilities 29,347,652,878 32,583,825,150 10. Current portion of long-term debt 2,049,828,436,541 1,867,839,620,799 11. Derivative financial liabilities 39,356,944,771 89,201,468,110 12. Firm commitment liabilities 5,026,505,231 66,217,473,811 13. Estimated liabilities 188,331,847,398 167,447,557,810 14. Other current liabilities 292,028,113,707 207,956,023,566 90 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 91 Consolidated Statements of Profit or Loss Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity As of December 31, 2018 As of December 31, 2018 As of December 31, 2017 As of December 31, 2017 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries Unit: KRW Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries Unit: KRW Items December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Accumulated other Other components Non-controlling Items Issued capital Capital surplus comprehensive Retained earnings Total equity I. Revenue 14,761,064,155,393 13,841,325,827,432 of equity interest income (loss) II. Cost of sales 12,191,489,262,086 11,390,013,012,448 2017.1.1 (beginning of previous term) 596,808,980,000 1,652,835,160,666 (17,273,121,037) 538,782,208,792 704,507,685,246 3,347,170,002,369 6,822,830,916,036 III. Gross profit 2,569,574,893,307 2,451,312,814,984 Total comprehensive profit and loss: IV. Selling and administrative expenses 1,567,877,906,105 1,537,873,829,890 Net loss during the term (292,038,065,484) 182,350,054,722 (109,688,010,762) Remeasurement of the net defined benefit V. Operating profit 1,001,696,987,202 913,438,985,094 liabilities, net of tax 56,964,808,378 (2,221,832,353) 54,742,976,025 VI. Financial profit and loss (549,576,415,154) (493,673,949,794) Net change in unrealized fair value of available7,384,376,734 (85,952,895) 7,298,423,839 Finance income 530,600,823,201 1,041,726,934,395 for-sale financial assets Effective portion of changes in fair value of Finance costs 1,080,177,238,355 1,535,400,884,189 (38,535,122,794) (3,732,390,528) (42,267,513,322) cash flow hedges VII. Other non-operating profit and loss (527,648,212,472) (272,296,950,115) Share of associates' other changes in net assets 3,194,208,671 277,235,883 3,471,444,554 Other non-operating income 70,012,313,064 124,695,088,425 Net loss on translation of foreign operations (7,623,006,506) (123,422,454,003) (131,045,460,509) Other non-operating expense 597,660,525,536 396,992,038,540 Asset revaluation profit and loss 222,671,132,901 938,712,607 44,929,509,881 268,539,355,389 Subtotal 187,091,589,006 (234,134,544,499) 98,094,170,707 51,051,215,214 VIII. Share of loss in associates and joint ventures (29,701,600,000) (16,598,961,587) Dividends (67,875,489,190) (67,875,489,190) IX. Profit for the year before tax (105,229,240,424) 130,869,123,598 Stock option 3,292,022,379 (3,292,022,379) X. Income tax expense (benefit) 219,871,719,919 173,005,867,878 Issuance of bonds with stock warrants 49,492,056,640 49,492,056,640 XI. Loss from continuing operations (325,100,960,343) (42,136,744,280) Exercise of stock warrants 27,535,000 74,159,618 101,694,618 Proceeds from partial disposals of investments in XII. Profit (loss) from discontinued operations (96,624,151,242) (67,551,266,482) (2,199,240,446) 2,929,440,913 135,054,468,139 572,237,931 subsidiaries XIII. Net loss during the term (421,725,111,585) (109,688,010,762) Capital increase by issuing new shares of subsidiaries (7,649,371,531) 8,221,609,462 (15,397,465,480) XIV. Reversion of net loss during the term Acquisition of investments in subsidiaries 4,811,760,426 (726,269) (20,208,499,637) (47,792,407,120) Equity holders of the parent (523,793,621,412) (292,038,065,484) Dividends of the subsidiaries (47,792,407,120) Share option of subsidiaries 627,562,392 (627,562,392) Non-controlling interests 102,068,509,827 182,350,054,722 Issuance of convertible bonds by subsidiaries (22,506,401) 33,249,710 10,743,309 XV. Earnings per share: Issuance of bonds with stock warrants of 19,520,648,285 25,088,768,344 44,609,416,629 1. Basic loss per share (4,807) (2,908) subsidiaries Exercise of stock warrants of subsidiaries (9,876,787,673) 14,283,874,945 4,407,087,272 Loss for the year from continuing operations (4,167) (2,421) Issuance of convertible preferred stock of Profit (loss) for the year from discontinued operations (640) (487) 94,718,408,838 94,718,408,838 subsidiaries 2. Diluted loss per share (4,807) (2,908) Repayments of hybrid equity instruments of (21,436,199,268) (545,728,397,732) (567,164,597,000) Loss for the year from continuing operations (4,167) (2,421) subsidiaries Adjustments of scope of connection (9,604,909,384) 70,204,483,133 60,599,573,749 Profit (loss) for the year from discontinued operations (640) (487) 2017.12.31 (end of previous term) 596,836,515,000 1,703,499,795,417 (44,828,871,791) 728,803,238,711 402,497,651,557 3,179,139,731,158 6,565,948,060,052 I. Net loss during the term (421,725,111,585) (109,688,010,762) 2018.1.1 (beginning of current term) 596,836,515,000 1,703,499,795,417 (44,828,871,791) 728,803,238,711 402,497,651,557 3,179,139,731,158 6,565,948,060,052 II. Other comprehensive income 158,588,349,921 160,739,225,976 Adjustment on initial application of K-IFRS (18,235,068,737) (54,579,385,933) (17,756,498,132) (90,570,952,802) 1. Items not subsequently reclassified to profit or loss: 2,111,687,567 323,282,331,414 Adjustment balance at January 1, 2018 596,836,515,000 1,703,499,795,417 (44,828,871,791) 710,568,169,974 347,918,265,624 3,161,383,233,026 6,475,377,107,250 Total comprehensive profit and loss: Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liabilities 31,510,948,024 54,742,976,025 Net profit during the term(loss) (523,793,621,412) 102,068,509,827 (421,725,111,585) Gain on change in fair value of fair value through other Remeasurement of the net defined benefit 812,350,242 (456,744,844) 31,967,692,868 31,510,948,024 comprehensive income (“FVOCI”) financial assets liabilities, net of tax Asset revaluation profit and loss (30,211,610,699) 268,539,355,389 Gain on change in fair value of FVOCI financial 289,110,073 5,575,159 517,665,010 812,350,242 assets 2. Items that are subsequently reclassified to profit or loss: 156,476,662,354 (162,543,105,438) Effective portion of changes in fair value of Net change in unrealized fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 7,298,423,839 20,302,961,575 1,997,192,928 22,300,154,503 cash flow hedges Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 22,300,154,503 (42,267,513,322) Equity adjustments in equity method (debit) (3,235,402,591) (335,443,659) (3,570,846,250) Net loss on translation of foreign operations 28,554,338,311 109,193,015,790 137,747,354,101 Equity adjustments in equity method (3,570,846,250) 3,471,444,554 Asset revaluation profit and loss (74,626,284,636) 42,472,768,465 1,941,905,472 (30,211,610,699) Net gain (loss) on translation of overseas operations 137,747,354,101 (131,045,460,509) Subtotal (28,715,277,268) (481,772,022,632) 247,350,538,236 (263,136,761,664) III. Total comprehensive income (loss), net of tax (263,136,761,664) 51,051,215,214 Dividends (14,904,860,057) (14,904,860,057) IV. Attributable to: Stock option 3,415,208,689 (3,415,208,689) Equity holders of the parent (510,487,299,900) (47,042,955,493) Issuance of bonds with warrant 29,075,000 67,802,734 96,877,734 Divided combination 53,389,475,000 75,078,684,375 (135,234,686) (146,605,694,270) (18,272,769,581) Non-controlling interests 247,350,538,236 98,094,170,707 Partial disposal of subsidiaries (10,366,230,493) (7,159,271,062) 518,786,653,265 501,261,151,710 Capital increase by issuing new shares of subsidiaries (9,009,211) 9,009,211 Acquisition of investments in subsidiaries (35,796,000,000) (35,796,000,000) Dividends of the subsidiaries (50,580,761,821) (50,580,761,821) Share option of subsidiaries 409,166,182 (409,166,182) Issuance of bonds with warrant of subsidiaries 997,276,585 300,907,352 1,298,183,937 Exertion of preemptive rights of subsidiaries (94,178,944,092) 133,446,438,610 39,267,494,518 Repayment of hybrid equity instruments of (333,286,268,697) (333,286,268,697) subsidiaries Adjustments of scope of connection (1,317,760,781) (82,308,496,940) (83,626,257,721) Other (150,000,000) 882,424,832 732,424,832 2018.12.31 (end of current term) 650,255,065,000 1,678,913,750,186 (55,947,752,410) 680,535,131,925 (148,908,617,065) 3,413,581,982,804 6,218,429,560,440 92 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 93 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows As of December 31, 2018 As of December 31, 2017 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries Unit: KRW Unit: KRW Items December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Items December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Ⅰ. Cash flows from operating activities 989,560,098,943 429,324,784,710 2. Cash outflows for financing activities (5,670,582,993,224) (5,438,061,527,646) 1. Cash generated from operations: 1,479,138,134,144 915,211,992,032 (1) Decrease in short-term borrowings, net (836,548,065,004) (1) Loss (421,725,111,585) (109,688,010,762) (2) Repayment of current portion of long-term debt (1,817,226,471,976) (2,713,376,372,308) (2) Adjustments 1,977,140,965,216 1,927,880,888,075 (3) Repayment of asset-backed borrowings (2,204,081,747,692) (1,386,950,000,000) (3) Changes in operating assets and liabilities (76,277,719,487) (902,980,885,281) (4) Repayment of long-term borrowings (357,480,925,681) (636,148,293,548) 2. Interest received 44,527,025,788 48,819,579,898 (5) Acquisition of treasury stock (135,234,686) 3. Interest paid (441,769,661,692) (450,278,642,618) (6) Expense of stock issuance (8,247,908,039) 4. Dividends received 2,527,971,414 2,418,130,866 (7) Reduction of capital stocks of subsidiaries (35,796,000,000) (15,397,465,480) 5. Income tax paid (94,863,370,711) (86,846,275,468) (8) Payment of dividends (14,904,860,057) (67,875,489,190) Ⅱ. Cash flows from investing activities (792,967,954,882) (457,137,175,002) (9) Payment of dividends of subsidiaries (50,730,761,821) (47,792,407,120) 1. Cash inflows from investing activities: 495,302,061,393 529,247,917,065 (10) Repayment of hybrid equity instruments (345,431,018,268) (570,521,500,000) (1) Decrease in short-term financial instruments 28,514,477,910 62,613,996,581 Ⅳ. Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held 18,705,493,088 (78,198,076,995) (2) Proceeds from disposal of short-term investments in securities 171,575,839,650 1,032,750,000 Ⅴ. Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 105,181,688,550 597,601,824,411 (3) Collection of short-term loans 61,191,764,632 22,682,497,753 Ⅵ. Cash and cash equivalents at January 1,970,147,004,768 1,372,545,180,357 (4) Decrease in long-term financial instruments 26,541,592,648 3,815,552,944 Ⅶ. Cash and cash equivalents at December 31 2,075,328,693,318 1,970,147,004,768 (5) Proceeds from disposal of long-term investments in securities 13,933,825,504 86,107,848,209 (6) Collection of long-term loans 137,885,071,022 171,467,917,148 (7) Proceeds from disposal of investments in associates 4,400,000,000 (8) Proceeds from disposal of investments in subsidiaries 18,190,238,952 7,681,720,761 (9) Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 30,945,823,222 65,618,637,439 (10) Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 2,123,427,853 5,065,871,259 (11) Proceeds from disposal of investment property 13,088,324,900 (12) Proceeds from disposal of non-current assets held-for-sale 29,078,999,531 (13) Proceeds from acquisition/disposal of business unit 1,029,800,540 (14) Net cash flow from changes in scope of consolidation 59,964,000,000 2. Cash outflows for investing activities: (1,288,270,016,275) (986,385,092,067) (1) Increase of short-term financial instruments (192,467,598,730) (74,714,189,155) (2) Acquisition of short-term investments in securities (50,672,900,940) (146,271,516) (3) Increase in short-term loans (20,760,428,199) (22,831,467,294) (4) Increase in long-term financial instruments (73,854,397,933) (10,157,643,555) (5) Acquisition of long-term investments in securities (39,283,294,056) (20,531,110,565) (6) Increase in long-term loans (284,003,894,212) (265,483,561,847) (7) Acquisition of investments in associates and joint ventures (74,122,234,188) (2,013,022,000) (8) Acquisition of investments in subsidiaries (33,901,864,924) (9) Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (231,413,553,611) (277,268,881,055) (10) Acquisition of intangible assets (309,784,390,949) (277,895,048,431) (11) Acquisition of non-current assets held-for-sale (1,442,031,725) (12) Others (11,907,323,457) Ⅲ. Cash flows from financing activities (110,115,948,599) 703,612,291,698 1. Cash inflows from financing activities 5,560,467,044,625 6,141,673,819,344 (1) Increase in short-term borrowings, net 941,739,587,791 (2) Proceeds from asset-backed borrowings 2,047,500,000,000 1,492,932,369,119 (3) Proceeds from long term asset-backed borrowings 337,112,406,111 (4) Issuance of bonds 542,739,813,997 2,128,041,350,520 (5) Proceeds from long-term borrowings 2,093,874,122,358 1,350,379,324,151 (6) Proceeds from partial disposals of investments in 507,593,227,099 133,721,600,000 (7) Exercise of stock warrants 16,332,469 4,651,450 (8) Exercise of stock warrants of subsidiaries 31,631,142,591 108,178,950 (9) Issuance of convertible preferred stock of subsidiaries 94,746,757,363 94 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 95 Independent Auditors' Report The Board of Directors and Shareholders The procedures and practices utilized in the Republic of Korea to audit such consolidated financial statements may differ from those generally accepted and applied Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd.: in other countries. Opinion Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Consolidated Financial Statements We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (the Group ), which Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with Korean International Financial comprise the consolidated statements of financial position as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the related consolidated statements of loss, comprehensive income Reporting Standards ( K-IFRS ), and for such internal controls as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements (loss), changes in equity and cash flows for the years then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, including significant accounting policies and that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. other explanatory information. In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Group's abilityto continue as a going concern, disclosing, as position of the Group as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, and its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash flows for the years then ended in applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease accordance with Korean International Financial Reporting Standards ( K-IFRS ). operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Group's financial reporting process. Basis for Opinion We conducted our audits in accordance with Korean Standards on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor's Auditors' Responsibility for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatements, whether requirements that are relevant to our audit of the consolidated financial statements in the Republic of Korea, and we have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors' report that includes our opinion. 'Reasonable assurance' is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. audit conducted in accordance with Korean Standards on Auditing will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or Key Audit Matters error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements as of and for of these consolidated financial statements. the year that ended on December 31, 2018. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in As part of an audit in accordance with Korean Standards on Auditing, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. We also: • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those 1) Recognition of revenue risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations or the override of internal control. As described in the Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Group estimates percentage-of-completion by the input method and recognizes revenue • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an over time depending on progress. Since the amount of revenue recognition over time based on input method depends on the measured percentage-of-completion, opinion on the effectiveness of the Group's internal control. judgment of management on the method of measuring progress, estimated total contract cost and changes in construction is required. Therefore, due to exposure • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management. to the risk of overstatement of revenue due to error in judgment or intent, we identified the recognition of revenue under the input method as a key audit matter. • Conclude on the appropriateness of management's use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related The following audit procedures were performed regarding the recognition of revenue by the input method. to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group's ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, then we are required to draw • Testing certain internal controls over the process of determination and changes of estimated total contract cost attention in our auditors' report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based • For major projects completed during current year, retrospective review by comparing between the actual cost incurred during the current year and construction cost estimated at the end on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors' report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern. of the prior year • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the • Inspection of documents to assess the appropriateness of the significant changes in estimated total contract cost underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. • Inquiries and analytical review of changes in the percentage-of-completion • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities of business activities with the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. • For major projects, inquiries and inspection of documents if there were a significant difference between the progress based on the respective monthly progress reports received from customers and the Group's percentage-of-completion calculated We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and • For selected samples, inspection of documents on existence of contract costs (including material costs and other expenses) incurred during current year • Testing the appropriateness of cost transfer between projects by IT audit team communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence and where applicable, related safeguards. • Performing site visits for selected on-going construction sites and sites have equipment under construction From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated • Recalculation of the percentage-of-completion independently for each project financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditors' report unless law or regulation • Testing certain internal controls over the process of changes in contract terms precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report • For selected samples, inspection of documents (change order and others) to assess the appropriateness of the change in contract revenue because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. • Examined the contractual delivery date with the expected delivery date as of the end of the year. For those which the contractual delivery date has past, inquired of the basis, performed The engagement partner on the audit resulting in this independent auditors' report is Jeong Gu Kang. analytical review and agreed to underlying documents • Assess the appropriateness of the estimation of penalty for delay 2) Assessment of recoverability of trade receivable and due from customers for contract work as described in the Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Group calculates expected credit losses ( ECLs ) based on the expected life of the ECLs and evaluates the recoverability of the trade receivable and due from customers for contract cost. In calculating ECLs, judgment of management is involved due to uncertainty over the collection of due from customers for contract work from delayed payment of the owner, changes in conditions or claims incurred. Therefore, we identified the assessment of the recoverability of trade receivable and due from customers for contract work as a key audit matter, as the risk of overstatement of trade receivable and due from customers for contract work due to error or bias in judgment. The following audit procedures were performed regarding assessment of the recoverability of trade receivable and due from customers for contract work. • Testing certain internal controls over the process of assessment of recoverability of trade receivable and due from customers for contract work • Inquiries and inspection of documents to assess payment terms, penalty for delay, delivery time, and other obligations of contracts for the due from customer for contract work increased significantly Seoul, Korea • Inquiries and analytical review of long-term due from customers for contract work and inspection of documents to evaluate of the reasonableness of the cause March 20, 2019 • Inquiries and analytical review of recoverability of due form customers for contract work for the projects with bad debt allowance over trade receivables has been reserved • Sending the confirmation letters to major customers This report is effective as of March 20, 2019, the audit report date. Certain subsequent events or circumstances, which may occur between the audit report date and the time of reading this report, could have a material impact on the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. Accordingly, the readers of the audit report should understand that the above audit report has not been updated to reflect the impact of such subsequent events or circumstances, if any. 96 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 97 Third Party’s Assurance Statement To the Readers of 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction: Our conclusion Foreword Based on the results we have obtained from material reviews and interviews, we had several discussions with DHIC on the revision of the Report. Korea Management Registrar Inc. (hereinafter KMR ) has been requested by of 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction We reviewed the Report's final version in order to confirm that our recommendations for improvement and our revisions have been reflected. to verify the contents of its 2018 Integrated Report (hereinafter the Report ). Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction (hereinafter DHIC ) is When reviewing the results of the assurance, the assurance team could not find any inappropriate contents in the Report to the compliance with responsible for the collection and presentation of information included in the Report. KMR’s responsibility is to carry out assurance engagement on the principles stipulated below. Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the data included in the verification scope are specific data and information in the assurance scope stipulated below. not presented appropriately. Scope and standard ˙Inclusivity DHIC describes its efforts and achievements of the corporate social responsibility activities in the Report. KMR performed a type2, moderate Inclusivity is the participation of stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable and strategic response to sustainability level of assurance using AA1000AS (2008) and SRV1000 from KMR Global Sustainability Committee as assurance standards. KMR's assurance DHIC is developing and maintaining stakeholder communication channels in various forms and levels in order to make a commitment to be responsible for the team(hereinafter the team ) evaluated the adherence to Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness, and the reliability of the selected stakeholders. The assurance team could not find any critical stakeholder DHIC left out during this procedure. GRI Standards indices as below, where professional judgment of the team was exercised as materiality criteria. The team checked whether the Report has been prepared in accordance with the 'Core Option' of GRI Standards which covers the followings. ˙Materiality Materiality is determining the relevance and significance of an issue to an organization and its stakeholders. A material issue is an issue that will influence the ˙GRI Reporting Principles decisions, actions, and performance of an organization or its stakeholders. ˙Universal Standards DHIC is determining the materiality of issues found out through stakeholder communication channels through its own materiality evaluation process, and the ˙Topic Specific Standards assurance team could not find any critical issues left out in this process. Management approach of Topic Specific Standards Employment: 401-1, 401-2, 401-3 ˙Responsiveness Economic Performance: 201-1, 201-2 Labor/Management Relations: 402-1 Responsiveness is an organization's response to stakeholder issues that affect its sustainability performance and is realized through decisions, actions, and Indirect Economic Impacts: 203-1, 203-2 Occupational Health and Safety: 403-2, 403-3, 403-4 performance, as well as communication with stakeholders. Procurement Practices: 204-1 Training and Education: 404-1, 404-2 The assurance team could not find any evidence that DHIC's counter measures to critical stakeholder issues were inappropriately recorded in the Report. Anti-Corruption: 205-1, 205-2, 205-3 Diversity and Equal Opportunity: 405-1, 405-2 Anti-competitive Behavior: 206-1 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining: 407-1 We could not find any evidence the Report was not prepared in accordance with the 'Core Option' of GRI standards. Materials: 301-1, 301-2 Child Labor: 408-1 Energy: 302-1, 302-4, 302-5 Forced or Compulsory Labor: 409-1 Recommendation for improvement Water: 303-1, 303-3 Human Rights Assessment: 412-1, 412-2, 412-3 We hope the Report is actively used as a communication tool with stakeholders and we recommend the following for continuous improvements. Biodiversity: 304-1, 304-2, 304-3, 304-4 Local Communities: 413-1, 413-2 ˙he report found that DHIC was engaged in a transparent communication with its stakeholders on the company's economic, social, environmental achievements Emissions: 305-1, 305-2, 305-5 Supplier Social Assessment: 414-1, 414-2 and goals. In the future, we recommend to provide more detailed information including insights on the company's organizational strategies and their effect on the Effluents and Waste: 306-1, 306-2, 306-3 Public Policy: 415-1 capabilities of creating short, medium, long-term values as well as capital and its use. Environmental Compliance: 307-1 Socioeconomic Compliance: 419-1 Supplier Environmental Assessment: 308-1, 308-2 Our independence This Report excludes data and information from joint corporates, contractor etc. which is outside of the organization, i.e. DHIC, from the report With the exception of providing third party assurance services, KMR is not involved in any other DHIC's business operations that are aimed at making boundaries. profit in order to avoid any conflicts of interest and to maintain independence. Our approach In order to verify the contents of the Report within an agreed scope of assurance in accordance with the assurance standard, the team has carried out an assurance engagement as follows: ˙Reviewed overall report ˙Reviewed materiality test process and methodology June, 25th, 2019 ˙Reviewed sustainability management strategies and targets ˙Reviewed stakeholder engagement activities CEO ˙Interviewed people in charge of preparing the Report 98 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 99 Environmental Guidelines GRI Content Index Universal Standards (GRI 100) Based on its people-centered management philosophy and technology that enhances the value of the earth, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has TOPIC No. Description of the Indicators Page Remarks established environmental guidelines in accordance with the Doosan Credo, internal environmental management rules and regulations for the protection of 102-1 Name of the organization 1 the environment together with employees, suppliers, customers and the local community. 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 22-41 Thus, we are promoting the following activities to reduce environmental impact generated during the course of business, and continuing to expand the 102-3 Location of headquarters 4 scope to supply networks and suppliers. 102-4 Location of operations 4 102-5 Ownership and legal form 52-53 102-6 Markets served 4 1. Production and workplace environment management Organizational Profile 102-7 Scale of the organization 4 For efficient environmental management of production and business facilities, 10 procedures including objective management, educational training, 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 64-68 document and records management and internal audit as well as 9 directives on, for example, environmental impact assessment, air environment 102-9 Supply chain 69-71 control and waste control, are used for management. 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain No significant change 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 82 2. Selection of suppliers, contractors and service providers and continuous assessments 102-12 External initiatives 44-49, 102 101-13 Membership of associations 102 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction performs regular environment control assessments on subsidiaries within the company twice a year, and the Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 02-03 results are utilized as the basis for incentives or penalties to be levied on the subsidiaries and as reference data for their development planning. Also, 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 54-55 areas related to the environment are assessed when evaluating suppliers and supplier CSR guidelines including environmental control are distributed as Ethics and Integrity 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 54-55 a part of an effort to reduce environmental risks throughout the supply network. 102-18 Governance structure 52-53 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 52-53 3. Development of products and services Governance 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 52-53 By recognizing the fact that various environmental issues related to climate changes pose both risks and opportunities for Doosan Heavy Industries & 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 52-53 Construction, we have been conducting research and development that can minimize environmental impact when developing products or services. 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 52-53 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 80 4. Logistics 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 68 To minimize environmental pollution that may occur during transport, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction manages it through guidelines, etc. Stakeholder 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 80-81 Engagement Work standards are made and managed based on the best cases for each step, which includes transport quotes, preliminary surveys, transport company 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 80-81 selection, contract signing, local transport (inland, barge, air, etc.) and cargo insurance. 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 80-81 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Annual Report 5. Waste management 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 1 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction specifies the entire work process from waste generation to final disposal and operates and manages it through 102-47 List of material topics 81 a waste management order, which helps control the scope of application, definitions of terms, responsibilities and authorities, waste recycling and Reporting Practice 102-48 Restatements of information No re-statement storage facilities, generation, collection, storage and disposal of waste, inspection, consignment contracts and monitoring. 102-49 Changes in reporting No reporting changes 102-50 Reporting period 1 6. Engineering and maintenance 102-51 Date of most recent report 1 To minimize environmental pollution generated during operation and maintenance of power plants, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction provides 102-52 Reporting cycle 1 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 1 an environmental guide to fundamentally prevent environmental pollution that would occur from irregular operations. By offering operation and Reporting Practice 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 1 maintenance manuals based on the characteristics of each power plant, a guide is provided to minimize the environmental impact generated during 102-55 GRI content index 99-101 operations. 102-56 External assurance 96-97 7. New projects Prior to the start of a new project, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction utilizes its Project Environment Plan, to which detailed means of environmental control are applied, to ensure environmental control in project sites. Primary items of the Project Environment Plan include Project Policy, water supply and waste discharge requirements, hazard substance management, air pollution control, etc. 8. Due Diligence of mergers and acquisitions Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction conducts due diligence assessment on companies prior to mergers and acquisitions in order to examine environmental risks and respond in advance, if needed. Major aspects evaluated include soil and underground water contamination, asbestos, hazardous chemical substances, environmental pollution prevention facilities and greenhouse gas emission management, and the assessment results are utilized and managed as important factors to consider during acquisitions or mergers. 100 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Business Portfolio • Commitments to Sustainability • CSR Management • Appendix 101 UN Global Compact Topic Specific Standards Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has joined the UN Global Compact since 2004 and has complied with the ten principles of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. We are committed to fulfilling our social responsibilities and role as a global leader in sustainable management that Economic Standards (GRI 200) represents Korea by reflecting international standards for social responsibility management and by solidifying our commitment to social responsibility TOPIC No. Description of the Indicators Page Remarks management. 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 87-93 Economic Performance Ten principles page 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 87-93 Indirect Economic Human Rights 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 46-49 Impacts Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 48-51, 74, 80 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 54-55 Anti-corruption Principle 2 and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 54-55 Anti-competitive Labour 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 54-55 Behavior Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to 74, 77, 80, 102 collective bargaining Environment Standards (GRI 300) Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor TOPIC No. Description of the Indicators Page Remarks Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labor 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 83-84 Energy 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 83-84 Principle 6 and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 83-84 Environment Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 83-84 Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 64-67, 98-102 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 83-84 Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 83-84 Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 83-84 Principle 9 and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies. 41 Environmental 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 83-84 Anti-Corruption Compliance Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 60-61, 80, 103-104 Social Standards (GRI 400) TOPIC No. Description of the Indicators Page Remarks Employment 401-1 401-3 New employee hires and employee turnover Parental leave 85 85 Overview of Association Memberships Labor/Management 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 64-68 Relations Associations for which memberships have Associations for which memberships have Associations for which memberships have Category Category Category Occupational Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and been signed up been signed up been signed up 403-2 86 Health and Safety number of work-related fatalities Large & Small Business Agriculture & Korea Employer's Federation Korea Nuclear Society Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 64-68 Fisheries Cooperation Foundation World Energy Council Korea Nuclear Association for International Korea Technology Finance Corporation Nuclear Cooperation Diversity and Equal WEC Korea 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 64-68 power Opportunity Korea Credit Guarantee Fund World Nuclear Association Korea-Arab Society Child Labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor 71 Gyeongnam Center for Social Economy and Common Women Interested in Nuclear Forced or Compulsory Entrepreneurs Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor 71 Welding Korean Welding & Joining Society Labor Gyeongnam Center for Creative Economy Fair Competition Federation Construction Association of Korea 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 71 and Innovation Human Rights UNGC (UN Global Compact) Korea Korea Housing Builders Association Assessment 412-2 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 85 Korea New & Renewable Energy Association Marine Rescue & Salvage Association Korea Federation of Construction 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories 60-63 Customer Health and Common National Academy of Engineering of Korea Korean Institute of Electrical Engineers Contractors Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and Safety 416-2 60-63 Korean Federation of Science & Technology Korean Society of Mechanical Engineers Korea Electrical Contractors Association services EPC Societies Korea Information Certificate Authority Socioeconomic Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and Korea Electric Association 419-1 54-55 Korea Management Association International Contractors Association of Compliance services Power Korea Association of Machinery Industry Korea International Trade Association generation Korea Korea Wind Energy Industry Association Korea Industrial Technology Association Korea Mech. Const. Contractors Association Korea Wind Energy Association Korea Engineering & Consulting Association PEA (Plant Eng. Association) EPRI (Electric Power Research Institute) – Korean Society of Combustion WRTC Korean Institute of Metals & Materials Casting & Korea Plant Industries Association Korea Radioactive Waste Society Korea Foundry Society forging Machinery Financial Cooperative Nuclear Korea Nuclear Equipment Advancement Korea Iron & Steel Association power Association Korean Standards Association Quality Korea Atomic Industrial Forum Korean Foundation for Quality (KFQ) Integrated solutions for a better life 2018 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Headquarters 22, Doosan Volvo-ro, Seongsan-gu, Changwon-si, Gyeongsangnam-do TEL. 055-278-6114 Seoul Office 465, Gangnam-daero, Seocho-gu, Seoul TEL. 02-513-6991~2 www.doosanheavy.com 118587 Printed by a company with FSCTM Chain of Custody certification (Certification no.: C118587). We use paper certified by FSCTM (Forest Stewardship Council®) that is only attached to products using wood produced in forests developed and managed in an eco-friendly manner.
