LIXIL GROUP CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance INDEX CONTENTS Commitment3 Our People 28 Society70 -Message from the CEO 4 -Diversity & Equal Opportunity 30 -Human Rights 72 -Message from CR Committee Chairperson 5 -Rewarding Workplaces 35 -Stakeholder Engagement 74 -Supporting International Initiatives 6 -Talent Development 38 -Community78 Index -LIXIL CORE and Behaviors 8 -Occupational Health & Safety 41 ESG Data, Scope of Reporting and GRI 83 CR Management Structure and Environment45 -External Evaluations & Awards 84 Material Issues Selection9 -Environmental Management 47 -Action Plan & KPIs 86 -CR Management Structure 10 -Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation 50 -Human Resource Performance 94 -Material Issues 11 -Sustainable Water Use 53 -Environmental Performance 98 -CR Strategy 12 -Sustainable Use of Resources 56 -Scope of Reporting 105 -GRI Index 107 Three Strategic Pillars 13 -TCFD Index 121 Customers & Supply Chain 58 -Global Sanitation & Hygiene 14 -Responsible Supply Chain Management 60 -Water Conservation & Environmental Sustainability 20 -Product Safety & Quality 63 -Diversity & Inclusion 23 -Customer Satisfaction 67 ● Corporate Governance Reporting Period Applicable Organizations See the Corporate Governance section on the LIXIL Group Corporation FYE2019 (April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019) CR activities of LIXIL Group Corporation, as well as LIXIL website (http://www.lixil.com/) for information on the Corporate Corporation and other consolidated subsidiaries are covered Governance Framework, the Group Management Philosophy, Group in the report. The scope is provided in footnotes for matters Charter of Corporate Behavior and Internal Control Systems. that have narrower coverage. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 2 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance 01 COMMITMENT COMMITMENT We express our commitment to corporate responsibility through messages from Kinya Seto, Director, Representative Executive Officer, President and CEO of LIXIL Group Corporation, and Jin Song Montesano, Chair of the CR Committee. Commitment Message from the CEO Message from CR Committee Chairperson Supporting International Initiatives LIXIL CORE and Behaviors LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 3 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Commitment > Message from the CEO 01 COMMITMENT MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Kinya Seto Director, Representative Executive Officer, President & Chief Executive Officer (CEO), LIXIL Group Corporation Society’s expectations of corporations are higher than ever development of local production/sales structures to ensure to achieve sustainable growth. By supporting diversity as before. With the increased interest in ESG (Environment, they become locally rooted businesses. In FYE2019, we also well as a culture of inclusion that enables all employees to Commitment Social, and Governance) based investing, it is critical signed a global partnership, “Make a Splash! Toilets for All,” actively contribute as themselves, we will create new value for corporations to actively engage in solving the world’s with the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), which for our stakeholders, which will lead to strengthening longerenvironmental and social issues, both as global citizens and aims to help establish a sanitation economy in developing term competitiveness. Message from the CEO to ensure corporate sustainability. countries by leveraging each other’s areas of expertise. As part of our D&I initiatives, we are also focusing Message from At LIXIL, we believe Corporate Responsibility (CR) is core Expansion of our social business in partnership with UNICEF our efforts to improve the lives of all individuals through CR Committee Chairperson to our long-term success and that our CR and business is a significant achievement and has also played a part in Universal Design (UD). To accelerate our UD strategy, Supporting International Initiatives strategies should align. We believe that taking part in solving developing a sense of pride among our employees. we created advanced UD concepts and established a LIXIL CORE and Behaviors society’s challenges through our everyday business activities LIXIL has also recognized environmental issues related framework for future progress in FYE2018. Going forward, inspires and motivates our employees to go beyond their to SDG 13, which calls for urgent action to combat climate we hope to assist people in various states of physical everyday goals, which, in turn, will contribute to LIXIL’s longchange and its impacts, as one of our key management ability around the world by sharing the technology we have term competitiveness. challenges. Having identified the opportunities and risks developed in Japan, where the population is aging, helping To improve the quality of people’s lives, LIXIL focuses on associated with social concerns such as climate change, them to lead comfortable lives. three strategic pillars that help solve global social issues that we are executing on an environmental strategy consistent In addition to the three strategic pillars, LIXIL also require urgent action, as well as make a positive impact in with our business strategy. With the adoption of the Paris continues to tackle material CR issues, including employee the communities that we operate in. Agreement in 2015, which set a clear direction towards health and safety, procurement, and compliance, for which global de-carbonization, LIXIL is pursuing innovation in lowwe have gained high external recognition. Three Strategic Pillars carbon and water-efficient technologies. Furthermore, we are At LIXIL, we remain committed to contributing to the working on updating our environmental vision to contribute various challenges affecting our world. We will continue to Even today, approximately two billion people around the to a sustainable global environment on a longer-term basis. enrich the quality of people’s lives and homes by leveraging world live without access to basic sanitation. Therefore, LIXIL Relating to SDG 5, which aims to achieve gender equality, our global network and accumulated expertise in living solutions. is addressing the global sanitation and hygiene challenge, we announced the LIXIL Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) an area related to Goal 6 of United Nations’ Sustainable Declaration in FYE2018 in order to help foster a corporate Development Goals (SDG), which aims to ensure access to culture that recognizes and values diversity at a more global water and sanitation for all by 2030. We continue to create and extensive scale. In a market where customer needs a range of solutions, including our commercialized SATO continue to expand, it is vital that we support a diverse Toilet Systems for developing countries, while facilitating the workforce and maximize their individuality and potential LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 4 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Commitment > Message from CR Committee Chairperson 01 Jin Song Montesano MESSAGE FROM CR COMMITTEE CHAIRPERSON Executive Officer and Senior Managing Director, Public Affairs, Investor Relations, External Affairs, Corporate Responsibility, and Human Resources, Chief Public Affairs COMMITMENT Officer, and Chief People Officer LIXIL’s higher purpose as a company is to make better Japan called Well Life, designed for people in wheelchairs employees signing up for the “Team Splash!” initiative, homes a reality for everyone, everywhere, and Corporate and those who prefer to sit when cooking. LIXIL’s Universal which invites employees to make donations to the “Make Commitment Responsibility (CR) is at the core of this endeavor. We are Design concept is a core part of our diversity agenda, and a Splash! Toilets for All” partnership. Also accelerating delighted to report that we have continued to reach new we continue to focus on making things that matter to the in momentum is LIXIL Community Day, inaugurated in heights through our CR activities in FYE2019, making people who use our products, while promoting it through our FYE2018, which doubled participation in FYE2019 to 6,900 Message from the CEO progress in all three strategic pillars as well as enhancing advocacy initiatives. employees across 23 countries. This underscores the strong Message from global recognition of our initiatives. I am pleased to report that the consistent progress purpose-driven culture we are building at LIXIL. CR Committee Chairperson With regard to improving Global Sanitation & Hygiene, we we have made over the last three years to deliver on Looking ahead, LIXIL has declared its support for the Task Supporting International Initiatives were excited to see that our SATO social business turned our new CR strategy is gaining global recognition. LIXIL Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures. We are also LIXIL CORE and Behaviors profitable in Bangladesh, providing us with the confidence won “Innovation of the Year” at the Ethical Corporation’s in the process of updating LIXIL’s environmental vision to that social enterprises can be viable and self-sustaining. Responsible Business Awards for our innovative SATO line contribute to a sustainable global environment in the long We also entered into a new partnership with UNICEF called of products and sanitation initiatives. Similarly, our work to term. We look forward to sharing in the coming months how “Make a Splash! Toilets for All,” aiming to transform the lives provide innovative, safe, and affordable access to sanitation we plan to further our commitments to help protect our of children around the world by providing them with access to communities around the world was recognized at the planet and contribute to society, including strengthening our to basic sanitation services. On top of this, we launched a second Japan SDGs Awards, where LIXIL was awarded the disclosure of climate-related financial information as well as new partnership with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to Deputy-Chief’s Award from the Minister of Foreign Affairs. our broader efforts to deliver on our CR commitments. pilot a new technology in two markets that could become the Furthermore, we earned a place in CDP’s prestigious Water world’s first “reinvented toilet” for household use. Security A List, reflecting our leadership in sustainable water As for Water Conservation & Environmental Sustainability, management. We are also proud to be included for the first we made progress in our contribution to the environment time in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) World by switching to 100% renewable energy in our showroom in Index, and for three consecutive years in the DJSI AsiaKyoto and at INAX MUSEUMS, the first step in our journey to Pacific Index and FTSE4Good Index. We are also listed on achieve zero CO2 emissions from the use of electricity. In our the MSCI Japan Empowering Women (WIN) Select Index. TOSTEM plant in Thailand, we also succeeded in eliminating Alongside this recognition, how LIXIL makes a difference landfill waste by collaborating with local industrial waste to people around the world continues to be a source of disposal operators. growing pride among our employees. We are pleased to On the topic of Diversity & Inclusion, FYE2019 marked see this pride propel our colleagues’ desire to participate the launch of a fully remodeled universal kitchen system in however they can, demonstrated by close to one thousand LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 5 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Commitment > Supporting International Initiatives 01 COMMITMENT SUPPORTING INTERNATIONAL INITIATIVES The LIXIL Group’s corporate philosophy is to contribute to The UNGC 10 Principles improving the comfort and lifestyles of people around the world. To bring our philosophy to life through our operational HUMAN Principle 1: B usinesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and activities, we are driving a range of R&D and other initiatives RIGHTS Principle 2: m ake sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Commitment to help resolve global sanitation and hygiene problems as well as other social and environmental issues. Principle 3: Businesses  should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right To meet and exceed society’s expectations for the LIXIL to collective bargaining; Message from the CEO Group, we must take active leadership as a comprehensive LABOUR Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Message from living and housing solutions company. We will continue to Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and CR Committee Chairperson support the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Supporting International Initiatives Compact, and provide our expertise in areas of sanitation LIXIL CORE and Behaviors to help create safe and healthy living spaces for all, as Principle 7: B usinesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; envisioned in the Sustainable Development Goals. ENVIRONMENT Principle 8: u ndertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: e ncourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Commitment to the UN Global Compact ANTIPrinciple 10: B  usinesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. The LIXIL Group signed the United Nations Global Compact CORRUPTION (UNGC) in July 2013 in full support of the principles set out in the framework. The LIXIL Group will continue to implement the Ten Principles in the four fields of human The UNGC was proposed in 1999 by then Secretary-General Kofi Annan to rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. encourage companies and other organizations to pursue voluntary actions to promote sustainable growth as good social citizens. WEB United Nations Global Compact LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 6 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Commitment > Supporting International Initiatives 01 COMMITMENT Sustainable Development Goals The LIXIL Group’s Three Strategic Pillars and Endorsing the Task Force on ClimateTheir Relevance to the SDGs Related Financial Disclosures The LIXIL Group reflects the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) approach in its corporate responsibility strategy Global Sanitation & Hygiene In March 2019, the LIXIL Group announced its support for and uses the goals as a major guideline when forming the Task force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Commitment management decisions. The SDGs are a set of concrete In response to calls from the G20, the Financial Stability Board action plans outlined in the Transforming our world: the established the TCFD to determine and publish a framework 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development outcomefor the disclosure of climate-related information. The LIXIL Message from the CEO oriented document adopted by the United Nations General Group will continue to conduct proactive scenario analyses and Message from Assembly in September 2015, consisting of 17 global goals promote wider and deeper disclosure. CR Committee Chairperson and 169 targets to be achieved for sustainable development. Water Conservation & Supporting International Initiatives The LIXIL Group will continue to contribute to achieving the Environmental Sustainability CR Environmental Disclosures (P49) LIXIL CORE and Behaviors SDGs through its business operations. CR Three Strategic Pillars (P13) PDF Details about our winning at the 2nd Japan SDGs Awards WEB United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Diversity & Inclusion LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 7 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Commitment > LIXIL CORE and Behaviors 01 COMMITMENT LIXIL CORE AND BEHAVIORS LIXIL Group employees are guided by the LIXIL Core Philosophy and three LIXIL Behaviors. LIXIL CORE PHILOSOPHY Commitment The Group’s superior products and services contribute to Message from the CEO improving people’s comfort and lifestyles. Message from CR Committee Chairperson Supporting International Initiatives LIXIL Behaviors LIXIL CORE and Behaviors The three LIXIL Behaviors provide a unified way of working for all LIXIL employees, helping to make LIXIL a purpose-driven entrepreneurial company fit for sustainable growth. CR Improving Understanding of LIXIL Behaviors (P36) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 8 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance 02 CR MANAGEMENT CR MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE AND STRUCTURE AND MATERIAL ISSUES SELECTION MATERIAL ISSUES SELECTION We have put in place a robust management structure for driving sustainability initiatives, and have identified key issues that matter the most to our stakeholders, and to us. CR Management Structure and Material Issues Selection CR Management Structure Material Issues CR Strategy LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 9 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance CR Management Structure and Material Issues Selection > CR Management Structure 02 CR MANAGEMENT CR MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE LIXIL Group’s Corporate Responsibility (CR) Committee Management leadership and coordination with the The Executive Officers responsible for CR swiftly report STRUCTURE AND was established to align with the technology business technology businesses is critical to achieve prompt and the results of CR Committee discussions and deliberations to MATERIAL ISSUES operating model that was established in April 2015. The appropriate actions. Accordingly, Executive Officers in the LIXL Group’s Board of Directors and Executive Officers SELECTION CR Committee meets quarterly and works to ensure swifter charge of the corporate functions, namely HR, Legal, Public Committee, enabling necessary decisions to be made. The action in response to economic, environmental and social Affairs, Finance, Quality, Environment, Technology Research Executive Officers immediately indicate and communicate sustainability issues. In FYE2019, the Committee discussed and Marketing, as well as representatives from each of the decisions made in the CR Committee to their respective CR Management Structure and Material Issues Selection and decided on participation in international initiatives such technology businesses, have been appointed as members of functional divisions to facilitate speedy, concrete action. as the signing of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial the CR Committee. Disclosures (TCFD). CR Management Structure Material Issues CR Strategy Decision-making bodies · LIXIL Group Board · LIXIL Group Executive Officers Committee CR Committee (Chairman: Chief Public Affairs Officer) (Quarterly meetings) Human Public Technology, Quality, Technology Legal Finance Marketing Technology Businesses Resources Affairs Manufacture Research LIXIL Water Technology Representative Each Chief Officer LIXIL Housing Technology Representative (Chief Technology, Quality, Manufacture Officer takes responsibility for EHS) LIXIL Building Technology Representative LIXIL Japan Company Representative * As of March 31, 2019 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 10 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance CR Management Structure and Material Issues Selection > Material Issues 02 CR MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES In FYE2016, the LIXIL Group identified the issues that LIXIL Group’s Material Issues * Compiled FYE2016 STRUCTURE AND matter the most to its stakeholders and the Group following * Highlights issues that require focused priority action MATERIAL ISSUES a rigorous materiality selection process, as described below. Category Material Issues* Background and Reason SELECTION We have set a medium-term action plan for each of these Corporate governance As a global company, maintaining strong corporate governance practices is of critical Compliance importance to LIXIL. It is also an issue that has become of increased interest to our material issues, and disclose the progress and results of our Risk management shareholders with the adoption of Japan’s Corporate Governance Code in 2015. While activities on our website. Going forward, we will continuously Governance Information security expanding our global reach, our corporate governance was put to the test in 2015, when CR Management Structure and Taxation strategy we discovered accounting irregularities at an overseas subsidiary. To prevent recurrence of Material Issues Selection review these issues to reflect changes in the environment Intellectual property strategy such incident and solidify our operating foundation, we must further advance our efforts to surrounding the LIXIL Group. strengthen our corporate governance, compliance and risk management systems. Anti-corruption Corruption is detrimental to the development of a sustainable society. Global scrutiny towards CR Management Structure Fair Business Transparent political relations bribery and fraud is intensifying, and extraterritorial application of penalties is increasing rapidly. Practices Fair business Material Issues Material Issues Selection Process Human rights due diligence With the UN’s adoption of the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, which CR Strategy clarify the responsibility of companies to uphold human rights, protecting and respecting Human Rights human rights both within the LIXIL Group and across its entire sphere of business influence have become a greater priority. Issues were selected considering: Selection 1) Global trends Diversity and equal opportunity With global expansion, our business and organizational structure have become more 2) Relevance to the industries to which the LIXIL Occupational health and safety complex and diverse. We therefore need to grasp and manage appropriately risks related to Group belongs Employee recruitment and retention occupational health and safety across the Group. 3) Expectations of our stakeholders (customers, Labor Practice Labor-management relationship Diversity is vital to innovation. Companies worldwide are increasingly focused on attracting shareholders, business partners such as Working environment and retaining high-caliber employees. We are actively promoting diversity in line with the LIXIL suppliers, NGOs, etc.) Talent development Diversity & Inclusion Declaration, but we need to push ahead further in pursuing this cause. Local job creation The level of impact of each selected issue was Quality and Product safety Product safety is a top priority for the LIXIL Group as a manufacturer. Serious product defects Assessment assessed considering: Satisfaction Customer satisfaction can cause customer anxiety and greatly affect the reliability and reputation of our products. 1) The Group’s mid-to-long-term business opportunities 2) The viewpoints of our stakeholders Greenhouse gas reduction The adoption of the Paris Agreement to combat climate change by 196 parties has shaped a Sustainable water use clear direction towards future decarbonization. Global water shortage is intensifying, and we Environment Sustainable use of resources need to do more to protect water, energy and other natural resources throughout the LIXIL Environmental management Group value chain, from procurement to production, distribution, product use and disposal. Material issues were selected by relevant business Supply chain management Stakeholder interest in responsible supplier management has grown in line with the Validation functions, and the CR Committee approved the final development of international standards on sustainable procurement. The LIXIL Group’s and Approval list of material issues. Supply Chain manufacturing footprint extends across Japan, Asia, Europe, North and South America and the Middle East, and we need to do more to promote responsible supplier management. Stakeholder engagement and The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) have galvanized companies into helping collaboration solve social problems. As a pioneering maker of water and housing products, we need to Stakeholder R&D for solving social problems cooperate with stakeholders and focus more on R&D designed to help solve social issues, Engagement LIXIL Group’s Material Issues Contribution to global sanitation & such as a graying society and the importance of hygiene and the environment. hygiene LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 11 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance CR Management Structure and Material Issues Selection > Corporate Responsibility Strategy 02 CR MANAGEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STRATEGY At LIXIL Group, we believe that our living spaces — the comfortable products and services through responsible and About LIXIL Vision for Sustainable Living STRUCTURE AND environment where we live, work and play — are critical to sustainable innovations. We leverage our scale and expertise WEB Video (3 mins) MATERIAL ISSUES our daily lives and well-being. As a result, we are committed to pursue initiatives focused on our three strategic pillars PDF Details (137KB) SELECTION to ensuring that any growth in our businesses contributes to that cover global issues requiring urgent action and are improving the quality of people’s lives by delivering safe and closely linked to our field of business. CR Management Structure and Material Issues Selection Our Corporate Responsibility Mission To be the most trusted company by enhancing living spaces through innovative, responsible engagements and initiatives around the world CR Management Structure Material Issues Water Conservation & Global Sanitation & Hygiene Diversity & Inclusion CR Strategy Environmental Sustainability Promote and enable access to safe and Leverage the knowledge and perspectives of hygienic sanitation practices, especially for women Conserve water, energy, and other natural resources a diverse workforce as a key driver of growth and and girls, while preventing the harmful transmission of utilized in and by LIXIL products and services, including innovation, and improve quality of life for all people diseases for children. in the supply chain, production, distribution and during through our products and services, irrespective of their end use. age, gender, and level of ability or disability. 100 Million People Net Zero Inclusive for All By 2020, improve the livelihood of 100 million people By 2030, achieve a net zero balance between LIXIL’s By 2020, establish the culture of diversity and inclusion through sanitation and hygiene solutions. environmental footprint and the positive environmental within our organization and with all employees. contributions created through our products and services. By 2030, ensure all products and services* are based on LIXIL’s Universal Design concept. * Scope: products and services in Japan (as of August 2019) Our strategy stands upon a foundational commitment to ethical business practices Governance Fair Business Practices Human Rights Labor Practices Quality and Satisfaction Supply Chain Stakeholder Engagement Enhance LIXIL’s Engage all employees and Advance human rights across Build a strong corporation Strengthen relationships Through responsible management governance to maximize officers in our business the business to operate as a and workplace where all with customers through our of the overall supply chain, deliver Proactively engage with our corporate values operations with a high responsible corporate citizen employees can achieve their products and services a stable portfolio of products and LIXIL’s key stakeholders standard of corporate ethics fullest potential fulfill stakeholder accountability LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 12 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance 03 THREE THREE STRATEGIC PILLARS STRATEGIC PILLARS The LIXIL Group leverages its specialist expertise and business scale to pursue initiatives focused on three strategic pillars, selected from among the most urgent issues relating to the regions in which we operate. Three Strategic Pillars ● Global Sanitation & Hygiene ● Water Conservation & Environmental Sustainability ● Diversity & Inclusion LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 13 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Three Strategic Pillars > Global Sanitation & Hygiene 03 THREE GLOBAL SANITATION & HYGIENE Promote and enable access to safe and hygienic sanitation practices, especially for women and girls, while preventing the harmful transmission of diseases for children. STRATEGIC PILLARS Highlight Social Issues Target Three Strategic Pillars ● Global Sanitation & Hygiene ● Water Conservation & People living without a toilet 2 billion people (1 in 4) Those regularly defecate outdoors By 2020, improve the livelihood of 100 million people through sanitation and hygiene solutions. Environmental Sustainability ● Diversity & Inclusion 670 million people Progress (FYE2019) 12.5 million people Our Journey Set up the Social Sanitation Initiatives organization Launched Make a Splash! Toilets for All global (now the SATO Business Division), which focuses partnership with UNICEF on sanitation solutions 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Analyzed socioeconomic Bangladesh SATO operation losses from poor sanitation moved into the black Launched the Toilets for All project LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 14 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Three Strategic Pillars > Global Sanitation & Hygiene 03 THREE Background The impact of the sanitation crisis is felt throughout entire nations and regions, crippling opportunities for Our Approach & Strategy An estimated two billion people – about one-quarter of the growth and development. In 2015, global economic losses Utilizing our technology and capabilities as an organization, STRATEGIC PILLARS global population – live without access to safe, sanitary from poor sanitation were estimated at US$223 billion. as well as partnerships with various stakeholders, the LIXIL toilets. Among them, approximately 670 million people still Among the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Group is striving to improve sanitation and quality of life for regularly defecate in the open. These figures come with a for 2030, Target 6.2 seeks to “achieve access to adequate 100 million people by 2020. Three Strategic Pillars devastating human cost: each day, over 800 children under and equitable sanitation and hygiene for all and end open Sanitation problems vary by region, depending on the five die from diarrheal diseases caused by unsanitary living defecation, paying special attention to the needs of women availability of water resources, the level of urbanization, ● Global Sanitation & Hygiene conditions. and girls and those in vulnerable situations”. This highlights and access to toilet facilities. The LIXIL Group’s Sato A lack of safe, clean toilets poses particular dangers for the need for collaboration between governments, NGOs, Business Division is the primary driver of R&D and business ● Water Conservation & Environmental Sustainability women and children. There are countless cases of women private companies, and various other sectors in tackling operations tailored to the characteristics and needs of or children being sexually assaulted while trying to find sanitation issues. individual markets, including infrastructure, income levels, ● Diversity & Inclusion somewhere private to relieve themselves. Sanitation issues and environmental restrictions. * According to “The True Cost of Poor Sanitation”, a 2016 survey also contribute to the gender gap in education – the lack of conducted by Oxford Economics, the international NGO WaterAid, and sanitary school toilets has been identified as a reason why the LIXIL Group girls who have started menstruating feel they are no longer able to attend classes. WEB The True Cost of Poor Sanitation Regional Issues and Solutions Region Issue Solution Features Many households and schools SATO toilet system • Low price Rural areas lack toilet facilities • Simple installation • Water-efficient flushing Inadequate water supply and Micro Flush Toilet System • Reuse wastewater for flushing Urban areas facilities (under development) • Water-efficient flushing Difficulty of sewerage Portable Toilet System • A combination of easily installed Rural areas with scattered infrastructure or pit toilet (under development) portable toilets and stations communities and slums installation for collecting toilet waste from individual households Slum in Mumbai LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 15 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Three Strategic Pillars > Global Sanitation & Hygiene 03 THREE SATO Toilet System The SATO toilet system is a simple, affordable solution The SATO toilet system is currently manufactured and SATO Toilet System STRATEGIC PILLARS intended for use in developing countries. Flushing requires sold in six countries in Asia and Africa. Including donations, only 0.2-1 liter of water, using a counterweight trapdoor some 2.5 million units have been distributed to at least 25 that otherwise remains closed to reduce odors and prevent countries. Based on an average of five users per unit, SATO Three Strategic Pillars insects from spreading bacteria. The original SATO is estimated to have contributed to better sanitation for User relieves themselves model, developed through dialogue with communities in around 12.5 million people. ● Global Sanitation & Hygiene Bangladesh, received a grant from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. Production and sale began in the country in 2013. ● Water Conservation & Environmental Sustainability ● Diversity & Inclusion Countries Where SATO Toilet System Is Used User pours water into the pan, which opens the trap and flushes the waste The counter-weight trap door closes to keep odors and flies away LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 16 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Three Strategic Pillars > Global Sanitation & Hygiene 03 THREE Developing Products Suited to Local Conditions Adapting product development to local challenges and STRATEGIC PILLARS needs is a vital element of sustainable social business. The SATO toilet system is currently available in 22 models tailored to local sewage treatment methods and market Three Strategic Pillars needs. In India, for example, we developed the SATO V-Trap toilet to address local problems of clogging and time● Global Sanitation & Hygiene consuming installation. India is aiming to eradicate outdoor defecation by the end ● Water Conservation & Environmental Sustainability of 2019. The Indian government promoted a twin-pit system, 内部ユニット but it was burdensome to switch from one pit to another, ● Diversity & Inclusion often causing blockages in the mechanism. By replacing the standard Y-shaped piping with a V-shaped one, SATO V-Trap Installing SATO-V-Trap Twin-pit system reduces the risk of clogging and requires approximately 80% less water per flush than conventional toilets. How SATO V-Trap Works タンク Tank AA タンク Tank BB タンク Tank AA タンク Tank BB タンク A Tank A When collected waste Internal タンク A が reaches the capacity 内部ユニット components 一杯になったら 棒で内部ユニットを回転させ、 Rotate the internal limit of the tank A 使用するタンクを Tank components withAaから bar B に B 切り替えて使用する to switch tank from A to B 内部ユニット Internal components タンク A タンク B タンク A タンク B LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 17 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Three Strategic Pillars > Global Sanitation & Hygiene 03 THREE Tackling Sanitation Issues throughout the Value Chain Partnerships Toilet Board Coalition Solving sanitation issues is not something that the LIXIL The LIXIL Group is a member of the Toilet Board Coalition, STRATEGIC PILLARS SATO works alongside partner companies and NGOs to Group alone can achieve. Our initiatives rely on collaborative a global alliance of public and private sector partners that establish regional production and sales systems based partnerships that utilize the strengths of various specialist aims to develop sustainable solutions to the sanitation crisis. on its underlying philosophy of social business with local organizations, NGOs and business partners. We assist with the running of the organization, mentor Three Strategic Pillars roots. By driving the make-sell-use cycle, SATO generates entrepreneurs who tackle sanitation problems, and engage regional employment and enables autonomous, continuous UNICEF in advocacy through the Toilet Board Coalition. ● Global Sanitation & Hygiene improvements in sanitation conditions. One such job-creation initiative is the training of workers LIXIL Corporation and the United Nations Children’s Fund WEB Toilet Board Coalition ● Water Conservation & Environmental Sustainability who install SATO units and build toilet cubicles. Through (UNICEF) formed the Make a Splash! Toilets for All global ● Diversity & Inclusion training programs offered in collaboration with NGOs, SATO partnership to improve sanitation for children around the world. Together with Japanese Customers supports skill acquisition primarily among women and young We launched the initiative in Ethiopia, Kenya and Tanzania to people. Reports in India showed a 200% increase in the establish markets for hygiene-related goods and ensure the LIXIL Corporation launched the Toilets for All Project in earnings of women who received our training. availability of affordable products for people lacking toilets. 2017 to spread awareness of global hygiene issues in Japan At the same time, we are working to educate communities We are working to expand this market-driven program. and improve sanitation in developing countries. Under the about the importance of sanitary toilet use. Unless they are project, for each LIXIL shower toilet sold in Japan, LIXIL used, installed toilets do not contribute to solving sanitation donates one of its simple and innovative SATO products to a issues. That is why we work with UNICEF and NGOs to developing country in Asia and Africa. Through international promote understanding of the importance of sanitation and organizations and NGOs, our toilets were donated to priority toilet use. regions and people in India, Tanzania and Rwanda, as BRAC, PSI and Other NGOs well as Rohingya refugee camps in Bangladesh. Donations totaled 208,805 units in 2017 and 203,454 in 2018. In To succeed as a social business, we depend on 2019, we began donating a portion of sales through our collaborations with NGOs already established in the Make a Splash! Toilets for All partnership with UNICEF. community and engaged in local sanitation issues. LIXIL works with experienced NGOs such as BRAC (Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee) in Bangladesh and PSI (Population Services International) in Kenya to build the value chains that enable SATO installation, lobby Training program governments to promote sanitation measures, and receive feedback on product development. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 18 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Three Strategic Pillars > Global Sanitation & Hygiene 03 THREE External Recognition Designing Toilets for the Future How Micro Flush Toilet System Works In December 2018, LIXIL Corporation received the DeputyIn 2018, LIXIL Corporation announced a partnership STRATEGIC PILLARS Chief’s Award, given by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, at the with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to develop and 2nd Japan SDGs Award. The LIXIL Group’s efforts to tackle commercialize the world’s first household reinvented toilet, sanitation issues, including the development of SATO products, an off-grid system able to treat human waste without water Three Strategic Pillars the solving of challenges throughout the value chain, as well as or sewerage facilities. Many regions around the world advocacy in collaboration with NGOs and international bodies, lack easy access to water, or face prohibitively expensive Drain Pump ● Global Sanitation & Hygiene have been recognized through various awards. sewerage installation and repair due to rapid urbanization. In such areas, installing conventional flush toilets that require ● Water Conservation & Environmental Sustainability • Deputy-Chiefs’ Award given by the Minister of Foreign water and sewerage infrastructure is difficult. With a team of Sanitary sewage Re-use sewage water to carry waste Affairs, 2nd Japan SDGs Award specialists in technology, design and product development, storage tank ● Diversity & Inclusion • Grand Award, 2017 International Association for Universal LIXIL is leading the creation of experimental new toilet systems. Design (IAUD) Awards (Toilets for All Project) We are also working to develop Micro Flush Toilet System • Innovation of the Year Award, Responsible Business and Portable Toilet System, which aim to help solve issues in How Portable Toilet System Works Awards (SATO) cities and slums. • Selection Committee Special Award, 7th Technology, Management and Innovation Awards (SATO) • 2018 Good Design Award (SATO) Collection Treatment • Red Dot Award 2018 (SATO V-Trap) Station Site 2nd Japan SDGs Award Ceremony LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 19 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Three Strategic Pillars > Water Conservation & Environmental Sustainability 03 THREE WATER CONSERVATION & ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY Conserve water, energy, and other natural resources utilized in and by LIXIL products and services, including in the supply chain, production, distribution and during end use. STRATEGIC PILLARS Highlight Social Issues Target Three Strategic Pillars By 2030, achieve Those likely to experience NET ZERO World energy consumption a net zero balance 0 ● Global Sanitation & Hygiene water stress by 2050 32% 4 ● Water Conservation & between LIXIL’ s environmental footprint and Environmental Sustainability billion people the positive environmental contributions ● Diversity & Inclusion is consumed in buildings (2 in 5) created through our products and services. (residential 24%, commercial 8%) Compared to FYE2016 FYE2021 Targets FYE2019 Progress CO2 emissions reduction attributable to Group products and services 1.36 times 1.21 times CO2 emissions from places of business -8% +3.2% (-4.5% of emission intensity per unit of output) Our Journey Developed Group-wide EHS management GHG reduction target was approved by and promotion system and held a global the Science Based Target initiative meeting of the EHS Committee Endorsed the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2030 Formulated Environmental Set the 2020 mid-term Launched My Bottle Promotion Earned the CDP Water 2018 A List which Sustainability Principles and targets, promoted environand THINK HEAT campaigns recognizes companies exhibiting superior water Environmental Vision 2030 mental initiatives at each resource management business base LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 20 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Three Strategic Pillars > Water Conservation & Environmental Sustainability 03 THREE Background Our Approach & Strategy Environmental Vision 2030 Increasingly frequent occurrences of extreme weather events As a living technology company, the LIXIL Group formulated STRATEGIC PILLARS and changing regional climates caused by global warming its Environmental Vision in 2016 with the aim of helping are disrupting the way we live today. In 2015, the UN solve social and environmental problems with its products introduced its Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which and services that incorporate both environmental Three Strategic Pillars include calls to combat climate change and its impacts. considerations and comfort. In the same year, the international Paris Agreement was ● Global Sanitation & Hygiene adopted, seeking to achieve carbon neutrality by the end Environmental Vision 2030 of the century. These movements, which aim to establish ● Water Conservation & Environmental Sustainability a decarbonized society by addressing anthropogenic By 2030, the positive environmental contribution from our contributions to climate change, are now spreading globally products and services will surpass the environmental footprint ● Diversity & Inclusion in hope of achieving a more sustainable world. from our entire business process, thus, achieving a net In addition, with the depletion of the world’s water zero environmental footprint. We will achieve this through resources becoming increasingly severe, approximately innovative technologies, such as low-carbon and water-efficient four billion people, or 40% of the world’s population, are technology, as well as by reducing the environmental impact of Product & Service Lifecycle expected to be facing water stress in areas without stable every one of our processes, including procurement, production, water supply in 2050. Furthermore, the sustainable use of product use and disposal. CO2 LIXIL products are used natural resources such as metals, timber, resins and ceramic Within the LIXIL Group, over 90% of a product’s emissions over a long period of time materials is also a significant issue. environmental impact occurs when the product is in use. LIXIL’s business is strongly linked to buildings, which For this reason, the LIXIL Group will continue to develop consume energy in various forms such as air conditioning energy and water-saving products that can help reduce the and hot water supply. Energy used in buildings accounts environmental impact of homes, offices and other living Over 90 % for approximately one third, or 32% (24% residential and spaces with the aim of helping solve climate change. 8% commercial), of global energy consumption, and as a result, CO2 emissions from buildings have increased by 2.4 times over the past 40 years. Without action, energy use Procurement Manufacture, Home, office use Disposal by buildings is estimated to more than double by 2050, retail requiring urgent action in order to reduce anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 21 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Three Strategic Pillars > Water Conservation & Environmental Sustainability 03 THREE Core Environmental Strategy Themes Opportunities and Risks for the LIXIL Group Maximizing Opportunities Minimizing Risks We are focused on three core areas in order to achieve our STRATEGIC PILLARS Environmental Vision. Increased demand for improvements in the energy saving Heightened risk of natural disasters and increasingly 1 Climate change mitigation performance of homes and other buildings, and for stringent regulation, and increased energy costs and adaptation the widespread adoption of Net Zero Energy Houses (ZEH) 1 2 3 Rising demand for water-saving products in the global Strong likelihood that areas affected by water stress will Three Strategic Pillars 2 Sustainable water use market as a whole increase, resulting in higher operational risk in these regions Climate change Sustainable Sustainable use mitigation and Technology innovation that makes effective use of recycled Rising cost of raw materials, and heightened risk of more water use of resources ● Global Sanitation & Hygiene adaptation 3 Sustainable resource use materials and new forms of energy, etc. stringent regulation affecting the supply chain, with a consequent increase in reputational risk ● Water Conservation & Increase positive contribution to the environment Reduce the environmental footprint of Environmental Sustainability through our products and services our business activities CR Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation (P50) ● Diversity & Inclusion FYE2021 Targets CR Sustainable Water Use (P53) CR Sustainable Use of Resources (P56) Environmental Issues KPI 2020 Mid-Term Targets (FYE2021) 2030 targets*3 Improvement in Climate change CO2 emissions reduction attributable to Increase by 1.36 times (compared to FYE2021 Targets environmental value of mitigation and Group products and services FYE2016) our products and services adaptation The LIXIL Group has set FYE2021 targets and action plans CO2 emissions from places of business*1 Reduce by 8% (compared to FYE2016) 30% reduction Climate change to help realize its Environmental Vision 2030. The Group Formulate KPI/target and implement mitigation and CO2 emissions form product use 15% reduction measures based on business plan has also built a global environmental management system, adaptation and is working as a unified team to ensure a clear grasp of CO2 emissions in the distribution process Reduce by 5% (compared to FYE2016) Environmental footprint the environmental impact across its entire value chain and reduction from our entire Improving water usage efficiency at major • Complete the water risk analysis of Sustainable global production sites promote measures to alleviate that impact. business process places of business that have high water water use risk • Select high-risk sites, formulate KPI/ target and implement measures Sustainable use Recycling ratio of waste and other • Japan & Europe : 95% of resources materials collected from places of • Asia : 66% business • North America : 40% Coverage of EHS management system 100% Environmental management Number of environmental law violations*2 0 *1 C  O2 conversion factors are published by each electricity company with which our sites have a contract (factors that include emissions from renewable energy sources, etc.) *2 N umber of significant violations with penalty of operational suspension or fines *3 Medium to long-term targets approved by the international Science Based Target initiative LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 22 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Three Strategic Pillars > Diversity & Inclusion 03 THREE DIVERSITY & INCLUSION Embrace the diversity of people inside and outside the Group. This includes helping improve quality of life for elderly people and people with disabilities through our products and services, and leveraging the knowledge and perspectives of a diverse workforce within the Group as a key driver of growth and innovation. STRATEGIC PILLARS Highlight Social Issues Target Three Strategic Pillars ● Global Sanitation & Hygiene 1 in 5 people Many of those will By 2030, ensure all products and services are based on LIXIL’ s Universal Design concept. ● Water Conservation & Environmental Sustainability aged 60 + by 2050 be living in elderlyonly households See P30 for internal diversity promotion. ● Diversity & Inclusion Our Journey Established Group-wide UD Introduced a fully updated version Released Resilience Strategy Task Force to promote of Well Life kitchen range adapted Toilets for use even development of UD products for easy use from a seated position in times of disasters and services in a wheelchair 2012 2017 2018 2019 2030 Determined LIXIL Universal Design Policy Toilets for All project won International Set 2030 Universal Design targets Association for Universal Design (IAUD) award LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 23 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Three Strategic Pillars > Diversity & Inclusion 03 THREE Background Universal Design Project Easy to Many regions in the world are faced with an aging In FYE2018, the LIXIL Group established an exploratory STRATEGIC PILLARS population. By 2050, more than one in five people are committee led by senior managers to promote UD-related understand Intuitive projected to be over the age of 60, with most of them living activities. The committee invited a diverse range of members Clear purpose either alone or with their spouse only. Approximately 15% from different functions (design, marketing, technology Three Strategic Pillars of the world’s population today also live with some degree of development and public relations) to attend workshops to Easy to use Safe & secure disability, and this rate is increasing every year. formulate advanced UD concepts: easy to understand, easy Easy to execute Considerate of and operate all people ● Global Sanitation & Hygiene In light of these trends, it is vital that companies help to use, safe and secure, and easy to love. Based on these Flexible Child-friendly improve quality of life for elderly people and people with concepts, LIXIL intends to develop and offer products and ● Water Conservation & Environmental Sustainability disabilities through their products and services. It is also services that incorporate ideas from multiple perspectives to Easy to love Can be used for essential that they help build a sustainable society that enable all individuals of all ages to live full and comfortable a long time ● Diversity & Inclusion Encourages smiles provides everyone with the opportunity to participate and lives in the home. grow, including by empowering women, as promoted in the fifth SDG on gender equality. LIXIL Universal Design Policy The LIXIL Group focuses its efforts on universal design (UD), a design philosophy that seeks to ensure everyone can WEB Universal Design (Japanese only) live comfortably, no matter who they are. UD allows as many people as possible to use a product, irrespective of age, Easy to understand Intuitive Clear purpose nationality, ability, disability or capability. We believe that the • Detectable by anyone • Can be properly recognized • Uncomplicated • Multi-sensory information, such as sight, hearing and touch multi-faceted knowledge and perspectives of our diverse range of employees serves as a key driver of growth and Easy to use Easy to execute and operate Flexible innovation that enables us develop and offer UD products. • Simple to operate • Able to adapt along with changing physical capabilities and • Uses shapes and dimensions that support body movement and posture growing or aging families • Uses layouts that follow the natural flow of movement • Able to select or add necessary functions Our Approach & Strategy • Ensures space needed to operate Safe and secure Considerate of all people Child-friendly The LIXIL Group aims to encourage all employees to • No physical or financial loss from incorrect use • Designs that consider children’s needs embrace a diversityand inclusion-driven culture by 2020. • Minimal damage from accidents In addition, we aim to ensure all our products are based on Easy to love Can be used for a long time Encourages smiles UD concepts by 2030. • High quality to support long-term use • Beautiful, pleasant designs • Easy to look after and keep clean over a long time • Demonstrates its functional beauty with every use • Designed to adapt to individual ways of living LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 24 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Three Strategic Pillars > Diversity & Inclusion 03 THREE Examples of LIXIL’s Universal Design Products and Services Developing Guiding Blocks That Are Well-Designed equally visible but blends better with its surroundings. The STRATEGIC PILLARS Well Life Kitchen: Easy to Use While Sitting and Easy to Visually Recognize new blocks went on sale in FYE2018. In October 2018, LIXIL Corporation introduced a fully The LIXIL Group offers well-designed barrier-free products Three Strategic Pillars updated version of its wheelchair-adapted Well Life kitchen for public spaces. This includes the guiding blocks for range. This includes sink and countertop dimensions that people with visual disabilities. Barrier-free experts encourage ● Global Sanitation & Hygiene are easier to use from a seated position. Our Well Life the placement of dark-yellow guiding blocks on all pathways, kitchen also incorporates user feedback to facilitate steadier but ambiance-sensitive designers tend to avoid using them ● Water Conservation & Environmental Sustainability side-to-side movement in a wheelchair. This approach is because the yellow shade stands out too much. This has not only popular with wheelchair users, but also with many made it challenging to fulfill both parties’ needs. Therefore, ● Diversity & Inclusion elderly and other people who prefer to do their housework LIXIL Corporation developed new blocks to guide people from a less-tiring seated position. with visual disabilities using a new cool-yellow color that is New cool-yellow color blocks Other Examples of LIXIL’s Universal Design Products and Services WEB Details (Japanese only) Toilet Bathroom Bathroom Honoka-Light Push faucet vanity Wheelchair accessible vanity Stairs, corridors, Entrance, Public toilet entrances exterior Large remote Stairs with Slide system control slip prevention Kitchen Living room In town Hands-free faucet Non-rail sash Support rail UD WEB Well Life (Japanese only) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 25 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Three Strategic Pillars > Diversity & Inclusion 03 THREE Promoting Broader Understanding of Diversity Aiming to create a universally accessible society that enables LIXIL Corporation visits schools to conduct its Universal STRATEGIC PILLARS people to live invigorating lives while respecting those around Design: Good for One, Good for All program, which teaches International Association for Universal them, LIXIL offers education programs for elementary school children the significance of universal design concepts. Design (IAUD) Award* students. LIXIL employees create their own teaching materials and Three Strategic Pillars As part of these educational programs, we hold Universal conduct lessons for elementary school children. The LIXIL’s Toilets for All initiative won a Grand Award Run: Sports Prosthesis Experience Class at elementary program is designed to highlight examples of universal in the International Association for Universal Design ● Global Sanitation & Hygiene schools in Japan. We want as many people as possible to design in nearby streets and individual homes to deepen (IAUD) Awards 2017. The project was highly praised consider and personally feel what universal access means students’ understanding of diversity in terms of gender, age, for its scope, scale, passion and implementation. ● Water Conservation & Environmental Sustainability by talking with people who wear artificial limbs and attending nationality, ability and disability, and encourage them to think The judges described the initiative as “a life-saving this program. In FYE2019, the program attracted 5,184 what they can do and how they can act on it. In FYE2019, innovation for the poorest regions of developing ● Diversity & Inclusion people from 78 schools. the program attracted 1,810 children from 21 schools. countries that adds a new dimension to universal design.” * An initiative directed by the IAUD general incorporated foundation that awards groups and individuals who conduct or propose activities designed to help develop a society in which the greatest number of people can live comfortably Diversity of LIXIL Group Employee The LIXIL Group aims to encourage all employees to embrace a diversityand inclusion-driven culture by 2020, and to build a corporate environment that encourages the involvement of a diverse range of personnel. Read on to find out more. WEB Universal Run: Sports Prosthesis Experience Class WEB Universal Design: Good for One, Good for All (Japanese only) CR Diversity & Equal Opportunity (P30) (Japanese only) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 26 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Three Strategic Pillars > Diversity & Inclusion 03 THREE A Toilet That Can Be Used as Always Even in Times of Natural Disasters Many people flood into emergency shelters when a STRATEGIC PILLARS The world is facing more natural disasters caused by disaster hits, so the toilet facilities should be sufficient in Received the Grand Award climate-change related extreme weather events. In number and quality. However, we can’t satisfy these needs at the Japan Resilience Awards 2019 Japan specifically, experts anticipate there will be a with our Resilience Toilets alone, so LIXIL Corporation is (corporate & industrial category) Three Strategic Pillars huge earthquake in the future. The need for disaster working together with other manufacturers that provide preparedness is becoming increasingly pressing. Sewage emergency toilets to help strengthen Japan’s emergency ● Global Sanitation & Hygiene disposal in times of natural disasters is just as vital to response capability. health as securing food and water. Conscious of this, LIXIL ● Water Conservation & Environmental Sustainability Corporation has developed the innovative Resilience Toilet, which can be used in the same way as always even in times Refilled with water ● Diversity & Inclusion of natural disasters. In everyday life The Resilience Toilet can be used like a regular toilet USES 5L Can be used like a regular toilet. in everyday life. It has been designed to be comfortable, Compatiable with a bidet seat. 5L / flush easy to clean, and safe to use, and uses five liters of water on regular setting Simply turn Uses five liters per flush. the flush lever for a regular flush. During times of natural disasters, when after use water and other lifeline services have been disrupted, the volume of water required to flush can be switched to one liter without compromising its functionality. This toilet can be When water supply is disrupted used by people of all ages and genders, including those who The volume of water required to flush can be might require particular care. switched from five liters to one liter. USES Currently, we are marketing this toilet mainly to schools and gymnasiums that serve as emergency shelters when A toilet you use in everyday life ensures comfortable 1L / flush* when water supply 1L a disaster strikes, as well as public buildings that serve use even when water supply is disrupted. is disrupted as disaster response centers. Rather than focus solely on Easy to clean and safe to use. providing the Resilience Toilet itself, we are generally helping solve problems at emergency shelters by providing practical * Uses one liter if you hold the lever for about one second. support regarding broad toilet-related issues that may arise The volume of water used can vary depending on how you Can easily switch into 1L flush mode operate it in times of disasters, such as how many toilets are required and how to operate them. We also hold disaster-response lectures in schools. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 27 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance 04 OUR PEOPLE OUR PEOPLE We strive to respect the individuality of all employees and create a rewarding working environment. Our People Diversity & Equal Opportunity Rewarding Workplaces Talent Development Occupational Health & Safety LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 28 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Our People > Highlight 04 Highlight Target Build a strong corporation and workplace where all employees can achieve their fullest potential. OUR PEOPLE Diversity & Equal Opportunity Talent Development Our People Ratio of women among regularly recruited new hires Number of employees participating in the Talent Acceleration Program (TAP) for next-generation leaders 50 ( % ) 1500 (people) 1300 Diversity & Equal Opportunity 40 1250 1195 Target Target 1078 30.8 31.5 33.2 over 30.0 1000 30% Rewarding Workplaces 963 1300 30 750 20 Talent Development over people 500 10 (LIXIL Corporation, Japan only) 250 Occupational Health & Safety (LIXIL Corporation, Japan only) 0 0 FYE2017 FYE2018 FYE2019 FYE2021 FYE2017 FYE2018 FYE2019 FYE2021 (Target) (Target) Rewarding Workplaces Occupational Health & Safety (%) Group-wide coverage of global 100 Group-wide coverage of EHS management system 88 90 90 employee awareness survey (%) 75 98 98 100 100 100 Progress 50 Target 75 90 % 100 % 25 50 0 25 (LIXIL Corporation, Japan only) FYE2014 FYE2016 FYE2018 Acquisition of EHS performance data 0 (based on number of employees) * Conducted every two years, no survey in FYE2019 * Excludes sites in newly entered markets FYE2017 FYE2018 FYE2019 FYE2021 (Target) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 29 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Our People > Diversity & Equal Opportunity 04 OUR PEOPLE DIVERSITY & EQUAL OPPORTUNITY The LIXIL Group is committed to respecting diversity and recruiting and developing high caliber talent across the Group. We believe that harnessing the intelligence and perspectives of our diverse workforce is critical to driving growth and innovation. Our Approach United under the LIXIL Diversity & Inclusion LIXIL Diversity & Inclusion Declaration Declaration, the LIXIL Group embraces diversity in Our People gender, age, race, nationality, values, background, The LIXIL Group formed the LIXIL Diversity & Inclusion Declaration in FYE2018, aiming to leverage its differences etc., and turns the energy and creativity generated and create new energy and engagement generated through open and honest dialogue across its organization. These Diversity & Equal Opportunity by diversity into a source of strength. We aim efforts will enable our employees to build entrepreneurial mindsets that will drive innovation and sustainable growth. to furnish a comfortable and friendly working Rewarding Workplaces environment for all, enabling employees to Talent Development approach challenges with an entrepreneurial Four Focus Areas Occupational Health & Safety spirit, and be appropriately evaluated for their performance. Gender & Age Family & Life Our System We will drive business performance by We will support employees through embracing diversity and ensuring that all various life stages and events, thereby Based on the LIXIL Diversity & Inclusion employees have equal opportunities to be LIXIL Diversity allowing them to contribute to business recruited, developed, advanced, and retained & Inclusion success while also fulfilling personal Declaration, the LIXIL Group is taking a regional globally, regardless of gender or age. four focus areas and family priorities and obligations. approach to ensuring diversity by setting targets The LIXIL Group has set four focus that reflect the situations of individual countries. areas to uphold its Diversity & Inclusion Declaration, and each region will promote initiatives to address and improve the focus areas that are Disability the most relevant for each Culture & Identity country and region. We will raise awareness, provide We will foster mutual understanding, education and resources, and proactively respect, and communications in order create a culture that embraces, enables, to fully embrace the diversity in race, values, and maximizes the contributions religion, culture, gender identity and of persons with disabilities. sexual orientation of everyone at LIXIL. PDF LIXIL Diversity & Inclusion Declaration -Japan 2.0(272KB) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 30 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Our People > Diversity & Equal Opportunity 04 OUR PEOPLE Gender & Age Empowering Women in the Workplace Family & Life Supporting a Healthy Work-Life Balance The LIXIL Group strives to create an environment in which Female employees intending to take childcare leave can At the LIXIL Group, the executive management team actively employees can demonstrate their own individual strengths use the career mapping tool and interview form to better supervises the creation of a rewarding working environment through their work. We believe the active participation of communicate with their managers to design a career path in which each and every employee can perform to their full female employees is a vital part of this effort. In March 2012, and support system, and ensure continued active and potential. Our People we had one female senior executive (1.0%) in LIXIL Group rewarding work after their maternity leave. Holding active Work-Life Flexibility (WLF) Advisory Corporation and LIXIL Corporation. In March 2019, the We have also set relevant regional targets for increasing Discussions between the union and the company, LIXIL Diversity & Equal Opportunity number increased to six, including two directors, two senior the number of women working in LWT Americas, LIXIL Asia, and Corporation is committed to enhancing the necessary managing executive officers, and two executive officers. other global locations, and are making efforts to achieve the systems and cultivating the right atmosphere to support a Rewarding Workplaces LIXIL Corporation set up the Diversity Promotion Office targets. These include, for example, the number of women good work-life balance, enabling employees to maintain Talent Development and, in August 2014, became a member of the Male Leaders in each professional class or of different ethnicities. a high level of performance throughout different life stages. Occupational Health & Safety General Meeting, an initiative backed by Japan’s Cabinet Office to promote the active participation of women. As a result of our efforts in facilitating the appointment of female directors, Number and Composition Ratio of Female Managers ★ Number of Maternity Leave Users ★ officers, and managers, LIXIL Corporation had 168 female (Persons) (%) (Persons) (%) managers (5.7% of all managers) at the end of March 2019, 7.6 100.5 103.5 900 14.1 15 400 99.4 100 13.9 times more than in March 2012 (22 female managers, 0.9% 12.8 819 95.5 96.0 780 93.0 of all managers). 600 683 10 300 300 75 290 In addition, we are working to create an environment 249 where female employees can consistently develop their 6.4 6.0 300 5.6 5 200 50 careers even if they take time off for life events such as childbirth. As part of this effort, we have developed the 217 220 213 0 0 100 197 198 169 25 Mamap career-building tool for working mothers. FYE2017 FYE2018 FYE2019 Composition ratio of women among managers (LIXIL Group total) 0 0 Composition ratio of women among managers (LIXIL Group in Japan) FYE2017 FYE2018 FYE2019 Number of female managers (LIXIL Group total) Return to work ratio (LIXIL Group total) Number of female managers (LIXIL Group in Japan) Return to work ratio (LIXIL Corporation) Scope: The entire Group Number of users (LIXIL Group total) * Directly hired employees only, data collected based on the qualification system used at Number of users (LIXIL Corporation) each operating company, as of March 31 of each fiscal year * Directly hired employees in Japan only LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 31 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Our People > Diversity & Equal Opportunity 04 OUR PEOPLE We have introduced a variety of new systems, including Number of Child-Care Leave Users ★ Number of Nursing-Care Leave Users ★ hourly based paid holidays, career return systems that facilitate the reemployment of employees who gave up work (Persons) (%) (Persons) (%) 21 due to various reasons such as childbirth, childcare, or 400 100.0 100.0 100.0 100 20 100.0 100.0 106.3 100 Our People nursing care commitments, or relocation because of their 97.9 97.9 95.4 97.9 95.7 92.4 17 partner’s transfer. We also subsidize extended daycare fees 300 311 75 15 75 286 7 Diversity & Equal Opportunity and provide subsidies equivalent to social security premiums 6 263 11 12 15 to employees on temporary nursing care leave. More male Rewarding Workplaces 200 50 10 13 50 employees whose partners have just had a baby are using Talent Development our Papa Childcare Leave system thanks to the newly 280 304 252 10 100 25 5 25 Occupational Health & Safety available extended leave and flexible scheduling options, and more users are further extending their childcare leave 4 6 0 0 0 2 0 after taking leave for the number of days available under the FYE2017 FYE2018 FYE2019 FYE2017 FYE2018 FYE2019 Papa Childcare Leave system. Return to work ratio (LIXIL Group total) LWT & LHT Asia (GROHE Sanitary Products Shanghai) Return to work ratio (Male, LIXIL Group total) Return to work ratio (Female, LIXIL Group total) Number of users (Female, LIXIL Group total) forbids employees from doing more than 36 hours of Return to work ratio (Female, LIXIL Corporation) Number of users (Male, LIXIL Group total) overtime a month to promote a strong work-life balance. Number of users (Male, LIXIL Group total) * Directly hired employees in Japan only Number of users (Female, LIXIL Group total) * Directly hired employees in Japan only Percentage of Staff Still Working 1 Year After Childcare Leave FYE2017 FYE2018 FYE2019 Male 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% Female 93.1% 93.1% 96.8% Total 93.3% 93.3% 96.9% *Current employment of LIXIL Corporation’s permanent employees in Japan at the end of the business period one year after their return to work LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 32 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Our People > Diversity & Equal Opportunity 04 OUR PEOPLE  ulture & Identity C Fostering a Friendly Corporate Culture towards Sexual Minorities (if factories that allocate uniforms have the appropriate toilet Since April 2017, the LIXIL Group has been working to and changing facilities). create a friendly working environment and atmosphere Our People for LGBT and other sexual minority employees. LIXIL Promoting Multi-Cultural Understanding Corporation holds study sessions for employees and Diversity & Equal Opportunity provides badges, stickers and handbooks to employees who LIXIL Corporation factories accept foreign-national identify themselves as an LGBT Ally as a way to show their apprentices. To enable these apprentices to work Rewarding Workplaces willingness to support and understand sexual minorities. We enthusiastically in Japan, we believe it is important to build Talent Development have been promoting internal understanding and support better communication, so we hold events to help promote Occupational Health & Safety of sexual minorities by encouraging ally employees across understanding of Japanese culture and Japanese language LIXIL Women’s Sales Group Japan to share various information through the LIXIL Ally study sessions. network. We also held a social gathering in September 2018 As a global company, it is essential to understand different Frameworks Encouraging Employee Activities where employees could interact with sexual minorities. In cultures in order to foster strong communication. In that March 2019, we achieved our target of creating two or more spirit, LWT Americas conducted a program to improve The LIXIL Group has established frameworks to support allies in each of our 86 bases with 50 or more employees. employees’ understanding of values and work procedures in independent employee activities so that each and every employee Also in March 2019, we made some improvements to our Japan, where the LIXIL Group Headquarter is located. can work enthusiastically and respect each other’s differences. human resources system and working environments. For LIXIL Corporation launched the LIXIL Diversity Network instance, we have started treating same-sex partners as Encouraging the Promotion to Management in 2017. In addition to the Women’s Network launched in dependents and applying the relevant congratulation or Positions January 2013, we have created networks where employees condolence leave and financial payments, arranging times involved in childcare and nursing care life stages, employees and locations for undergoing health checks, and recognizing LWT South Africa selects staff who have potential leadership with disabilities, sexual minority employees, and employees employees’ preferences for either male or female uniforms qualities from among its factory workers and from particular interested in other issues can participate in joint discussions ethnic groups who have traditionally found themselves and activities. We actively encourage people to get together in a disadvantageous position and are underrepresented in voluntarily to share and solve their problems on a broad current management positions. These employees are sent on range of issues and to improve individual skills and overall a Future Leadership Program designed to develop the necessary corporate value. For instance, LIXIL runs a Women’s Sales skills to advance to management positions in the future. Group to help increase the active participation of saleswomen LGBT-friendly logo in the traditionally male-dominated construction industry and to provide a venue for proactively sharing and solving any LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 33 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Our People > Diversity & Equal Opportunity 04 OUR PEOPLE issues or problems that women in particular might have. In November 2018, we held a video conference event linking Number and Percentage of Disabled Employees ★ (Persons) (%) and considerations to improve working environments to suit the capabilities and characteristics of individual employees. saleswomen across Japan and explained our systems for 1,250 2.34 2.39 2.43 2.50 For instance, we ask people who are prone to anxiety to do facilitating more flexible working styles, and introduced 2.29 tasks at their own pace, or leave an empty desk in front of 1,000 2.26 2.26 2.00 women who could serve as good role models. The event an employee who gets distracted by other people around 759 762 784 successfully boosted motivation among the participating 750 1.50 them or allow them to work in a free space. Our People saleswomen. In May 2016, LIXIL Corporation was certified by the 500 1.00 In FYE2018, LWT Americas also set up employee networks Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare as a 250 0.50 Diversity & Equal Opportunity for women, multi-cultural employees, or employees currently 437 438 leading company in the active employment of persons with 427 involved in childcare or nursing care, so that employees 0 0 mental and other disabilities. We aim to help create a social Rewarding Workplaces from diverse backgrounds can always find a mentor and FYE2017 FYE2018 FYE2019 structure in which people with disabilities can participate Talent Development never feel alone or isolated. In terms of concrete activities, actively by sharing these initiatives with other companies Employment rate* (LIXIL Group total) Employment rate (LIXIL Corporation) Occupational Health & Safety we broadcasted a panel discussion held to coincide with and government institutions. Number of disabled employees (LIXIL Group total) International Women’s Day to all our places of business, Number of disabled employees (LIXIL Corporation) * Calculated based on the Employment Rate System for Persons with and we also held discussions with our product development Disabilities by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare * Directly hired employees in Japan only, as of March 31 of each fiscal year * LIXIL Corporation includes LIXIL Senior Life Company and marketing departments on topics such as developing * Calculated based on the Employment Rate System for Persons with Disabilities by FYE2019 human resource performance data indicated with ★ have the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare received an independent practitioner’s assurance. products for mothers looking after children, and designing communication for people from Asian backgrounds. In addition to the proper evaluation of work assignments CR Scope and details (P105) Disability and job development opportunities, WING NIJI has Employing People with Disabilities been undertaking many initiatives to explore the type of environments and conditions that would enable people with Many employees with disabilities work alongside those and without disabilities to work together most effectively. without disabilities in the LIXIL Group because we have For instance, the office introduced large-font characters for developed inclusive environments in different workplaces, people with impaired eyesight and adjustable-height desks from R&D to production, sales administration, and planning for people in wheelchairs. management, to suit each individual’s specific disability. LIXIL Corporation is also strengthening company-wide As of June 1st, 2018, 784 people with disabilities were efforts, including introducing sign language interpretation in employed across the LIXIL Group, representing 2.43% of the training sessions and other meetings and putting subtitles on workforce (438 people and 2.26%* in LIXIL Corporation). intranet videos for employees with hearing impediments. In 2014, LIXIL Corporation launched its WING NIJI Since 2012, we have been proactively employing people office to provide support for people with disabilities. with mental disorders and seeking to make various efforts Job instruction at WING NIJI LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 34 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Our People > Rewarding Workplaces 04 OUR PEOPLE REWARDING WORKPLACES The LIXIL Group seeks to create a fair and rewarding workplace, develop a strong and cohesive corporate culture, and foster an open atmosphere between the unions and the company. Our Approach The LIXIL Group strives to create an environment that Workstyle Transformation Campaign encourages employee diversity, inspires pride in the Our People company, and enables each individual employee to LIXIL Corporation has embarked on a Change Our Working Style! campaign to help create a company maximize their productivity and potential. As part of environment that encourages every employee to have an entrepreneurial spirit, and that every employee can Diversity & Equal Opportunity this, we have been focusing on improving our workstyles enjoy and take pride in. This campaign encourages flat and open communication and facilitates efficient and revising our human resources systems to foster ways of working to suit individual circumstances. Rewarding Workplaces employee enthusiasm and motivation. This includes Talent Development encouraging employees to take paid holidays, offering more Building Awareness through the Change Occupational Health & Safety comprehensive childcare and nursing care support, and Our Working Style! Handbook promoting personal career development. Achieving this level of workstyle transformation requires increased awareness among both senior and junior staff. We have created and distributed a handbook to all Our System employees to help convey the aims of our workstyle transformation and the systems currently available to facilitate it, and to address any doubts or concerns. The LIXIL Group is evolving rapidly. In order to further We have also set up an inhouse program where managers and employees can come integrate employees and become One LIXIL, it is important together to discuss ideas. for us to understand the circumstances of each organization and actively incorporate employees’ views when seeking to Expanding the Range of People An Employee-Centric Flexi-Time System improve working environments and building both top-down Who Can Work from Home and bottom-up systems. While previously only staff involved in child or nursing Under our new flexi-time system, we have reduced the number care were cleared to work from home, we have extended of core-time hours that employees have to work within this option to all of our employees. We encourage all of a prescribed time of the day to just two hours, leaving them free our staff to consider the best place to work based on the to decide how to split up the day’s remaining working hours. content of their work, their circumstances at home, weather Our ultimate aim is to see staff responsibly managing their own conditions, and any other pertinent factors. We believe this working hours according to the ebb and flow of their specific will enable them to work efficiently and establish their own tasks. We are encouraging more employees to utilize this system self-styled working patterns. So far, over 1,000 employees by sharing materials from discussion groups held by current have started using this system. users through our in-house media channels. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 35 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Our People > Rewarding Workplaces 04 OUR PEOPLE Improving Understanding of LIXIL Behaviors Employee Opinion Surveys LIXIL Corporation holds study groups on time management for all employees to help increase awareness We conduct opinion surveys of all employees worldwide of the need to work efficiently. Clarifying the definition We work to ensure under direct employment contracts every two years. The surveys of working hours is helping improve the quality of time that employees had been previously conducted separately within each Group management. Employees who consistently work long hours understand the three company, but we combined them into one common survey are interviewed by an industrial physician to prevent any Our People LIXIL Behaviors, in FYE2016. We will conduct the next survey in FYE2020. consequent issues with their mental or physical health. After which serve as a In the second survey conducted in FYE2018, we we started encouraging staff to take five consecutive days Diversity & Equal Opportunity guideline on how collected opinions from 90.3% of employees in 21 different of annual leave at a time, and to take leave to celebrate special individual LIXIL Group languages. That’s a total of 56,364 responses. The results personal anniversaries, the usage of paid leave has been Rewarding Workplaces employees think and collected from major global organizations were then reported increasing since FYE2015, exceeding 50% in FYE2018. Talent Development act in their daily work. and made accessible to managers and employees. We Occupational Health & Safety LIXIL Corporation have also introduced an online system that enables each Paid Leave Days Taken per Employee ★ offered a special employee to freely view and analyze their own organization’s (Days) 15 menu associated results, so that they can gain a solid understanding of their with each of the three behaviors in its canteens to prompt organization’s strengths and weaknesses and develop action 10 10.5 10.4 9.4 employees to review the LIXIL Behaviors during their meals, and plans. We have since made progress on over 90% of the 9.5 9.1 8.1 think about their daily working habits. We also set up 451 stipulated actions. We intend to continuously improve 5 FYE2017 FYE2018 FYE2019 an internal online Group Behaviors Lounge in which we conduct grassroots initiatives and create an easy, comfortable relay interviews with our CEO and other chief officers. working environment by taking various actions, both big LIXIL Group total LIXIL Corporation and small, from holding assemblies to encourage inter* Directly hired employees in Japan only CR LIXIL CORE and Behaviors (P8) organization communication to holding debates centered around senior management messages to deepen understanding Average Monthly Overtime Hours per Employee ★ of our management policies. (Hours) 25 23.6 21.8 Preventing Overwork 20 21.2 17.1 18.3 15 16.9 The LIXIL Group emphasizes working styles that help 10 employees achieve high performing and efficient output. To FYE2017 FYE2018 FYE2019 that aim, top managers are proactively seeking to improve LIXIL Group total productivity by eradicating long working hours and ensuring LIXIL Corporation Relay interview with our chief officers a healthy work-life balance. * Directly hired employees in Japan only LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 36 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Our People > Rewarding Workplaces 04 OUR PEOPLE Labor-Management Relationship Creating Local Employment Opportunities The LIXIL Group believes that building mutual trust between LIXIL Corporation supports the expansion of employment the union and the company based on an equal and opportunities in regions in Japan where it operates by responsible relationship helps create a fair and rewarding employing technical college and high-school graduates as workplace and leads to improved business performance. local permanent employees at its plants. Our People The LIXIL Labor Union, which adopts a union shop system for permanent employees of LIXIL Corporation, had 13,596 Local Employees Hired at LIXIL Plants Diversity & Equal Opportunity registered members as of March 31, 2019, achieving a (Persons) membership rate of 100%. 250 Rewarding Workplaces The fundamental labor-management agreement includes 220 Talent Development 200 items relating to health and safety and working conditions. 200 200 200 Occupational Health & Safety Labor-management consultations are conducted in the form of regular discussions and information-sharing on 150 business status, working conditions, health and safety issues, etc., and the union and the company work together 100 100 100 to resolve issues. When working conditions and/or other systems are newly introduced or revised as a result of labormanagement consultations, the union and the company 50 FYE2017 FYE2018 FYE2019 cooperate to ensure employees are aware of the changes. Target Result This is facilitated by posting the information on the company * LIXIL Corporation plants in Japan only intranet, passing the information down through relevant general administration departments, and distributing copies FYE2019 human resource performance data indicated with ★ have received an independent practitioner’s assurance. of the Union Guide compiled by the union to all union members. CR Scope and details (P105) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 37 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Our People > Talent Development 04 OUR PEOPLE TALENT DEVELOPMENT The LIXIL Group supports a systematic and structured talent development program, and encourages all employees to proactively advance their own careers. Our Approach The LIXIL Group pursues talent development from a Global Challenge Program: Nurturing Future Global Human Resources long-term perspective in order to nurture personnel Our People who can support the LIXIL brand well into the future. We launched our Global Challenge Program with the aim of finding and nurturing globally minded, active As part of that process, we focus on training nexttalent and supporting self-motivated career-building. The program gives employees of LIXIL Corporation a Diversity & Equal Opportunity generation leaders and employees after evaluating global chance to work in an office outside Japan for a year. LIXIL personnel based on future business needs. To Rewarding Workplaces create a working environment in which all employees Building Bridges between Japan and Talent Development Training Future Human Resources can work and contribute enthusiastically, we support Other Global Offices Occupational Health & Safety career development from two angles: company-driven, We offer opportunities for international work experience to As the LIXIL Group continues its global expansion, strategic career development, and self-motivated career help nurture our people to develop the knowledge, experience, the employees dispatched to overseas offices to work together development managed by individual employees. career independence, capability, and adaptability required for with local staff play an extremely important role in helping our future global business. build a closer relationship with the head office and promote mutual understanding and cooperation across the Group. Our System The original set of dispatched employees are currently returning Selecting Primarily Young Employees through Open Recruitment to Japan, where they share their experiences and what they The LIXIL Group holds People and Organization learned with Japanese colleagues, so their personal insights Development (POD) conferences with its CEOs in all major Each year, we offer open recruitment opportunities to all employees can be more broadly incorporated into daily business routines. global organizations, and creates an annual next-generation (excluding managers) via our internal intranet. Over 40 employees, primarily in their twenties, apply each year. They undergo training plan to cover vital positions and help achieve selection procedures including an interview conducted in English our Medium-term Plan. In FYE2019, we created a list of with an office outside Japan, and selected applicants are then approximately 600 potential successors for 160 major Group dispatched overseas. We sent 14 employees to six countries positions worldwide. This enables us to ensure business (Thailand, Vietnam, China, the United States, Germany, and continuity even in times of emergency and to build a futureFrance) in FYE2018, and 14 employees to five countries looking system for strategically selecting successors. We (Thailand, the Philippines, China, the United States, and Germany) in FYE2019. Each dispatched employee creates their own career devise training plans for each of the listed successors that plan prior to departure, and receives regular advice and support are designed to build their individual strengths and address through interviews with the Japan office and mentors, enabling weaknesses by providing business assignments and job them to grow through their international on-the-job training. transfer opportunities, offering mentor and leadership training, and other measures. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 38 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Our People > Talent Development 04 OUR PEOPLE Overview of Talent Development LIXIL Training System Company-wide: improving fundamental skills Company / division-specific: improving expertise Next-generation education LIXIL Corporation’s talent development consists of seamless education and training programs when an employee ❶ ❷ ❸ is promoted. The programs are designed to improve Essential Career-support training Company / function-specific trainings Education for selected employees employees’ basic skills, develop stronger expertise, and skills New manager training Our People nurture next generation managers. We have three types of trainings S2 grade employee training LHTJ TAP-1*2 educational institutions, which are all intrinsically linked. Young employee training LWTJ Common TAP-2 for year 1, 2 and 3 employees training Diversity & Equal Opportunity LBTJ for sales reps TAP-3 New employee orientation training LJC Sponsoring EMBA candidates 1 Basic School for Improving Fundamental Skills Rewarding Workplaces Finance Temporary training in This training system is designed to help employees at each level Distance learning IT different business sectors Talent Development Optional improve fundamental skills and offers learning opportunities trainings Online courses HR Occupational Health & Safety Open training … to match their enthusiasm for learning so they can acquire the necessary competencies. Our communication skills training for EnglishIntensive English-language training each year group, in particular, focuses on developing the skills language English communication training required to foster flat communications and an open corporate culture. trainings English language (English conversation, TOEIC) *1 Planned and organized by individual companies/functions *2 Talent Acceleration Program Aimed at supporting talent development 2 Professional College for Improving Specialist Skills Basic School Professional College * 1 Next-Generation Seminars Each division offers its own training opportunities to improve specialist knowledge, with the aim of improving the comprehensive strength and specialist expertise of our business units and Training and Education Support Programs Conducted in FYE2019 functional divisions. Item Training Summary Participants New employee training Basic training for employees newly entering the company 440 3 Next-Generation Seminars to Nurture Future Company Leaders Corporate position-specific training Training to develop skills and capabilities required at each position level 2,242 Our Talent Acceleration Program (TAP) consists of three Talent Acceleration Program (TAP) Training to nurture next-generation management personnel 120 sub-programs, and is designed to help employees foster management skills, a managerial mindset, and an entrepreneurial Management training Training for employees being promoted to management positions 283 mindset, all from an early stage. We also offer an overseas MBA Training in each division to develop skills and capabilities respectively required for product Division training 10,944 study program to help employees with managerial experience development, production, sales, and other lines of work acquire management skills and develop an international outlook. *LIXIL Corporation only. Talent Acceleration Program (TAP) covers LIXIL Corporation and its subsidiaries LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 39 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Our People > Talent Development 04 OUR PEOPLE Offering Diverse Educational Programs Career Development Support Performance Evaluation Flow LIXIL Corporation prepares a variety of education programs to LIXIL Corporation’s career-support training programs, Draft theme and objectives Conducted at help support employee self-motivated learning. This year, we started in FYE2017, are developed for all managers based the start of each have refreshed our internal education website to ensure all on the understanding that the best supporters for realizing half-year period Agreement on theme and objectives information on education and training opportunities is displayed employees’ career ambitions are their managers. The Our People in one place, so that individual employees can more easily grasp programs provide managers the right mindset and skills Self-assessment what education and training opportunities are available to them. for helping staff develop their careers, as well as for solving Diversity & Equal Opportunity LWT Americas offers a comprehensive LWTA University daily management concerns. In addition, we support both training program to satisfy a diverse range of employee needs. individual and organizational growth through our openInitial performance review interview Rewarding Workplaces Initial Initial performance review meeting In addition to group lectures, the program uses multiple recruitment job posting system for specific positions. This seeks Initial performance review Talent Development resources such as webinars, videos, and electronic books to improve the movement of company-wide personnel and to Occupational Health & Safety to prepare a wide selection of courses, ranging from general ensure the optimum placement of employees in order to match Conducted after Second performance review meeting Second courses on fundamental business skills such as leadership the needs of specific departments with employee ambitions. the conclusion Second performance review and management, through to specialized courses in specific of each half-year period fields such as compliance, environment, occupational health Evaluation Framework Third Third performance review meeting and safety, and product knowledge. LWT EMENA is focused Third performance review on expanding its e-learning programs so that employees across To ensure growth and positive results are fairly rewarded, a wide geographical area can take lectures. Employees can employees of all major LIXIL Group companies review their Determination of final review rating choose from online learning programs on various topics from performance against their goals with their direct manager, product-related knowledge, leadership, to compliance. and are evaluated by at least two managers at the end of Assessment feedback each fiscal year. Annual Training Hours and Costs per Employee (FYE2019) At LIXIL Corporation, all employees assess their own FYE2019 human resource performance data indicated with ★ have achievements against objectives set at the beginning of the fiscal received an independent practitioner’s assurance. Training Name of Company Training Hours Costs year, and receive feedback from their managers in interviews 23.1 hours ★ based on their final performance evaluation results. We seek CR Scope and details (P105) LIXIL Corporation 80,218 Yen ★ (Includes online) to nurture our employees by reviewing their performance and LIXIL Group 11.2 hours 156,556 Yen communicating what we expect from them every half year. To (Includes online) secure fair evaluations, we provide managers with key points * Scope: Directly hired employees only to consider and guidance on what approach to take in the evaluation process through the Personnel Evaluation System Manual and position-specific training programs. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 40 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Our People > Occupational Health & Safety 04 OUR PEOPLE OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY The LIXIL Group has built a Group-wide occupational health and safety management system to protect all employees, and is working to expand its scope. Our Approach Efforts to Eradicate Work-Related Accidents The LIXIL Group, in our Group Charter of Corporate The LIXIL Group seeks to actively prevent work-related Behavior, commits to “promoting the mental and physical accidents by ensuring all employees follow established Our People well-being of all workers by prioritizing safety to realize safety rules and anticipate dangers at work. That means an ideal working environment without any work-related pinpointing and eradicating any dangerous elements Diversity & Equal Opportunity accidents.” To this aim, we have introduced an occupational relating to machinery, facilities, or unsafe action by workers, health and safety management system and implemented a and sharing best-practice examples to avoid work-related Rewarding Workplaces PDCA approach to help prevent accidents at work. We are accidents. To prevent reoccurrence, we compare and Talent Development also promoting health management. analyze any similarities between accidents that do occur, Occupational Health & Safety and instigate improvements. LIXIL Corporation also provides Our System practical training sessions (Anzen Dojo) in which staff from Japan and overseas can experience simulations of past accidents. The Group EHS Committee, chaired by the Group’s executive officer, sets common employee health and safety A forklift safety competition policies and core EHS rules and promotes EHS-related activities across the Group. Based on the determined LIXIL Water Technology (LWT) shares and extends best policies and rules, Group-wide EHS management systems practices from each region to help promote further progress. are built, and their applicable scope is extended. For instance, LWT EMENA and LWT Americas attached We also have a Health and Safety Committee in each spotlights to the back of their forklifts to help prevent business segment, which shares information on and collisions and extend this to other regions for company-wide discusses health and safety issues to help generate improvement. continuous improvements. Training session Anzen Dojo LIXIL Housing Technology (LHT) Japan holds conferences that bring together safety managers from all of its 27 PDF LIXIL  Group Occupational Health LIXIL’s logistics departments held a forklift safety facilities in order to share safety policy targets and important and Safety Principles (41KB) competition to raise safety awareness and promote safe directives. In 2019, this has involved workshops to instill operation of the vehicles in workplaces where they are used. commitment to the “Stop, Call, Wait” approach to the Twenty employees from around Japan vied to outdo each handling of irregular events, which is one of our priority other in written tests, pre-operation checks, and driving issues, as well as efforts to share best practices from other performance through the forklift course. factories. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 41 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Our People > Occupational Health & Safety 04 OUR PEOPLE The Occurrence of Work-Related Accidents Driving Health Management To implement these initiatives, we have established an employee health support framework through which company Severity Rate and Lost Time Injuries Frequency Rate ★ The LIXIL Group promotes sound health management nurses facilitate collaboration between occupational （LTIFR） (Severity Rate) because we believe it is important to ensure every one of physicians and relevant departments. 0.60 0.12 0.52 our employees is physically and mentally healthy if we are to 0.50 0.10 0.54 build an enthusiastic, vigorous workplace. Our People 0.40 0.46 0.08 We set up the LIXIL WELLNESS project in 2015 in 0.30 0.31 0.06 cooperation with the LIXIL Health Insurance Society in order to 0.33 Diversity & Equal Opportunity use joint corporate and health union resources to promote and 0.20 0.26 0.04 0.15 support steady employee health. The project focuses are to: Rewarding Workplaces 0.10 0.021 0.019 0.02 0.014 Talent Development 0.002 • Improve awareness of health issues and the importance of 0 0.012 0.013 0.007 0 Occupational Health & Safety FYE2016 FYE2017 FYE2018 FYE2019 self-management among all employees. LTIFR*1 (Directly and indirectly employed staff [left]) • Provide many employees with opportunities to prevent LTIFR (Contractors [left]) Severity Rate*2 (Directly and indirectly employed staff [right]) illness and promote good health. Severity Rate (Contractors [right]) • Establish health-conscious, comfortable working environments. OIFR*3 ★ FYE2016 FYE2017 FYE2018 FYE2019 *1 Lost Time Injuries Frequency Rate: Number of lost-day occupational injury cases / Directly and indirectly Total working hours × 1,000,000 employed 0 0 0 staffTotal days lost due to occupational accidents / Total working hours × 0 *2 Severity Rate: 1,000 (Total days lost due to occupational accidents = actual days absent from work) Contractors 0 0 0 Scope: FYE2016 covers directly employed staff at production and non-production bases 「LIXIL WELLNESS（ウェルネス）」とは、LIXIL（会社）と LIXIL 健 Number of Work-Related Fatalities ★ in Japan. FYE2017 and FYE2018 cover directly and indirectly employed staff and 康保険組合がみなさんの健康の為に連携を強化し、相互に資源や強 contractors at production and non-production bases in Japan and a majority of Workplace FYE2016 FYE2017 FYE2018 FYE2019 ● Supervisors overseas production bases. ● Employees みを活用する LIXIL 流の“コラボヘルス”を指します。 Directly and indirectly 「LIXIL WELLNESS」を推進することにより、みなさん一人ひとりが employed staff 0 0 0 1 保健師 これまで以上にいきいきと健やかに毎日を過ごせることを目指します。 Contractors 0 0 0 このパンフレットでは、「LIXIL WELLNESS」について、皆さんに Scope: F  YE2016 covers directly employed staff at production and non-production bases in Japan. FYE2017, FYE2018 and FYE2019 cover directly and indirectly “知ってもらいたいこと”、“協力して欲しいこと”をお伝えします。 employed staff and contractors at production and non-production bases in Japan and production bases outside Japan (excluding some bases) * Excludes Permasteelisa Group and LIXIL VIVA Corporation Brochure of LIXIL WELLNESS *1 L ost Time Injuries Frequency Rate (LTIFR): Number of lost-day occupational injury ● Occupational ● Company ● Health cases / Total working hours × 1,000,000 physicians ● Relevent nurses Insurance *2 S everity rate: Total days lost due to occupational accidents / Total working hours × departments Society 1,000 (Total days lost due to occupational accidents = actual days absent from work) *3 O ccupational Illness Frequency Rate (OIFR): Number of lost-day occupational illness cases / Total working hours × 1,000,000 LIXIL WELLNESS health support framework LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 42 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Our People > Occupational Health & Safety 04 OUR PEOPLE Illness-Prevention Initiatives Health Education Program encourage exercise. Since 2016, we have held our biannual LIXIL Walking Rally as a way to encourage employees to Annual Medical Checkups We create programs tailored to specific audiences (new develop their own exercise routines, drawing some 2,000 hires, supervisors, etc.), through which company nurses participants each time. All employees undergo annual medical checkups, and provide information on topics such as mental health, disease We also run the LIXIL Health Insurance Society’s twiceoccupational physicians determine whether individual prevention, and improvement of health-related lifestyle yearly health promotion campaign, which is designed to Our People employees require arrangements specific to their jobs. In factors. In FYE2019, we held a total of 58 sessions with 1,540 encourage healthy living through six separate courses addition, employees who exhibit health risks are encouraged participants. In particular, we ensure all newly appointed including no smoking, regular exercise routines, and dieting. Diversity & Equal Opportunity to visit a medical institution in order to ensure early detection managers receive training on mental health management, as Rewarding Workplaces and treatment of any diagnosed illness. We are especially part of efforts to create work environments that facilitate the Supporting Return to Work rigorous in encouraging employees with high health risks to early detection and treatment of mental health issues. Talent Development visit medical specialists, so we can enable them to continue We also work together with the LIXIL Health Insurance We support employees’ return to work following sickness Occupational Health & Safety working in a healthy and safe manner without exacerbating Society to arrange health seminars given by external absence based on our Return to Work Program. From care their symptoms. The LIXIL Health Insurance Society covers lecturers on topics selected to suit the needs of individual during absence to follow-up support after return, relevant basic medical examination fees for both employees and their workplaces or job types. In FYE2019, we held 35 seminars departments, supervisors, occupational physicians and dependents. on six chosen topics relating to the building of sound mental company nurses align with each other to provide support and physical health. suited for individual mental and physical conditions. Mental Health Measures New Helplines We conduct annual stress checks as part of our mental health support, with a participation rate of 94.5% in LIXIL Corporation has established a helpline offering mental FYE2019. Employees suffering from high stress levels are and physical health advice through which employees can referred to occupational physicians for private consultation. receive specific individual advice and specialist support from Any workplace with ten or more respondents that has been company nurses via email or telephone. identified as being high-stress is required to create an action The LIXIL Health Insurance Society has set up its own plan sheet to resolve the underlying causes. mental and physical health support line where employees We are also strengthening our mental health support Health seminar given by an external lecturer can seek advice via telephone, web or face-to-face interview system by allocating occupational psychiatrists in multiple from external doctors and public health nurses not only Japanese bases to facilitate a more targeted specialist Health Promotion Events about health and medical treatment, but also about childapproach. raising and nursing care. Given the importance of daily efforts to maintain health, we work with the LIXIL Health Insurance Society to actively LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 43 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Our People > Occupational Health & Safety 04 OUR PEOPLE METI Health and Productivity Certification Overseas Cases For three consecutive years since 2017, the LIXIL Group To introduce a few of our international well-being promotion has received White 500 (large enterprise) Health and activities, LWT & LHT Asia (LIXIL Thailand) created exercise Productivity certification from Japan’s Ministry of Economy, clubs designed to relieve stress and improve health Trade and Industry. This certification recognizes LIXIL’s awareness that all employees can attend after work. The Our People health maintenance and improvement measures, including multiple clubs, ranging from badminton to futsal, attract over mental health education, exercise promotion, and initiatives 1,200 participants in total. LWT & LHT Asia (LWT China) also Diversity & Equal Opportunity to prevent exacerbation of lifestyle diseases and other holds a biweekly health promotion club to help relieve workLWT & LHT Asia (LIXIL Thailand) exercise club in action illnesses. In 2019, LIXIL VIVA CORPORATION was also related pressure. Rewarding Workplaces certified under the same program. Talent Development FYE2019 human resource performance data indicated with ★ have received an independent practitioner’s assurance. Occupational Health & Safety CR Scope and details (P105) KENKO Kigyo Kai Participation Maintaining and improving health is a challenge for all LWT & LHT Asia (LIXIL China) health club puts on a show workers, extending beyond the activities of any individual company. The LIXIL Group is part of KENKO Kigyo Kai, an organization that seeks to improve the effectiveness of health promotion activities by sharing and utilizing health management expertise. We hope this association will develop into a group of leading companies in the health promotion sphere, and, by extension, set a strong example for broadening health management in our society at large. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 44 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance 05 ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT We proactively pursue environmentally conscious initiatives across all of our processes based on our earnest desire to help people coexist in harmony with our planet. Environment Environmental Management Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Sustainable Water Use Sustainable Use of Resources LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 45 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Environment > Highlight 05 Highlight Target Help realize a sustainable society through innovative products and services and environmental considerations across all operational processes. ENVIRONMENT CO2 emissions reduction attributable to CO2 emissions Emission intensity Waste recycling ratio per unit of output Group products and services from places of business (Scope 1 and 2) Target -8% Target 95% Environment Target 1.36 (v. FYE2016) times (Thousand t-CO2) 2,000 -0.1 -4.5 (v. FYE2016) -8.0 (%) 0 (％) 100 94 94 95 (In Japan and Europe) 95 1,600 -10 75 Environmental Management (Times) 63 62 66 1.5 1,199 1,185 61 1.21 1.36 1,200 1,146 -20 1.16 1,055 Climate Change Mitigation 1.00 50 1.0 618 616 -30 40 and Adaptation 800 600 34 552 25 25 Sustainable Water Use 0.5 400 -40 19 546 581 569 502 Sustainable Use of Resources 0 0 -50 0 FYE2016 FYE2018 FYE2019 FYE2021 FYE2016 FYE2018 FYE2019 FYE2021 FYE2017 FYE2018 FYE2019 FYE2021 (Target) (Target) (Target) ■ Scope 1 ■ Scope 2 Emission intensity per unit of output Japan and Europe Asia (excluding Japan) North America Scope 3 emissions Water usage Waste and other emissions (Million t-CO2) (Million m3) (Thousand t) 140 20 500 121 18.0 18.1 117 114 16.8 16.9 16.7 423 405 5 406 105 5 5 15 375 13.9 147 118 139 10 250 70 136 161 142 116 112 109 5 125 35 140 125 126 0 0 0 FYE2017 FYE2018 FYE2019 FYE2017 FYE2018 FYE2019 FYE2017 FYE2018 FYE2019 ■ Intake ■ Discharge ■ Sold as valuables ■ Recycled outside the Group ■ Category 11 (Use of sold products) ■ Other Scope of coverage: Data covers a majority of the entire Group ■ Landfilled and incinerated Scope of coverage: Data covers a majority of the entire Group * Excludes tenanted properties, etc. that we can’t access to assess the water intake Scope of coverage: Data covers a majority of the entire Group LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 46 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Environment > Environmental Management 05 ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT In order to achieve our Environmental Vision 2030, the LIXIL Group is developing and operating a Group-wide Environment, Occupational Health and Safety (EHS) management system. Our Approach Our System In 2016, the LIXIL Group announced its Environmental In order to promote Group-wide EHS activities, the Group Vision 2030 medium to long-term targets, and established EHS Committee was established under senior managing Environment the LIXIL Group Environmental Sustainability Principles to executive officers. The Quality and EHS departments for define our environmental philosophy and code of conduct. the LIXIL Group and LIXIL Corporation serve as Committee Environmental Management By 2030, we aim to achieve an overall net zero balance secretariats, overseeing all our business organizations, between the environmental footprint of our business and head office departments, and consolidated subsidiaries. Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation the positive environmental contribution we make through The Group EHS Committee enlists the cooperation of the technological innovations and the development of lowLIXIL Group Executive Officers Committee, LIXIL Corporation Sustainable Water Use carbon, water-saving products and services. We are now also Board of Directors, the Internal Audit Committee, the Risk Sustainable Use of Resources developing a long-term vision that envisages how by 2050 Management Committee, and the CR Committee for its LIXIL Group will contribute to solving the increasingly serious activities. These activities focus primarily on establishing a Group EHS Committee environmental issues that we have witnessed in recent years. Group-wide EHS management system, including promoting We aim to announce this strategy in FYE2020. environmental strategies, organizing effective management To achieve our Environmental Vision, it is vital that we structures and reporting lines, and sharing and expanding operate an effective environment management system organizational and regional measures. and work to reduce the environmental impact of our entire The Group EHS Committee holds a regular meeting supply chain, from raw materials procurement through once a year, which is attended by Group senior managing product disposal. In 2016, we started operating under our executive officers supervising EHS activities, and employees newly established EHS Performance Reporting Guidelines responsible for EHS from individual business organizations. to help strengthen Group-wide target management and At the meeting, participants confirm the Group’s EHS policy, monitoring systems. We are looking to actively reduce strategy, and emergency response process, which they then our environmental impact across the Group by extending share and implement in each of their individual jurisdictions activities implemented primarily in Japan to all global as a means of strengthening corporate governance and operations. improving performance. Internal TCFD study session during the second part of the EHS Committee meeting At the end of each business year, Committee members meet for a management review session where they look back on the past year’s activities, formulate plans for the coming business year, and revise the company’s overall vision and medium-term targets. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 47 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Environment > Environmental Management 05 ENVIRONMENT Environmental Sustainability Principles External and Internal Audit Environmental Education and Internal Evaluation Philosophy The LIXIL Group operates an internal audit system We strive to inform and educate employees at different covering the entire Group. Its manufacturing factories levels of the company about environmental initiatives. The Environment Striving to help people live in harmony with the earth, LIXIL conduct internal audits in strict accordance with ISO14001 company conducts environmental training for new recruits, Group is committed to continuing its environmentally sound standards and check the effectiveness and compliance of provides Environmental Management System (EMS) training Environmental Management efforts in every aspect of our businesses activities. environmental management systems. With regard to nonfor EMS promotion managers and operators in each office, manufacturing divisions and Group operating companies, and distributes monthly reports on environmental trends Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Code of Conducts we perform internal audits based on the standards set in our to top management, including directors, auditors, and the own environmental management system and are gradually CEOs of technology businesses. Sustainable Water Use • Continually improve environmental management systems expanding the scope to include Group subsidiaries. We In addition, we evaluate and award environmental activities Sustainable Use of Resources and performance work to ensure the effective operation of our management at each business site. We also encourage managers to promote • Adhere to rigorous compliance system by following up on all audit points and confirming environmental activities through a new system introduced in • Develop and provide environmentally sound products and the implementation of improvements. From FYE2018, 2018 as part of our executive compensation system review. services LIXIL Group’s EHS Management Division started auditing Under this system, we evaluate how senior managers seek to • Reduce environmental impact in every process of the employees responsible for EHS in all business organizations. help raise medium to long-term corporate value. business operation Furthermore, our 13 manufacturing sites in North • Proactively communicate with all stakeholders America (eight sites in the US, one site in Canada, and four sites in Mexico) are progressing with plans to formally PDF LIXIL Group Environmental Sustainability Principles (50KB) acquire ISO14001 certification by FYE2020 with the aim of strengthening Group-wide environmental governance. Environmental education for new hires LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 48 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Environment > Environmental Management 05 ENVIRONMENT Environmentally Conscious Design Environmental Disclosures LIXIL Corporation conducts an environmental assessment Product-Related Environmental Assessment Steps We are establishing systems to assist environmental at each stage of the product development process to help management decision-making by appropriately evaluating reduce the environmental impact of products in all three Set environmental targets for new risks and opportunities and clearly understanding the Product planning products to be developed lifecycle stages: produce, use, dispose. financial impact of the effects of climate change on our Environment future business operations. Our head office environment Compare each evaluation criteria Designing and testing department provides information to senior managers derived against standards and existing products Environmental Management from various analyses regarding the calculated financial impact of CO2 emissions on the Group, which are based Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Final confirmation Final check of strong selling points on national carbon taxes, carbon prices in the emissions trading market, forecasts of energy prices, the potential costSustainable Water Use Showcase selling points in catalogs saving benefits to be derived from capital investment and Sustainable Use of Resources Eco product marketing and other marketing materials using environmental measures, etc. In order to further promote eco labels and graphs environmental investment, calculating the CO2 reduction Evaluation Criteria for Product-Related Environmental Assesment of equipment investments is required for processing any request for approval (RFA) of investment. Stage Items to be considered Eco product features In March 2019, the LIXIL Group announced its support for the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Reducing major component materials and parts Resource-saving (TCFD), and reorganized its existing information under Additional reductions from using recycled materials Recycled material use Produce recommended TCFD disclosure items. Going forward, we Efficient assembly and construction Construction-saving will continue to help solve social issues through our business Using lawful, sustainable wooden materials Lawfully logged wood activities, and work to further enhance our information disclosure that will enable us to build a stronger relationship Reducing energy and water usage in everyday living Energyand water-saving of trust with our stakeholders. Improving performance using natural energy and zero energy use Energy-creating / zero energy Use We also participate in the survey conducted by an Ease of maintenance and cleaning Dirt-proofing, easy cleaning international non-profit CDP. We were recognized as an A List Responding to sick-house countermeasures F ☆☆☆☆ , etc.* company in the CDP Water Security 2018 for our outstanding water resource management initiatives. Material recyclability of main component materials and parts Recyclable design Dispose Reusability of main component materials and parts Reusable CR TCFD Index (P121) * F☆☆☆☆ (four-star) is the highest rating in the formaldehyde emissions level rating scheme WEB Details about the CDP LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 49 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Environment > Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation 05 ENVIRONMENT CLIMATE CHANGE MITIGATION AND ADAPTATION The LIXIL Group provides products and services that can help achieve a carbon-neutral future, while actively reducing carbon footprint in its operational processes. Products & Services: Conserving Energy The LIXIL Group develops and retails products and services that help reduce energy consumption through thermal insulation, and Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions energy conservation, energy creation, and other measures. We intend to help mitigate and adapt to climate change by improving performance and expanding the reach of these products and services. Environment LW (TOSTEM) RE-PLUS (TOSTEM) Ecoful Shower (INAX) Environmental Management Introduced in 2018, LW is an innovative window product While the level of thermal insulation of windows in newly Heating water constitutes 24% of household CO2 emissions. consisting of a large glass door that slides open sideways built houses meets Japan’s 2020 energy-saving standards Reducing the amount of hot water used, therefore, is an Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation and a built-in frame that is almost invisible from inside thanks to ZEH (net zero energy house) promotion activities effective way to reduce emissions. The impeller built into the the house. This product offers high thermal insulation driven by the Japanese government, this is not necessarily Ecoful Shower’s showerhead is designed to close off half of Sustainable Water Use (heat transmission coefficient 1.00W/(m2K))* through its the case for windows in existing houses. RE-PLUS is a window the showerhead’s holes while Sustainable Use of Resources aluminum and resin hybrid frame, which helps reduce CO2 product that enables existing windows to be replaced with spinning at a high speed. emissions and energy consumption from heating and air an aluminum-resin hybrid model in as little as 60 minutes* As a result, the increased conditioning. The built-in frame provides a clear, wide view using existing window frames. Since introducing this product, internal pressure creates and is designed to perfectly fit the lines of the window frame. we have expanded the range of windows that can be upgraded a powerful shower spray LW won the Nikkei by complementing the sliding-door window frame launched despite using considerably Sangyo Shimbun in 2017 with a new frame for decorative windows in 2018. We less water. In fact, this Award of Excellence are now also trying to improve the level of thermal insulation of showerhead can reduce the at the 2018 Nikkei windows in current housing by extending the scope of windows amount of water used by Superior Products that can be upgraded, from sliding doors most commonly found 48% compared to traditional and Services Awards, in living rooms and bedrooms to a wider range of windows. shower heads (10 liters/minute), along with the * Regular-sized pane thereby saving energy. 2019 Construction replacement takes at least 60 minutes, Materials and and terrace WEB About the product (Japanese only) Facilities Grand Prize. window-sized pane replacement takes LW installed room Built-in frame design at least 90 minutes * Calculated internally using JIS A 2102-1 and JIS A 2102-2 standards for measuring the two-way thermal transmittance of Low-E green (5-10-1.311-5) model of sliding 16522 triple-pane glass (with krypton gas) Replacement image Cross-section image WEB About the product (Japanese only) WEB About the product (Japanese only) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 50 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Environment > Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation 05 ENVIRONMENT Automatic Heating Faucet (INAX) IoT-Enabled Smart Post Delivery Box (LIXIL) Promoting the Construction of Net Zero Energy House (LTSP) INAX’s Automatic Heating Faucet for public restrooms will The growth of online shopping in recent years has increased instantly heat water to 26°C when the temperature of the the number of home deliveries. However, due to the growing To help reduce household energy consumption, the Japanese water dips below the 21 to 26°C range, which is considered number of redeliveries as well, this is cited as reducing labor government has set a target requiring over 50% of new comfortable for washing hands. This faucet also incorporates productivity and increasing CO2 emissions. LIXIL launched houses built by 2020 to qualify as net zero energy houses Environment our Ecoful feature, releasing the minimum amount of water its IoT-enabled Smart Post Delivery Box in 2018, which (ZEH)*. ZEH are not expanding at the desired pace, though. required for users to feel that they have cleaned their enables two-way communication between the box and a To help address this situation, LIXIL Corporation and TEPCO Environmental Management hands properly. This new method of ensuring the optimum smartphone, sending notification of deliveries and enabling Energy Partner established a joint venture company, LIXIL temperature and volume of water for washing hands has users to accept multiple separate deliveries. We are currently TEPCO Smart Partners, in September 2017. The company Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation successfully reduced energy use by 92% compared to conducting a demonstration experiment on how much this leases solar-power generation systems to customers who traditional electric water heaters. As a result of its simple product can reduce CO2 emissions in the Tokyo districts of purchase LIXIL’s ZEH materials, and receives income from Sustainable Water Use design and eco-friendly approach, the faucet won the top Koto and Edogawa. any surplus energy sold. In return, the actual cost customers Sustainable Use of Resources award for excellence at the Environment and Equipment pay each month for their solar power generation systems Design Awards hosted by the Association of Building is zero yen. LIXIL’s new Tatetoku Value service, which was Engineering and Equipment. launched in 2018 to help reduce customers’ monthly electricity bills, won the Agency for Natural Resources and Energy Director-General’s Award at the FYE 2019 Energy Conservation Awards. LIXIL intends to use these services to promote the spread of ZEH, help customers live comfortably and healthily, and help mitigate global warming. Solar power generation system * ZEH is an abbreviation for Net Zero Energy House. The term refers to housing that offers both a comfortable Effective interior environment and a cost: substantial reduction in energy Customer 0yen consumption, thanks to its high degree of insulation and highefficiency facilities. Moreover, Income from surplus energy sales it produces energy through solar power generation systems and other equipment, and the yearly net amount of energy consumption is basically zero or lower as a result WEB About the product (Japanese only) WEB About the product (Japanese only) WEB About the product (Japanese only) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 51 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Environment > Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation 05 ENVIRONMENT Promoting Energy Creation and Saving Each business sets targets and action plans in line with our medium-term goals. Based on these, we are implementing various initiatives to help mitigate climate change by reducing the net amount of energy consumed in our entire Environment supply chain. These include activities aimed at saving or creating energy. Environmental Management Climate Change Mitigation Increasing Energy Efficiency and Adaptation The new GROHE Klaeng factory in Thailand was constructed Sustainable Water Use to be environmentally friendly. This building integrates highly Sustainable Use of Resources efficient equipment within its production processes and uses a solar power generation system installed on the roof to reduce LIXIL Chita plant in Japan GROHE Lahr plant in Germany factory CO2 emissions by approximately 700 tons per year. Despite a 20% year-on-year increase in production volume in FYE2018, LIXIL Corporation’s Ariake factory in Kyushu, Using Renewable Energy two electroplating lines and can supply up to 30% of the Japan managed to equalize daytime and nighttime electric plant’s demand for electricity. In addition to improving overall power usage by reviewing the operational framework of its LIXIL Corporation is contributing to the creation and energy efficiency, it also enables the plant to reduce CO2 materials department. This initiative successfully reduced spread of renewable energy by operating large-scale emissions by 2,550 tons per year. the factory’s CO2 emission intensity by 6%. Subsequently solar power generation facilities in unused spaces and At the GROHE Hemer Plant, a CHP unit introduced in in FYE2019, all functional departments worked together to on roofs of buildings at seven bases in Japan. The seven 2015 has reduced the plant’s electricity consumption by increase the frequency of inspections, which enabled them bases generate approximately 32,600 MWh of energy 15% by using recovered heat, reducing CO2 emissions by to analyze power consumption patterns and implement per year, equivalent to the annual energy consumption of 2,200 tons per year. measures to adjust energy usage at the initial production approximately 6,500 standard households in Japan. All GROHE plants and distribution centers around the planning stage. These new measures helped reduce the world were successfully certified according to ISO50001 factory’s CO2 emission intensity by a further 3%. Energy Savings at Manufacturing Sites Energy Management Systems by the end of 2016. We are also replacing existing lighting at LIXIL Corporation’s * A power generation system that uses a heat recovery unit to capture factories and logistics centers with LED lighting. We developed In July 2016, the GROHE Lahr Plant in Germany introduced waste heat and turn it into thermal energy a plan to make a full transition to LED at all factories in Japan a new combined heat and power (CHP) unit* to replace by 2020, and have already achieved nearly 90% of the plan. two inefficient boilers. The new CHP unit provides heat for LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 52 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Environment > Sustainable Water Use 05 ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABLE WATER USE The LIXIL Group aims to develop and offer products and services that help reduce water consumption and solve kitchen and bathroom-related problems, as well as promote the conservation and sustainable use of water resources in its own business processes. Enhancing the Water-Saving Features in We aim to contribute to the conservation of water resources by developing and offering products and services that can reduce Products and Services water consumption, such as water-efficient toilets and faucets. We are also committed to adding extra value to water resources by developing innovative technologies in various areas including water purification and circulation. Environment SATIS (INAX) Water Saving Toilets (American Standard) GROHE SENSE GUARD (GROHE) Environmental Management The SATIS toilet, with its strong cleaning performance and American Standard offers a wide range of toilets that meet According to a survey of European households conducted by Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation water-saving functionality, can save up to 73% of water used strict criteria for water savings established by the U.S. GROHE in 2017, 54% of households have experienced some compared to conventional toilets that use 13 liters of water Environmental Protection Agency’s WaterSense program, form of water damage such as those caused by water leakage. Sustainable Water Use for each long flush. It is also possible to reduce the amount and save nearly 20% more water than the standard criteria In response, GROHE developed the remote-controllable GROHE Sustainable Use of Resources of water used for cleaning the toilet thanks to the AQUA set by the governmental organization. We seek to enhance SENSE GUARD. Used together with a smartphone app, it CERAMIC sanitary ware material that enables dirt to be easily the variety of products to match consumers’ tastes, notifies users in the event of a burst pipe and automatically washed away with just water and will stay shiny for 100 years. including Cadet PRO, a quality toilet at an affordable shuts off the water supply to minimize damage. price, VorMax UHET, an Ultra High Efficiency Toilet, and Lyndon, a popular contemporary-style toilet. The bowl height of these toilets also conforms to the accessibility height guidelines as outlined by the Americans with SATIS AQUA CERAMIC Disability Act of 1990. VorMax UHET Elongated Toilet WEB About the product (Japanese only) WEB About the product WEB About the product LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 53 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Environment > Sustainable Water Use 05 ENVIRONMENT Navish Hands-Free Faucet Equipped with the Eco Sensor (INAX) Beale MeasureFill Touch Pull-Down Kitchen Faucet (American Standard) GROHE Blue (GROHE) LIXIL’s Navish hands-free faucet uses the automatic American Standard’s Beale MeasureFill Touch Pull-Down Using a specialized filter cartridge, the GROHE Blue Eco Sensor to detect the presence of hands and other Kitchen Faucet features an in-built measuring function household water system dispenses chilled or carbonated objects, enabling water to be dispensed and stopped capable of dispensing exact volumes of water up to 1.2 water from the kitchen faucet. It can also chill roomEnvironment without touching the faucet. The faucet equipped with the liters. Setting the dial to the quantity required for cooking, temperature water to a desired temperature. Given that as Eco Sensor function also separates hot and cold water, users can save water by ensuring not a drop is wasted. This much as seven liters are required to produce a single liter of Environmental Management preventing unintended use of hot water and energy. Users product won the 2018 Red Dot Award for Product Design. bottled drinking water, GROHE Blue also contributes to the can save approximately 52% energy and 31% water conservation of water resources. The system also helps to Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation compared to conventional faucets. cut CO2 emissions by 61% compared to bottled water and reduce plastic waste. Sustainable Water Use Sustainable Use of Resources WEB About the product (Japanese only) WEB About the product WEB About the product LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 54 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Environment > Sustainable Water Use 05 ENVIRONMENT  Reducing Water Usage and Conserving Water in Business Activities To help conserve water resources, the LIXIL Group is Percentage of Production Sites by Water Risk Level Introducing Wastewater Recycling Systems working to further improve the efficient use of water in (FYE2019) its business processes by developing tailored measures for LIXIL Sanitary Fitting Manufacturing (Suzhou) Corporation is Environment each production base.The LIXIL Group uses large amounts 0 1 a factory in China affiliated with LIXIL Water Technology, which 9 7 of water for aluminum product surface finishing and other has made a notable reduction in its water use. In 2015, the Environmental Management processes at its production sites. In order to promote the efficient 11 factory installed wastewater recycling systems with a reverse Total use of water, we investigate the level of water usage at each osmosis (RO) membrane filtration system* to filter wastewater Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation factory, including water intake and water usage in each 69 sites generated in production processes such as machining and process, and confirming that water recycling systems are in plating. The filtered water is reused in production processes and Sustainable Water Use 41 place. Meanwhile, we are introducing water recycling systems water savers in the factory. For example, water consumption per Sustainable Use of Resources and other water-saving measures. We also conduct strict unit weight of products was reduced by approximately 45% in wastewater management to protect water environment in each Water risk Low 1% High FYE2017 compared to FYE2015, when the system was not in region and maintain water quality. Water Risk Survey Results and Water Usage place. In FYE2017, fresh water usage and cost were reduced by (FYE2019) 36,927m 3 and US$15,000, respectively. 18% Identifying Water Risks in Our Production Facilities 1% Based on its success, similar projects are being rolled Total 4% out in other LIXIL faucet factories in Asia. Through engaging In order to better understand local conditions and introduce 18% proactively in wastewater recycling and other water-saving 37% appropriate measures to address the problem of increasingly 15,476,000 Total 4% projects, we are expecting to see even more benefits from scarce global water resources, the LIXIL Group started m 3 37% 15,476,000 reductions in freshwater use and related costs. conducting surveys in FYE2017 to identify water risks at m3 production sites that use water in their manufacturing * A type of filtration 40% 40% membrane that processes. We used international evaluation tools such as enables water to flow the WWF Water Risk Filter and the WRI Aqueduct to quantify through while blocking local characteristics and actual water usage. We are currently Water risk Low High impurities such as ions Water risk Low High and other molecules taking measures to improve water usage at the six priority focus sites identified as high risk in FYE2017. Thanks to * Targets those production sites that use water in their production processes (excluding the newly added sites in India and Dominica) improvements made at each site and the increased accuracy of evaluation tool databases, only one high-risk site remained out of a total of 69 production sites in FYE2019. INAX Suzhou factory in China LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 55 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Environment > Sustainable Use of Resources 05 ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABLE USE OF RESOURCES The LIXIL Group promotes the sustainable use of raw materials across the entire lifecycle of its products, from procurement through disposal. Saving and Recycling Resources We develop and offer recyclable products that use less resources by incorporating an eco-friendly approach into planning and in Products and Services designing phases of our products and services. We also seek to promote the sustainable use of resources by utilizing underused resources, recycled materials, and environmentally-friendly materials. Environment Products Made with up to 85% Recycled Materials Wooden Decks Made from 100% Recycled Materials Committed to Using Recycled Aluminum Environmental Management GROHE manufacturing plants in Germany, Portugal and KIRARA STAGE Mokucho is an artificial timber deck with LIXIL Corporation factories in Japan have been using Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Thailand refine alloys in their own melting furnaces, turning the natural character of wood, made from 100% recycled recycled aluminum materials for over 25 years. Aluminum, internally and externally sourced recycled materials into 70materials. This range of decks uses medium-density an exceptional metal that is light, strong and rust-resistant, Sustainable Water Use 85% of the brass used to make faucet fittings. fiberboard (MDF) wood dust, which is generated from LIXIL’s requires large amounts of electricity and water in the refining Sustainable Use of Resources wood-cutting processes and usually reprocessed as fuel, process. Reusing existing aluminum can therefore lead to mixed with plastic collected and recycled by local authorities. drastic energy use reductions in manufacturing. However, given the low purity of recycled aluminum materials, maintaining quality and productivity was a challenge. Through cross-functional efforts, LIXIL Corporation established supply routes that achieve the industry’s highest aluminum recycling rates, helping to reduce CO2 emissions by around 350,000 tons annually. GROHE Klaeng factory in Thailand Completed deck image Cross-section showing the material’s asymmetric grooves (patented technology) WEB KIRARA STAGE Mokucho (Japanese only) Feeding raw materials into the aluminum smelter LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 56 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Environment > Sustainable Use of Resources 05 ENVIRONMENT Recycling Resources in Operational Activities FYE2019, these efforts cut waste at LWT production plants The LIXIL Group ensures sustainable use of resources in Japan by around 18% (4,470 tons). through various initiatives, including the recycling of waste materials produced in its operations. Based on the 3R Working with Stakeholders to Eliminate Environment principles (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle), LIXIL is committed Industrial Landfill Waste to reducing industrial waste generated from manufacturing Environmental Management processes, collecting and sorting waste, and recycling. TOSTEM THAI, a LIXIL Corporation subsidiary, has been Furthermore, during product development, we promote working with stakeholders to recycle its industrial waste. Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation initiatives to reduce resource use and simplify construction, In Thailand, most industrial waste is generally landfilled, design products that can be easily disassembled for causing environmental problems. With the cooperation of Sustainable Water Use recycling, and reuse parts and materials. the Thai government, we reduced the amount of landfill Sustainable Use of Resources by around 90% over four years through initiatives such Reducing Wood Material Waste as recycling industrial sludge to produce cement. Along with other community activities, including tree planting Our factory in Dalian, China reduces wood material waste and garbage collection, this earned TOSTEM THAI a Level Award ceremony for green industry promoted by Ministry of Industry of Thailand through improved cutting processes and increased yield. 4 rating in the Thai Ministry of Industry’s Green Industry We also utilize surplus materials generated in the production commendation system*. However, with few local companies * The green industry commendation system operated by the Thai Ministry of Industry has five achievement levels, and gives a level-specific Green process, which were previously disposed of by sale to third able to comply with new laws and regulations issued each Industry mark to each company that fulfills the required environmental parties, to manufacture parts. Thanks to these efforts, the year, finding recycling contractors proved challenging. In activities factory managed to reduce the volume of waste wood by FYE2019, we re-established a viable recycling framework by 1,600 tons year on year in FYE2018. inspecting such potential contractors, along with guidance and support to incorporate corrective measures, which Recycling Wood Pallets allowed us to eliminate our industrial landfill waste in Thailand from March 2019. These efforts were rewarded Presented with the challenge of recycling and utilizing wood with the Thai Ministry of Industry’s 3Rs Award and the Zero offcuts, our Oyama factory has succeeded in selling its waste Waste to Landfill Award. We are now working towards our goals pallets as biomass fuel. Expanding the initiative to other of maintaining zero landfill waste in FYE2020 and achieving factories in the region and coordinating transport among Level 5 in the Green Industry commendation system. multiple bases has contributed to reducing both wood offcut waste and the environmental impact of distribution. In LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 57 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance 06 CUSTOMERS & CUSTOMERS & SUPPLY CHAIN SUPPLY CHAIN We are committed to delivering customer-focused products and services and promoting responsible supply chain management. Customers & Supply Chain Responsible Supply Chain Management Product Safety & Quality Customer Satisfaction LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 58 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Customers & Supply Chain > Highlight 06 Highlight Quality and Satisfaction Supply Chain CUSTOMERS & Target Strengthen relationships with customers Target Through responsible management of the overall supply chain, deliver a stable portfolio of products through our products and services. and fulfill stakeholder accountability. SUPPLY CHAIN Responsible Procurement Survey Customers & Supply Chain Coverage ratio 100 (%) Customer 90 90 90 Target (based on purchased amount) 85 70% satisfaction 75 90% Responsible Supply Chain Target 50 Management 25 (Japan) Product Safety & Quality 100 (%) 0 Customer Satisfaction 75 71.9 70.5 70.6 70.0 FYE2017 FYE2018 FYE2019 FYE2021 (Target) 50 25 100 (%) 0 Conformity rate 94 95 94 90 FYE2017 FYE2018 FYE2019 FYE2021 (Target) 75 90% Target 50 25 (Japan) 0 FYE2017 FYE2018 FYE2019 FYE2021 (Target) 100 (%) 100 100 100 Improvement rate of low-rated suppliers 91 75 100 % Target 50 25 (Japan) 0 FYE2017 FYE2018 FYE2019 FYE2021 (Target) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 59 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Customers & Supply Chain > Responsible Supply Chain Management 06 CUSTOMERS & RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT The LIXIL Group seeks to ensure stable product supply and responsible procurement by identifying related risks and working closely with business partners. SUPPLY CHAIN Our Approach & System Promoting Responsible Procurement That Monitoring Existing Business Parthers Upholds the Environment and Labor Safety The LIXIL Group’s procurement is based on strong We also conduct regular inspections of our existing partners. partnerships with global suppliers in accordance with our The LIXIL Group is committed to responsible procurement. The LIXIL Group employs the process outlined below to Customers & Supply Chain Procurement Principles and the concrete guidelines of our designate important suppliers, which will be prioritized when Procurement Compliance Policy. Our LIXIL Group Code of Selecting New Business Partners sharing procurement policies, conducting questionnaire Responsible Supply Chain Conduct also specifies the ethical behavior that is expected surveys, and checking progress towards improvement. Management of all our staff, including prohibition of bribery. The Supplier Assessment Standards used to select business Based on transaction value, approximately 90% of LIXIL Product Safety & Quality Meanwhile, our Supplier Code of Conduct compiled partners include criteria on: quality, cost and delivery, Corporation suppliers are located in Japan, followed by in FYE2018 requires that suppliers prohibit corruption technical capabilities, and ability to deliver stable supply; China, Austria, and Thailand. For major suppliers in Japan, Customer Satisfaction and observe legal working hours and minimum wage environmental consciousness, such as sustainable use of we hold annual meetings to explain responsible procurement requirements. At the same time, we request that they resources and proper control of chemical substances, and; policies and request cooperation with questionnaire surveys. demand equivalent standards from their own suppliers. human rights and labor safety. We require new business partners to understand and accept our Supplier Code of Procurement Transaction Amount Breakdown by Country PDF Procurement Principles (92.9KB) Conduct. Once suppliers are selected, we also conduct 2.2% 0.5% PDF LIXIL Group Code of Conduct (2.6MB) assessments of their products. 2.2% 2.1% PDF Supplier Code of Conduct (156KB) LIXIL Corporation ascertains the compliance of new 5.3% business partners by checking written responses to surveys of labor management, health and safety, anti-corruption, and other practices. Japan 87.7% China Austria Flowchart for Important Suppliers Identification Thailand Malaysia Other countries YES YES YES Providing critical Difficult Large-scale supplier Primary supplier Important Supplier Scope of application: Suppliers to LIXIL Corporation and its subsidiaries component/product to substitute (Monetary terms) * Excluding GROHE Group S.à r.l., American Standard Brands, and PERMASTEELISA GROUP NO YES Meets criteria set in our Supplier Principles LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 60 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Customers & Supply Chain > Responsible Supply Chain Management 06 CUSTOMERS & Conducting and Following Up on Responsible Procurement Surveys SUPPLY CHAIN The LIXIL Group identifies supply chain risks by conducting LIXIL Corporation reviewed its responsible procurement Number of Responsible Procurement Survey responsible procurement surveys and checking subsequent survey in FYE2019. The new 47-question survey is easier Questionnaire Items progress. Survey results form part of the basis for selecting to understand because it dovetails more closely with our CSR management 5 Customers & Supply Chain suppliers or determining whether to continue business with Supplier Code of Conduct, revised in FYE2018, and enables Fair business 12 an existing partner. online responses. This has lightened the survey load for both Responsible Supply Chain Details of the process are outlined below. suppliers and LIXIL’s procurement department, allowing Human rights 8 Management efforts to be focused on improving any problems that are Labour 6 Product Safety & Quality 1 Select suppliers to be surveyed based on previous year’s uncovered. We plan to expand this responsible procurement Occupational health and safety 7 transaction value, etc. survey system to other parts of the LIXIL Group. Customer Satisfaction Conservation of the global environment 7 2 Conduct responsible procurement surveys for chosen suppliers, covering CSR management, fair business, Contribution to the community 2 human rights, labour, occupational health and safety, Total 47 conservation of the global environment, and contribution to the community. PDF Survey Forms (447KB) 3 Compile survey results, classifying suppliers with subResponsible Procurement Survey Results standard conformance rates as high-risk. 4 Manage high-risk suppliers individually to encourage improvement. FYE2017 FYE2018 FYE2019 FYE2021 Activities KPI Targets Results Targets Results Targets Results Targets For suppliers classified as high-risk through this process, Coverage ratio Japan 80% 85% 90% 90% 90% 90% 90% we provide site visits and other forms of individual guidance (based on purchased that help promote sustainable partnerships and strengthen amount) Overseas*1 60% 80% 90% 90% 90% 90% 90% Distribute Procurement our supplier base, the primary goals of our supply chain Principles; follow up Japan 90% 94% 90% 95% 90% 94% 90% on survey results and management strategy. Total conformity rate related activities Overseas*1 90% 88% 80% 85% 80% 88% -*2 Improvement rate Japan 100% 100% 100% 91% 100% 100% 100% Scope of application: Suppliers to LIXIL Corporation and its subsidiaries Japan: Procurement by operating sites in Japan, Overseas: Procurement by operating sites overseas *1 Excluding GROHE Group S.à r.l., American Standard Brands, and PERMASTEELISA GROUP *2 Not decided yet as the scope is now under reconsideration LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 61 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Customers & Supply Chain > Responsible Supply Chain Management 06 CUSTOMERS & Strengthening Support for International Business Partners through Training Management of Chemical Substances SUPPLY CHAIN LIXIL Corporation provides training for procurement staff at LIXIL Corporation specifies chemical substances whose overseas factories as part of efforts to deepen understanding of use in products or production processes in Japan is either responsible procurement and improve business partner support. prohibited or requires strict control. In April 2019, we Customers & Supply Chain published our approach to chemical substances in products. Understanding Social Needs We also plan to set procurement standards for chemical Responsible Supply Chain substances and update our list of controlled substances. Management In FYE2019, we conducted training for procurement Product Safety & Quality departments at our factories in China. Lectures led by PDF List of the Environment-Related Substances to be controlled by LIXIL Corporation (506KB) members of the head office procurement department Customer Satisfaction provided information on the importance of responsible procurement and related social trends, deepening the understanding of the company’s challenges under our Procurement Principles. Visiting Business Partners for On-the-Job Training Personnel from local and head office procurement departments jointly visited business partner factories to assist with aspects requiring improvement. Local staff commented on how the experience reinforced the understanding of the importance of CSR, and inspired them to utilize insights gained through the on-the-job training to help business partners with their activities. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 62 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Customers & Supply Chain > Product Safety & Quality 06 CUSTOMERS & PRODUCT SAFETY & QUALITY The LIXIL Group is committed to maintaining and strengthening ties with its customers by ensuring superior quality in manufacturing and services, and consistently improving its product quality management system with the aim of eradicating serious product-related accidents. SUPPLY CHAIN Our Approach The LIXIL Group firmly believes that product quality is the key to earning the trust of its Nurturing a Culture That Strives for Superior Quality Product Manufacturing customers and society, and a source of corporate profitability. To ensure that this belief Customers & Supply Chain is shared among all employees, we have published the LIXIL Group Quality Principles The LIXIL Group is proactively pursuing activities to improve quality by turning its in 14 languages and are continuously pursuing excellence in product manufacturing annual month-long efforts to nurture a quality-improvement focused environment Responsible Supply Chain and services around the world. Significant product-related problems make customers into an all-year drive, and extending activities at each office worldwide. Management anxious and adversely affect our reputation for reliability. That is why we pursue product Product Safety & Quality quality management initiatives such as confirming legislative compliance based on the Stimulating Regular Learning LIXIL Product Safety Principles. via Internal Social Media Network Customer Satisfaction Going forward, we intend to make consistent improvements to our product quality management system, and work to ensure consumers know how to use products safely. In FYE2019, we launched new product-quality promotion activities via our internal social media. We actively share our quality-related strategy, related CEO messages and examples of initiatives on each PDF LIXIL Group Quality Principles (106KB) PDF LIXIL Product Safety Principles (40KB) organization’s message boards to help improve quality. To date, the LIXIL Group has promoted quality-focused training during its annual Management Structure LIXIL Quality Month in November, but, more recently, we have started using internal social media channels to encourage year-round activities. LIXIL Corporation has established quality and EHS headquarters under the direct control of the company president, and is continuously working to develop a strong Sharing Global Improvement Initiatives company-wide product quality management system to resolve quality issues. We have at Our Product Quality Forum also established quality and EHS departments for the LIXIL Group to help unify quality We hold a group-wide Product Quality Forum in management across Group companies. November each year. In FYE2019, approximately We have unified the major functions of development, manufacturing and sales at our 800 people participated in the forum, which was three technology companies, and strive to achieve ultimate quality in each business’ transmitted live to 43 offices around the world. Over operation. We have appointed a chief quality officer (CQO) in each company, who oversees 3,000 employees have taken part in the forum over the product quality department efforts to guarantee superior-quality products and services and seven years since it was first launched in 2012. The forum seeks to strengthen product-quality initiatives resolve quality-related issues. In addition, LIXIL Japan Company, which has jurisdiction at each office by sharing a selection of outstanding over the retail service functions in Japan, strives to offer superior quality customer service. examples of improvements made at offices worldwide. CQOs and other relevant members gather together on a quarterly basis for the LIXIL Group quality management conference, and conduct regular management reviews. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 63 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Customers & Supply Chain > Product Safety & Quality 06 CUSTOMERS & Enhancing Quality across Entire Product Lifecycle meeting required criteria. We also strive to provide better, readily understandable product explanations, including experiencebased showroom displays and online videos, in order to ensure Stage Gate System In its product development, LIXIL Group categorizes the SUPPLY CHAIN To ensure customer safety, LIXIL Corporation is focused on that customers select appropriate products. We also have a various processes from research and development to customer service team in place to respond to queries. enhancing quality across the full lifecycle of all products, commercialization and merchandising into “Stages” and from development to design, procurement, manufacture, Responding to Product Defects & Issues sets up “Gates” between transitions to subsequent stages, Customers & Supply Chain distribution, and after-sales support. with high importance placed on evaluation reviews and We have a system in place for incorporating customer opinions management decisions. To raise the level of completion in Design & Development with regard to product-related accidents and defects. We Responsible Supply Chain design, quality and production, the Development, Production thoroughly investigate the cause of any problem via the system Management During the development stage, we have introduced techniques and Sales Divisions collaborate with each other at each and implement improvements, not only in product design, but such as Fault Tree Analysis (FTA), Failure Mode and Effect across all processes from manufacturing to retail distribution. The stage of the development process. The criteria for evaluation Product Safety & Quality Analysis (FMEA), and Design Review Based on Failure Mode improvement process also covers steps to help prevent product are also reexamined on an ongoing basis to promote the Customer Satisfaction (DRBFM), which are used globally as a means of assessing defects and problems, from pursuing organizational management development of even higher-quality products. potential risks that may arise when using products. Through to ensure improvements are fully integrated, to developing better these, we aim to improve our ability to pinpoint values that our governance frameworks to support them. customers seek. Concept of Stage Gate System Furthermore, in recognition of our duty to help protect the environment, we are currently striving to expand sales of Customer opinion environmentally conscious products and develop a vision for our • Reflecting customer opinions Design & development • Verification based on LIXIL safety standards GATE 1 Project start approval future environmental strategy. We are also working to develop using the Stage Gate System frameworks to ensure accurate recognition and compliance with global legislation and regulations as we continue to pursue collaborative development projects around the world.Material & Safety design GATE 2 Business plan approval • Quality  terms-based procurement from our Parts procurement suppliers Material & Parts Procurement • Joint improvement initiatives We set quality-related standards to which our business partners GATE 3 Final business plan approval must adhere. If necessary, we will design joint activity themes to Safety checks help resolve quality-related issues. Commercialization, • T ests confirming fulfillment of quality standards production & sales • Conformance indicators for sales materials GATE 4 Market launch & Commercialization, Production & Sales mass production approval We only commercialize products that have undergone and Monitoring quality passed vigorous stress tests and quality checks for durability, information • R eflecting customer opinions by GATE 5 Review Responding to product weather resistance, etc. Products that require specific labeling investigating problems and implementing defects & issues improvement frameworks to indicate conformance with safety and quality standards are clearly marked in our catalogues and other sales materials as * The above is a concept, arranged in each division or each area LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 64 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Customers & Supply Chain > Product Safety & Quality 06 CUSTOMERS & Responding to Serious Product-Related Accidents Number of Legal Infringements and Significant Product-Related Accidents Number of legal infringements FYE2017 0 FYE2018 1 FYE 2019 1 SUPPLY CHAIN At LIXIL Corporation in Japan, whenever a product-related Number of significant product-related accidents 4 3 8 accident occurs, information is gathered in the Quality Emergency Procedure for Responding to Accidents & Six Sigma Division within 24 hours from the receipt of Customers & Supply Chain Customer Accident occurs notification, and an emergency notice is sent out to relevant Inform Respond departments. The division in charge of customer services Responsible Supply Chain reports such high-risk product-related accidents directly to Division receiving the initial information Customer Services Division Management Report First report Initial guidance Cooperate senior management to ensure a swift response. The division within Relevant divisions Report major accidents Product Safety & Quality also coordinates with other departments to implement 24 hours Quality & Six Sigma Division on-site response and investigation of an accident. A report LIXIL Personnel handling initial information Customer Satisfaction Inform is submitted to the relevant authorities within ten days as Investigate & compile an Serious Product Accident Committee within 10 days stipulated by the Japanese government’s reporting and Request effective response meeting disclosure procedures on product accidents under the Regulatory reporting personnel Request Consumer Product Safety Act. To prevent a recurrence, we report Report Report reflect lessons learned from accidents in design schematics, and proactively improve preventative safety technology. Authorities Consumer Affairs Agency National Institute of Technology & Evaluation (NITE) Regarding suspected illegal occurrences, the technology or other relevant departments will ascertain if an infringement training sessions for different job types on Japan’s Electrical Long-Term Guarantee to Facilitate Long, has occurred, and submit a report to the competent Appliance and Material Safety Act for approximately 450 Safe Customer Use authorities. We follow a similar process for suspected legal employees across ten offices. infringements as for product-related accidents; namely, we Today, houses are designed to last much longer than in conduct a thorough investigation of the cause and decide Conveying How to Use Products Safely the past. In recognition of these changing trends, LIXIL appropriate countermeasures to prevent a recurrence. Corporation offers a maximum ten-year LIXIL Long-term The LIXIL Group publishes product-specific instructions Guarantee Service that enables customers to use products Product Safety Education for all of its major products on the website to ensure safe safely over a longer period of time. product use, along with videos illustrating how to care for Praised as a pioneering development in the industry, this LIXIL Corporation provides product quality education through and clean products to ensure appropriate use. service enabled LIXIL to win the Excellence Award in the a training framework tailored to individual job types and large manufacturer and importer category at the 8th Best levels. In FYE2019, LIXIL Corporation conducted product WEB Product & installation manuals (Japanese only) Contributors to Product Safety Awards in 2014. safety training for new technical-stream employees, and WEB How-to videos (Japanese only) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 65 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Customers & Supply Chain > Product Safety & Quality 06 CUSTOMERS & External Activities Safety Education Program: Consumer Education SUPPLY CHAIN Think about Safety in the Home As part of its product safety-related activities, LIXIL LIXIL Corporation creates opportunities for consumers to Customers & Supply Chain Corporation has developed a safety training program with the consider how to ensure safety and prevent accidents in not-for-profit Association of Corporation and Education (ACE) the home, by conducting themed lectures on safety in the Responsible Supply Chain for fifth and sixth year elementary students, and provided home at product safety seminars hosted by the National Management this program for free to school teachers and educators. In Federation of Regional Women’s Organizations and other Product Safety & Quality FYE2019, LIXIL employees also used this program to give 14 consumer-related organizations. In FYE2019, the seminars lessons in seven schools to approximately 500 children. The were conducted at ten different halls for approximately Customer Satisfaction program also won the Outstanding Performance Award at 1,000 participants. the Instructional Materials for Consumer Education Awards 2014 conducted by the National Institute on Consumer Education (NICE). Product safety seminar WEB Details about the activity (Japanese only) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 66 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Customers & Supply Chain > Customer Satisfaction 06 CUSTOMERS & CUSTOMER SATISFACTION The LIXIL Group is constantly enhancing its products and services and promoting communication across the Group to ensure continued and improved customer satisfaction. SUPPLY CHAIN Our Approach & System To ensure that our customers enjoy all aspects Improving Customer Safety in Times of Disasters of their living spaces, the LIXIL Group seeks to Customers & Supply Chain maximize customer satisfaction among both LIXIL Corporation started to provide disaster-response information in recognition of the more frequent construction-related commercial customers and occurrence of natural disasters and the rising number of related customer enquiries. We have also been working Responsible Supply Chain end consumers. Developing and providing products to strengthen our support systems so that we can respond to customer enquiries even during a disaster. Management and services that fulfill customer expectations Product Safety & Quality and communicating effectively with relevant Providing Reassuring Customer Support Communicating Disaster-Response and stakeholders are vital to improving customer by Moving Telephone-Based Services Customer Satisfaction Disaster-Recovery Key Points satisfaction. LIXIL Corporation’s Marketing onto the Cloud The damage to personal homes in times of disasters greatly During a disaster, we receive a higher number of emergency Division and quality and EHS headquarters work impacts the everyday lives of our customers. Our website offers inquiries from affected customers. However, it is difficult for our consistently together to improve our products and relevant information for each type of natural disaster, including call centers to respond if they have also suffered damage. To services based on customer feedback. how to repair LIXIL products, in order to help customers get back ensure we can continue to support our customers even in times of on their feet as soon as possible and regain a sense of normality. disasters, we have moved our contact facility onto the cloud and We try hard to ensure this information is widely available by increased our number of satellite bases. This has enabled us to posting it on our website and regularly providing disaster-related create a more decentralized call center network in order to make information through our LIXIL Owners Club, as well as by posting our infrastructure more resilient, and establish a system that is it on our official social media accounts when a disaster strikes. more responsive to customer concerns in times of disasters. Product-specific disaster-response examples: • How to flush a toilet in times of suspended or restricted water supply • How to cope with a collapsed carport or terrace roof • How to deal with broken window panes • How to prevent freezing in bathrooms and bathtubs Types of disasters: earthquake, flood, power outage, typhoon, water outage, heavy snowfall/freezing WEB  ey points for responding to specific disasters K (Japanese only) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 67 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Customers & Supply Chain > Customer Satisfaction 06 CUSTOMERS & Implementing the Six Sigma Quality Management Method Professional User Satisfaction of Products and Support Services Customer Inquiries (Thousand) (%) SUPPLY CHAIN LIXIL Corporation considers customer satisfaction （%） 500 100 90 400 80 a significant element of its business activities. In order 300 60 80 to listen attentively to the voices of our customers (VOC) 200 40 Customers & Supply Chain and channel those opinions into creating better products 70 100 20 and services, we have introduced the Six Sigma system. 60 0 0 Responsible Supply Chain This system involves listening to customer opinions and 50 FYE2017 FYE2018 FYE2019 Management pinpointing issues for improvement. Then, instead of making FYE2017 FYE2018 FYE2019 Response rates Inquiries: By phone, email or fax Product Safety & Quality judgements based on instinct and experience, we focus on Inquiries (monthly average) Response rates: Number of responses / Total number of inquiries Satisfaction level on product quality facts derived from numerical analyses to help control any Customer Satisfaction Satisfaction level on showroom services variation in our work and services, ultimately helping lead to Satisfaction level on services by sales reps Satisfaction level on after-sales maintenance CS improvement quality improvements. We have established an interdivisional Collecting VOC* information activities (making Satisfaction level on call center support Analysis (ensuring customers’ (visualization) effective use of team across Group companies to promote the improvement opinions are recorded) customers’ opinions) initiatives. We also collect approximately 300,000 comments from Customer customers each month through our customer service center, Service Center 100,000 Reflecting Commercial Customer Opinions repair center, and product information support center. This End user inquiries per month VOC* database Products in Our Products and Services data is stored in our database and shared with relevant departments to encourage measures to improve and Repair Center LIXIL Corporation conducts satisfaction surveys of ultimately boost the quality of our products and services. In 150,000 inquiries /mth Contractor its commercial customers. In FYE2019, we achieved addition, our customer service center sends a questionnaire General Service Product an average satisfaction rate of 70.6% in terms of the to customers who have recently contacted the center to Information Support Center 290,000 cases quality of our products and customer support, including rate the quality of service received, and also conducts 40,000 /mth inquiries /mth showrooms, call centers, aftersales maintenance, and sales mystery shopping surveys. We use the results to improve our Outlet Showrooms representatives. communication and enhance customer satisfaction. Improvement activities * VOC: Voice of Customers WEB  xamples of service improvement through the VOC E (Japanese only) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 68 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Customers & Supply Chain > Customer Satisfaction 06 CUSTOMERS & Training: How to Improve Customer Satisfaction LIXIL Owners Club SUPPLY CHAIN We hold practical construction-related training workshops for With the launch of its membership-based LIXIL Owners commercial customers on window sashes, doors, exteriors, Club, LIXIL Corporation is seeking to improve customer kitchens, and bathrooms with the aim of improving end satisfaction by providing information and services that will Customers & Supply Chain consumer satisfaction. We also conduct regular training enable customers to use purchased items comfortably and for employees to improve their level of knowledge about our safely over a long period of time. Responsible Supply Chain overall work and products so that they can resolve any problems Management customers face. Furthermore, we seek to boost motivation by Examples of available services: Product Safety & Quality offering rewards for excellent customer service skills. • Ability to extend guarantee period free of charge • Long-term guarantee service (additional payment required Customer Satisfaction for a five or ten year guarantee) • Maintenance package (additional payment required) Product training Hands-on product knowledge training using actual toilets Construction training WEB LIXIL Owners Club (Japanese only) Carport foundation construction training Recognition system Award recipients of a regularlyheld customer service contest LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 69 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance 07 SOCIETY SOCIETY We uphold the human rights of all our stakeholders in our determined drive to promote business activities and contribute to society. Society Human Rights Stakeholder Engagement Community LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 70 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Society > Highlight 07 Highlight Stakeholder Engagement SOCIETY Target Proactively engage with LIXIL’s key stakeholders. Society Meeting with investors LIXIL Community Day participants Human Rights 359 times 6,938 employees Stakeholder Engagement Community (FYE2019) (FYE2019) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 71 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Society > Human Rights 07 SOCIETY HUMAN RIGHTS We aim to operate as a sustainable, responsible corporate citizen that respects human rights. Our Approach & System Human Rights Principles Based on the LIXIL Group Human Rights Principles, we LIXIL Group business activities are built on a fundamental LIXIL Group strive to uphold the human rights of all stakeholders, respect for human rights. The LIXIL Group Human Rights Human Rights Principles Society including end-users, suppliers and other business partners, Principles, established in March 2016, align with international residents living near our factories and offices, and our standards, International Bill of Human Rights, the International employees. LIXIL Group also established the Human Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Our commitment Human Rights Rights Due Diligence Task Force in FYE2018, comprising Principles and Rights at Work, and the UN Guiding Principles Stakeholder Engagement Our approach managers from Corporate Responsibility, Human Resources, on Business and Human Rights, and we seek to instill a Community Compliance, Global Auditing and Purchasing departments, solid understanding of the principles among all officers • Respect the human rights of customers with the aim of strengthening and ensuring strict adherence and employees. If there are any discrepancies between • Respect the human rights in the workplace to human rights due diligence processes* as a global the internationally recognized human rights standards and • Respect the human rights of business partners company. Going forward, we will extend the scope of these the laws and regulations of individual countries or regions, • Due diligence human rights due diligence processes to the entire Group we adhere to the higher commitment. If any contradictions • Remedy and provide transparent reports on our performance. exist, we seek a way of respecting internationally recognized • Education/instilling The LIXIL Group has signed the United Nations Global human rights standards while complying with local laws and Compact, and is a member of the Human Rights Due Diligence regulations. Our engagement Working Group of the Global Compact Network Japan. • Cooperation with stakeholders Instilling Human Rights Principles • Reporting *Due diligence on human rights: To put in place measures that identify, within the Group prevent, reduce, or respond to any negative impact on human rights caused by the activities of a company or its related companies, and to regularly monitor their effectiveness The LIXIL Group completed the training on its Human Rights PDF LIXIL Group Human Rights Principles (76KB) Principles for all employees and officers by FYE2019. In Japan, we sought to deepen employee understanding by encouraging staff to debate business-related human rights issues in meetings held by individual departments. In FYE2019, we worked to instill a broad understanding of the importance of upholding human rights by holding training sessions for all employees and officers outside Japan, covering our policies relating to the banning of discrimination and harassment. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 72 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Society > Human Rights 07 SOCIETY Strengthening Human Rights Due Diligence violations and ensure improvements are made. We will also conduct regular reviews of our human rights due diligence The LIXIL Group is working to strengthen its human rights framework, and ensure highly transparent disclosure of due diligence. Having determined our principles in FYE2016, relevant content and processes. the following year we conducted risk mapping in the CR Committee, which is made up of executive officers from each Requiring Our Business Partners to Uphold Society functional division in the head office and representatives Human Rights from each of the technology businesses. We invited the BSR Human Rights human rights NGO to give lectures on social trends relating to LIXIL Corporation has implemented a Supplier Code of business and human rights, and pinpointed human rights risks Conduct which requires its business partners to take action Stakeholder Engagement across the lifecycle of LIXIL products. In FYE2018, our newly against human rights risks. We use supplier questionnaires Community established Human Rights Due Diligence Task Force created to maintain a clear understanding of how those efforts are a survey sheet of 76 items, and conducted a test run in all progressing. head office departments. Based on results of the test run, the LIXIL Group will CR Responsible Supply Chain Management (P60) implement human rights due diligence across all global operations by FYE2021 to help define and reduce LIXIL Concern-Raising System business-related human rights risks for customers, employees, business partners and other stakeholders, The LIXIL Group operates an internal concern-raising system and to respond swiftly and sincerely to any human rights called Speak Up! for reporting human rights and other concerns relating to the entire Group, including subsidiaries outside Japan. We welcome information from our business partners such as suppliers and service providers on any potential compliance violations by the LIXIL Group. SPEAK UP! Risk mapping in the CR Committee WEB Concern-raising system Speak Up! LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 73 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Society > Stakeholder Engagement 07 SOCIETY STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT The LIXIL Group proactively engages with stakeholders to help improve the quality of people’s daily lives and resolve social issues. Our Approach Our success depends on the support of a broad range of stakeholders. We are committed to Society proactively engaging with our stakeholders (including customers, business partners, members Customers Employees Human Rights of the communities where our operational facilities are located, shareholders, our employees and Stakeholder Engagement their families) to collect and reflect their opinions Business Community NPOs & NGOs in our business operations and corporate social partners responsibility activities. Relationship with Stakeholders Educational The LIXIL Group invites external experts to hold Local LIXIL and communities sustainability workshops for the CR Committee, which consists of officers from each functional Group research institutions division in the head office and representatives from each technology business. In FYE2018, we held a second top-level meeting exploring how international companies are expected to contribute Shareholders Government to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). & investors authorities The meeting started with a lecture from experts on recent sustainability trends, followed by an engaging discussion on how and in what capacity International Industrial organizations associations LIXIL could effectively contribute to the SDGs now and in the future. Ideas proposed in the discussion will be reflected in our future CR activities. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 74 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Society > Stakeholder Engagement 07 SOCIETY Key Stakeholder Engagement Government Authorities and Customers CR Details (P67) Shareholders and Investors WEB Details Industrial Associations We incorporate customer opinions, and provide timely We held 359 discussions this year with investors Engaging in vigorous but transparent dialogue with Society and appropriate disclosure on our products and around the world to help promote sustainable growth government authorities is necessary to shaping a services. We offer customer support via telephone, and enhance corporate value. We disclose timely and sustainable society. As part of this process, we are Human Rights email, and 135 showrooms worldwide. transparent information in English and Japanese through involved in several industrial and business associations our Annual Report (Integrated Report from FYE2016), whose missions include engaging with public authorities Stakeholder Engagement our Investor Relations web pages, and the Tokyo Stock on behalf of their respective industries, including Community Exchange website. window sashes, plumbing, and metals. Participating Suppliers CR Details (P60) in these associations helps keep us up-to-date with current and pending changes in laws and international agreements that may affect our business. We build and maintain strong relationships with our Employees CR Details (P28) suppliers by facilitating two-way communication. In response to the results of our Responsible Procurement (Total political contributions: Less than JPY 1 million in FYE2017; less than JPY 1.1 million in FYE2018; Less than JPY 0.8 million in FYE2019) Surveys, we share our procurement policies, recognize The LIXIL Group boasts approximately 75,000 (Total fees relating to industrial associations and others*: JPY 55 million current circumstances, and follow through on promised employees. We strive to create an inspiring working in FYE2017; JPY 97.6 million in FYE2018; JPY 86.2 million in FYE2019) improvements. We also hold regular meetings with environment that encourages diversity and incorporates * Total fees from FYE2015, FYE2017 and FYE2019 start to include ASD Americas Holding Corp. (American Standard), GROHE Group S.à r.l. suppliers to share information on regulatory trends and employee opinions expressed through systematic global (GROHE), and Permasteelisa S.p.A., respectively new corporate purchasing strategies. employee satisfaction surveys or discussions between the union and the company. Local Communities CR Details (P78) NPOs, NGOs, and Educational and Research Institutions The LIXIL Group operates 103 factories worldwide. As a responsible corporate citizen, in addition to respecting We partner with NPOs, NGOs, and educational and local culture and customs and creating responsible research institutions for research and development products and jobs, we also contribute to the development related to global sanitation, and support environmental of the surrounding community in which we operate. We education for next-generation leaders. hold community dialogues at factories and sales offices in Japan to encourage communication with local residents. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 75 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Society > Stakeholder Engagement 07 SOCIETY Stakeholder Cooperation in Our Three Strategic Pillars LIXIL Corporation is pursuing cooperative initiatives together ● Water Conservation and Environmental Sustainability with stakeholders to help promote its Three Strategic Pillars. My Bottle Promotion Campaign ● Global Sanitation and Hygiene We are taking determined action on water conservation Society Toilets for All Project and environmental protection together with customers through the My Bottle Promotion campaign. The campaign, Human Rights End-user customers, professional building contractor launched in 2017, gives LIXIL branded bottles to customers customers and LIXIL employees are currently participating in who ask for a price quotation on water filter taps at our Stakeholder Engagement our Toilets for All project, which was launched in 2017 with showrooms. LIXIL water filter taps help reduce water Community the aim of deepening understanding of sanitation problems consumption and CO2 emissions through their eco-handles in developing countries and encouraging improvements. and other functions. People can reduce plastic bottle waste In 2017 and 2018, for each LIXIL shower toilet sold, LIXIL by filling the LIXIL bottle with filtered tap water and bringing Corporation donated one of its innovative SATO toilet systems it to school or the office. to a developing country in Asia and Africa. Those donations In 2017 we have also distributed LIXIL bottles to all LIXIL totaled 208,805 toilets in 2017 and 203,454 toilets in 2018. Group employees in Japan, and replaced the taps in all We started off by donating SATO toilets through international Japanese offices with LIXIL filter taps to encourage our organizations and NGOs to Rohingya refugee camps in employees to conserve water. Bangladesh and to regions and people in urgent need in India, Tanzania and Rwanda. We will continue to donate to individual countries and regions that require access to basic toilet facilities. In 2019, we are also donating a portion of sales through the LIXIL and UNICEF initiative named Make a Splash! Toilets for All. WEB Toilets for All Project (Japanese only) Children with the donated SATO toilets WEB My Bottle Promotion Campaign (Japanese only) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 76 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Society > Stakeholder Engagement 07 SOCIETY ● Water Conservation and Environmental Sustainability THINK HEAT: ● Diversity and Inclusion Universal Run: Let’s THINK about Eco-Friendly Temperatures Sports Prosthesis Experience Class We launched the THINK HEAT project in 2018 to consider Our Universal Run: Sports Prosthesis Experience Classes, with our customers the importance of indoor temperature, launched in 2017, provide a chance to deepen children’s Society which can cause heatstroke or heat shock, and the efficient understanding of diversity. Thanks to the cooperation of use of heaters and air-conditioners, which account for Paralympic and other athletes who use artificial limbs in Human Rights approximately 25% of household energy consumption. At sports, this experience-based class and discussion provides our showrooms, we distributed LIXIL branded thermometers an opportunity to change the way children perceive people Stakeholder Engagement to customers who asked for a quotation on products that with disabilities. The classes are organized together with Community improve residential insulation and thermal efficiency in schools and local authorities, and our local staff join in the Donated Style Shade sun blinds to public housing of Kumamoto Prefecture order to promote their interest in indoor temperature and for disaster victims classes, too. the efficient use of heater and air-conditioners. We also distributed LIXIL thermometers to all Group employees in Japan to help change their daily behavior and raise awareness of indoor temperature. We are also working with local governments to spread knowledge among local communities on how to prevent indoor heatstroke through our Cool Peace Project. For example, we held seminars on indoor heatstroke in Kumagaya city, Saitama and donated Style Shade sun blinds to public housing units for disaster victims in Nishihara village, Kumamoto. Through these initiatives, we help create comfortable indoor living environments during the peak of summer. Held a briefing session for the residents WEB Universal Run: Sports Prosthesis Experience Class WEB THINK HEAT: Let’s THINK about Eco-Friendly (Japanese only) Temperatures (Japanese only) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 77 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Society > Community 07 SOCIETY COMMUNITY As a corporate citizen, we are working on various activities to help solve community-specific problems. Our Approach & System The LIXIL Group focuses on making a positive LIXIL Community Day social impact in priority areas such as global Society sanitation and hygiene, water conservation and In 2017, we started LIXIL Community Day, a day when executives and employees environmental sustainability, and diversity and from all workplaces and regions around the world take part in corporate citizenship Human Rights inclusion, as well as in areas where our expertise activities during working hours. Staff participation roughly doubled for our second LIXIL can make the biggest difference. Our CEO is Community Day, held in FYE2019, with some 6,900 employees in 23 countries working Stakeholder Engagement a member of our Endowments and Consulting on 115 projects for a total of 18,050 hours. Outstanding initiatives were recognized Community Review Committee, which meets regularly to through the LIXIL Community Day Awards. LIXIL Interior Products Division staff screen, assess and prioritize significant donations selling sweets to colleagues and sponsorships in order to ensure our profits ● Global Sanitation & Hygiene Category contribute to society appropriately and effectively. PT American Standard Indonesia and PT LIXIL Provided classes on toilet repair and educated kids about handwashing at PKBM AlTrading Indonesia (Indonesia) Falah, a school on the outskirts of Jakarta for children whose parents earn a living by Social Contribution Expenditures picking up recyclable garbage. (Million Yen) ● Water Conservation & Environmental Sustainability Category FYE FYE FYE 2017 2018 2019 LIXIL Corporation ZEH Promotion Division (Japan) Staff initiative aimed at reducing electricity and gas consumption in the home. Charitable 122.8 45.5 81.2 donations AS Maquilla Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. (Mexico) Visit to a local elementary school that involved teaching about water conservation, planting 30 trees, and repairing toilet tanks. Community 880.8 658.2 1,147.8 investments GROHE (Baltic States, Northern Europe) Created a picture book about the impact of plastic waste on our oceans. Commercial 660.6 510.0 510.0 initiatives ● Diversity & Inclusion Category *Exclude Permasteelisa S.p.A. for FYE2017 and FYE2018 data *Monetary and other contributions have been collected and LIXIL Corporation Interior Products Division (Japan) Worked with three organizations that support the employment of people with categorized in accordance to the London Benchmarking disabilities in confectionary production, and sold the sweets to LIXIL colleagues. Group Guidance Manual Decorative Panels International (USA) Assisted with lunch preparation and cleaning at homeless shelters. Worked with NPOs to provide meals and household goods to underprivileged children. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 78 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Society > Community 07 SOCIETY Initiative Examples Youth Empowerment: Training highly skilled plumbers not only helps GROHE to people living in disaster-affected areas so that they can Plumbing Skills for a More Secure Future secure access to reliable personnel for installing GROHE feel safer. In 2016, several thousand SATO products were products, but also helps advance the overall industry. A similar delivered to Bangladesh with the help of the BRAC, an Underprivileged young people in emerging countries often program will be introduced in Nairobi, Kenya in 2019. international NGO working to support people suffering with Society lack the skills to secure stable employment, while at the poverty worldwide. same time the local society suffers a chronic shortage Providing Safe Sanitation for Communities in Need 2018 saw the launch of our Make a Splash! Toilets for All Human Rights of skilled workers. GROHE addresses this issue through partnership with UNICEF. Focusing on countries in Asia and GROHE Dual Tech, conducted in conjunction with Don SATO products are innovative, life-saving, low-cost solutions Africa, we will continue working with UNICEF and other UN Stakeholder Engagement Bosco Mondo e.V., a non-profit organization committed to that provide safe and hygienic sanitation for people in bodies, along with international NGOs such as WaterAid and Community helping disadvantaged young people obtain a job. developing countries. In addition to expanding the SATO Habitat for Humanity, to increase public awareness of the The German-modeled, dual-track training program, which business to reach more people in Asia and Africa, the LIXIL importance of safe, hygienic toilets. provides students with technical knowledge and professional Group has been working on donation activities with NGOs skills on plumbing as well as IT and English-language to support communities in urgent need, including disaster CR Global Sanitation & Hygiene (P14) skills, has been in place in Mumbai, India since 2009. The areas. We are committed to helping ensure a safe and CR Toilets for All Project (P76) program was then expanded to New Delhi, the Tondo district sanitary environment as part of our disaster relief efforts. in Manila, and the Philippines. To date, over 1,200 young Inadequate or damaged facilities and insufficient human people have taken part in the program, and near 100% of resources in disaster areas exacerbate already poor sanitary students have been placed in jobs upon their graduation. conditions and the spread of disease. The Caribbean island of Haiti, the poorest nation in the western hemisphere, witnessed a further deterioration in its already insufficient sanitary environment following the 2010 earthquake. American Standard engineers worked with Plumbers without Borders (PWB) to teach students at Haiti Tec plumbing skills and how to improve hygiene. In addition, the company donated 7,900 SATO products to towns and villages in Haiti and surrounding countries with the help of NGOs like PWB and Food for the Poor. SATO products were also delivered to survivors of the 2015 devastating earthquakes in Nepal with the help of NGO WaterAid. Through these activities, we GROHE Dual Tech students at the training facility in Mumbai are working to help provide access to adequate sanitation Teaching plumbing skills and how to improve hygiene to students in Haiti LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 79 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Society > Community 07 SOCIETY Turn Water into Food Program: Contribution to where schools are among the highest public spaces for Communities by Supporting Water Conservation water consumption. Since 2012, GROHE has been participating in the Water Solving Sanitation Problems in Nearby Communities Society for Life project, which seeks to reduce water usage through the introduction of advanced technology and promotional LIXIL Americas is engaged in tackling sanitation problems Human Rights campaigns in the Middle East and Africa, where water is within the United States. In the Navajo Nation, our skilled extremely scarce. staff joined forces with the International Association of Stakeholder Engagement Part of the initiative revolves around the Turn Water into Plumbing and Mechanical Officials (IAPMO) to bring running Community Food program, conducted together with local food banks water to ten households. Teaming up with universities and since 2015. In this program, GROHE purchases food public agencies, we also worked to raise public awareness packages to donate to local families requiring support, of sanitation problems among residents of Lowndes County, equivalent in monetary terms to the amount of money saved Alabama, where 80% of homes are not connected to the by introducing GROHE water efficient products. To date, the public sewage system. Going forward, we plan to explore the program has been conducted in Saudi Arabia, Egypt and possibility of establishing local sewage treatment, and use Turkey and then extended to Jordan in 2018, and provided LIXIL products to improve the facilities of 100 households food support to a total of over 2,710 families. Water efficient each year. taps were introduced in an all-girls high school in Jordan, Gifts given to children through the Christmas Tree Activity Delivering Christmas Gifts to Children Local Community Engagement: Community Through the Christmas Tree Activity, GROHE staff helped Dialogue in Factories and Sales and Retail Bases children whose families struggle with poverty or alcoholism in Dusseldorf and Hemer, Germany, where the company LIXIL Corporation regularly holds community dialogues headquarters is located. At Christmas, we fulfilled the wish with local stakeholders (such as local government officials, lists of these children by giving a total of 85 presents. business owners, and residents) on how we can give back to the community. These dialogues are held at factories and sales and retail bases around Japan. In FYE2018, LIXIL Corporation held community dialogues at 11 locations in Japan, attracting over 90 participants. Over the past six Receiving food through the Turn Water into Food program years, we have held over 110 community dialogues in total. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 80 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Society > Community 07 SOCIETY We cultivate meaningful relations with local residents and LIXIL Omotenashi Toilet Cleaning at Tourist Site Disaster Aid and Recovery Support in Japan authorities by implementing initiatives based on opinions received through community dialogues and ensuring consistent In 2014, Shikoku area staff started the LIXIL Omotenashi LIXIL Corporation has supported various recovery efforts communication and follow up in order to gain trust from Toilet Cleaning at Tourist Site initiative to express the following the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami Society the local community. For example, our Handa Factory in Japanese spirit of hospitality by ensuring that visitors were in Northeast Japan and the April 2016 earthquake in Aichi started to help local day-care centers with emergency greeted with clean toilets. As a toilet manufacturer and Kumamoto. These activities include donations of basic daily Human Rights evacuation procedures after a principal voiced concern retailer, LIXIL expanded this unique initiative to 39 areas in necessities such as toilets and hand-washing facilities, that the predominately female staff might not be physically 17 prefectures throughout Hokkaido, North Kanto, Chubu, monetary donations, employee-driven charity events, and Stakeholder Engagement capable of evacuating all the children safely on their own. Chugoku, and Shikoku, with employees and local residents sponsoring of recovery projects. Community LIXIL VIVA Corporation began community dialogues in working together to clean public toilet facilities. In FYE2019, In FYE2018, our Tohoku branch office launched a project FYE2013. In FYE2019, meetings at six stores brought 1,196 employees cleaned toilets in 334 public facilities to repay the generous support received from around Japan together participants from community councils, schools, and together with local residents. in the wake of the 2011 earthquake and tsunami. Using centers providing employment and support for people with This initiative has been certified by the Tokyo 2020 proceeds from the sale of select refurbishment products, disabilities, facilitating an exchange of views on issues such as Official Program (urban development category) for fostering the Tohoku branch donated 500,000 yen to each of five regional disaster prevention, employment for people with a commitment to heartfelt omotenashi hospitality through disaster-affected prefectures as a gesture of gratitude. disabilities, and work experience for junior high-school students. cleaning activities towards realization of universal society. Donated windows and toilets to the Minamisoma Playground for All recovery support project Community dialogue (LIXIL VIVA) Toilet cleaning initiative WEB Details about Community Dialogue (Japanese only) WEB LIXIL Omotenashi Toilet Cleaning at Tourist Site initiative WEB Details about Disaster Aid and Recovery Support (Japanese only) (Japanese only) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 81 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance Society > Community 07 SOCIETY Cooperating with Various Partner Organizations Environmental, Cultural and Social Activities (examples) Working together to promote safe sanitary Encouraging our employees and their UNICEF Society facilities in Africa. Environmental families to participate in voluntary activities preservation to protect forest and mountain environments Promoting field trials of the water-saving activities in cooperation with government, NPOs and JICA Micro Flush Toilet System in Kenya. forestry cooperatives. Human Rights Cooperating to improve the lives of people Promoting cultural activities in areas related Stakeholder Engagement living in areas without hygienic toilets, to our history, such as management of Cultural activities and compiled together a white paper ceramic and textile museums and galleries, Community WaterAid that analyzes the socioeconomic losses and publishing. associated with underdeveloped sanitary environments. Sanitation, environment and Offering educational classes at primary Helping develop sustainable, large-scale universal design schools on the global sanitation challenge, Toilet Board potential sanitation solutions as a founding educational environment and universal design. Coalition member of this multi-industry group. activities Conducting awareness surveys with this NPO to identify issues LGBT and other NIJIIRO sexual minorities encounter when using WEB Environmental preservation activities (Japanese only) DIVERSITY public toilets, with the aim of providing a comfortable toilet space for all. WEB Cultural activities WEB Sanitation, environment and universal design educational activities (Japanese only) WEB Other Japan-based activities (Japanese only) WEB Partnership with UNICEF PDF Special Report: The True Cost of Poor Sanitation (10.2MB) WEB Toilet Board Coalition WEB Activities with NIJIIRO DIVERSITY (Japanese only) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 82 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance 08 ESG DATA, ESG DATA, SCOPE OF REPORTING SCOPE OF REPORTING AND GRI AND GRI We publish our 2020 action plans, employee and environment-related data, ESG Data, Scope of Reporting scope of reporting, and GRI sustainability reporting guidelines comparison charts. and GRI External Evaluations & Awards Action Plan & KPIs Human Resource Performance Environmental Performance Scope of Reporting GRI Index TCFD Index LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 83 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance ESG Data, Scope of Reporting and GRI > External Evaluations & Awards 08 ESG DATA, EXTERNAL EVALUATIONS & AWARDS Evaluations of the Group and Subsidiaries SCOPE OF REPORTING AND GRI Award Year Award Year ESG Data, Scope of Reporting Included for the first time in the DJSI World Index, Won the Deputy Chiefs’ Award given and GRI and for three consecutive years September 2019 by Japan’s Minister of Foreign Affairs December 2018 in the DJSI Asia-Pacific Index at the 2nd Japan SDGs Awards External Evaluations & Awards Action Plan & KPIs Included in the FTSE4Good Index Series Won the Innovation of the Year Award Human Resource Performance and the FTSE Blossom Japan Index June 2019 at Ethical Corporation Responsible Business Awards October 2018 for three consecutive years (for the LIXIL Group's sanitation activities) Environmental Performance Scope of Reporting Included in the MSCI Japan Received the Gold, the highest award level, GRI Index Empowering Women (WIN) Select Index June 2019 in the Pride Index 2018 October 2018 TCFD Index for three consecutive years for two consecutive years Included in the S&P Japan 500 ESG Index June 2019 Included in the S&P/JPX Carbon Efficient Index September 2018 Recognized by Japan Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and Tokyo Stock Exchange as a Certified Health Selected as a Nadeshiko Brand for two consecutive years March 2019 February 2018 and Productivity Management Organization for three consecutive years Received the Eruboshi (L Star) certification from Minister of Health, Labor and Welfare based on Named as a CDP Water 2018 A List company January 2019 January 2017 Japan's Act on Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 84 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance ESG Data, Scope of Reporting and GRI > External Evaluations & Awards 08 ESG DATA, Evaluations of Our Products SCOPE OF REPORTING AND GRI Award Product or brand Award Product or brand being awarded being awarded ESG Data, Scope of Reporting and GRI INAX, GROHE, LIXIL ALLER-PURE (allergeniF DESIGN AWARD 2019 American Standard, TOSTEM, 12th Kids Design Awards mitigating decorative tiles) External Evaluations & Awards LIXIL, DXV, NITTO CERA and Style Shade (window shades) Action Plan & KPIs Human Resource Performance Environmental Performance A total of 11 products of Scope of Reporting INAX, GROHE, LIXIL Group brands Red Dot Award: Product Design 2019 American Standard, TOSTEM, 2018 Good Design Awards * American Standard won GRI Index LIXIL, DXV, NITTO CERA the Good Design Best 100 award for its bathroom products TCFD Index Resilience Award Grand Prize Nikkei Sangyo Shimbun Award of Excellence, (Corporate & Industry section), Resilience Toilet 2018 Nikkei Superior Products TOSTEM LW window 2019 Japan Resilience Awards and Services Awards Agency for Natural Resources and Judge Committee Special Award, SATO simple toilet system Energy Director General Prize, Tatetoku Value 7th Technology Management and Innovation Awards for developing countries FY2018 Energy Conservation Awards (zero energy House) * Awarded to LIXIL TEPCO Smart Partners Incorporated 平成30年度 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 85 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance ESG Data, Scope of Reporting and GRI > Action Plan & KPIs 08 ESG DATA, ACTION PLAN & KPIS KPIs SCOPE OF REPORTING GOVERNANCE AND GRI Compliance On track Needs attention ESG Data, Scope of Reporting Reorganize Group-wide compliance system and clarify compliance rules and GRI FYE2021 Targets FYE2019 Progress Details Progress Level External Evaluations & Awards • Establish a system for conducting compliance reviews of appropriately defined business units at a • Conducted the specified number of compliance reviews, completed reporting by the end of March, and reflected in upcoming fiscal year measures (Japan-based companies with a compliance frequency determined using a risk-based approach (annual or biennial) Action Plan & KPIs committee and companies with accountable managers) • Establish an effectively functioning system by creating a framework to operate and improve our Group• Established compliance committees or alternative meeting structures in all business units worldwide. Human Resource Performance wide compliance system and allocating appropriate resources (budget and human resources) Distributed compliance guidelines, including fundamental rules • Establish a system for holding compliance committee meetings or alternative meetings for each • Held each committee meeting between two to four times a year. Built a framework for timely reporting Environmental Performance appropriately defined business unit at least twice a year, and reporting the results in a timely manner of meeting results to the Group compliance committee to the Group compliance committee • LIXIL Group compliance committee met four times a year Scope of Reporting GRI Index Strengthening compliance education and training across the Group TCFD Index FYE2021 Targets FYE2019 Progress Details Progress Level • Basic training completion and acknowledgement rate: 96.1% • Maintain and improve Group Code of Conduct basic training and acknowledgement mechanism 96% in Japan and 96.3% outside Japan (LWT EMENA: 90.8%, Americas: 94%, APAC: 100%, LIXIL • Create a central framework for planning and tracking history of compliance education and training Africa: 88%, LBT: 94.5%, four LHT companies (G2J*): 99.8%) *G2J is the abbreviation for Global to Japan. G2J factories are manufacturing facilities located outside Japan that manufacture • Basic training completion and acknowledgement rate: 100% products for the Japanese market • Training completion rate by region and employee level: 100% • Not achieved due to variation in training completion rates by region and employee level. Continue to implement in FYE2020 Unify Group-wide concern-raising system and ensure familiarity FYE2021 Targets FYE2019 Progress Details Progress Level • Familiarity with the internal concern-raising system in Japan: 63.3%. Number of concerns raised: 187 • Ensure Speak Up! is well known and used as a common system across the Group to track and in Japan and 191 outside Japan (Total: 378) manage concerns raised • Conducted compliance events in each region in October and November to promote education and • Use Speak Up! as a point of contact for customers and business partners to raise compliance-related build awareness concerns • Currently preparing an internal system to summarize internal concerns raised. Therefore, external • Disclose important compliance indicators, including number and summary of concerns raised disclosure is still pending LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 86 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance ESG Data, Scope of Reporting and GRI > Action Plan & KPIs 08 ESG DATA, Risk Management Establish a risk management framework that seeks to reduce the frequency and minimize the damage of critical events FYE2021 Targets FYE2019 Progress Details Progress Level SCOPE OF REPORTING • Risk management systems developed in all Group companies AND GRI Foster a culture in which risks are owned by respective executives (risk owners) in all global • Group Internal Audit Committee performed quarterly monitoring of response of risk owners to significant Group-wide risks organizations. Encourage risk owners, the risk management department, and the audit department to • Intend to review a list of Group risks in the upcoming fiscal year, and conduct risk assessments cooperate in the promotion of risk countermeasures to control enterprise risks on a daily basis ESG Data, Scope of Reporting of major businesses and regional operations worldwide. Based on the results, we plan to identify and GRI significant management risks and conduct regular monitoring in the appropriate committee • Crisis management systems developed in all Group companies • Based on the crisis management system established in the previous fiscal year, crisis events that External Evaluations & Awards ○ Cultivate a risk management culture across all global organizations to ensure timely escalation of occurred in Japan and overseas were escalated in a timely manner to Group headquarters Action Plan & KPIs incidents, and formulate timeline-driven action plans to ensure appropriate initial countermeasures • Created a handbook for local companies to ensure thorough initial response and Group-wide acknowledgement of the escalation rules. Distributed this to local managers via the risk manager Human Resource Performance stationed in each region worldwide Environmental Performance Scope of Reporting Information Security GRI Index Formulate and instill Group Information Security Policy TCFD Index FYE2021 Targets FYE2019 Progress Details Progress Level • Ensure the ability to manage and measure activities formulated under the Group Information Security • Revised our information security regulations and reworked a number of detailed rules Policy • Conducted assessments of eight Group companies in Japan • Ensure the security incident response framework is functioning across the Group • Detailed information security rules were implemented at LJSS, LIXIL Housing Research Institute, and • Ensure prompt responses to changes in security-related environments LIXIL REALTY, and are now being compiled at LIXIL VIVA • Ensure an up-to-date and fully acknowledged policy that complies with all local laws and suits • Conducted two training sessions for 30,000 people on how to respond to targeted mail attacks individual company circumstances • Implemented an information security pledge • Update the content of security training for employees to reflect changes in the surrounding • Information security incidents: 2 malware infections (VINAX and TTC) and 8 ID impersonations environment • Formed a system to help strengthen security on a global scale, and decided security strengthening • Implement an auditing and improvement PDCA cycle as a means of assessing security initiatives and implementation schedule for FYE2020 LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 87 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance ESG Data, Scope of Reporting and GRI > Action Plan & KPIs 08 ESG DATA, Intellectual Property Strategy Introduce a Group Intellectual Property Management Guideline and an IP sharing system, and strengthen the global reach and function of the IP Committee FYE2021 Targets FYE2019 Progress Details Progress Level SCOPE OF REPORTING • Maximize the value of the Group’s intellectual property by conducting PDCA for the global IP • Drew up a draft Group IP Management Guideline. Specified the establishment of the IP Committee AND GRI governance structure and processes • Hold IP Committee meetings quarterly • Selected a global IP platform in discussion with all regional operations • Held three global IP Committee meetings with IP Department managers from each region ESG Data, Scope of Reporting Launch and explore an IP strategy pilot project and form a Group IP strategy and GRI FYE2021 Targets FYE2019 Progress Details Progress Level External Evaluations & Awards • Determine global IP strategy based on the growth strategies of each technology business • Launched a new pilot project • Prepare a system for implementing global IP strategy • Started planning the forming of a global IP operation platform Action Plan & KPIs Human Resource Performance Environmental Performance FAIR BUSINESS PRACTICES Scope of Reporting GRI Index Anti-corruption, Transparent Political Relations and Fair Business TCFD Index Determine a Group-wide compliance policy and conduct compliance reviews and compliance education and training FYE2021 Targets FYE2019 Progress Details Progress Level • Achieved 100% coverage of global compliance policy and guidelines (adoption rate by company • Scope of compliance policy coverage (%) unconfirmed) • Completion rate of compliance education and training (%) • Not achieved due to variation in training completion rates by region/specific compliance policy • Number of compliance violations (incidents) • Number of compliance violations: 0 • Adoption rate of global policy and guidelines (%) • Determined global guidelines for implementing business partner due diligence. Plan to conduct • Establish a standard program for minimizing corruption risks of our supply chain and agents etc. training in the FYE2020 and beyond LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 88 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance ESG Data, Scope of Reporting and GRI > Action Plan & KPIs 08 ESG DATA, OUR PEOPLE Diversity and Equal Opportunity SCOPE OF REPORTING Promote the active participation of women in the workplace AND GRI FYE2021 Targets FYE2019 Progress Details Progress Level Achieve at least 30% ratio of women among regularly recruited new hires Ratio of female new graduates employed (incl. those who completed graduate studies): 33.2％ ESG Data, Scope of Reporting (LIXIL Corporation, Japan only) and GRI • Ratio of women among managers: 5.72% Achieve at least 8% ratio of women among managers • Implemented policy to register at least 30% of highly qualified regular employees for planned (LIXIL Corporation, Japan only) successor training in order to increase the number of potential female manager candidates External Evaluations & Awards Achieve participation rate in leadership training programs of at least 20% Action Plan & KPIs Participation in talent acceleration program stage 3 (selective training for young employees): 29.2% (LIXIL Corporation, Japan only) Human Resource Performance Environmental Performance Rewarding Workplaces Scope of Reporting Conduct regular employee opinion surveys across the Group targeting approximately 65,000 employees GRI Index FYE2021 Targets FYE2019 Progress Details Progress Level TCFD Index Achieve engagement index of 39% (10% higher than in previous survey) • With the exception of a few organizations (LWT EMENA and H&S), no opinion surveys were conducted N/A in FYE2019 Achieve work-life balance score of 46% (10% higher than in previous survey) • Next survey scheduled for FYE2020 N/A Hold regular discussions between the union and the company FYE2021 Targets FYE2019 Progress Details Progress Level Hold nine meetings of the Central Labor Relations Committee annually (LIXIL Corporation, Japan only) Held nine meetings of the Central Labor Relations Committee over the year Create a staffing plan that encourages local employment and talent development FYE2021 Targets FYE2019 Progress Details Progress Level • Achieved 100% fulfillment of the plan (200 people recruited, incl. 1 university graduate, 23 specialist high Achieve 100% fulfillment of our recruitment plan that aims to increase the number of local factory school graduates, 16 junior college (two-year college)/technical college graduates, 160 high school graduates) employees (LIXIL manufacturing subsidiaries) • Regularly visited schools in each area and took part in job fairs to help achieve the target LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 89 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance ESG Data, Scope of Reporting and GRI > Action Plan & KPIs 08 ESG DATA, Talent Development Continue talent acceleration program for next-generation leaders and optimize training programs FYE2021 Targets FYE2019 Progress Details Progress Level SCOPE OF REPORTING Achieve 1,300 participants in the talent acceleration program (TAP) for next-generation leaders Number of participants to date: 1,195 AND GRI (Japan only) Percentage uptake of first to third year employees: 100% Achieve 100% uptake of initial 3-year basic education first year follow-up training: 218, second year communication training: 183, ESG Data, Scope of Reporting (Japan only) third year communication training: 139 and GRI Achieved 100% coverage of the 160 major positions across the Group (reduced from 200 after reconfirming the actual necessary number of positions), for which lists of potential emergency interim External Evaluations & Awards Formulate next-generation leader training plans for the Group’s 200 major positions managers and potential next and future successor candidates were created, training plans formulated, and discussions held with management on the plans Action Plan & KPIs Provided leadership e-learning opportunities using common Group contents for 1,200 employees across Human Resource Performance Provide common learning opportunities for the Group’s 800 next-generation leader personnel the Group. Target achieved in FYE2019, so no training to be conducted in FYE2020 Environmental Performance Scope of Reporting Occupational Health and Safety GRI Index Build a common Group EHS management system TCFD Index FYE2021 Targets FYE2019 Progress Details Progress Level • Achieved 100% acquisition of EHS performance data (based on number of employees) Achieve 100% Group-wide coverage of EHS management system • Conducted regular internal audits of EHS management frameworks and their operation at each business unit LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 90 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance ESG Data, Scope of Reporting and GRI > Action Plan & KPIs 08 ESG DATA, ENVIRONMENT Environmental Management SCOPE OF REPORTING Build a common Group EHS management system AND GRI FYE2021 Targets FYE2019 Progress Details Progress Level • Achieved 100% acquisition of environmental performance data (offices covered) ESG Data, Scope of Reporting • Conducted regular internal audits of each business’s environmental management system and its and GRI CO2 100% coverage of Group-wide EHS management system operation • Application for ISO14001 certification of environmental management systems for all LWT Americas ○ production facilities is proceeding as planned External Evaluations & Awards Action Plan & KPIs Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation, Sustainable Water Use and Sustainable Use of Resources CO2 Human Resource Performance Improve environmental values our products and services can offer and reduce environmental impacts across the entire process of our business Environmental Performance FYE2021 Targets FYE2019 Progress Details Progress Level Scope of Reporting • Expand CO2 emissions reduction attributable to Group products and services by 1.36 times v. • CO2 emission reduction attributable to products and services: improved by 1.21 times (Amount of CO2 ○ GRI Index FYE2016 emissions reduced: 61,577 thousand t-CO2) • Pursue environmentally-conscious designs that consider the entire product lifecycle • Strengthened sales activities for SAMOS X hybrid insulating window, and PR for PRESEA-H hybrid TCFD Index • Promote the sales expansion of environmentally-conscious products and services thermal windows for communal residential buildings • CO2 emissions from places of business: increased by 3.2% (Reduced by 4.5% on basis of emission • Reduce total CO2 emissions from operational processes across the Group by 8% v. FYE2016 intensity per unit of output) • Reduce CO2 emission intensity from transportation carried out in Japan by LIXIL as the consigner by 5% ○ • CO2 emissions from transportation: reduced by 1.1% • Improve water usage efficiency at high-water risk bases • Set targets for reducing water used and discharged and extending use cases of recycled water at six • Raise waste recycling ratio from places of business to at least 95% in Japan and Europe, 66% in Asia high-water risk bases, and promoted related activities and 40% in North America • Waste recycling rates: 95% (Japan and Europe), 62% (Asia), and 34% (North America) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 91 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance ESG Data, Scope of Reporting and GRI > Action Plan & KPIs 08 ESG DATA, SOCIETY Human Rights SCOPE OF REPORTING Create LIXIL Group Human Rights Policy and promote awareness among all LIXIL Group employees AND GRI FYE2021 Targets FYE2019 Progress Details Progress Level Implement human rights due diligence globally, and define and reduce LIXIL Group business-related Redrafted the existing global expansion plan and formulated a new plan, which will be gradually ESG Data, Scope of Reporting human rights risks for customers, employees, business partners and other stakeholders extended from Japan to other regions worldwide in the upcoming fiscal year and GRI Create a framework for human rights due diligence External Evaluations & Awards FYE2021 Targets FYE2019 Progress Details Progress Level Action Plan & KPIs • Employed existing compliance hotline Respond swiftly and sincerely to any human rights violations and instigate improvements, regularly • Maintained the existing framework for deciding human rights survey contents and processes, which is Human Resource Performance review human rights due diligence frameworks, and ensure highly transparent disclosure of due driven by the Human Rights Due Diligence Task Force composed of managers from compliance, risk diligence activities and processes management, human resources and purchasing departments Environmental Performance Scope of Reporting Stakeholder Engagement GRI Index TCFD Index Help solve sanitation issues FYE2021 Targets FYE2019 Progress Details Progress Level • Shipped over 2.5 million units of our products (over 12.5 million beneficiaries in total) Offer the benefit of our solutions to a total of 100 million people • Shipped to more than 25 countries so far, including ten new destinations added this year Research and develop products that can help solve social issues FYE2021 Targets FYE2019 Progress Details Progress Level • Conducted five research activities using digital and other technologies • Made a conference presentation on bathroom accidents among seniors (Presented at the Japanese Conduct ten research activities using digital and other technologies Society of Biometeorology, etc. in cooperation with universities) • Conducted verification testing of night-time monitoring at nursing homes (Conducted using dedicated ○ sensors since January 2019 in cooperation with Z-Works under our accelerator program), etc. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 92 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance ESG Data, Scope of Reporting and GRI > Action Plan & KPIs 08 ESG DATA, CUSTOMERS & SUPPLY CHAIN Responsible Supply Chain Management SCOPE OF REPORTING Extend our CR procurement process from Japan to the entire Group AND GRI FYE2021 Targets FYE2019 Progress Details Progress Level CR survey of Group-wide suppliers • Coverage ratio: top 90% of suppliers in terms of purchased amount (483 companies in Japan) ESG Data, Scope of Reporting ○ • Achieve 90% global coverage ratio (based on purchased amount) • Average conformity rate: 93.5% (Japan) • Achieve 90% conformity rate • Visited low-rated suppliers and achieved 100% improvement rate and GRI • Achieve 100% improvement rate External Evaluations & Awards Product Safety and Quality Action Plan & KPIs Human Resource Performance Make continuous improvements to the product quality management system Environmental Performance FYE2021 Targets FYE2019 Progress Details Progress Level Scope of Reporting • Critical product-related accidents: 8（Single gas stove: 2, warm-water electronic toilet seat: 2, oilfueled water heater: 1, small electric water heater: 2, bathroom ventilator/dryer/heater: 1） GRI Index • Conducted product-related crisis management meetings to make reports and discuss corrective Maintain zero cases of serious product accidents across the Group actions TCFD Index • Filed information on accidents in the database and reviewed them one by one to determine if any corrective actions were necessary. Carried out product improvements and awareness-raising on safe use as necessary Monitor customer satisfaction levels and re-evaluate collected data for further improvements FYE2021 Targets FYE2019 Progress Details Progress Level • Continued to conduct the survey and expanded the scope to: 1) product quality 2) showrooms ○ Conduct customer satisfaction surveys on products and services across the Group, and continuously 3) call centers monitor and disclose results 4) after-sales maintenance 5) sales representatives • Customer satisfaction level: 70.6% LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 93 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance ESG Data, Scope of Reporting and GRI > Human Resource Performance 08 ESG DATA, HUMAN RESOURCE PERFORMANCE In recruiting and hiring employees, the LIXIL Group respects SCOPE OF REPORTING human rights and is committed to ensuring a fair selection AND GRI process, recruiting diverse talent irrespective of social group, and building a platform which allows diverse set of ESG Data, Scope of Reporting employees to contribute to their full potential. and GRI Includes the following information/data: External Evaluations & Awards 1. Number of Employees by Type of Employment Action Plan & KPIs 2. Number of Employees by Country 3. Number of New Hires Human Resource Performance 4. Number of Retirees and Turnover Rate Environmental Performance Scope of Reporting FYE2019 Human Resource Performance Data indicated with ★ have received the independent practitioner’s GRI Index assurance. Past data were revised based on the scope TCFD Index change in FYE2019. See the Coverage on page 105. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 94 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance ESG Data, Scope of Reporting and GRI > Human Resource Performance 08 ESG DATA, LIXIL Group Human Resource Performance Data 1. Number of Employees by Type of Employment ★ 2. Number of Employees by Country ★ SCOPE OF REPORTING AND GRI Number of Ratio (%) Country Employees employees (Persons) Japan 35,590 ESG Data, Scope of Reporting Male 18,187 23.5% Thailand 8,197 and GRI Permament Female 5,879 7.6% staff*1 China 5,485 Total 24,066 31.1% Mexico 4,857 External Evaluations & Awards Male 3,340 4.3% Vietnam 5,093 Nonpermanent Action Plan & KPIs Directly Female 8,141 10.5% staff*2 Germany 3,809 employed Japan Total 11,481 14.8% Human Resource Performance USA 2,955 Male total 21,527 27.8% South Africa 1,320 Environmental Performance Female total 14,020 18.1% Italy 836 Scope of Reporting Directly 35,547 45.9% Portugal 532 employed total GRI Index Indonesia 695 Indirectly 3,371 4.3% TCFD Index employed*3 Hong Kong 297 Japan total 38,918 50.2% India 1,042 Directly Male total 28,189 36.4% Netherlands 407 Outside employed Female total 10,393 13.4% Singapore 195 Japan Outside Japan total 38,582 49.8% Other European region 1,002 LIXIL Group Grand total 77,500 100% Other Middle Eastern & African region 453 *1 Permanent staff: Employees under a labor contract without a fixed period of employment Other Asian region 844 *2 Non-permanent staff: Employees under a labor contract with a fixed period of employment Other American region 520 *3 Indirectly employed: Temporary sub-contract staff * Since each amount in “Ratio” is rounded off, total may not become 100% 74,129 * Covers directly hired employees only., Data collected according to location of employment or base region * Other Asian region covers Australia. Other European region covers Russia LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 95 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance ESG Data, Scope of Reporting and GRI > Human Resource Performance 08 ESG DATA, Scope of Data Collection 3. Number of New Hires ★ The LIXIL Group employee-related data covers: LIXIL Group Corporation, its four operating SCOPE OF REPORTING companies*1, LIXIL Corporation’s 72 major consolidated subsidiaries (35 companies in AND GRI FYE2016 FYE2017 FYE2018 FYE2019 Japan*2 and 37 groups/companies outside Japan*3), LIXIL Living Solution Corporation’s three LIXIL LIXIL LIXIL LIXIL subsidiaries*4. LIXIL Group Finance Corporation’s one subsidiaries*5 and the number of groups ESG Data, Scope of Reporting Corp. Corp. Corp. Corp. and companies covered is 76 in total. While the majority of LIXIL Group Corporation’s major and GRI Permanent staff 898 472 638 261 879 349 966 476 consolidated subsidiaries as of March 31, 2019 are covered, please note that the scope of (new graduates) （517） （323） （329） （155） （374） （245） 499 359 human resource performance data differs from the scope of subsidiaries for the consolidated External Evaluations & Awards financial report. Non-permanent staff 561 360 1,911 286 1,887 385 2,899 444 Action Plan & KPIs Total 1,459 832 2,549 547 2,766 734 3,865 920 1 Operating Companies of LIXIL Group Corporation* Human Resource Performance * Directly hired employees in Japan only Environmental Performance LIXIL Corporation, LIXIL VIVA CORPORATION, Scope of Reporting LIXIL Group Finance Corporation, and LIXIL Living Solution Corporation GRI Index 4. Number of Retirees and Turnover Rate ★ Major Consolidated Subsidiaries of LIXIL Corporation TCFD Index FYE2016 FYE2017 FYE2018 FYE2019 LIXIL LIXIL LIXIL LIXIL Consolidated subsidiaries in Japan*2: Corp. Corp. Corp. Corp. LIXIL Total Service Corporation, Kawashima Selkon Textiles Co., Ltd., Kawashima Selkon Sewing Permanent staff 624 290 679 250 687 259 694 281 Ltd., Kawashima Bunka Jigyodan Ltd., Benikoya Ltd., LIXIL Logistics Corporation, Maruki Unyu Turnover rate* 1 2.60% 1.71% 2.80% 1.50% 2.86% 1.55% 2.87% 1.66% Corporation, LIXIL Window Products Inc., Handy Techno Co., Ltd., NITTO CERA Corporation, Omi Chemical Pottery Corporation, LIXIL Sales Okinawa Co., Ltd., Fukunaga Glass And Building Non-permanent staff 1,818 330 1,854 248 1,730 270 1,536 159 Materials Sales Corporation, Sobue Industry Corporation, Safety Partners Corporation, LIXIL Total 2,442 620 2,533 498 2,417 529 2,230 440 OKINAWA SUZUKI SHUTTER CORPORATION, Sonitech Corporation, LIXIL Travel Corporation, *1 Directly hired employees in Japan only LIXIL Insurance Service Corporation, LIXIL Total Hanbai Corporation, LIXIL SUZUKI SHUTTER * Turnover rate calculation method: The turnover rate uses the number of employees as of April 1 of the fiscal year as CORPORATION, G TERIOR Corporation, Asahi Tostem Exterior Building Materials Co., Ltd., a basis for comparison with the number of retirees through March 31 of the same fiscal year LIXIL Toyo Sash Shoji Co., Ltd., LIXIL RENEWAL Corporation, TM.S Corporation Ltd., Kuwata Co., Ltd., Dinaone Corporation, Oita Tostem Co., Ltd., Nishi Kyushu Tostem Co., Ltd., LIXIL TEPCO Smart Partners Inc., blisspa japan Inc., Tokoto Corporation, Grohe Japan KK, and K-engine Inc. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 96 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance ESG Data, Scope of Reporting and GRI > Human Resource Performance 08 ESG DATA, Consolidated subsidiaries outside Japan*3: Data Collection Method and Period SCOPE OF REPORTING Grohe Group, TOSTEM THAI Co., Ltd., LIXIL Manufacturing (Dalian) Corporation, LIXIL Vietnam AND GRI Corporation, LIXIL GLOBAL MANUFACTURING VIETNAM Co., Ltd., LIXIL Thailand Public The number of employees is calculated on an original registration basis for each company, Co., Ltd., PT AMERICAN STANDARD INDONESIA, LIXIL Sanitary Fitting Manufacturing mainly as of March 31, 2019. ESG Data, Scope of Reporting (Suzhou) Corporation, LIXIL Building Materials Manufacturing (Suzhou) Corporation, LIXIL and GRI Korea Inc., PT LIXIL ALUMINIUM INDONESIA, Taiwan INAX Corporation, LIXIL Philippines Ltd., Co., LIXIL India Private Limited,, A-S (China) Co., Ltd., HUAMEI Sanitary Ware Co., Ltd., External Evaluations & Awards Jiangmen LIXIL AS Sanitary Fitting Manufacturing Co., Ltd., LIXIL AS Sanitary Manufacturing Action Plan & KPIs (Tianjin) Co., Ltd., LIXIL AS Sanitary Manufacturing (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., LIXIL Australia Pty Ltd., AS America Inc., LIXIL Canada Inc., LIXIL Housing Products Manufacturing (Shanghai) Human Resource Performance Corporation, LIXIL Taiwan Corporation, AS Maquilla Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V,Decorative Environmental Performance Panels International Inc., ASB Ceramica Dominicana S.A.S, LIXIL Myanmar Ltd., LIXIL Trading Scope of Reporting (Shanghai) Corporation, LIXIL WINDOW SYSTEMS PRIVATE LIMITED,LIXIL International Pte., Ltd., LIXIL (China) Investment Co., Ltd, PT LIXIL TRADING INDONESIA,LIXIL India Sanitary GRI Index ware Private Limited, LIXIL Africa (Pty) Ltd, LIXIL Group (Shanghai) Management Corporation, TCFD Index and Permasteelisa Group 4 Subsidiaries of LIXIL Living Solution Corporation* Consolidated subsidiaries in Japan: LIXIL REALTY Corp, JAPAN HOME SHIELD CORPORATION, and LIXIL Housing Research Institute Ltd. 5 Subsidiary of LIXIL Group Finance Corporation* Consolidated subsidiary in Japan: LIXIL Home Finance Corporation LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 97 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance ESG Data, Scope of Reporting and GRI > Environmental Performance 08 ESG DATA, ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE The LIXIL Group is committed to conserving water, energy, SCOPE OF REPORTING and other natural resources utilized in our products and AND GRI services, across the supply chain from procurement through production, distribution, end use and product disposal. To ESG Data, Scope of Reporting that aim, we work hard to gain a clear understanding of total and GRI raw materials and energy inputs as well as CO2, air pollutants and other emissions, and implement measures to reduce them. External Evaluations & Awards Action Plan & KPIs Includes the following information/data: 1. Procurement (Amount of materials purchased, CO2 Human Resource Performance emissions from procurement) Environmental Performance 2. Manufacture / Sales (Energy usage, CO2 emissions Scope of Reporting from production and sales activities, water intake, water discharge, waste emissions, air pollutant emissions) GRI Index 3. Logistics (Amount of energy used, CO2 emissions from TCFD Index transportation) 4. Use of Products (CO2 emissions from product use) 5. CO2 emissions by scope 6. Preventing Pollution through strict control of chemical substances FYE2019 Environmental Performance Data indicated with ★ have received the independent practitioner’s assurance. Past data were revised based on the scope change in FYE2019. See the Coverage on page 105. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 98 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance ESG Data, Scope of Reporting and GRI > Environmental Performance 08 ESG DATA, LIXIL Group Environmental Performance Data 1. Procurement ★ SCOPE OF REPORTING AND GRI Amount purchased FYE2016 FYE2017 FYE2018 FYE2019 Metals raw materials 258,584 ｔ 266,003 ｔ 289,108 ｔ 297,826 ｔ ESG Data, Scope of Reporting Plastics raw materials 54,165 ｔ 57,608 ｔ 62,344 ｔ 62,180 ｔ Materials and GRI Wood raw materials 146,779 ｔ 146,478 ｔ 150,413 ｔ 153,563 ｔ Ceramics raw materials 462,300 ｔ 520,679 ｔ 446,750 ｔ 442,088 ｔ External Evaluations & Awards Total 921,828 ｔ 990,768 ｔ 948,616 ｔ 955,658 ｔ Action Plan & KPIs CO 2 emissions from procurement FYE2016 FYE2017 FYE2018 FYE2019 Human Resource Performance Scope 3 Category 1 3,326 thousand t CO2 3,344 thousand t CO2 3,505 thousand t CO2 3,479 thousand t CO2 Environmental Performance 2. Manufacture / Sales ★ Scope of Reporting Energy usage FYE2016 FYE2017 FYE2018 FYE2019 GRI Index 1,187,683 thousand kWh 1,109,943 thousand kWh 1,128,157 thousand kWh 1,127,012 thousand kWh Purchased electricity TCFD Index Renewable energy 0 thousand kWh 0 thousand kWh 332 thousand kWh 1,362 thousand kWh Generation of 94,541 thousand kWh 106,281 thousand kWh 102,885 thousand kWh 94,157 thousand kWh electricity* Renewable energy 24.0 thousand kWh 23.9 thousand kWh 24.0 thousand kWh 23.3 thousand kWh Steam 144 thousand GJ 161 thousand GJ 168 thousand GJ 163 thousand GJ 3 3 3 City gas 175,476 thousand m 201,022 thousand m 204,334 thousand m 197,807 thousand m3 Fuel oil 7,140 thousand L 5,924 thousand L 5,240 thousand L 4,974 thousand L LPG 14,246 thousand kg 16,215 thousand kg 18,835 thousand kg 19,544 thousand kg LNG 13,257 thousand kg 13,435 thousand kg 14,263 thousand kg 14,463 thousand kg Kerosene 2,800 thousand L 2,228 thousand L 2,222 thousand L 2,069 thousand L Gasoline 8,441 thousand L 8,111 thousand L 7,814 thousand L 7,627 thousand L Diesel 3,195 thousand L 3,138 thousand L 3,053 thousand L 2,868 thousand L Coal 15 thousand t 0 thousand t 0 thousand t 0 thousand t Energy consumption total 20,654 thousand GJ 21,968 thousand GJ 22,465 thousand GJ 22,182 thousand GJ * Data only covers facilities within the premises of our factories (in-house use only) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 99 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance ESG Data, Scope of Reporting and GRI > Environmental Performance 08 ESG DATA, SCOPE OF REPORTING CO2 emissions from production and sales activities FYE2016 FYE2017 FYE2018 FYE2019 591.8 thousand t CO2 600.0 thousand t CO2 607.8 thousand t CO2 606.2 thousand t CO2 AND GRI Purchased electricity Steam 8.6 thousand t CO2 9.7 thousand t CO2 10.1 thousand t CO2 9.8 thousand t CO2 ESG Data, Scope of Reporting Scope2 total 600.4 thousand t CO2 609.7 thousand t CO2 617.8 thousand t CO2 616.0 thousand t CO2 and GRI City gas 379.0 thousand t CO2 433.5 thousand t CO2 440.1 thousand t CO2 427.9 thousand t CO2 Fuel oil 19.3 thousand t CO2 16.1 thousand t CO2 14.2 thousand t CO2 13.5 thousand t CO2 External Evaluations & Awards LPG 42.7 thousand t CO2 48.6 thousand t CO2 56.5 thousand t CO2 58.6 thousand t CO2 LNG 35.8 thousand t CO2 36.3 thousand t CO2 38.5 thousand t CO2 39.0 thousand t CO2 Action Plan & KPIs Kerosene 7.0 thousand t CO2 5.5 thousand t CO2 5.5 thousand t CO2 5.2 thousand t CO2 Human Resource Performance Gasoline 19.6 thousand t CO2 18.8 thousand t CO2 18.1 thousand t CO2 17.7 thousand t CO2 Environmental Performance Diesel 8.2 thousand t CO2 8.1 thousand t CO2 7.9 thousand t CO2 7.4 thousand t CO2 Scope of Reporting Coal 34.2 thousand t CO2 0 thousand t CO2 0 thousand t CO2 0 thousand t CO2 GRI Index Scope 1 total 545.8 thousand t CO2 566.9 thousand t CO2 580.9 thousand t CO2 569.3 thousand t CO2 Scope 1,2 total 1,146.2 thousand t CO2 1,176.6 thousand t CO2 1,198.7 thousand t CO2 1,185.3 thousand t CO2 TCFD Index Water intake FYE2016 FYE2017 FYE2018 FYE2019 Waste emissions FYE2016 FYE2017 FYE2018 FYE2019 Potable water Sold as valuables 103,330 t 140,041 t 125,373 t 126,473 t (Includes water intake 2,174 thousand m3 2,386 thousand m3 2,423 thousand m3 2,453 thousand m3 from other companies) Recycled 123,504 t 136,348 t 141,695 t 161,478 t Industrial water 3,966 thousand m3 3,621 thousand m3 3,322 thousand m3 3,635 thousand m3 Landfilled 140,346 t 147,288 t 139,475 t 118,395 t 3 3 3 3 Ground water 5,593 thousand m 5,307 thousand m 6,387 thousand m 5,753 thousand m Hazardous waste* t 16,896 t 18,048 t 15,414 t River water 6,050 thousand m3 6,713 thousand m3 5,932 thousand m3 4,835 thousand m3 * Recycled or landfilled waste that is defined as hazardous by national legislations Recycled water 777 thousand m3 864 thousand m3 923 thousand m3 936 thousand m3 Air pollutant emissions FYE2017 FYE2018 FYE2019 Water intake total 17,783 thousand m3 18,027 thousand m3 18,064 thousand m3 16,676 thousand m3 NOx 405 t 455 t 529 t Water discharge FYE2016 FYE2017 FYE2018 FYE2019 SOx 37 t 54 t 59 t Water discharge 16,715 thousand m3 16,788 thousand m3 16,859 thousand m3 13,910 thousand m3 Soot and dust 523 t 592 t 285 t * Excludes tenanted properties, etc. that we can’t access to assess the water discharge. In FYE2016, LIXIL Total Service Corporation is excluded * Data covers production sites subject to regulatory monitoring for NOx, SOx, soot and dust emissions * Data for FYE2017 and FYE2018 were revised based on the calculation method change LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 100 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance ESG Data, Scope of Reporting and GRI > Environmental Performance 08 ESG DATA, 3. Logistics ★ *3 Electricity, fuel: Heat value per unit per energy source as specified in the Act on Rational Use of Energy SCOPE OF REPORTING Water: Conversion coefficient calculated from CFP (Carbon Footprint of Products) Communication Program, Basic Database Version 1.01 AND GRI Amount of FYE2016 FYE2017 FYE2018 FYE2019 *4 Unit fuel consumption and unit calorific value using improved tons × distance method as specified in the Act of energy used Rational Use of Energy (Measures Pertaining to Consigners) ESG Data, Scope of Reporting Crude oil 44.9 thousand 43.8 thousand 45.9 thousand 45.9 thousand equivalent basis kL kL kL kL and GRI [ CO2 Conversion Coefficients Used to Convert CO2 Emissions ] thousand thousand thousand thousand Energy consumption 1,740 1,698 1,778 1,778 • CO2 emissions (procurement) = (Amount of purchased raw materials) × (CO2 conversion GJ GJ GJ GJ External Evaluations & Awards coefficient)*5+ (Cost of purchasing parts & materials) × (CO2 conversion coefficient)*6 CO2 emissions from FYE2016 FYE2017 FYE2018 FYE2019 transportation • CO2 emissions (manufacture & sales) = (Electricity & Fuel consumption) × (CO2 conversion Action Plan & KPIs thousand thousand thousand thousand coefficient)*7 Human Resource Performance Scope 3 Category 4 119 117 122 122 t CO2 t CO2 t CO2 t CO2 • CO2 emissions (logistics) = (Transported weight) × (Transportation distance) × (CO2 conversion Environmental Performance * Data covers the services which LIXIL Corporation was identified as the consigner coefficient)*8 Scope of Reporting • CO2 emissions (product usage) = (Electricity, Fuel & Water consumption per each product) × 4. Use of Products ★ (Amount of sales) × (CO2 conversion coefficient)*9 GRI Index CO2 emissions from TCFD Index FYE2016 FYE2017 FYE2018 FYE2019 *5 Emissions intensity from CFP (Carbon Footprint of Products) Communication Program, Basic Database Version 1.01 product use *6 E missions intensity from Basic Guidelines on Accounting for Greenhouse Gas Emissions Throughout the Supply thousand thousand thousand thousand Chain Version 2.4 Scope 3 Category 11 105,526 115,650 111,627 109,109 t CO2 t CO2 t CO2 t CO2 *7 P urchased electricity: Emissions intensity of each country from CO2 EMISSIONS FROM FUEL COMBUSTION 2015 EDITION (IEA) Fuel: Coefficient of fuel usage as specified in the Act of Rational Use of Energy *8 E missions intensity from unit fuel consumption and unit calorific value using improved tons × distance method as specified in the Act of Rational Use of Energy (Measures Pertaining to Consigners) [ Total Energy Consumption Calculation Method ] *9 Coefficients  for LIXIL brand’s products are as below. • Energy consumption (procurement) = (Amount of purchased raw materials) × (Energy conversion Electricity: 0.447 kg CO2 /kWh (The Japan Electrical Manufacturers’ Association) City gas: 2.23 kg CO2 /m³ (Japan Valve Manufacturers’ Association) coefficient)*1 = (Cost of purchasing parts & materials) × (Energy conversion coefficient)*2 Water: 0.23 kg CO2 /m³ (Japan Sanitary Equipment Industry Association) • Energy consumption (manufacture & sales) = (Electricity, fuel & water consumption) × Coefficients for other brands’ products are set by each brand or region of sales (Energy conversion coefficient)*3 • Energy consumption (logistics) = (Transported weight) × (Transportation distance) × (Energy [ Value Chain CO2 Emissions Calculation Method ] conversion coefficient)*4 • Calculated based on Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard *1 Conversion coefficient calculated from CFP (Carbon Footprint of Products) Communication Programme, Basic (The Greenhouse Gas Protocol) and Basic Guidelines on Accounting for Greenhouse Gas secondary database Version 1.01 Emissions Throughout the Supply Chain Version 2.2 (Ministry of the Environment and *2 Conversion coefficient calculated from Basic Guidelines on Accounting for Greenhouse Gas Emissions Throughout the Supply Chain Version 2.4 Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 101 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance ESG Data, Scope of Reporting and GRI > Environmental Performance 08 ESG DATA, 5. CO2 Emissions by Scope SCOPE OF REPORTING AND GRI FYE2016 FYE2017 FYE2018 FYE2019 Scope 1 ★ 546 thousand t CO2 567 thousand t CO2 581 thousand t CO2 569 thousand t CO2 ESG Data, Scope of Reporting Scope 2 ★ 600 thousand t CO2 610 thousand t CO2 618 thousand t CO2 616 thousand t CO2 and GRI Scope 3 FYE2016 FYE2017 FYE2018 FYE2019 1 Purchased goods & services ★ 3,326 thousand t CO2 3,344 thousand t CO2 3,505 thousand t CO2 3,479 thousand t CO2 External Evaluations & Awards 2 Capital goods 298 thousand t CO2 196 thousand t CO2 216 thousand t CO2 201 thousand t CO2 Action Plan & KPIs Fuel-and energy-related activities 3 150 thousand t CO2 161 thousand t CO2 165 thousand t CO2 165 thousand t CO2 (not included in Scope 1 or 2) Human Resource Performance 4 Upstream transportation & distribution ★ 119 thousand t CO2 117 thousand t CO2 122 thousand t CO2 122 thousand t CO2 Environmental Performance 5 Waste generated operations 387 thousand t CO2 407 thousand t CO2 386 thousand t CO2 308 thousand t CO2 Scope of Reporting 6 Business travel 8 thousand t CO2 7 thousand t CO2 7 thousand t CO2 8 thousand t CO2 GRI Index 7 Employee commuting 28 thousand t CO2 23 thousand t CO2 26 thousand t CO2 29 thousand t CO2 8 Upstream leased assets*1 thousand t CO2 thousand t CO2 thousand t CO2 thousand t CO2 TCFD Index 9 Downstream transportation & distribution* 2 thousand t CO2 thousand t CO2 thousand t CO2 thousand t CO2 10 Processing of sold products*2 thousand t CO2 thousand t CO2 thousand t CO2 thousand t CO2 11 Use of sold products ★ 105,526 thousand t CO2 115,650 thousand t CO2 111,627 thousand t CO2 109,109 thousand t CO2 12 End of life treatment of sold products 485 thousand t CO2 496 thousand t CO2 470 thousand t CO2 522 thousand t CO2 13 Downstream leased assets*2 thousand t CO2 thousand t CO2 thousand t CO2 thousand t CO2 14 Franchises* 2 thousand t CO2 thousand t CO2 thousand t CO2 thousand t CO2 15 Investments*2 thousand t CO2 thousand t CO2 thousand t CO2 thousand t CO2 Scope 3 Total 110,327 thousand t CO2 120,400 thousand t CO2 116,525 thousand t CO2 113,943 thousand t CO2 Scope 1, 2, 3 Total 111,475 thousand t CO2 121,578 thousand t CO2 117,726 thousand t CO2 115,128 thousand t CO2 *1 Excluded from the calculation since they are already included in Scope 1 or Scope 2 *2 Excluded from the calculation since they are not or less relevant to our main businesses LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 102 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance ESG Data, Scope of Reporting and GRI > Environmental Performance 08 ESG DATA, Scope of Data Collection 6. Preventing Pollution through Strict Control of Chemical Substances In principle, environmental performance data covers all operating companies and their SCOPE OF REPORTING consolidated subsidiaries as of March 31 2019, with the exclusion of some consolidated AND GRI LIXIL Corporation has set rules on substances that are forbidden or require strict control for subsidiaries considering their business size and content (Excluding Permasteelisa Group and use in products and/or during production processes. We manage and monitor our factories in LIXIL VIVA CORPORATION). ESG Data, Scope of Reporting compliance with the Soil Contamination Countermeasures Act and other environmental laws With regard to non-consolidated subsidiaries, subsidiaries operating in buildings owned and GRI and regulations to ensure the soil and waterways around our manufacturing facilities are not and managed by an operating company of the LIXIL Group are treated as being part of the affected by our operations. LIXIL Group. Major production plants of non-consolidated companies are also included in the External Evaluations & Awards scope. Please note that the scope of environmental performance data differs from the scope Action Plan & KPIs FYE2016 FYE2017 FYE2018 FYE2019 of subsidiaries for the consolidated financial report. Where scope of data is different to those No. of environmental law stated above, details are specified in the footnotes. Human Resource Performance 0 0 0 0 violations Environmental Performance Total amount of fines/ Operating Companies of the LIXIL Group 0 0 0 0 penalties from the above Scope of Reporting Environmental liability 0 0 0 0 LIXIL Corporation, LIXIL Living Solution Corporation, and LIXIL Group Finance Corporation GRI Index TCFD Index *Scope: Significant violations with fines of US$10,000 or more Major Consolidated Subsidiaries of LIXIL Corporation Consolidated subsidiaries in Japan: Kawashima Selkon Textiles Co., Ltd., BENIKOYA Ltd., Asahi Tostem Exterior Building Materials Co., Ltd., LIXIL Window Products Inc., G TERIOR Corporation, HANDY TECHNO Co., Ltd., Dinaone Corporation, NITTO CERA Corporation, blisspa japan Inc., Grohe Japan KK, Omi Chemical Pottery Corporation, LIXIL Total Hanbai Corporation, LIXIL SUZUKI SHUTTER CORPORATION, LIXIL Toyo Sash Shoji Co., Ltd., TM.S Corporation, LIXIL Total Service Corporation, LIXIL RENEWAL Corporation, Kuwata Corporation, Oita Tostem Corporation, Nishi Kyushu Tostem Corporation, LIXIL Sales Okinawa Co., Ltd., Fukunaga Glass And Building Materials Sales Corporation, Sobue Industry Corporation, Safety Partners Corporation, LIXIL OKINAWA SUZUKI SHUTTER CORPORATION, Sonitech Corporation, LIXIL Logistics Corporation, Maruki Unyu Corporation, LIXIL Business Service Corporation, LIXIL Travel Corporation, and LIXIL Insurance Service Corporation LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 103 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance ESG Data, Scope of Reporting and GRI > Environmental Performance 08 ESG DATA, Consolidated subsidiaries outside Japan: Corporation Procurement, Logistics and Product Usage Data SCOPE OF REPORTING HUA MEI Sanitary ware Co., Ltd., Jiangmen LIXIL AS Sanitary Fitting Manufacturing Co., AND GRI Ltd., LIXIL AS Sanitary Manufacturing (Tianjin) Co., Ltd., LIXIL AS Sanitary Manufacturing Procurement: (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., PT AMERICAN STANDARD INDONESIA, LIXIL BUILDING MATERIALS All raw materials, parts, and packaging materials used for products, which are managed by ESG Data, Scope of Reporting MANUFACTURING (SUZHOU) CORPORATION, LIXIL Sanitary Fitting Manufacturing each procurement department in LIXIL Water Technology and LIXIL Housing Technology are and GRI (Suzhou) Corporation, LIXIL Vietnam Corporation, LIXIL (Thailand) Public Co., Ltd., LIXIL India included in the calculations. Manufacturing equipments and office supplies are excluded from Sanitaryware Private Limited, LIXIL Korea Inc., PT LIXIL ALUMINIUM INDONESIA, LIXIL GLOBAL the calculations. External Evaluations & Awards MANUFACTURING VIETNAM Co., Ltd., TOSTEM THAI Co., Ltd., LIXIL Manufacturing (Dalian) Action Plan & KPIs Corporation, LIXIL Suzuki (Hong Kong) Company, Ltd., American Standard Brands production Logistics: sites, and GROHE Group production sites The scope of data calculation covers only the LIXIL transports which are designated as specified Human Resource Performance consignor by the Act on the Rational Use of Energy. Environmental Performance Consolidated Subsidiaries of LIXIL Living Solution Corporation Scope of Reporting Products usage: Consolidated subsidiaries in Japan: LIXIL Housing Research Institute, Ltd., LIXIL REALTY, Corp., The scope of data calculation covers each brand’s products manufactured by LIXIL Water GRI Index and JAPAN HOME SHIELD CORPORATION Technology, LIXIL Housing Technology, LIXIL Building Technology and Housing & Services Business. TCFD Index Consolidated Subsidiary of LIXIL Group Finance Corporation Consolidated subsidiary in Japan: LIXIL HOME FINANCE, Corp. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 104 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance ESG Data, Scope of Reporting and GRI > Scope of Reporting 08 ESG DATA, SCOPE OF REPORTING The LIXIL Group is committed to providing prompt and Coverage Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report SCOPE OF REPORTING transparent disclosure in order to earn the long-term trust of AND GRI its stakeholders and achieve sustainable growth that benefits This report covers the CR activities of LIXIL Group LIXIL Group Corporation has received the independent society. Corporation, as well as LIXIL Corporation and other operating practitioner’s assurance from Deloitte Tohmatsu ESG Data, Scope of Reporting We advance our Corporate Responsibility (CR) activities subsidiaries. Sustainability Co., Ltd. for FYE2019 human resource and GRI by establishing lasting relationships with our stakeholders Please click below for more information on human resources performance data and environmental performance data through appropriate disclosure, reporting, and dialogue. performance data and scope of coverage (page 94 to 97) marked with a ★ icon. External Evaluations & Awards The details of our CR activities are disclosed on our and environmental performance data and scope of coverage Action Plan & KPIs website. We also provide an update on our CR activities in (page 98 to 104). For items with a more limited scope of Please direct queries on this report to: our annual report. coverage, please refer to the footnotes for details. Human Resource Performance For information on our corporate governance policies, WEB To Link to Our Site or for Other Questions and Comments Environmental Performance please see the Corporate Governance section of our website. CR Human Resource Performance data and scope of coverage (P94) Scope of Reporting Reporting Period CR Environmental Performance data and GRI Index scope of coverage (P98) TCFD Index We updated and published CR-related information for FYE2019 (April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019) on October 30, 2019. We plan to update the report for the next fiscal year in October 2020. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 105 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance ESG Data, Scope of Reporting and GRI > Scope of Reporting 08 ESG DATA, SCOPE OF REPORTING AND GRI ESG Data, Scope of Reporting and GRI External Evaluations & Awards Action Plan & KPIs Human Resource Performance Environmental Performance Scope of Reporting GRI Index TCFD Index LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 106 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance ESG Data, Scope of Reporting and GRI > GRI Index 08 ESG DATA, GRI INDEX This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option. GRI 102: General Disclosures SCOPE OF REPORTING Indicator Report Page 102-9 Supply chain a. A description of the organization’s supply chain, including its main elements as they relate to the organization's activities, primary brands, products, and CR Report P60 Promoting Responsible Procurement That Upholds the AND GRI 1. Organizational Profile services. Environment and Labor Safety a. S ignificant changes to the organization’s size, structure, Name of the Annual Report ownership, or supply chain, including: 102-1 a. Name of the organization. ESG Data, Scope of Reporting organization P66 Corporate Data i. Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and and GRI Activities, brands, a. A description of the organization’s activities. Significant changes to the organization expansions; Annual Securities Report (Available in Japanese): b. Primary brands, products, and services, including Annual Report 102-10 ii. Changes in the share capital structure and other 102-2 products, and and its supply P8 3. Business Overview an explanation of any products or services that are P2 LIXIL Group’s Businesses capital formation, maintenance, and alteration services chain P11 4. Subsidiaries Overview banned in certain markets. operations (for private sector organizations); External Evaluations & Awards Location of Annual Report iii. Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure 102-3 a. Location of the organization’s headquarters. of the supply chain, or relationships with suppliers, headquarters P66 Corporate Data including selection and termination. Action Plan & KPIs a. N umber of countries where the organization operates, Annual Report CR Report Location of and the names of countries where it has significant P47 Environmental Management 102-4 P25 Global Manufacturing and Sales Human Resource Performance operations operations and/or that are relevant to the topics covered Sites P55 Reducing Water Usage and in the report. Precautionary Conserving Water in Business Activities a. W hether and how the organization applies the Environmental Performance Ownership and Annual Report 102-11 Principle or P62 Management of Chemical 102-5 a. Nature of ownership and legal form. Precautionary Principle or approach. legal form P66 Corporate Data approach Substances CDP Climate Change Questionnaire Scope of Reporting a. Markets served, including: Annual Report 2018 i. geographic locations where products and services https://www.cdp.net/en/ P2 LIXIL Group’s Businesses 102-6 Markets served are offered; GRI Index ii. sectors served; P25 Global Manufacturing and Sales a. A list of externally-developed economic, environmental Sites CR Report iii. types of customers and beneficiaries. 102-12 External initiatives and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to P6 Supporting International Initiatives TCFD Index which the organization subscribes, or which it endorses. Annual Report P25 Global Manufacturing and Sales Sites CR Report a. Scale of the organization, including: P18 Global Sanitation & Hygiene > P60 Consolidated 10-Year Summary i. total number of employees; Partnerships P62 Principal Group Companies a. A list of the main memberships of industry or other ii. total number of operations; Membership of P31 Diversity & Equal Opportunity > P66 Corporate Data 102-13 associations, and national or international advocacy Scale of the iii. net sales (for private sector organizations) or net associations Empowering Women in the Workplace 102-7 Annual Securities Report (Available in organizations. organization revenues (for public sector organizations); P72 Human Rights > Our Approach & Japanese): iv. total capitalization (for private sector organizations) System P2 1. Key Management Indicators broken down in terms of debt and equity; P75 Key Stakeholder Engagement P8 3. Business Overview v. quantity of products or services provided. P93 1. Consolidated Financial 2. Strategy Statements a. A statement from the most senior decision-maker of a. Total number of employees by employment contract CR Report Statement from the organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent (permanent and temporary), by gender. P4 Message from the CEO 102-14 senior decisionsenior position) about the relevance of sustainability b. Total number of employees by employment contract P5 Message from CR Committee maker to the organization and its strategy for addressing (permanent and temporary), by region. Chairperson sustainability. c. Total number of employees by employment type (full-time and part-time), by gender. Annual Report Information on d. Whether a significant portion of the organization’s activities P12 LIXIL’s Business Landscape CR Report Key impacts, risks, 102-8 employees and are performed by workers who are not employees. If 102-15 a. A description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Annual Securities Report (Available in P94 Human Resource Performance and opportunities other workers applicable, a description of the nature and scale of work Japanese): performed by workers who are not employees. P17 2. Business-Related Risks e. A ny significant variations in the numbers reported in Disclosures 102-8-a, 102-8-b, and 102-8-c (such as seasonal variations in the tourism or agricultural industries). f. A n explanation of how the data have been compiled, including any assumptions made. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 107 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance ESG Data, Scope of Reporting and GRI > GRI Index 08 ESG DATA, GRI INDEX SCOPE OF REPORTING 3. Ethics and Integrity Values, principles, Annual Report P44 Board of Directors of LIXIL Group Corporation AND GRI a. A description of the organization’s values, principles, CR Report a. W hether the chair of the highest governance body is also 102-16 standards, and Annual Securities Report (Available in standards, and norms of behavior. P8 LIXIL CORE, LIXIL Behaviors an executive officer in the organization. norms of behavior Chair of the highest Japanese): 102-23 b. I f the chair is also an executive officer, describe his or a. A description of internal and external mechanisms for: Annual Report governance body P50 4. (2) Corporate Officers Mechanisms her function within the organization's management and i. seeking advice about ethical and lawful behavior, P58 Internal Control Systems Website: the reasons for this arrangement. ESG Data, Scope of Reporting 102-17 for advice and concerns about and organizational integrity; CR Report About Us > Governance Framework https://www.lixil.com/en/about/ and GRI ethics ii. reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and organizational integrity. P73 Human Rights > Concern-Raising System governance/framework.html 4. Governance Annual Report P56 Procedures and Policies External Evaluations & Awards Annual Report Regarding the Nomination of Director a. G overnance structure of the organization, including P50 Corporate Governance at the LIXIL Candidates, the Removal of Directors, Governance committees of the highest governance body. 102-18 Group and the Appointment and the Removal structure b. Committees responsible for decision-making one economic, Action Plan & KPIs environmental, and social topics. CR Report of Executive Officers P10 CR Management Structure LIXIL Group Corporate Governance Guidelines Human Resource Performance Annual Report a. Nomination and selection processes for the highest P14 Article 20 Composition of a. P rocess for delegating authority for economic, P50 Corporate Governance at the LIXIL governance body and its committees. the Board of Directors, Article 22 Delegating environmental, and social topics from the highest Environmental Performance 102-19 Group b. Criteria used for nominating and selecting highest Composition of Nomination Committee, authority governance body to senior executives and other Nominating and CR Report governance body members, including whether and how: Compensation Committee, and Audit employees. selecting the P10 CR Management Structure 102-24 i. stakeholders (including shareholders) are involved; Committee, Article 23 Policy for Scope of Reporting highest governance ii. diversity is considered; Nomination of Director Candidates and Executive-level a. W hether the organization has appointed an executive Annual Report body responsibility level position or positions with responsibility for P50 Corporate Governance at the LIXIL iii. independence is considered; Removal of Directors GRI Index 102-20 for economic, economic, environmental, and social topics. Group iv. expertise and experience relating to economic, P16 Article 24 Policy for Appointment, environmental, b. Whether post holders report directly to the highest CR Report environmental, and social topics are considered. Election, Removal and Dismissal of and social topics governance body. P10 CR Management Structure Executive Officers and Representative TCFD Index Executive Officer (CEO) a. Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the P20 Article 28 Consulting Annual Report highest governance body on economic, environmental, Independence Criteria stakeholders P50 Corporate Governance at the LIXIL and social topics. Website: 102-21 on economic, Group b. If consultation is delegated, describe to whom it is About Us > Governance Framework environmental, and CR Report delegated and how the resulting feedback is provided to https://www.lixil.com/en/about/ social topics P10 CR Management Structure the highest governance body. governance/framework.html a. Composition of the highest governance body and its a. Processes for the highest governance body to ensure LIXIL Group Corporate Governance committees by: conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. Guidelines i. executive or non-executive; b. Whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to P12 Article 19 Role and Duties of the ii. independence; stakeholders, including, as a minimum: Board of Directors Annual Report iii. tenure on the governance body; 102-25 Conflicts of interest i. Cross-board membership; P19 Article 26 Duties of Independent Composition of the P50 Corporate Governance at the LIXIL iv. number of each individual’s other significant ii. Cross-shareholding with suppliers and other Outside Directors highest governance Group 102-22 positions and commitments, and the nature of the stakeholders; Annual Securities Report (Available in body and its Annual Securities Report (Available in commitments; iii. Existence of controlling shareholder; Japanese): committees Japanese): v. gender; iv. Related party disclosures. P50 4. (2) Corporate Officers P50 4. (2) Corporate Officers vi. membership of under-represented social groups; vii. competencies relating to economic, environmental, and social topics; viii. stakeholder representation. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 108 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance ESG Data, Scope of Reporting and GRI > GRI Index 08 ESG DATA, GRI INDEX SCOPE OF REPORTING Annual Report P36 LIXIL’s Material Issues LIXIL Group Corporate Governance 102-34 Nature and total number of critical a. Total number and nature of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body. b. Mechanism(s) used to address and resolve critical AND GRI Role of highest governance body a. Highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the Guidelines P12 Article 19 Role and Duties of the concerns concerns. 102-26 in setting purpose, organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, Board of Directors a. Remuneration policies for the highest governance values, and strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, P19 Article 26 Duties of Independent body and senior executives for the following types of ESG Data, Scope of Reporting strategy environmental, and social topics. Outside Directors remuneration: i. Fixed pay and variable pay, including performanceAnnual Securities Report (Available in and GRI Japanese): based pay, equity-based pay, bonuses, and deferred Annual Report P54 Corporate Officer Compensation P50 4. (2) Corporate Officers or vested shares; Annual Securities Report (Available in ii. Sign-on bonuses or recruitment incentive payments; Japanese): Collective iii. Termination payments; a. Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest CR Report Remuneration P76 (4) Corporate Officer External Evaluations & Awards 102-27 knowledge of governance body’s collective knowledge of economic, P74 Stakeholder Engagement > 102-35 policies iv. Clawbacks; Compensation highest governance v. Retirement benefits, including the difference environmental, and social topics. Relationship with Stakeholders CR Report body between benefit schemes and contribution rates for Action Plan & KPIs P48 Environmental Management > the highest governance body, senior executives, and a. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s Environmental Education and Internal all other employees. performance with respect to governance of economic, Evaluation b. How performance criteria in the remuneration policies Human Resource Performance environmental, and social topics. relate to the highest governance body's and senior b. Whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its executives’ objectives for economic, environmental, and Evaluating LIXIL Group Corporate Governance Environmental Performance frequency. social topics. the highest Guidelines 102-28 c. Whether such evaluation is a self-assessment. governance body’s P23 Article 32 Board of Directors Selfd. Actions taken in response to evaluation of the a. Process for determining remuneration. Annual Report Scope of Reporting performance Evaluation highest governance body’s performance with respect b. Whether remuneration consultants are involved in P54 Corporate Officer Compensation to governance of economic, environmental, and Process for determining remuneration and whether they are Annual Securities Report (Available in social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in 102-36 determining GRI Index membership and organizational practice. remuneration independent of management. Japanese): c. Any other relationships that the remuneration consultants P76 (4) Corporate Officer a. Highest governance body’s role in identifying and have with the organization. Compensation TCFD Index managing economic, environmental, and social topics Annual Report Identifying a. How stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into and their impacts, risks, and opportunities – including its P50 Corporate Governance at the LIXIL Stakeholders’ and managing account regarding remuneration. role in the implementation of due diligence processes. Group 102-37 involvement in 102-29 economic, b. If applicable, the results of votes on remuneration b. Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support CR Report remuneration environmental, policies and proposals. the highest governance body's identification and P10 CR Management Structure and social impacts management of economic, environmental, and social P11 Material Issues a. Ratio of the annual total compensation for the topics and their impacts, risks, and opportunities. organization’s highest-paid individual in each country Annual total a. Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the 102-38 of significant operations to the median annual total Effectiveness of compensation ratio effectiveness of the organization’s risk management Annual Report compensation for all employees (excluding the highest 102-30 risk management paid individual) in the same country. processes for economic, environmental, and social P57 Internal Control Systems processes topics. a. Ratio of the percentage increase in annual total Annual Report Percentage compensation for the organization's highest-paid Review of increase in annual individual in each country of significant operations a. Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of P52 Activities of the Board of Directors 102-39 economic, total compensation to the median percentage increase in annual total 102-31 economic, environmental, and social topics and their and Board Committees environmental, and ratio compensation for all employees (excluding the highest impacts, risks, and opportunities. CR Report social topics paid individual) in the same country. P10 CR Management Structure Highest 5. Stakeholder Engagement a. The highest committee or position that formally reviews governance body’s CR Report 102-32 and approves the organization’s sustainability report and List of stakeholder role in sustainability 102-40 a. A list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. P75 Stakeholder Engagement > Key ensures that all material topics are covered. groups reporting Stakeholder Engagement Communicating a. Process for communicating critical concerns to the Annual Report Collective CR Report 102-33 a. Percentage of total employees covered by collective critical concerns highest governance body. P57 Internal Control Systems 102-41 bargaining P37 Rewarding Workplaces > Laborbargaining agreements. agreements Management Relationship LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 109 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance ESG Data, Scope of Reporting and GRI > GRI Index 08 ESG DATA, GRI INDEX SCOPE OF REPORTING Identifying CR Report Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 a. The basis for identifying and selecting stakeholders with Date of most recent 102-42 and selecting P74 Stakeholder Engagement > Our 102-51 a. If applicable, the date of the most recent previous report. https://www.lixil.com/en/sustainability/ whom to engage. report stakeholders Approach reporting/pdf/LIXIL_CR2018_en.pdf AND GRI a. The organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, CR Report CR Report Approach to including frequency of engagement by type and by 102-52 Reporting cycle a. Reporting cycle. P105 Scope of Reporting > Reporting P36 Rewarding Workplaces > 102-43 stakeholder stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of Period Employee Opinion Surveys ESG Data, Scope of Reporting engagement the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. P74 Stakeholder Engagement Contact point for a. The contact point for questions regarding the report or CR Report and GRI a. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through 102-53 questions regarding the report its contents. P105 Scope of Reporting stakeholder engagement, including: CR Report a. The claim made by the organization, if it has prepared a Key topics and i. how the organization has responded to those key 102-44 P36 Rewarding Workplaces > report in accordance with the GRI Standards, either: concerns raised topics and concerns, including through its reporting; Claims of reporting This report has been prepared in External Evaluations & Awards ii. the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key Employee Opinion Surveys 102-54 in accordance with i. ‘This report has been prepared in accordance with accordance with the Global Reporting topics and concerns. the GRI Standards: Core option’; the GRI Standards Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option. ii. ‘This report has been prepared in accordance with Action Plan & KPIs 6. Reporting Practice the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option’. Annual Securities Report (Available in a. The GRI content index, which specifies each of the GRI Human Resource Performance a. A list of all entities included in the organization’s Japanese): Standards used and lists all disclosures included in the Entities included consolidated financial statements or equivalent P8 3. Business Overview report. Environmental Performance 102-45 in the consolidated documents. P11 4. Subsidiaries Overview b. For each disclosure, the content index shall include: financial b. Whether any entity included in the organization’s Annual Report i. the number of the disclosure (for disclosures statements consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents P62 Principal Group CompaniesCR covered by the GRI Standards); CR Report Scope of Reporting is not covered by the report. Report 102-55 GRI content index ii. the page number(s) or URL(s) where the information P107 GRI Index P105 Scope of Reporting can be found, either within the report or in other GRI Index a. An explanation of the process for defining the published materials; Defining report iii. if applicable, and where permitted, the reason(s) reportcontent and the topic Boundaries. CR Report for omission when a required disclosure cannot be 102-46 content and topic TCFD Index Boundaries b. An explanation of how the organization has implemented P11 Material Issues made. the Reporting Principles for defining report content. a. A description of the organization's policy and current List of material a. A list of the material topics identified in the process for CR Report practice with regard to seeking external assurance for 102-47 topics defining report content. P11 Material Issues the report. Restatements of a. The effect of any restatements of information given in b. If the report has been externally assured: 102-48 i. A reference to the external assurance report, information previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. statements, or opinions. If not included in the Changes in a. Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability 102-49 N/A reporting list of material topics and topic Boundaries. report, a description of what has and what has not been assured and on what basis, including the CR Report CR Report 102-56 External assurance assurance standards used, the level of assurance P106 Independent Assurance P2 Contents obtained, and any limitations of the assurance 102-50 Reporting period a. Reporting period for the information provided. P105 Scope of Reporting > Reporting process; Period ii. The relationship between the organization and the assurance provider; iii. Whether and how the highest governance body orsenior executives are involved in seeking external assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 110 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance ESG Data, Scope of Reporting and GRI > GRI Index 08 ESG DATA, GRI INDEX GRI 103: Management Approach GRI 200: Economic Topics SCOPE OF REPORTING Indicator Report Page Indicator Report Page AND GRI 103：Management Approach 201: Economic Performance a. An explanation of why the topic is material. Website b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes a Investor Relations > Financial ESG Data, Scope of Reporting description of: a. Direct economic value generated and distributed Information Explanation of the i. where the impacts occur; https://www.lixil.com/en/investor/ and GRI 103-1 material topic and ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For CR Report (EVG&D) on an accruals basis, including the basic financial/ P11 Material Issues components for the organization’s global operations its Boundary example, whether the organization has caused or Website: as listed below. If data are presented on a cash basis, contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to For our retail investors > LIXIL Group report the justification for this decision in addition to the impacts through its business relationships. overview reporting the following basic components: External Evaluations & Awards c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. i. Direct economic value generated: revenues; https://www.lixil.com/jp/investor/ Direct economic private/about.html (Japanese Only) CR Report ii. Economic value distributed: operating costs, 201-1 value generated CR Report Action Plan & KPIs P10 CR Management Structure and distributed employee wages and benefits, payments to providers P75 Key Stakeholder Engagement > P11 Material Issues of capital, payments to government by country, and Government Authorities and Industrial P12 Corporate Responsibility Strategy community investments; Human Resource Performance P13-27 Three Strategic Pillars iii. Economic value retained: ‘direct economic value Associations P78 Community > Our Approach P30 Diversity & Equal Opportunity > generated’ less ‘economic value distributed’. & System > Social Contribution Environmental Performance Our Approach, Our System b. Where significant, report EVG&D separately at country, Expenditures P35 Rewarding Workplaces > Our regional, or market levels, and the criteria used for Annual Securities Report (Available in a. An explanation of how the organization manages the Approach, Our System defining significance. Scope of Reporting topic. P38 Talent Development > Our Japanese): P93 1. Consolidated Financial b. A statement of the purpose of the management Approach, Our System Statements GRI Index approach. P41 Occupational Health & Safety > c. A description of the following, if the management Our Approach, Our System a. Risks and opportunities posed by climate change that approach includes that component: P47 Environmental Management > Our have the potential to generate substantive changes in TCFD Index The management i. Policies Approach, Our System operations, revenue, or expenditure, including: 103-2 approach and its ii. Commitments P60 Responsible Supply Chain i. a description of the risk or opportunity and its components Financial iii. Goals and targets Management > Our Approach & classification as either physical, regulatory, or other; Annual Report implications and iv. Responsibilities System ii. a description of the impact associated with the risk P12 LIXIL’s Business Landscape 201-2 other risks and v. Resources P63 Product Safety & Quality > Our or opportunity; CR Report opportunities due vi. Grievance mechanisms Approach, Management Structure iii. the financial implications of the risk or opportunity P49 Environmental Disclosures to climate change vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, P67-68 Customer Satisfaction > Our before action is taken; programs and initiatives. Approach & System, Implementing the iv. the methods used to manage the risk or opportunity; Six Sigma Quality Management Method v. the costs of actions taken to manage the risk or P72 Human Rights > Our Approach opportunity. & System, Human Rights Principles P73 Human Rights > Concern-Raising System P78 Community > Our Approach & System P86-93 Action Plan & KPIs a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates the management approach, including: i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness Evaluation of the CR Report ofthe management approach; 103-3 management P84 External Evaluations & Awards ii. the results of the evaluation of the management approach P86-93 Action Plan & KPIs approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 111 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance ESG Data, Scope of Reporting and GRI > GRI Index 08 ESG DATA, GRI INDEX SCOPE OF REPORTING a. If the plan’s liabilities are met by the organization’s general resources, the estimated value of those liabilities. b. If a separate fund exists to pay the plan’s pension 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired a. Percentage of senior management at significant locations of operation that are hired from the local community. b. The definition used for ‘senior management’. AND GRI liabilities: i. the extent to which the scheme’s liabilities are from the local community c. The organization’s geographical definition of ‘local’. d. The definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. estimated to be covered by the assets that have been set aside to meet them; 203: Indirect Economic Impacts ESG Data, Scope of Reporting ii. the basis on which that estimate has been arrived Annual Securities Report (Available in a. Extent of development of significant infrastructure at; and GRI Defined benefit iii. when that estimate was made. Japanese): Infrastructure investments and services supported. b. Current or expected impacts on communities and local CR Report plan obligations P113 1. Consolidated Financial 201-3 c. If a fund set up to pay the plan’s pension liabilities is not 203-1 investments and economies, including positive and negative impacts P14-19 Global Sanitation & Hygiene and other Statements > Note on the Consolidated fully covered, explain the strategy, if any, adopted by the services supported where relevant. P78-82 Community retirement plans Financial Statements > 14. Employee employer to work towards full coverage, and the time c. Whether these investments and services are commercial, Benefits External Evaluations & Awards scale, if any, by which the employer hopes to achieve full in-kind, or pro bono engagements. coverage. d. Percentage of salary contributed by employee or a. Examples of significant identified indirect economic impacts Action Plan & KPIs employer. of the organization, including positive and negative impacts. CR Report e. Level of participation in retirement plans, such as Significant indirect b. Significance of the indirect economic impacts in the 203-2 P14-19 Global Sanitation & Hygiene Human Resource Performance participation in mandatory or voluntary schemes, economic impacts context of external benchmarks and stakeholder P78-82 Community regional, or country-based schemes, or those with priorities, such as national and international standards, financial impact. protocols, and policy agendas. Environmental Performance a. Total monetary value of financial assistance received by 204: Procurement Practices the organization from any government during the reporting Scope of Reporting period, including: a. Percentage of the procurement budget used for CR Report i. tax relief and tax credits; significant locations of operation that is spent on Proportion of P60 Responsible Supply Chain suppliers local to that operation (such as percentage of GRI Index ii. subsidies; 204-1 spending on local products and services purchased locally). Management > Procurement iii. investment grants, research and development suppliers Transaction Amount Breakdown by grants, and other relevant types of grant; b. The organization’s geographical definition of ‘local’. Country TCFD Index Financial iv. awards; CR Report c. The definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. P75 Key Stakeholder Engagement > 201-4 assistance received v. royalty holidays; 205: AntiCorruption Government Authorities and Industrial from government vi. financial assistance from Export Credit Agencies Associations (ECAs); Operations a. Total number and percentage of operations assessed for vii. financial incentives; assessed for risks related to corruption. 205-1 viii. other financial benefits received or receivable from risks related to b. Significant risks related to corruption identified through any government for any operation. corruption the risk assessment. b. The information in 201-4-a by country. c. Whether, and the extent to which, any government is a. Total number and percentage of governance body present in the shareholding structure. members that the organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken 202: Market Presence down by region. b. Total number and percentage of employees that the a. When a significant proportion of employees are organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures compensated based on wages subject to minimum wage have been communicated to, broken down by employee rules, report the relevant ratio of the entry level wage category and region. by gender at significant locations of operation to the Communication c. Total number and percentage of business partners that minimum wage. and training about CR Report the organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures Ratios of standard b. When a significant proportion of other workers (excluding 205-2 anti-corruption P88 Action Plan & KPIs > Fair have been communicated to, broken down by type of entry level wage by employees) performing the organization’s activities are policies and Business Practices business partner and region. Describe if the organization’s 202-1 gender compared compensated based on wages subject to minimum wage procedures anti-corruption policies and procedures have been to local minimum rules, describe the actions taken to determine whether communicated to any other persons or organizations. wage these workers are paid above the minimum wage. d. Total number and percentage of governance body c. Whether a local minimum wage is absent or variable members that have received training on anti-corruption, at significant locations of operation, by gender. In broken down by region. circumstances in which different minimums can be used e. Total number and percentage of employees that have as a reference, report which minimum wage is being used. received training on anti-corruption, broken down by d. The definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. employee category and region. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 112 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance ESG Data, Scope of Reporting and GRI > GRI Index 08 ESG DATA, GRI INDEX SCOPE OF REPORTING a. Total number and nature of confirmed incidents of corruption. b. Total number of confirmed incidents in which employees 302: Energy a. Total fuel consumption within the organization from nonAND GRI Confirmed incidents of were dismissed or disciplined for corruption. c. Total number of confirmed incidents when contracts with CR Report renewable sources, in joules or multiples, and including fuel types used. 205-3 P88 Action Plan & KPIs > Fair b. Total fuel consumption within the organization from corruption and business partners were terminated or not renewed due Business Practices renewable sources, in joules or multiples, and including actions taken to violations related to corruption. ESG Data, Scope of Reporting d. Public legal cases regarding corruption brought against fuel types used. c. In joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: the organization or its employees during the reporting and GRI period and the outcomes of such cases. i. electricity consumption ii. heating consumption 206: Anti-Competitive Behavior Energy iii. cooling consumption CR Report 302-1 consumption within iv. steam consumption P99 Environmental Performance > a. Number of legal actions pending or completed during the External Evaluations & Awards Legal actions for reporting period regarding anti-competitive behavior and the organization d. In joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: Manufacture / Sales anti-competitive CR Report i. electricity sold violations of anti-trust and monopoly legislation in which ii. heating sold 206-1 behavior, anti-trust, P88 Action Plan & KPIs > Fair Action Plan & KPIs and monopoly the organization has been identified as a participant. Business Practices iii. cooling sold b. Main outcomes of completed legal actions, including iv. steam sold practices any decisions or judgments. e. Total energy consumption within the organization, in Human Resource Performance joules or multiples. GRI 300: Environmental Topics Indicator f. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or Environmental Performance calculation tools used. Indicator Report Page g. Source of the conversion factors used. Scope of Reporting 301: Materials Energy a. Energy consumption outside of the organization, in joules or multiples. CR Report a. Total weight or volume of materials that are used to consumption 302-2 b. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or P99 Environmental Performance > GRI Index produce and package the organization's primary CR Report outside of the calculation tools used. Manufacture / Sales Materials used by organization 301-1 products and services during the reporting period, by: P99 Environmental Performance > c. Source of the conversion factors used. weight or volume TCFD Index i. non-renewable materials used; Procurement a. Energy intensity ratio for the organization. ii. renewable materials used. b. Organization-specific metric (the denominator) chosen a. Percentage of recycled input materials used to CR Report Recycled input to calculate the ratio. 301-2 manufacture the organization's primary products and P101 Environmental Performance > materials used 302-3 Energy intensity c. Types of energy included in the intensity ratio; whether services. Total Energy Consumption Calculation fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, steam, or all. Method d. Whether the ratio uses energy consumption within the Reclaimed a. Percentage of reclaimed products and their packaging organization, outside of it, or both. products and 301-3 materials for each product category. their packaging a. Amount of reductions in energy consumption achieved b. How the data for this disclosure have been collected. materials as a direct result of conservation and efficiency initiatives, in joules or multiples. b. Types of energy included in the reductions; whether fuel, Reduction CR Report electricity, heating, cooling, steam, or all. 302-4 of energy P99 Environmental Performance > c. Basis for calculating reductions in energy consumption, consumption Manufacture / Sales such as base year or baseline, including the rationale for choosing it. d. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 113 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance ESG Data, Scope of Reporting and GRI > GRI Index 08 ESG DATA, GRI INDEX SCOPE OF REPORTING Reductions a. Reductions in energy requirements of sold products and services achieved during the reporting period, in joules or multiples. 304: Biodiversity a. For each operational site owned, leased, managed AND GRI 302-5 in energy requirements b. Basis for calculating reductions in energy consumption, such as base year or baseline, including the rationale for CR Report P101 Environmental Performance > in, or adjacent to, protected areas andareas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas, the following of products and Use of Products information: choosing it. services i. Geographic location; c. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or ESG Data, Scope of Reporting calculation tools used. ii. Subsurface and underground land that may be owned, leased, or managed by the organization; and GRI 303: Water Operational sites iii. Position in relation to the protected area (in the area, owned, leased, adjacent to, or containing portions of the protected a. Total volume of water withdrawn, with a breakdown by managed in, area) or the high biodiversity value area outside the following sources: or adjacent to, protected areas; i. Surface water, including water from wetlands, rivers, 304-1 protected areas iv. Type of operation (office, manufacturing or External Evaluations & Awards lakes, and oceans; and areas of high production, or extractive); ii. Ground water; CR Report biodiversity value v. Size of operational site in km2 (or another unit, if Water withdrawal Action Plan & KPIs 303-1 by source iii. Rainwater collected directly and stored by the P100 Environmental Performance > outside protected appropriate); organization; Manufacture / Sales areas vi. Biodiversity value characterized by the attribute iv. Waste water from another organization; ofthe protected area or area of high biodiversity Human Resource Performance v. Municipal water supplies or other public or private value outside the protected area (terrestrial, water utilities. freshwater, or maritime ecosystem); Environmental Performance b. Standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. vii. Biodiversity value characterized by listing of a. Total number of water sources significantly affected by protected status (such as IUCN Protected Area Management Categories, Ramsar Convention, Scope of Reporting withdrawal by type: national legislation). i. Size of the water source; Water sources ii. Whether the source is designated as a nationally or CR Report a. Nature of significant direct and indirect impacts on GRI Index significantly internationally protected area; P55 Sustainable Water Use > biodiversity with reference to one or more of the following: 303-2 affected by iii. Biodiversity value (such as species diversity and Identifying Water Risks in Our i. Construction or use of manufacturing plants, mines, withdrawal of water endemism, and total number of protected species); Production Facilities TCFD Index iv. Value or importance of the water source to local and transport infrastructure; ii. Pollution (introduction of substances that do communities and indigenous peoples. not naturally occur in the habitat from point and b. Standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. nonpoint sources); a. Total volume of water recycled and reused by the Significant impacts iii. Introduction of invasive species, pests, and organization. CR Report of activities, pathogens; Reduction of species; Habitat Water recycled and b. Total volume of water recycled and reused as a P55 Sustainable Water Use > 304-2 products, and conversion; 303-3 services on iv. Changes in ecological processes outside the natural reused percentage of the total water withdrawal as specified in Introducing Wastewater Recycling Disclosure 303-1. Systems biodiversity range of variation (such as salinity or changes in c. Standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. groundwater level). b. Significant direct and indirect positive and negative impacts with reference to the following: i. Species affected; ii. Extent of areas impacted; iii. Duration of impacts; iv. Reversibility or irreversibility of the impacts. a. Size and location of all habitat areas protected or restored, and whether the success of the restoration measure was or is approved by independent external professionals. b. Whether partnerships exist with third parties to protect Habitats protected 304-3 or restore habitat areas distinct from where the or restored organization has overseen and implemented restoration or protection measures. c. Status of each area based on its condition at the close of the reporting period. d. Standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 114 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance ESG Data, Scope of Reporting and GRI > GRI Index 08 ESG DATA, GRI INDEX SCOPE OF REPORTING IUCN Red List species a. Total number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by the operations of the organization, by level of a. Gross other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent.b. If available, the gases included in the calculation; whether CO2 , CH4 , N2 O, FCs, PFCs, AND GRI 304-4 and national conservation extinction risk: i. Critically endangered SF6 , NF3 , or all. c. Biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. CR Report list species with ii. Endangered d. Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions categories and P102 Environmental Performance > habitats in areas iii. Vulnerable activities included in the calculation. CO2 Emissions by Scope affected by Other indirect ESG Data, Scope of Reporting operations iv. Near threatened 305-3 (Scope 3) GHG e. Base year for the calculation, if applicable, including: P101 Environmental Performance > v. Least concern i. the rationale for choosing it; CO2 Conversion Coefficients Used to and GRI emissions ii. emissions in the base year; Convert CO2 Emissions 305: Emissions iii. the context for any significant changes in emissions P103 Environmental Performance > a. Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in metric tons of that triggered recalculations of base year emissions. Scope of Data Collection CO2 equivalent. f. Source of the emission factors and the global warming External Evaluations & Awards b. Gases included in the calculation; whether CO2 , CH4 , potential (GWP) rates used, or a reference to the GWP source. N2 O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6 , NF3 , or all. g. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. Action Plan & KPIs c. Biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. CR Report d. Base year for the calculation, if applicable, including: a. GHG emissions intensity ratio for the organization. P102 Environmental Performance > i. the rationale for choosing it; b. Organization-specific metric (the denominator) chosen Human Resource Performance ii. emissions in the base year; CO2 Emissions by Scope to calculate the ratio. CR Report Direct (Scope 1) P101 Environmental Performance > 305-1 iii. the context for any significant changes in emissions GHG emissions c. Types of GHG emissions included in the intensity ratio; P101 Environmental Performance > GHG emissions CO2 Conversion Coefficients Used to 305-4 Environmental Performance that triggered recalculations of base year emissions. intensity whether direct (Scope 1), energy indirect (Scope 2), CO2 Conversion Coefficients Used to Convert CO2 Emissions e. Source of the emission factors and the global warming and/or other indirect (Scope 3). Convert CO2 Emissions P103 Environmental Performance > potential (GWP) rates used, or a reference to the GWP d. Gases included in the calculation; whether CO2 , CH4 , Scope of Data Collection Scope of Reporting source. N2 O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6 , NF3 , or all. f. Consolidation approach for emissions; whether equity share, financial control, or operational control. a. GHG emissions reduced as a direct result of reduction GRI Index g. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or initiatives, in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. calculation tools used. b. Gases included in the calculation; whether CO2 , CH4 , TCFD Index a. Gross location-based energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG N2 O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6 , NF3, or all. c. Base year or baseline, including the rationale for CR Report emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. Reduction of GHG 305-5 choosing it. P102 Environmental Performance > b. If applicable, gross market-based energy indirect (Scope emissions d. Scopes in which reductions took place; whether direct CO2 Emissions by Scope 2) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. (Scope 1), energy indirect (Scope 2), and/or other c. If available, the gases included in the calculation; indirect (Scope 3). CR Report whether CO2 , CH4 , N2 O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6 , NF3 , or all. e. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or P102 Environmental Performance > d. Base year for the calculation, if applicable, including: calculation tools used. CO2 Emissions by Scope Energy indirect i. the rationale for choosing it; P101 Environmental Performance > 305-2 (Scope 2) GHG ii. emissions in the base year; a. Production, imports, and exports of ODS in metric tons CO2 Conversion Coefficients Used to emissions iii. the context for any significant changes in emissions of CFC-11 (trichlorofluoromethane) equivalent. Convert CO2 Emissions Emissions of that triggered recalculations of base year emissions. b. Substances included in the calculation. P103 Environmental Performance > 305-6 ozone-depleting e. Source of the emission factors and the global warming c. Source of the emission factors used. Scope of Data Collection substances (ODS) potential (GWP) rates used, or a reference to the GWP source. d. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or f. Consolidation approach for emissions; whether equity calculation tools used. share, financial control, or operational control. g. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 115 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance ESG Data, Scope of Reporting and GRI > GRI Index 08 ESG DATA, GRI INDEX SCOPE OF REPORTING a. Significant air emissions, in kilograms or multiples, for each of the following: i. NOx a. Total number and total volume of recorded significant spills. b. The following additional information for each spill that AND GRI Nitrogen oxides ii. SOx iii. Persistent organic pollutants (POP) was reported in the organization's financial statements: i. Location of spill; (NOX), sulfur iv. Volatile organic compounds (VOC) CR Report ii. Volume of spill; 306-3 Significant spills N/A 305-7 oxides (SOX), and v. Hazardous air pollutants (HAP) P100 Environmental Performance > iii. Material of spill, categorized by: oil spills (soil or ESG Data, Scope of Reporting other significant air vi. Particulate matter (PM) Manufacture / Sales water surfaces), fuel spills (soil or water surfaces), emissions vii. Other standard categories of air emissions spills of wastes (soil or water surfaces), spills of and GRI identifiedin relevant regulations chemicals (mostly soil or water surfaces), and other b. Source of the emission factors used. (to be specified by the organization). c. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or c. Impacts of significant spills. calculation tools used. External Evaluations & Awards a. Total weight for each of the following: 306: Effluents and Waste i. Hazardous waste transported ii. Hazardous waste imported CR Report Action Plan & KPIs a. Total volume of planned and unplanned water discharges Transport of 306-4 iii. Hazardous waste exported P100 Environmental Performance > by: hazardous waste iv. Hazardous waste treated Manufacture / Sales Water discharge i. destination; CR Report b. Percentage of hazardous waste shipped internationally. Human Resource Performance 306-1 by quality and ii. quality of the water, including treatment method; P100 Environmental Performance > c. Standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. destination iii. whether the water was reused by another Manufacture / Sales Environmental Performance organization. a. Water bodies and related habitats that are significantly b. Standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. affected by water discharges and/or runoff, including information on: Water bodies Scope of Reporting a. Total weight of hazardous waste, with a breakdown by affected by water i. the size of the water body and related habitat; the following disposal methods where applicable: 306-5 ii. whether the water body and related habitat is i. Reuse discharges and/or designated as a nationally or internationally GRI Index ii. Recycling runoff protected area; iii. Composting iii. the biodiversity value, such as total number of TCFD Index iv. Recovery, including energy recovery protected species. v. Incineration (mass burn) vi. Deep well injection 307: Environmental Compliance vii. Landfill viii. On-site storage a. Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non ix. Other (to be specified by the organization) compliancewith environmental laws and/or regulations b. Total weight of non-hazardous waste, with a breakdown in terms of: by the following disposal methods where applicable: CR Report Non-compliance i. total monetary value of significant fines; Waste by type and CR Report 306-2 i. Reuse P100 Environmental Performance > with environmental ii. total number of non-monetary sanctions; disposal method 307-1 P103 Environmental Performance > ii. Recycling Manufacture / Sales laws and iii. cases brought through dispute resolution No. of Environmental Law Violations iii. Composting regulations mechanisms. iv. Recovery, including energy recovery b. If the organization has not identified any non compliance v. Incineration (mass burn) with environmental laws and/or regulations, a brief vi. Deep well injection statement of this fact is sufficient. vii. Landfill 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment viii. On-site storage ix. Other (to be specified by the organization) New suppliers CR Report c. How the waste disposal method has been determined: that were P60 Responsible Supply Chain a. Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using i. Disposed of directly by the organization, or otherwise 308-1 screened using Management > Promoting Responsible environmental criteria. directly confirmed environmental Procurement That Upholds the ii. Information provided by the waste disposal contractor criteria Environment and Labor Safety iii. Organizational defaults of the waste disposal contractor. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 116 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance ESG Data, Scope of Reporting and GRI > GRI Index 08 ESG DATA, GRI INDEX SCOPE OF REPORTING a. Number of suppliers assessed for environmental impacts. b. Number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts. 403: Occupational Health and Safety a. The level at which each formal joint management worker AND GRI Workers c. Significant actual and potential negative environmental health and safety committee typically operates within the CR Report representation Negative impacts identified in the supply chain. CR Report organization. P37 Rewarding Workplaces > Laborin formal joint environmental d. Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant P61 Responsible Supply Chain 403-1 b. Percentage of workers whose work, or workplace, is Management Relationship management– 308-2 impacts in the actual and potential negative environmental impacts Management > Conducting and controlled by the organization, that are represented P41 Occupational Health & Safety > worker health and ESG Data, Scope of Reporting supply chain and with which improvements were agreed upon as a result Following Up on Responsible safety committees by formal joint management-worker health and safety committees. Our System actions taken of assessment. Procurement Surveys and GRI e. Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant a. Types of injury, injury rate (IR), occupational disease actual and potential negative environmental impacts rate (ODR), lost day rate (LDR), absentee rate (AR), with which relationships were terminated as a result of and work-related fatalities, for all employees, with a assessment, and why. Types of injury breakdown by: External Evaluations & Awards and rates of injury, i. region; GRI 400: Social Topics occupational ii. gender. CR Report Action Plan & KPIs 403-2 diseases, lost days, b. Types of injury, injury rate (IR), and work-related P42 Occupational Health & Safety Indicator Report Page and absenteeism, fatalities, for all workers (excluding employees) whose > The Occurrence of Work-Related and number of work, or workplace, is controlled by the organization, Accidents Human Resource Performance 401: Employment work-related with a breakdown by: fatalities i. region; a. Total number and rate of new employee hires during the CR Report Environmental Performance New employee ii. gender. reporting period, by age group, gender and region. P96 Human Resource Performance 401-1 hires and employee c. The system of rules applied in recording and reporting b. Total number and rate of employee turnover during the > Number of New Hires, Number of turnover accident statistics. reporting period, by age group, gender and region. Retirees and Turnover Rate Scope of Reporting Workers with high a. Benefits which are standard for full-time employees a. Whether there are workers whose work, or workplace, is incidence or high GRI Index of the organization but are not provided to temporary 403-3 risk of diseases controlled by the organization, involved in occupational or part-time employees, by significant locations of activities who have a high incidence or high risk of related to their Benefits provided operation. These include, as a minimum: specific diseases. TCFD Index occupation to full-time i. life insurance; employees that ii. health care; Health and safety a. Whether formal agreements (either local or global) with 401-2 CR Report are not provided to iii. disability and invalidity coverage; topics covered in trade unions cover health and safety. temporary or partiv. parental leave; 403-4 P37 Rewarding Workplaces > Laborformal agreements b. If so, the extent, as a percentage, to which various health time employees v. retirement provision; Management Relationship with trade unions and safety topics are covered by these agreements. vi. stock ownership; vii. others. 404: Training and Education b. The definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. a. Average hours of training that the organization’s a. Total number of employees that were entitled to parental Average hours of employees have undertaken during the reporting period, CR Report leave, by gender. 404-1 training per year by: P40 Talent Development > Annual b. Total number of employees that took parental leave, by gender. per employee i. gender; Training Hours and Costs per Employee c. Total number of employees that returned to work in the CR Report ii. employee category reporting period after parental leave ended, by gender. P31 Diversity & Equal Opportunity 401-3 Parental leave Programs for a. Type and scope of programs implemented and CR Report d. Total number of employees that returned to work after > Supporting a Healthy Work-Life upgrading assistance provided to upgrade employee skills. P39 Talent Development > Overview of parental leave ended that were still employed 12 months Balance employee skills b. Transition assistance programs provided to facilitate Talent Development after their return to work, by gender. 404-2 and transition continued employability and the management of career P40 Talent Development > Offering e. Return to work and retention rates of employees that assistance endings resulting from retirement or termination of Diverse Educational Programs, Career took parental leave, by gender. programs employment. Development Support 402: Labor/Management Relations a. Minimum number of weeks’ notice typically provided to employees and their representatives prior to the Minimum notice implementation of significant operational changes that CR Report periods regarding 402-1 could substantially affect them. P37 Rewarding Workplaces > Laboroperational b. For organizations with collective bargaining agreements, Management Relationship changes report whether the notice period and provisions for consultation and negotiation are specified in collective agreements. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 117 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance ESG Data, Scope of Reporting and GRI > GRI Index 08 ESG DATA, GRI INDEX SCOPE OF REPORTING Percentage of employees receiving regular a. Percentage of total employees by gender and by CR Report 408: Child Labor a. Operations and suppliers considered to have significant AND GRI 404-3 performance and career employee category who received a regular performance and career development review during the reporting P40 Our People > Talent Development > Evaluation Framework risk for incidents of: i. child labor; period. ii. young workers exposed to hazardous work. development reviews Operations and b. Operations and suppliers considered to have significant ESG Data, Scope of Reporting 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 408-1 suppliers at significant risk for risk for incidents of child labor either interms of: i. type of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and and GRI a. Percentage of individuals within the organization’s incidents of child supplier; labor ii. countries or geographic areas with operations and governance bodies in each of the following diversity suppliers considered at risk. categories: c. Measures taken by the organization in the reporting i. Gender; External Evaluations & Awards ii. Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over Annual Securities Report (Available in period intended to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. 50 years old; Japanese): Action Plan & KPIs Diversity of iii. Other indicators of diversity where relevant (such as P50 4. (2) Corporate Officers 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 405-1 governance bodies minority or vulnerable groups). CR Report and employees b. Percentage of employees per employee category in each P95 LIXIL Group Human Resource a. Operations and suppliers considered to have significant Human Resource Performance of the following diversity categories: Performance > Number of Employees risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor either in i. Gender; by Type of Employment terms of: Operations and ii. Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over i. type of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and Environmental Performance suppliers at supplier; 50 years old; 409-1 significant risk for iii. Other indicators of diversity where relevant (such as ii. countries or geographic areas with operations and incidents of forced Scope of Reporting minority or vulnerable groups). or compulsory labor suppliers considered at risk. b. Measures taken by the organization in the reporting a. Ratio of the basic salary and remuneration of women to period intended to contribute to the elimination of all GRI Index Ratio of basic salary men for each employee category, by significant locations forms of forced or compulsory labor. 405-2 and remuneration of operation. of women to men b. The definition used for ‘significant locations of 410: Security Practices TCFD Index operation’. a. Percentage of security personnel who have received 406: Non-Discrimination Security personnel formal training in the organization's human rights trained in human policies or specific procedures and their application to 410-1 a. Total number of incidents of discrimination during the rights policies or security. reporting period. procedures b. Whether training requirements also apply to third party b. Status of the incidents and actions taken with reference organizations providing security personnel. Incidents of to the following: discrimination and i. Incident reviewed by the organization; 411: Management Approach Disclosures 406-1 corrective actions ii. Remediation plans being implemented; a. Total number of identified incidents of violations taken iii. Remediation plans that have been implemented, involving the rights of indigenous peoples during the with results reviewed through routine internal reporting period. management review processes; b. Status of the incidents and actions taken with reference iv. Incident no longer subject to action. Incidents of to the following: violations involving 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 411-1 i. Incident reviewed by the organization; rights of indigenous ii. Remediation plans being implemented; peoples a. Operations and suppliers in which workers’ rights to iii. Remediation plans that have been implemented, exercise freedom of association or collective bargaining with results reviewed through routine internal Operations and may be violated or at significant risk either in terms of: management review processes; suppliers in which i. type of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and iv. Incident no longer subject to action. the right to freedom supplier; 407-1 of association 412: Human Rights Assessment ii. countries or geographic areas with operations and and collective suppliers considered at risk. Operations that bargaining may be b. Measures taken by the organization in the reporting have been subject a. Total number and percentage of operations that have CR Report at risk period intended to support rights to exercise freedom of 412-1 to human rights been subject to human rights reviews or human rights P73 Human Rights > Strengthening association and collective bargaining. reviews or impact impact assessments, by country. Human Rights Due Diligence assessments LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 118 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance ESG Data, Scope of Reporting and GRI > GRI Index 08 ESG DATA, GRI INDEX SCOPE OF REPORTING Employee training a. Total number of hours in the reporting period devoted to training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to a. Number of suppliers assessed for social impacts. b. Number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative social impacts. AND GRI 412-2 on human rights policies or operations. b. Percentage of employees trained during the reporting CR Report P72 Human Rights > Instilling Human c. Significant actual and potential negative social impacts identified in the supply chain. CR Report Rights Principles within the Group Negative social procedures period in human rights policies or procedures d. Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant P61 Responsible Supply Chain impacts in the concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to 414-2 actual and potential negative social impacts with Management > Conducting and ESG Data, Scope of Reporting operations. supply chain and actions taken which improvements were agreed upon as a result of Following Up on Responsible assessment. Procurement Surveys and GRI Significant e. Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant investment actual and potential negative social impacts with which agreements and a. Total number and percentage of significant investment relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, contracts that agreements and contracts that include human rights and why. External Evaluations & Awards 412-3 include human clauses or that underwent human rights screening. rights clauses or b. The definition used for ‘significant investment 415: Public Policy that underwent agreements’. Action Plan & KPIs human rights a. Total monetary value of financial and in-kind political CR Report screening contributions made directly and indirectly by the Political P75 Key Stakeholder Engagement > 415-1 organization by country and recipient/beneficiary. Human Resource Performance 413: Local Communities contributions b. If applicable, how the monetary value of in-kind Government Authorities and Industrial Associations contributions was estimated. a. Percentage of operations with implemented local Environmental Performance community engagement, impact assessments, and/or 416: Customer Health and Safety development programs, including the use of: Assessment of the CR Report Scope of Reporting i. social impact assessments, including gender impact health and safety a. Percentage of significant product and service categories P64 Product Safety & Quality > assessments, based on participatory processes; 416-1 for which health and safety impacts are assessed for ii. environmental impact assessments and ongoing impacts of product Enhancing Quality across Entire improvement. GRI Index monitoring; and service categories Product Lifecycle Operations with iii. public disclosure of results of environmental and a. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with local community TCFD Index social impact assessments; regulations and/or voluntary codes concerning the engagement, CR Report iv. local community development programs based on health and safety impacts of products and services 413-1 impact P14-19 Global Sanitation & Hygiene local communities’ needs; Incidents of within the reporting period, by: CR Report assessments, P78-82 Community v. stakeholder engagement plans based on stakeholder non-compliance i. incidents of non-compliance with regulations P65 Product Safety & Quality > and development mapping; concerning the resulting in a fine or penalty; Responding to Serious Productprograms 416-2 vi. broad based local community consultation health and safety ii. incidents of non-compliance with regulations Related Accidents > Number of Legal committees and processes that include vulnerable impacts of products resulting in a warning; Infringements and Significant Productgroups; and services iii. incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes. Related Accidents vii. works councils, occupational health and safety b. If the organization has not identified any non compliance committees and other worker representation bodies with regulations and/or voluntary codes, a brief to deal with impacts; statement of this fact is sufficient. viii. formal local community grievance processes. 417: Marketing and Labeling Operations with a. Operations with significant actual and potential negative significant actual impacts on local communities, including: a. Whether each of the following types of information is Website 413-2 and potential i. the location of the operations; required by the organization's procedures for product Business Information TOP > Laws, negative impacts on ii. the significant actual and potential negative impacts and service information and labeling: Regulations, and Institutions > Laws local communities of operations. i. The sourcing of components of the product or service; and Institutions > Environmentally ii. Content, particularly with regard to substances that 414: Supplier Social Assessment Requirements for Conscious Design and Eco-Products might produce an environmental or social impact; product and service http://www.biz-lixil.com/service/ CR Report 417-1 iii. Safe use of the product or service; information and law/eco_products/index. New suppliers that P60 Responsible Supply Chain iv. Disposal of the product and environmental or social a. Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labeling html#lixTmplSectionBlock02 414-1 were screened Management > Promoting Responsible impacts; social criteria. (Japanese only) using social criteria Procurement That Upholds the v. Other (explain). CR Report Environment and Labor Safety b. Percentage of significant product or service categories P49 Environmental Management > covered by and assessed for compliance with such Environmentally Conscious Design procedures. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 119 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance ESG Data, Scope of Reporting and GRI > GRI Index 08 ESG DATA, GRI INDEX SCOPE OF REPORTING a. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by: AND GRI Incidents of non-compliance i. incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a fine or penalty; concerning product 417-2 ii. incidents of non-compliance with regulations and service resulting in a warning; ESG Data, Scope of Reporting information and labeling iii. incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes. b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance and GRI with regulations and/or voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. a. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with External Evaluations & Awards regulations and/or voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by: Action Plan & KPIs Incidents of i. incidents of non-compliance with regulations non-compliance resulting in a fine or penalty; 417-3 concerning ii. incidents of non-compliance with regulations Human Resource Performance marketing resulting in a warning; communications iii. incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes. Environmental Performance b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. Scope of Reporting 418: Customer Privacy GRI Index a. Total number of substantiated complaints received concerning breaches of customer privacy, categorized Substantiated TCFD Index by: complaints i. complaints received from outside parties and concerning substantiated by the organization; 418-1 breaches of ii. complaints from regulatory bodies. customer privacy b. Total number of identified leaks, thefts, or losses of and losses of customer data. customer data c. If the organization has not identified any substantiated complaints, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. 419: Socioeconomic Compliance a. Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non compliancewith laws and/or regulations in the social and economic area in terms of: i. total monetary value of significant fines; Non-compliance ii. total number of non-monetary sanctions; with laws and iii. cases brought through dispute resolution CR Report 419-1 regulations in mechanisms. P86 Action Plan & KPIs the social and b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance economic area with laws and/or regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. c. The context against which significant fines and non monetary sanctions were incurred. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 120 Commitment Management and Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society ESG Performance ESG Data, Scope of Reporting and GRI > TCFD index 08 ESG DATA, TCFD INDEX SCOPE OF REPORTING Category Detail In order to promote Group-wide EHS activities, the Group EHS Committee was Report Page AND GRI established under senior managing executive officers. The Quality and EHS departments for the LIXIL Group and LIXIL Corporation serve as Committee secretariats, overseeing all our business organizations, head office departments, and consolidated subsidiaries. The Group EHS Committee enlists the cooperation of the LIXIL Group P47 ESG Data, Scope of Reporting Executive Officers Committee, LIXIL Corporation Board of Directors, the Internal Environmental Governance Audit Committee, the Risk Management Committee, and the CR Committee for and GRI its activities. These activities focus primarily on establishing a Group-wide EHS Management > Our System management system, including promoting environmental strategies, organizing effective management structures and reporting lines, and sharing and expanding organizational and regional measures. We prioritize addressing climate change and External Evaluations & Awards other environmental issues in our business operation, and, as a living technology company, promote environmental strategies to help solve social issues. Action Plan & KPIs In 2016, the LIXIL Group announced its Environmental Vision 2030 medium to longterm targets, and established the LIXIL Group Environmental Sustainability Principles to Human Resource Performance define our environmental philosophy and code of conduct. By 2030, we aim to achieve an overall net zero balance between the environmental footprint of our business and the positive environmental contribution we make through technological innovations and P21 Environmental Performance the development of low-carbon, water-saving products and services. We are now also Water Conservation developing a long-term vision that envisages how by 2050 LIXIL Group will contribute to & Environmental Scope of Reporting solving the increasingly serious environmental issues that we have witnessed in recent Sustainability > years. We aim to announce this strategy in FYE2020. Background, Our Strategy LIXIL’s business is strongly linked to buildings, which consume energy in various forms Approach & Strategy GRI Index such as air conditioning and hot water supply. Energy used in buildings accounts for P47 approximately one third, or 32% (24% residential and 8% commercial), of global energy Environmental consumption, and as a result, CO2 emissions from buildings have increased by 2.4 times Management > Our TCFD Index over the past 40 years. Without action, energy use by buildings is estimated to more than Approach double by 2050, requiring urgent action in order to reduce anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, with the depletion of the world’s water resources becoming increasingly severe, approximately four billion people, or 40% of the world’s population, are expected to be facing water stress in areas without stable water supply in 2050. Issues were selected considering: P11 1) Global trends Material Issues 2) Relevance to the industries to which the LIXIL Group belongs P22 3) Expectations of our stakeholders (customers, shareholders, business partners such as Water Conservation Risk suppliers, NGOs, etc.) & Environmental Management Material issues were selected by relevant business functions, and the CR Committee Sustainability > approved the final list of material issues. Opportunities and We developed mid-term action plans for material issues that include climate risks, and Risks for the LIXIL regularly evaluate the progress and results. Group P22 The LIXIL Group manages Scope 1 to 3 CO2 emissions. We aim to reduce Scope 1 and 2 Water Conservation Metrics and emissions by 30% and Scope 3 emissions attributable to product use by 15% by 2030. & Environmental Targets We set mid-term targets and action plans for 2020, and formulated a roadmap to 2030. Sustainability > FYE2021 Targets CR Environmental Disclosures (P49) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 121 LIXIL Group Corporation 36F, Kasumigaseki Building, 3-2-5, Kasumigaseki, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-6036, Japan www.lixil.com
