COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE GLOBAL COMPACT NETWORK Reporting Period: February 2018-February 2019 Table of Contents 1. ABOUT NEEDS……………………………………………………………………………….3 NEEDS Mission NEEDS Statement 2. JOINING UN GLOBAL COMPACT NETWORK…………………………………….5 NEEDS CEO Statement 3. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS………………………………………………………………7 Human Rights Labour Environment Anti-Corruption 4. NEEDS AND SDG’S……………………………………………………………………….11 NEEDS Smart Energy Solutions NEEDS Digital Solutions Measurement and Outcomes 5. NEEDS EVENTS AND ACHIEVEMENTS …………………..………………………22 1. ABOUT NEEDS Established in 1997, NEEDS is committed to the pursuit of excellence in serving the regional market needs in the fields of energy systems, electrical and water networks, infrastructure development, smart grid, automation and control systems, information technology, smart metering, environment, policy development, education and project quality management. 3 “ NEEDS STATEMENT Commitment to Lead the Digital Transformation of Utility Business in the 21st Century towards Overall Business Sustainable NEEDS MISSION Environment with Ultimate Professional NEEDS endeavours to be a pioneer consulting and Integrity. engineering company specialized in the integration of advanced automation and information technologies with planning, design, operations, finance, management, customer services, and other business activities of governmental and private utilities in the region. 4 4 2. JOINING UN GLOBAL COMPACT NETWORK LEBANON (UN-GCNL) ◎ On February 2018, NEEDS has joined the UN Global Compact Network in Lebanon (GCNL) on a Participant Level. In its engagement, NEEDS confirmed supporting the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact on Human Rights, Labour, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. ◎ NEEDS committed to make the UN Global Compact and its principles part of its strategy, culture, and day-to-day operations, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the SDGs. This Report is NEEDS first COP report. We will ◎ During its first year, NEEDS has present hereby the actions we considered during undertaken several projects, this year to continually improve the integration of initiatives and progress towards specific SDGs in our the Global Compact and its principles into our commitment as members of GCNL business strategy, culture and daily operations. towards the 2030 agenda. 5 NEEDS CEO STATEMENT To Our Stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Near East Engineering and Development Services – NEEDS, reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. In the hard conditions through which the overall Middle East region is passing, we are striving to implement all our capabilities and knowledge towards achieving selected sustainable goals that have positive impact on the environment and on the advancement of human being through education. We are looking forward to witnessing that our efforts will contribute to a better future, supporting our community and encouraging other institutions toward joining the efforts. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Dr. Mounir Yehia NEEDS Chairman and CEO 6 3. Description of Actions “Human Rights” Suitable, Safe Work Facilities Equal Opportunity In 2016, NEEDS had executed full NEEDS provides an equal opportunity for refurbishment of its premises, renewing all employees, without differentiation on all its offices ensuring to provide NEEDS gender, religion, national origin or color. employees a more suitable work place, healthy and safe working environment, NEEDS exerts all effort to ensure fair including needed facilities. treatment for all employees, without any discrimination or differentiation of any NEEDS prohibits ‘Smoking’ in all its indoor kind. premises to ensure clean air and protect the health of all employees. NEEDS has 62% of employees Male and 38% female, where 50% of employees are engineers. Ethical Work Environment NEEDS endeavors to ensure an ethical work environment, where respect among all employees and productive work environment are keen. COMMITMENT TO THE GLOBAL GOALS 7 “Labour” Equal Employment Opportunity NEEDS provides an equal employment opportunity during the recruitment process, without any differentiation on religion, gender, age or color. NEEDS is committed to treat fairly all its employees regarding the recruitment, development, promotion, salary and benefits. Benefits to Employees Certificate in Certificate in Among benefits that NEEDS provides to Energy Management Lead Auditing employees, is the bi-annual or annual bonus, as a reward for the hard work, and to encourage commitment and dedication. Certificate of Attendance Employees benefit as well from health insurance and benefits, as per the Lebanese Labor Law. Continuous Training NEEDS strives to provide the employees with continuous development and training. Training and courses fields vary from energy, COMMITMENT TO THE GLOBAL GOALS to education and management. This training process enhances the staff skills, and keeps them motivated, developing their ability to grow. 8 “Environment” NEEDS SMART ENERGY SOLUTIONS AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY NEEDS “Smart Energy Solutions” and “Energy Efficiency” are in the core of NEEDS Sustainable activities, aiming at achieving primary energy savings, protecting the environment, reducing consumer cost, and attaining a high level of sustainability and reliability of the power system through load management and energy efficiency. Through NEEDS Exclusive SMARTi Solution, we perform the engineering and feasibility related to energy efficiency and energy management programs, where the cost of energy is increasing significantly, thus driving end users to cut down on energy consumption resulting in significant cost savings, while ensuring operational continuity and a continuous return on investments, necessary for sustainable development and clean environment. IN ADDITION, NEEDS SMART ENERGY SOLUTIONS AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY SUPPORT ACHIEVING THE FOLLOWING SDGS Goal 7. Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all COMMITMENT TO THE GLOBAL GOALS Goal 12. Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns Goal 13. Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts Goal 17. Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development NEEDS Actions on SDG’s are detailed in Section 4. 9 “Anti-Corruption” NEEDS DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION OF THE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT NEEDS major challenge is to position the Digital Utility as a basic requirement for the success and modernization of the regional utilities' business and services. The Digitization process minimizes corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. In fact, the process-oriented approach in a modern utility structure requires the integration of technical activities, functions, information, technology, economical analysis, managerial issues, and business rules. The digital utility platform shall serve the complex business processes associated with new business environment and market forces from the day-to-day business activities to the highest decision making process. The Digital Utility transformation aims at reducing capital investment, increasing operational efficiency, maintaining high quality of services, and adopting the business driven approach, minimizing corruption in all its forms. The realization of the Digital Utility is the key success factor to face the sustainability challenge in an investmentintensive environment such as the utility business. ETHICAL WORK ENVIRONMENT NEEDS rejects all forms of discrimination or destructive conducts like harassment or intimidation. NEEDS encourages all employees to communicate any abuse they may sense during their work. COMMITMENT TO THE GLOBAL GOALS IN ADDITION, NEEDS DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION OF THE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT SUPPORTS ACHIEVING THE FOLLOWING SDGS: Goal 4. Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all. NEEDS Actions on SDG’s are detailed in Section 4. 10 4. NEEDS AND SDG’S 4.1 NEEDS SMART ENERGY SOLUTIONS Development of an energy solution called SMARTi Solution, which provides smart effective means to reduce energy consumption, resulting in significant cost savings and ensuring operational continuity with stable return on investment. This solution has different components, through which the energy consumption of a Building will be audited and analyzed, and accordingly recommendations will be provided covering the basic preliminary to the most advanced EE and RE. Implementation of Energy Audit for CT/VT Meters at Metering Site in Muscat Electricity Distribution Company resulting in actionable recommendations to client for immediate implementation and reduction of network losses. NEEDS implementation of an innovative technical approach that facilitates the systematic inspection, collection, and analysis of millions of meter data records with highest accuracy levels that result in actionable recommendations to the client for immediate implementation and reduction of network losses. Execution of detailed Facility Study under ESCO model (Energy Service Company) of a 20,000 m2 public building in Saudi Arabia The project results in potential energy efficiency measures and recommendations along with feasibility and payback period. 11 4.1 NEEDS SMART ENERGY SOLUTIONS Execution of phase I of Performance Contracting Services for 8 Public Office Buildings in Abu Dhabi for the Department of Energy The measures cover the lighting, HVAC, BMS, Energy Monitoring, others. The objectives of the project were met where the Audit report shows a conservation of 30% in the buildings energy use is achievable within one year of implementation of the recommended ECMs and investment return (payback period) over seven (7) years using a Shared Saving ESCO model. Development of policies programs with action Promotion of Digital transformation and Smart Grid plans and recommendation Implementation by balancing the rational consumption of energy through participation in major bids of three regional countries (Energy Efficiency projects proposed for private associated with the digital transformation of the energy and water sector) with moderate increase of production business environment to provide transparent processing of data (Policy recommendations and programs for the and benchmarking goals so decision makers are able to take public sector). proper decisions associated with sustainable development. Update of “Policy Paper for the Electricity Sector of Lebanon” The “Policy Paper for the Electricity Sector” constitutes a global framework for the energy sector in Lebanon, including 3 distinct strategic areas with 10 specific initiatives. NEEDS provided services to assess the progress and to update the initiatives of the Policy Paper of 2010, for the Ministry of Electricity and Water. In this Policy Paper, Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency initiatives are among the initiatives. 12 NEEDS SMARTi SERVICES 13 NEEDS SMARTi OFFERINGS NEEDS offers several energy savings and efficiency services through defined solutions (Business Models) 14 MEASUREMENT AND OUTCOMES NEEDS EXCLUSIVE SMARTi SOLUTION ◎ Reduce Customer Energy Bill from 10% to 40% with guaranteed savings over the long-term 15 4. NEEDS AND SDG’S 4.2 NEEDS DIGITAL SOLUTIONS Development of the E-Learning Solution – SOrCE electronic platform – implementing the digital transformation in the learning and education sector for deployment in schools. NEEDS offers E-Learning solution, through the exclusive SOrCE electronic platform (Smart Oriented and Constructive E-Learning), for the digital transformation of learning practices into more robust, customizable and smart learning experiences using advanced technologies, with digital curriculum and interactive content. Development of an E-Learning Product – Learnit – as the First Digital Platform for Brevet and Baccalaureate National Examination in Lebanon, including the interactive digital content of grades 9 and 12scientific subjects in English and French. Copyright Registration of Learnit product in the Ministry of Economy and Trade. (Certification # 185707) Provision of scientific and technical expertise to the Lebanese Army, as an initiative to develop the Army E-Learning Interactive Platform. 16 TRANSFORMATION TIMELINE NEEDS Experience in Digital Transformation + Chairman Dr. Mounir Yehia, as a former Professor at the American University of Beirut LEARNIT was evolved NEEDS is concerned with the learning paradigm shift designed to cater for the 21st century skills for today’s learners 17 LEARNIT DRIVER An Emerging Form of Learning towards Achieving the National Examination 1st Online Training Program for Brevet and Baccalaureate National Examination Engaging Learners in e-learning activities to facilitate in assimilating their courses anytime, anywhere using any smart device Allowing smooth sailing across lessons and utilizing pop-up definitions, illustrations, interactive exercises, direct assessment Combining self-learning & instructional learning into one form Turning Learner into driver of the learning process, the decision maker, and the knowledge seeker 18 LEARNIT CONCEPT An Emerging Form of Learning towards Achieving the National Examination Self-Learning and Interactive Learning Education Technology & Content Platform, Cloud Furnished with necessary Knowledge, Skills, and Strategies Instruction Design required to excel in the national examination Geared with Real-time Assessment and Direct Feedback on student performance Armed with Custom Analytics and Progress Tracking LEARNER tools based on learner's activities. Experience Performed on Interactive Multi-lingual Responsive Learning School / Institution Community System Principal Parents Head of Division Peers Coordinators Accessible on Computers, Interactive Boards, Tablets, and Teacher Smart Phones 19 ‫‪LEARNIT CORE‬‬ ‫‪An Emerging Form of Learning towards Achieving the‬‬ ‫‪National Examination‬‬ ‫‪Meeting Learning and Technology Requirements of 21st century‬‬ ‫قابلية التوسع في اي وقت‬ ‫تكييف التعليم وفق احتياجات المتعلم‬ ‫التعلم في اي وقت‪,‬اي مكان‬ ‫التعلم عن طريق بناء المعرفة‬ ‫التكامل مع مختلف االنظمة‬ ‫مالئمة مختلف انماط التعلم‬ ‫‪Learning‬‬ ‫‪Effectiveness‬‬ ‫توفير األمن المعلوماتي‬ ‫‪20‬‬ LEARNIT BENEFITS An Emerging Form of Learning towards Achieving the National Examination PAPERLESS increasing ability to learn in self-mode transforming learner from a mere recipient into researcher & analyzer capitalizing on self-instruction LEARNIT Environment merging technology with learning models via setting goals and managing time for achievement unique pedagogical engineering HTTP://LEARNIT.SORCE.ONLINE English & French Immediate Feedback Course Tab Chapter Tests Trial Exams Course Tab Chapter Tests Trial Exams Course Tab Chapter Tests Trial Exams 21 5. NEEDS EVENTS AND ACHIEVEMENTS EDUTECH Event ◎ NEEDS had participated in the EduTech event, on April 18-20, 2018, which was held April 18-20, 2018 in the Secrétariat Général des Ecoles SGEC-L Catholiques au Liban , in Ain Najm, Beit Mery, Lebanon. Beit Mery, Lebanon ◎ During the event opening, NEEDS Chairman, Dr. Mounir Yehia, announced the launching of the First Digital Platform for Brevet and Baccalaureate national examination (Learnit), beside SOrCE complete digital transformation for school from Grade 7 – Grade 12. ◎ NEEDS presented as well a session about SOrCE as the Digital Transformation in Learning and Education, highlighting the success story of NEEDS in real implementation of E-Learning Digital Transformation. NEEDS Attended more than 22 events in 2018 related to Energy / Education 22 GCNL Events: NEEDS had participated in various GCNL events, below selected ones are presented: March 2018 July 2018 Strategizing for the SDGs Manara in Lights & Colours Beirut Light Cost of Climate Change on House Ceremony Lebanese Economy October 2018 December 2018 Multi Stakeholder SDG GCNL's SDG 13 Forum 2018 Focus Group 23 Lebanese Army – Directorate of Intelligence ◎ Further to NEEDS achievements in digital transformation in the utility sector, NEEDS also employs its expertise to implement the digital transformation in the learning and education sector and was recognized Recognition to NEEDS by the Lebanese Army Directorate of Intelligence for its initiative of providing the scientific and technical expertise, to develop the Lebanese Army E-Learning Interactive Platform. A delegation of Lebanese Army Directorate of Intelligence, headed by Brigadier General Wissam Safi accompanied by Colonel Jamil Lahhoud and their team handed the Recognition Letter to NEEDS Chairman, Dr. Mounir Yehia on August 28, 2018. NEEDS initiative was launched with several meetings and workshops with the Lebanese Army Directorate of Intelligence technical team, where NEEDS presented its major experience and achievements in the digital transformation and demonstrated its online eLearning SOrCE Platform with highlights on its services and major features. Additionally, the Lebanese Army team highlighted their initial development on Moodle LMS system, and presented their requirements relevant to advanced developments and security issues. NEEDS offered the desired expertise and required professional services to support the Lebanese Army with technical solutions comprises of Training and Knowledge Transfer, Technical Workshops, Advanced Developments, and Qualitative Customization and Configuration along with its Designated Code Snippets. 24 NEEDS ISO Qualification: ISO 9001:2015 ◎ NEEDS is “ISO 9001:2015” qualified, with the following Scope of Certification: “Provision and Management of Digital Transformation System for Engineering and Relevant Business” 25 www.needs.com.lb
