Oando PLC Sustainability RC 6474 Report 2017 FUTURES BUILDING BRIGHTER HEAD OFFICE Oando PLC The Wings Office Complex 17a Ozumba Mbadiwe Victoria Island Lagos, Nigeria Tel: +234 1 270 2400 www.oandoplc.com E-mail: info@oandoplc.com Oando PLC What’s Inside Sustainability RC 6474 Report 2017 About this report About us About this report 4 5 4 6 Our Corporate Culture About Us 6 Our Global Footprint 8 Our Journey 10 Our Market Presence 11 Chairman’s Statement 12 14 Aligning our Group Chief Executive’s Statement business with the Aligning our business with the 18 Sustainable 18 Sustainable Development Goals Development Goals Our material issues in 2017 26 Targets and data for 2017 68 GRI Content Index 77 Feedback 82 Our material Targets and data GRI Content Index issues/focus areas 26 68 77 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 3 Inspiring Energy Building Brighter Futures Our Corporate Culture “It is literally true that About this you can succeed best and quickest by helping report others to succeed.” – Napolean Hill Respect, Integrity, Passion, and Professionalism (TRIPP), which Oando’s corporate culture is hinged on the values of Teamwork, T eamwork embodies the ‘Oando Way’. The 2017 Report is the fifth in the series of Oando’s Sustainability Reports. This year, our report is Teamwork: Everyday, our focused on the state of the company’s business, people are driven to work our engagement with multiple stakeholders, and together towards actualising the R espect organisation’s common goals our impact on the environment and society whilst and core values. doing business in a responsible and responsive manner. Respect: We encourage that consideration is shown to all Another important aspect of this report is our response to stakeholder challenges and colleagues. By appreciating the concerns in previous years and the effect our business has had on the economic and worth of others and valuing their I ntegrity social growth of our stakeholders. The 2017 report may be lacking in some information contributions, productivity is and data regarding our emissions and health and safety as we were not directly in improved, and a work friendly charge of the operatorship of our assets in the year under review. However, we remain environment is created. operator ready and have kept our standards and policies updated in line with best practice and safety for our people. Integrity: Reliability, honesty, We used the Global Reporting Index in accordance with the Core option released in 2016 in preparing our report. We have in the spirit of transparency and responsibility reported on all the disclosures that relate to the Company’s business in 2017. and trustworthiness are integral to all business dealings and P rofessionalism employees’ interpersonal relationships. Professionalism: Proper conduct by all employees is a critical component for our P assion achievement of business excellence. Passion: At Oando, we perform our tasks with enthusiasm and vigor, with an underlying zeal to always perform at an extraordinary level. Oando PLC Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 4 5 264 Inspiring Energy Building Brighter Futures About Us 300 KM We are one of Africa’s leading indigenous energy companies pipeline gas grid developed operating in the upstream, midstream and downstream in western and southern sectors. Primarily listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange, we Nigeria were the first African company to have a cross-border inward listing on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange. We are a proudly African company delivering world-class solutions and blazing the trail for a new breed of African corporates. Through leadership and pioneering solutions, we are changing Over 300 service stations 50,000 the continent’s energy landscape one step at a time. We have in Nigeria, Ghana, Togo invested substantially in assets across the entire energy value and the Republic 33 chain, formed strategic alliances to maximize productivity and of Benin are positioned to continue to deliver value to our stakeholders in an environmentally sustainable manner. MISSION To be the leading integrated VISION energy solutions provider m BOEPD To be the premier company VALUES driven by excellence 33 million barrels crude export volume production capacity to date Teamwork, Respect, Integrity, Passion and Professionalism (TRIPP) Oando PLC Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 6 7 Inspiring Energy Building Brighter Futures Our Global Footprint Oando has presence in different locations around the world. Our operations are currently focused on West 7 Africa and include upstream, midstream and downstream activities. We are front runners in all sectors of our operations. We are a transformational company with an outstanding workforce that strive towards delivering the highest standards that guarantee a brighter future. 1 Nigeria Benin Republic 8 2 3 Togo 4 Ghana 5 São Tomé & Príncipe 4 3 2 1 6 South Africa 7 United Kingdom United Arab Emirates 5 8 Primary Listing NSE Secondary Listing JSE 6 Oando PLC Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 8 9 Inspiring Energy Building Brighter Futures Our Journey Our Market Presence Our journey as an Energy Company began in 1956 when the business started as a Petroleum marketing The Oando Group comprises of four companies who are leaders in their respective divisions of the oil, gas Company under the name ESSO West Africa Incorporated, a subsidiary of Exxon Corporation, USA. In this and energy sector; Oando Energy Resources, Oando Trading, Axxela Group (formerly Oando Gas & Power) regard, the Company has passed through different stages to emerge as it is today, including but not limited to and OVH Energy (formerly Oando Marketing Limited). incorporation, nationalization, public listing, partial privatisation in the government controlled Unipetrol, share acquisition, mergers and divestments. UPSTREAM MIDSTREAM 1956 Business operations commenced as a petroleum marketing company in Nigeria under the name ESSO West Oando Energy Resources (OER) is a leading Axxela (formerly Oando Gas and Power) Africa Incorporated, a subsidiary of Exxon Corporation, USA. African exploration, production and development In 2017, we successfully rebranded Oando Gas & company with an extensive asset base covering Power to Axxela Limited. Axxela has continued to 1976 exploration, development and production of both thrive as the pioneering company of natural gas The Government bought ESSO’s interests and became sole owners. The Company was renamed Unipetrol oil and gas situated on and offshore in Nigeria, distribution to industrial and commercial consumers Nigeria Limited. and the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) of Sao across Nigeria. In the reporting year, Phase IV of the Tome and Principe. Greater Lagos Pipeline Expansion Project was 1991 commissioned. This is an 11km pipeline delivering The Company became a Public Limited Company Unipetrol Nigeria Plc – and 60% of the Company’s natural gas to customers along the Marina, Ijora axis shareholding was sold to the public under the first phase of privatisation. of Lagos State further expanding our distribution 1992 infrastructure. The Company was listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange in February 1992. 1994 Ocean and Oil Services Limited was founded to supply and trade petroleum products within Nigeria and worldwide. 1999 Unipetrol acquired 40% in Gaslink Nigeria Limited (which was increased to 51% in 2001). 2000 Ocean & Oil, a private investment company acquired 30% controlling interest in Unipetrol Plc. 2002 Unipetrol acquired 60% equity in Agip Nigeria Plc. 2003 Unipetrol Nigeria Plc merged with Agip Nigeria Plc and was renamed Oando Plc. 2005 Oando Plc became the first African company to accomplish a cross-border inward listing on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE). 2007 Oando Energy Services acquired two oil drilling rigs for approximately $100 million for use in the Niger Delta. 2008 Oando acquired 15% equity in OML 125 and 135, emerging as Nigeria’s first indigenous oil company with interests in producing deepwater assets. The Company also acquired an additional oil drilling rig. 2009 Oando acquired two additional oil drilling rigs. 2010 Oando completed a N20 billion rights issue which was 128% subscribed. Oando also launched its first Independent Power Plant for the Lagos State Water Corporation. 2012 OER listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange. DOWNSTREAM DOWNSTREAM 2013 Oando completed a N54.6 billion rights issue exercise which was 101% subscribed. 2014 Oando acquired Conoco Phillips Nigerian business for $1.5b. Our subsidiary, EHGC, was sold to Seven Oando Trading OVH (formerly Oando Marketing Limited) Energy for $250m and OER successfully completed a private placement for $50m. Oando Trading is a leading supplier of petroleum OVH, a downstream marketing company is a leading 2015 products in Nigeria, its key trading commodities retailer of petroleum products in Nigeria, with operations An agreement was reached to recapitalize 60% of the downstream Helios-Vitol consortium for $461million. include petrochemicals, industrial & liquefied natural spanning across West Africa. OVH provides solutions for $250million rights issue successfully achieved. gas, refined oil products and crude oil. Oando a wide range of energy needs, with expertise spanning Trading is a key participant in international oil across the provision of jetty services and the marketing 2016 markets, with a significant presence in the West and distribution of refined petroleum products for retail, Oando voluntarily delists from the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX). African region, and direct access to major energy commercial and industrial purposes. Alongside its 2017 markets across Africa via its offices in the United subsidiaries, OVH are custodians of the Lagos Midstream Oando Gas & Power rebrands as Axxella, Oando completes recapitalization of its downstream business Arab Emirates, South Africa and Nigeria. Jetty (also recognized as West Africa’s first privately owned midstream jetty). Oando PLC Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 10 11 5.6b Inspiring Energy Building Brighter Futures Chairman’s Statement In 2017, Oando and its joint venture partners cumulatively expended approximately ₦5,6b on various sustainable community development projects and programs Partnerships for the Goals Accordingly, as technical suspensions do not exist with the listing rules of the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE), the We believe strongly in partnering with others for achievement JSE (our jurisdiction of secondary listing) had to institute a full of the goals. The company continues to partner with suspension of trading in the shares of Oando, so as to be near governmental and non-governmental organisations towards the consistent with the trading status of the Oando shares listed on advancement of the goals. We remain active participants of the the NSE. United Nations Global Compact, and continue to align ourselves with its ten principles, in the thematic areas of Whilst we have consistently maintained our position of not Human Rights, Labour, the Environment and Anti-corruption. being guilty of the allegations raised by the petitioners in their We have also maintained our involvement and contribution to petitions, in the spirit of co-operation and transparency, the the World Economic Forum’s Partnership against Corruption company proceeded to comply with the directives of the initiative. Commission in order to ensure a smooth and swift conclusion of the forensic audit. The Oando Foundation (the “Foundation”), maintains a strong belief in the power of partnership as a platform for sustainable We do not see the SEC’s actions as a blight on 2017 but intervention. Through strategic collaboration with key private and public actors, the Foundation raised over ₦250million, in instead have taken learnings to enable greater shareholder participation, increased transparency in our communications to direct contributions for projects in adopted schools. The all our stakeholders and further strengthened our internal Foundation also advocated for increased access to basic processes to ensure that we continue to operate to the best education on various national and international platforms in global corporate governance standards. 2017, its direct advocacy engagement with the Universal Basic Education Commission resulted in it being selected to We have so far succeeded in reaching an amicable agreement HRM Oba Michael A. Gbadebo, CFR champion the strategic coordination of other private sector with the aggrieved shareholder and having the technical education affiliates supporting basic education in Nigeria. Chairman suspension of our shares lifted by the NSE, and the full suspension lifted by the JSE. We are hopeful that the year 2018 Furthermore, in conjunction with our joint venture partners, we will see the forensic audit concluded with a result that embarked on community projects that enhance inclusive and reinforces the values, and standards that we strictly adhere to. I am pleased to introduce our 2017 commitment towards maintaining a sustainable business, as sustainable urbanisation in the communities in which we Closing well as our outcomes so far. operate. In 2017, Oando and its joint venture partners Sustainability Report. This is our fifth year of cumulatively expended approximately ₦5,6b on various reporting; and another opportunity to The year 2017 saw a focus on economic recovery for the sustainable community development projects and programs, ranging from road construction to housing, school In spite of the challenges of 2017, we nation as a whole, the Nigerian economy grew to 0.83% by demonstrate our continuous commitment to yearend 2017, up from -0.91% GDP growth at the beginning scholarships, welfare, security programs, and youth capacity maintain a positive outlook for the year delivering societal value, the “Oando way”. of the year. The oil and gas industry was a major contributor to building initiatives. (NNPC/NAOC/OANDO JV ₦GN4,960,503.00; Network/Oando JV ₦GN15.2m and 2018. We continue to initiate and maintain this recovery as oil prices surpassed the $60/bbl mark and In 2015, we aligned our sustainability reached a two year high of $65.62/bbl at the end of the year Energia/Oando JV ₦649,288,111.00). We believe that through strategic partnerships of mutual benefit in strategy towards the achievement of the 2017. As a company, we were focused on sustaining our partnership, we can positively impact and transform the communities in which we operate. our journey to becoming the trusted profitability and leveraging on our core dollar earning Sustainable Development Goals (“SDGs”), investment vehicle, employer and partner Governance businesses, while completing divestment of non-core and ever since the SDGs have served as a businesses and restructuring of our loan facilities. of choice in the energy industry. compass through which we shape, Every so often, the economic climate poses challenges that In January 2017, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) commenced investigation into the company following communicate and report on our strategies, tempt businesses to focus only on the short-term, setting aside petitions filed by an indirect investor and a direct shareholder the need to prepare for future challenges and opportunities. At goals and activities as a business. Oando, we have made concerted effort to avoid this. We have alleging gross abuse of corporate governance and financial mismanagement. aligned our business with the SDGs by embedding its Growing together with our stakeholders and maintaining a principles and values into our strategy, business model, On October 17, 2017, the SEC published its interim findings HRM Oba Michael A. Gbadebo, CFR corporate culture and decision making processes, as and gave a directive to technically suspend free trading of the Chairman proactive approach to sustainable development requires demonstrated in this report. We are focused on setting longimmense effort, the SDGs give clear references which guide us company’s shares on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), our term goals that fundamentally influence how we operate and jurisdiction of primary listing as well as initiate a forensic audit in aligning our practices to propel the achievement of the engage, as we continue to pioneer and break new grounds on Goals. This report demonstrates our strategic approach and into the affairs of the company. behalf of our people, economy, environment and communities. Oando PLC Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 12 13 0.83 Inspiring Energy Building Brighter Futures Group Chief Executive’s % Statement The Nigerian economy overall returned to growth, with the economy growing by 0.83% in 2017, a positive outcome compared to the contraction of 1.5% recorded in 2016. The Company continues to believe in the The business environment in 2017 importance and interconnectivity of its A significant improvement in oil prices was witnessed in 2017. This elicited an increasing belief that the market was impact on the society and environment to approaching a new norm. The events during the course of the the success of its business. As always, year led many industry experts to believe that the worst was indeed over as the market appeared to have found stability, sustainability remains part of our corporate with oil price volatility falling by about a third during the course culture and the way we do business. of the year. The Nigerian economy overall returned to growth, with the In 2015, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate economy growing by 0.83% in 2017, a positive outcome Change held in Paris and the United Nations also set compared to the contraction of 1.5% recorded in 2016. This Sustainable Development Goals. To this end, Oando recovery was driven mainly through the implementation of published her Green Environment plan in 2016, targeted at favourable economic policies; rising oil prices, relative oil recycling and managing waste in our buildings and all places production and forex stability; and improved manufacturing of operation, reducing energy consumption and targeting activity. 16% efficiency, incorporating carbon reduction and managing our use of water. We have designed and aligned our policies and In the Oil and Gas industry, production levels increased by actions with the advancement of this plan; including, ensuring about 16% to 1.75mmbpd in Q4 2017 compared to the that our new head-office building and our corporate life style 1.51mmbpd produced at the beginning of the year. Niger meet our commitment to the global goals. Delta restiveness also decreased as the Niger Delta Avengers (“NDA”) ceasefire which began in August 2016 was Jubril Adewale Tinubu maintained during the year. If you want to go fast, go Group Chief Executive The industry also saw positive policy reforms notably the passage of the Petroleum Industry Governance Bill (PIGB) by the Senate, restructuring of the NNPC and continued payment alone, if you want to go far, of JV Cash call arrears via the Repayment Agreement executed with JV partners. go together African proverb Welcome to Oando Plc’s (“the Company”) 2017 In the Oil and Gas industry, Sustainability Report. As we have done in previous years, production levels increased by about 16% to 1.75mmbpd in we bring to you accounts and verifiable data on our Q4 2017 compared to the contributions to our society, economy, the environment and 1.51mmbpd produced at the beginning of the year. our engagement with stakeholders. This is all made possible as a result of our commitment to sound corporate governance principles, which are at the heart of our sustainability strategy. Oando PLC Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 14 15 Inspiring Energy Building Brighter Futures 50% Group Chief Executive’s Statement continued In 2017, we successfully rebranded the gas and power business, Oando Gas & Power to Axxela Limited and the company continued to thrive, and enforce its position as the premier gas distribution company in Nigeria. In the course of the year, Phase IV of the Greater Lagos Pipeline Expansion Project was commissioned. This is a 11km pipeline delivering natural gas to customers along the Marina, Ijora axis of Lagos State further expanding our distribution infrastructure and enabling us reach a wider demand for delivery of gas. Impacting our communities through the Oando Foundation The Oando Foundation (“the foundation”) gained significant traction in programme implementation enrolling over 33,639 out of school children to date in partnership with Educate-A-Child. The Foundation established 10 Walk-in Centers, 16 ICT Centers, renovated 15 schools, strengthened the capacity of 774 teachers, and trained 741 LGEA & SBMC officials on educational management information systems and school governance. In 2017, the foundation leveraged new and existing partnerships with key players in the sector, raising over ₦250million for projects in adopted schools. Noteworthy is the partnership with Sumitomo Chemical, a Japanese Chemical Company, Oando PLC’s debt profile which stood at ₦473 billion (US$2.56billion) as at resulting in the establishment of 3 solar powered ICT Centres in schools across three states – Kaduna, Lagos and Taraba; benefitting over 2,400 students. January 2015 witnessed a 50% The foundation also advocated for increased access to basic education on reduction by December 2017, to N237 various national and international platforms in 2017; the Global Business billion (US$659 million). Coalition on Education (GBC-Ed), World Innovation Summit on Education 33,639 (WISE), Global Education and Skill Forum (GESF), and the African Philanthropy Forum (APF). Our direct advocacy engagement with the Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC) resulted in the Foundation being selected to champion the strategic coordination of other private sector education affiliates supporting basic education in Nigeria. The big move Our Green building Positioning the Company for Economic growth The Company’s upstream subsidiary; Oando Energy Resources 2017 was the year of the big move to our new office space – The Wings Office (OER) benefited from a more positive operating environment in Complex. The Wings Office Complex was conceived in 2009 and constructionIn 2016, we restructured our group to focus on our dollar 2017 as the increase in oil price helped to offset the decrease in started in 2013. At the time it seemed a lofty dream; both in terms of size and the earning businesses. 2017 saw us further intensify the production. The company ended the year with an average type of structure we envisaged. Today the two towers stand tall as a testament restructuring and deleveraging of our balance sheet through production of 40,188 boe/day compared to 43,503 boe/day for Oando Foundation to our vision and tenacity as we continue to lead and set standards for the following initiatives: 741 the comparative period in 2016. This was primarily due to excellence. The structure which was constructed in consonance with our Green • We divested of our stake in Alausa Power Limited to Elektron enrolled over 33,639 out significant reductions in gas production and delivery caused by Environment plan parades open office space style with top to bottom glass Petroleum and Energy Mining Limited for cash proceeds of of school children to date ₦1.2 billion. Subsequent to transaction costs and satisfying a ruptured Gas Transmission System (GTS-4) pipeline which windows that provides natural lighting for the office. in partnership with other closing obligations of about ₦400 million, we applied Closing supplies gas to the Nigerian Liquefied Natural Gas Limited Educate-A-Child. ₦800 million towards interest repayment on the MTL facility. (NLNG). Production also reduced from OML 56 (Ebendo) as a result of the third party operated Forcados terminal, which • Following the divestment of a 70% stake in 2016, we Despite the improving, yet challenging, operating environment, we remain experienced intermittent downtime. We completed the sale of completed a further divestment of a 5% equity stake in Glover bullish on our prospects for the future and ability to grow as a business, are OER’s interest in OMLs 125 and 134 to Nigerian Agip BV, the owner of Oando Gas and Power (now Axxela) to uncompromising in adhering steadfastly to sound corporate governance best Exploration Limited “NAE” for a gross consideration of $90 Helios Investment Partners for a consideration of N3billion. practices, prioritizing stakeholder engagement and satisfaction, mitigating million. Further, OER (through its subsidiary), Oando Qua Ibo The combined effect of the 75% divestment in Axxela impacts on the environment and giving back to our communities. Limited, also completed seismic acquisition of 16,700 square resulted in a prepayment of the Medium Term Loan facility (MTL) principal amount of ₦21 billion and interest km in Qua Iboe field (OML 13) showing evidence of technical ability to find and develop oil and gas resources. Being positioned as leaders in our industry, we reaffirm our commitment to • We completed the restructuring of the Vitol/ORL $40 million upholding the UNGC’s 10 principles and other governance obligations arising facility, extending the tenor by a minimum of 30 months with a from our membership of the Convention on Business Integrity and Partnership Despite the challenges faced from a depressed downstream oil new maturity date of March 2020. against Corruption Initiative. environment, Oando Trading DMCC experienced continued growth in its crude oil business with a 9% increase in traded As a result, of the above initiatives, Oando PLC’s debt profile which stood at ₦473 volumes. The business reported gross profit of $7 million, driven mostly by the performance of the Direct Sale Direct Purchase We trained 741 LGEA & (DSDP) agreement which the Company holds with NNPC as SBMC officials on billion (US$2.56billion) as at January 2015 well as other crude offtake and product export contracts. educational management information systems and witnessed a 50% reduction by December 2017, to ₦237 billion (US$659 million). OVH Energy (formerly Oando Marketing Limited) commissioned school governance. Jubril Adewale Tinubu its $130 million midstream jetty a jetty designed to increase the vessel delivery capacity and off-loading efficiency of petroleum products at Apapa in Lagos. Group Chief Executive Oando PLC Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 16 17 Inspiring Energy Building Brighter Futures Aligning our business with the Sustainable Development Goals “ The Sustainable Development Goals (“SDGs”) are a universal call to action to protect the planet, end poverty, and ensure that all people enjoy peace and 2,428 prosperity… They tackle the root causes of poverty and unite us together to make a positive change for both people and planet ” United Nations Development Programme A total of 2,428 community members benefited from bursaries and scholarships awarded to secondary and tertiary school Given the positioning of businesses globally and the understanding of the pivotal candidates. role it must play in the achievement of sustainable development in the world, Goal 17 of the SDGs called upon businesses and all other stakeholders to partner for the goals. As a global business citizen, we immediately subscribed to the Goals and formulated our Environmental strategy “The Green Environment Plan” in 2016. Acknowledging that the fallout of not contributing our part to advancing the global goals is a lose-lose situation for us all, we have since aligned our business with the SDGs by embedding the values it espouses in our strategy, business model, corporate culture and decision making. As a result of this proactive stance, we are able to forecast the risks and opportunities that abound in our external environment and effectively address the risks whilst taking advantage of opportunities in order to create maximum value for all stakeholders. In our previous reports, we have introduced some of our projects and innovation in the advancement of the SDGs. This year likewise, we will highlight the work we continue to do for the promotion and achievement of the global goals. Oando PLC Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 18 19 Inspiring Energy Building Brighter Futures Aligning our business with the Sustainable Development Goals continued “You will never solve “The more that you read, the more GOOD WATER AND SANITATION (SDG 6) PAGES 46 55 QUALITY EDUCATION (SDG 4) PAGES 46 55 poverty without solving things you will know, the more water and sanitation” that you learn, the more places – Matt Damon you’ll go.”– Dr. Seuss 75 Our work with the Foundation recognizes the vulnerability of the girl child At Oando, we recognize the importance of quality education and its role in the achievement of and has formulated an approach that specifically targets the integration of our national and global goals. In this wise, we have continued to sustain and improve on the girl child. One of the objections that parents from the Northern part of providing qualitative education to vulnerable and underprivileged people. Through the vehicle Nigeria had to sending their girl child to school was the absence of separate of the Oando Foundation, we have in collaboration with government and non-governmental sanitary facilities in the public schools. We have worked to actively address institutions, ensured increased access to learning especially in crisis ravaged cities and with that need in our adopted schools. We are also committed to the UNICEF internally displaced persons, exposed children to information communication technology Nigeria’s Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (“WASH”) programme. (“ICT”) by building ICT centres for schools, increased the pedagogical skills of teachers by training them in modern pedagogy. Our aim among others is to bridge the gender gap by To improve school sanitation and hygiene, we have constructed 75 units of increasing the number of girl children with access to education and empowering the younger integrated child friendly toilets, and provided 14 motorized boreholes (kitted generation with education that will enable them to defeat all barriers. with power generating sets), water storage facilities and wash bays across adopted schools. WASH sensitization campaigns are on-going to promote Also, Oando in conjunction with its Joint venture partners – NAOC, NETWORK and ENERGIA, and sustain behavioral change amongst students and teachers. As part of supported educational development in the communities within its areas of operation. A total of our Joint Venture efforts, a 20,000 gallon capacity water project was 2,428 community members benefited from bursaries and scholarships awarded to secondary executed during the year under review. In line with SDG 6, the water project and tertiary school candidates. To further improve educational infrastructure, teacher’s housing provided affordable clean and portable water for the benefiting community. quarters and 6-class room blocks were built and donated to the communities. We also supplied In addition, various water extension lines were constructed to make portable science laboratory equipment and school furniture to some communities. water more accessible to the community members. “None of us is as smart as all DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH (SDG 8) PAGES 56 67 of us.”– Ken Blanchard Constructed 75 units of integrated child friendly toilets, and provided 14 motorized boreholes (kitted with power generating sets), water storage facilities and wash bays At Oando, we aim to be the investor and employer of choice. This can only be achieved if we across adopted schools. continue to employ and retain staff who are able and willing to achieve our goals. With the aid of our Human Capital Management policies and processes, we ensure safe and best working conditions for our staff. Our policies mandate transparency in the recruitment process. Employment with us is merit based and the process is devoid of discrimination based on race, gender, religion or sentiments. Our employees are provided with good welfare packages which motivate them to strive for the success of our corporate goals. Also, the ingenuity of our Information technology unit enables us achieve higher levels of economic productivity through technological upgrades and innovation which focuses on efficiency and innovative service delivery. Oando PLC Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 20 21 Inspiring Energy Building Brighter Futures Aligning our business with the Sustainable Development Goals continued “The greatest threat to our REDUCED INEQUALITIES/GENDER EQUALITY (SDGS 10 & 5) SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES (SDG 11) PAGES 42 45 “We hold these truths to be PAGES 42 45, 46 55 planet is the belief that self-evident: that all men are someone else will save it.” created equal” – Thomas Jefferson The Oando Foundation is making significant effort in reducing inequality in Nigeria. – Robert Swan Our projects use objective metrics to identify and target vulnerable persons. The Foundation currently supports 17 adopted schools across 3 states in Northeast We understand the importance of sustainable cities to the smooth running of our business. Nigeria, a region afflicted with insurgency by the Boko Haram terrorist group. Some of Thus, we have in conjuction with our joint venture partners embarked on projects that our adopted schools are in locations close to the state-government approved enhance inclusive and sustainable urbanization. Some of these efforts are the construction settlement camps for displaced persons, working collaboratively with respective state of good road networks which serve as a medium of social and economic integration and and local government education managers, community groups, and partners to growth in the communities. The choice of road construction within a locality is usually implement key components of the Adopt a School Initiative (“AASI”). Our work is influenced by the terrain. The swampy communities had concrete roads constructed while geared towards strengthening the capacity of government and community the upland communities were given asphalted roads. In 2017, a total of 14.48km stakeholders to support active mobilization and enrolment of out-of-school children, asphalted and concrete roads with side drains were constructed. especially those who have been displaced or orphaned by the insurgency. To improve the wellbeing of the communities, various electrification projects were Furthermore, in line with the Nigerian Oil and Gas Industry Content Development Act, executed. The projects involved the procurement of 2 Heavy industrial CAT generating 2010, our supply chain process addresses targets of SDG 10 & 15 by prioritizing local sets of 350kva and 500kva capacities, construction of generator houses, and extension of 41% vendors in all our operations. 70% of contracts awarded in 2017 were made to high and low voltage tension lines. The electrification projects provided alternate means of indigenous vendors. energy source, boosted economic activities and improved security. On the issue of diversity, the population of female staff in the organization increased In addition, three health care projects were executed. The projects involved the supply from 21% in 2016 to 41% in 2017 as a result of a deliberate effort by management to and installation of various medical equipment and chemicals in 3 community diversify our staff body. The Company continues to adhere to its pay by performance health/medical centers. The supply of the medical equipment and chemicals in no small policy. All member of staff irrespective of gender, nationality or religion are measure assisted in improving health care delivery services within our communities. 14.48 remunerated on the basis of their performance and not based on their gender. To this end the Company employs the Hays grading methodology to map out and align all job roles thus enabling salary and benefit grading and benchmarking due to standardization of job levels. km On the issue of diversity, the In 2017, a total of 14.48km asphalted population of female staff in the and concrete roads with side drains organization increased from 21% in were constructed. 2016 to 41% in 2017 as a result of a deliberate effort by management to diversify our staff body. Oando PLC Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 22 23 Inspiring Energy Building Brighter Futures Aligning our business with the Sustainable Development Goals continued “Coming together is a PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS (SDG 16) PARTNERING FOR THE GOALS (SDG 17) PAGES 36 42 “If you want peace, work for PAGES 28 35 beginning, staying together justice” – Pope Paul VI is progress, and working together is success.” – Henry Ford Governance Framework At Oando, we maintain a regulatory monitoring framework to guard against corruption and other unethical activities. To this end, Oando recognizes and strives to practice principles of fairness, integrity and transparency in its business dealings as entrenched in our Code of Business Conduct & Ethics. A number of policies including We are conscious of the critical role businesses must play in the achievement of the the Oando Anti-Corruption Policy, KYC Policy, Insider Trading Policy, Related Party global goals. Oando Plc continues to be a pace setter in the African Energy Industry Transaction Policy, Whistle blowing Policy, Gifts and Benefits Policy reiterate our and our attitude towards the SDGs is the same. The Company continues to commitment to a transparent, just and strong ethical corporate culture. collaborate with governmental and non-governmental organizations towards the advancement of the goals. Oando Plc is a member of the United Nations Global Transparency Compact and fully subscribes and believes in its ten (10) principles. We are also actively involved in the World Economic Forum’s, Partnership against Corruption Increased transparency and openly reporting on how we address corruption risks in Initiative. We continue to review our internal policies to fit our stance on these our business, industry and environment are ways in which we assure our various principles. Our policies are enforced internally, adhered to by all third parties who stakeholders of our commitment to good governance. transact business with us and are applied through the length and breadth of our supply chain. We intend to join one of the Action Platform’s of the United Nations We have taken a strong stance against corruption and Global Compact (UNGC) in 2018, through which we can further contribute to sustainable development. made it mandatory for employees, directors and business partners to undergo training and annual certification on all The Oando Foundation is driven by the principle of partnership. It collaborates with both national and international implementing partners, state ministries of education, Oando business ethics and anti-corruption policies and local government authorities, communities, parents and teachers in carrying out its processes. signature project, the Adopt a School Initiative. Tone at the Top Furthermore, in a step to maintaining strong and beneficial relationships with our stakeholders, in 2017, we held robust engagements with our diverse range of stakeholders, after which we formulated enhanced approaches to address the Our board and management are committed to operating at the highest levels of concerns raised. We believe that through strategic partnerships with our multiple Corporate Governance Practices. stakeholders, we are one step closer to addressing the different SDGs which we have Risk Assessment chosen to focus our energies on. Our robust risk assessment procedures help us identify the areas within our business that are prone to corruption risk, in order to ensure adherence to local and international anti-corruption regulation. We strongly believe that Peace, Justice and Economic Development are intrinsically connected to one another and that none of the other global goals can be achieved without the presence of Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions founded on the Rule of Law. For that reason, we intend to join the Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions Action Platform of the United Nations Global Impact in 2018 in order to advance economic and social development nationally and globally. Oando PLC Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 24 25 Inspiring Energy Building Brighter Futures Our material issues in 2017 Economic Social Environment Governance Achieving our goal to be the investor Our people are an integral part of Our environmental management A good governance structure is the of choice requires that we maintain our business and our strength. practices are based on the principle foundation of a successful business. Our material issues in the year under stable economic growth internally Without the help of our passionate of deriving benefits from our natural With the help of seasoned and contribute to the national and innovative staff, our corporate resources whilst doing the least governance professionals, we have review are shaped by stakeholder economic growth. The company goals cannot be achieved. In return, harm possible. We understand that developed sound corporate works to continuously give value to we prioritise developing and our core activities possess the governance throughout the concerns, our commitment to the SDGs, our stakeholders remains the same. retaining a steady stream of inherent risk of damage to the Company in line with global best environment, this is further practice. This stance is evident in matters important to the success of our We aim to provide our investors and seasoned and talented shareholders with good return on professionals in the oil and gas complicated by the threat of our detailed policies and sabotage, oil theft, vandalism etc. procedures which govern the roles, business and issues of global and their investment. We work to industry. Investing in the We therefore continue to develop responsibilities and activities of all maintain a healthy balance in development of our human capital is systems and solutions that monitor member of staff from the most junior national importance, for example: poverty; meeting our business obligations a key priority. We ensure that we to the highest governing body. our practices and operations in order and creating value whilst hire the right people for the job and education; gender equality; climate to prevent the crystallization of considering the interests of all our continue to provide career environmental risks inherent in our The plethora of policies and stakeholders including our development opportunities for change adaptation/mitigation; and operations. processes we have ensures the employees, host communities, capacity development and smooth running of our business. economic growth. Government and Regulators. experience. From prohibiting corruption to Related SDGs: encouraging whistle blowing, we SDG 13 Climate Action Related SDGs: We also acknowledge the have laid the foundation through SDG 14 Life below water SDG 8 Decent work and importance of our host communities policies (including but not limited to We remain committed to global best practice principles in the areas of corporate as they give us the social license to SDG 15 Life on Land Anti-Corruption Policy, Oando KYC SDG 9 Reduced inequality economic growth operate. The Company is committed Policy, Oando Code of Business governance, human rights, anti-corruption, safe labour practices, environmental SDG 17 Partnerships to achieve to improving their quality of life and Conduct and Ethics, Insider Trading protection and responsible business practices. Our obligations arising from Policy, Related Party Transaction sustaining a mutually-beneficial membership of international organisations, such as, the Convention on Business Policy, Whistle Blowing Policy) for the Goal relationship with our communities. Integrity, United Nations Global Compact and the World Economic Forum’s the achievement of peace, justice Our customers, business partners, Partnership against Corruption Initiative, guide us in maintaining a strong and strong institutions with our contractors and all persons along corporate governance culture within the organisation. stakeholders in all areas of the supply chain are also critical to the Company’s business and we operation. manage our relationships with them Related SDGs: with the same degree of SDG 16 Peace, Justice and Strong importance. Institutions Related SDGs: SDG 8 Decent Work and SDG 5 Gender Equality Economic Growth SDG 9 Reduced Inequalities Oando PLC Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 26 27 Inspiring Energy Building Brighter Futures Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions, Partnering for the OUR MATERIAL ISSUES IN 2017 Goals (SDG 16 & 17) We are committed to building a strong organization that actively fights against and matters related to the company’s integrity. Issues reported to KPMG are forwarded to the Chair of the Audit Committee and the Chief Compliance Officer and Company Secretary corruption and bribery. Our robust risk and are promptly investigated by the Governance Office with the involvement of the Internal Audit unit as may be necessary. Upon completion of the investigation, a formal report is presented to the Audit Committee and senior management with appropriate management and control system helps us recommendation and remedial actions. Feedback is also provided to the whistleblower via the KMPG Ethics line. Breach of Regulations on Health and Safety. identify areas within our business that are The company had no incidence of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes prone to corruption risk. concerning health and safety. Oando Group Risk Management Profile A number of risks and uncertainties impact the organisation’s ability to deliver on strategic objectives and long-term shareholder value. These risk factors separately or in combination, could have a material adverse effect on the implementation of the organisation’s strategy, business, financial performance, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity, shareholder Risk Management And Control returns and reputation. The organisation’s top risks are as analysed below: The Enterprise Risk Management function reports to the GCE and the Board In October 2017, the group was faced with significant reputational risk. As a result, regulatory through the Board Risk Committee. The function supports the Risk Committee in and compliance risk was heightened due to scrutiny from SEC during the year to date and a providing independent risk oversight. The unit works with operational management pending forensic audit planned for the first quarter of 2018. There has been unprecedented in designing and implementing efficient and effective processes to identify, attack on the Company’s reputation, particularly by disgruntled shareholders. analyse and manage risk. They are involved in facilitating and monitoring the S/N TOP RISKS DETAILS AND MITIGATION CONTROLS FOR TOP RISKS implementation of effective risk management practices and assist risk owners in defining the target risk exposure and reporting adequate risk-related information 1 Liquidity Risk throughout the organization for effective decision making. A key risk to the group’s survival is its liquidity. This risk crystallized in some instance and A major objective of the function is to maintain organizational risks at acceptable resulted in the inability of the Company to meet its financial obligation to some levels and ensure the best balance possible between threats and opportunities – counterparties as and when they fell due. in line with the risk appetite and business strategy of the Board and Executive Management. The function is concerned with ensuring the effective achievement Liquidity risk still remains a key risk to the group’s survival. This risk crystallized in some of organizational goals and appropriate management of the organization’s assets, instances and resulted in the inability of the company to meet some of its financial including avoidance of losses as a result of unwanted events. obligations as they fell due. Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) contributes to value creation via reduced subMitigating Measures optimization as well as a reduction of uncertainty related to future cash flows, and To mitigate this risk, the Group continued the aggressive restructuring of its balance sheet improving the company’s ability to identify opportunities and threats, thus through Board and shareholders’ approved divestments, loan restructuring and new capital maximising risk opportunities, earning potential and ultimately stakeholder value. injection programs. The current divestment strategies provide the opportunity to focus on the upstream business and raise the required capital for a healthier balance sheet. Governance The treasury manager estimates the liquidity needs and ability of the Company to meet future Feedback from stakeholders is reported to the Board through the formal channel obligations on a weekly basis. Cash flow is monitored on a weekly basis. This involves of quarterly risk reporting and regular engagement by the risk management team comparison with forecasts, investigation of differences, and identification of changes in cash with members of the Board constituting a part of the executive management team. flow requirements. The Risk Committee of the Board is charged with reviewing the effectiveness of the company’s risk management processes. They review these every quarter and In the preparation of project plans and models, the Corporate Finance Manager carries out give feedback on actions to be taken by the risk management team and executive stress testing on assumptions used in preparing the project model including inflation, interest management. rate and exchange rate simulation and develops scenario based hurdle rates for investment decisions. This ensures that the company is aware and adequately prepared to handle The company has a toll free whistleblowing hotline managed by KPMG on behalf inflation, interest and exchange rate fluctuations. of the company to ensure anonymity and protection of the identity of all whistleblowers. The whistleblowing hotline is available to employees, vendors, The company has a formal contingency funding plan (CFP) that clearly sets out the customers, partners and all other external stakeholders. The company’s strategies for addressing liquidity shortfalls in emergency situations. The contingency plan management also encourages the reporting of unethical or unlawful behavior, includes contingency overdraft lines with banks and a cushion of unencumbered, high quality liquid assets to be held as buffer for liquidity stress situations. Oando PLC Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 28 29 Inspiring Energy Building Brighter Futures Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions, Partnering for the Goals continued S/N TOP RISKS DETAILS AND MITIGATION CONTROLS FOR TOP RISKS S/N TOP RISKS DETAILS AND MITIGATION CONTROLS FOR TOP RISKS 2 Macroeconomic Volatility in oil and gas prices is still a high risk. Prolonged periods of low oil and gas prices, 4 Strategic & Business The risk of current or prospective negative impact on the Group’s earnings, profitability, coupled with rising costs, can result in projects being delayed or cancelled leading to Model Risk capital base and reputation arising from a selection of unrealised business strategies. impairments in extreme cases. Mitigating Measures Oil prices fluctuated between $44.8/bbl and $66.8/bbl (mainly at the tail end of the year) with The Oando Opportunity Realization Process was consistently used for the screening of the average price for the year at $54.7/bbl. The highly volatile nature of oil prices during the potential and ongoing business opportunities. Continuous Management Reviews of business year had a significant impact on overall liquidity and ability to service debts and other processes were carried out to identify areas for strategic improvement. Operational reviews counterparty obligations, ability to achieve our short to medium term production and profit also took place for proper project evaluation. targets. Opportunities for business diversification were sought where it appeared that a particular Mitigating Measures model no longer held the capacity or potential to provide the anticipated value to the The Company maintained a crude price hedge to preserve the value of our investment and company. continued to review for appropriateness and sufficiency. Management leveraged the hedge differentials to pay down outstanding loan balances in the period. 5 Financial Reporting Given the size and complexity of the Group structure, there is a risk of inaccuracies in its The Company also embarked on strategic reduction of operational expenses and Risk reporting thereby misleading the investing public. reprioritization of work programs with a bid to reduce capex spend and joint venture funding during the year. Strategic re-alignment was undertaken with JV partners to ensure production Mitigating Measures optimization in the short to medium term. 1. The financial statements, notes and disclosures prepared by the Finance Manager are reviewed by the Group Financial Controller along with the completed IFRS disclosure checklist to ensure all areas requiring disclosures have been adequately covered before 3 Regulatory & In the fourth quarter of 2017, the Group was faced with significant regulatory and reputational approval. Reputational Risk risk due to negative publicity as a result of two petitions brought before the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) by a significant shareholder and an indirect investor in 2. The Group Financial Controller reviews key financial reports to verify that the consolidated Oando PLC. balances, after applying elimination entries, are correct (for example: intercompany accounts are zero). Identified errors are discussed with the Finance Managers and There was wide spread negative media coverage based on unverified negative reports of corrected as necessary. breach of code of corporate governance and other allegations. This eventually resulted in an investigation by the SEC, which led to a suspension of trading of Oando Plc’s shares on both 3. Internal Audit reviews of the Financial Statements. The Audit committee also meets the NSE and JSE with a pending forensic audit planned for the first quarter of 2018. This quarterly to review the Interim Financial Statements. increased scrutiny on the Company’s corporate governance has the potential to increase the negative perception of the Company by the public. 4. The year-end Financial Statements are audited by a big-four firm to ensure that the financial statements accurately reflect and true and fair view of the financial position of the Company Late rendition of taxes whilst awaiting the outcome of certain tax audits also posed a and that they accurately represent the financial transactions entered into by the Company reputational risk to the organisation. during the financial year in line with IFRS. The quarterly and year-end Financial Statements are reviewed, discussed and approved by the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors Mitigating Measures of the Company. This risk was managed by developing a proactive stakeholder’s communication strategy and by carefully monitoring and reporting on the achievement of targets. Our corporate Communications department also had a crisis management plan in place which focused on 6 Business Continuity The risk that the company will not be able to recover its data or continue its day-to-day proactively managing the Company’s stakeholders and providing agile responses to negative & Disaster Recovery business activities in the event that there is business interruption due to fire, cyber-attacks, etc. press. Risk Mitigating Measures There is significant engagement with the tax authorities on outstanding taxes. An agreed 1. Vital company information are stored centrally in electronic format. All staff documents on payment plan on some tax liabilities and payment thereon has commenced. local laptops are automatically backed up on the Company’s server. 2. Existence of a disaster recovery policy and plan. This plan is currently being updated to inculcate emerging changes within the business and the environment. 3. The company has an offsite backup server with simultaneous real-time backup capabilities. The disaster recovery site initially located in an area adjudged by the Internal Audit function to be high-risk was relocated to a lower risk area with 99.9% uptime in the period. Oando PLC Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 30 31 Inspiring Energy Building Brighter Futures 0 Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions, Partnering for the Goals continued Corporate Governance at Oando The Company was quick to publicly deny the allegations made Zero tolerance for corruption in the petitions brought against it by the petitioners and whilst Working under the direction and supervision of the Board’s Companies are becoming more open about their anti-corruption fully recognising and respecting the authority of the SEC over Governance & Nominations Committee (“GNC”), Oando PLC’s efforts and operations, as being open can have a positive the capital market felt it necessary to take certain cogent steps Governance office is responsible for developing and influence on corporate reputation and ultimately an in order to protect the Company and its shareholders at the implementing sound corporate governance policies for the organisations’ bottom line. same time ensuring that its day to day operations were not Company and its subsidiaries. The unit also measures and significantly disrupted. monitors the Company’s level of compliance and periodically reviews these policies to ensure they continually align with At Oando, anti-corruption programmes have global best practice and changes in regulation. The Company was able to successfully address and provide clarifications to the concerns raised by the shareholder in his been consistently regarded as measures petition to the SEC which led to the signing of a Peace Accord correlated with good company performance. The Company is committed to the fight on January 7, 2018 with Alhaji Mangal, mediated by the Emir of Consequently, increased transparency and against corruption and actively participates Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II (CON). openly reporting on how we address in this fight through its membership, On April 12, 2018, the NSE lifted the technical suspension corruption risks in our business, industry and advocacy and active participation in local placed on the Company’s shares since October 23, 2017, whilst the forensic audit into the affairs of the Company continued. The environment are critical in assuring our and international organizations engaged in Company has been fully cooperative with both SEC and Deloitte various stakeholders of our commitment to anti-corruption campaigns. Nigeria (the SEC appointed forensic auditor). good governance. Furthermore, the Governance and Nominations Committee is In the spirit of goodwill, transparency and full disclosure and in responsible for Board-level oversight and periodic review of the the interest of all stakeholders, the Company will continue to cooperate with the SEC in the discharge of its duties as capital We have taken a strong stance against corruption and made it Company’s corporate governance policies and practices. The market regulator and to ensure a speedy and smooth mandatory for employees, directors and business partners to GNC also reviews and monitors all Company policies, including conclusion of the matter by the SEC. undergo training and annual certification on all Oando business policies concerning shareholder rights, directors’ duties, conflict Ethics And Integrity ethics and anti-corruption policies and processes. resolution, ethics, disclosure and transparency etc., and How we manage corruption ensuring that the Company’s remuneration policy supports the successful identification, recruitment, development and Oando is committed to maintaining a workplace in which the retention of directors, senior executives and staff. company receives, retains, and addresses all complaints The Company maintains a regulatory monitoring framework to Risk Management received relating to violations or perceived violations of its guard against corruption and other illegal activities. In this Corporate Code of Business Conduct and all applicable laws regard, Oando recognizes the principles of fairness, integrity and regulations. and transparency in all business dealings as entrenched in our The Risk, Environmental, Health, Security and Safety (REHSSQ) Code of Business Conduct & Ethics. Committee is responsible for reviewing the policies and Zero tolerance for processes established by management which are designed to The Company maintains a Whistleblowing corruption Consequently, Oando Plc maintains a robust Anti-Corruption aid in the implementation of a safe working environment for the Company and ensuring the Company’s compliance with Policy which provides guidelines for internal Policy, which is geared at combating corruption and other illicit activities. We also maintain established internal procedures international standards of risk, environmental health, safety and and external engagement by employees, which are specifically geared at detecting suspicious and/or quality. The REHSSQ Committee regularly reviews the economic, environmental and social impacts of the Company’s directors and business partners/vendors fraudulent activities within the organization. In addition, the Governance Office conducts regular anti-money laundering operations on its key stakeholders and ensures that the risks with respect to raising concerns on training and enlightenment programs for employees and other and threats to the on-going sustainability and success of the business are properly evaluated and incorporated into the unethical issues or unlawful behavior as well stakeholders. as channels for receiving feedback on any Evaluating our approach decision making at the highest levels of the organisation. Nature of critical concern(s) that were communicated to the action taken. Such concerns can be raised Oando’s internal mandatory training exercise is conducted highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to anonymously without fear of dismissal, annually and is referred to as the Annual Re-certification address and resolve them in 2017. Exercise. Training sessions are conducted using both webdiscrimination, harassment or retaliation. based multimedia and classroom settings. The Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on October 18, 2017 issued a public notice to the effect that it had directed To ensure that Oando’s culture of business ethics is maintained, In this regard, KPMG Professional Services (KPMG) manages all new hires and business partners are mandated to attend the Nigerian Stock Exchange (“NSE”) to impose a full the Whistle Blowing Hotlines and web-link for independence trainings on company policies and the Code. New hires suspension on the trading of Oando shares for a period of fortyand to ensure that all reports are kept confidential and undergo a compliance on-boarding process as well as eight hours, followed by a technical suspension which was channelled to the appropriate authorities for investigation and intensive induction training on the policies and Code of subsequently lifted on April 12, 2018. The SEC also announced resolution. The Chair of the Audit Committee, who is an business conduct & ethics. After this induction, they are made that a forensic audit into the affairs of the Company be independent non-executive director and the Chief Compliance to undergo Compliance testing which they must pass to be conducted by a team of independent firms. The technical Officer (“CCO&CS”) receive all whistleblowing reports and the employed by the Company. suspension of trading in the shares of the Company and the CCO & CS ensures that all reports are fully investigated, forensic audit were predicated on what the SEC referred to as providing a summary of all issues and reports of investigations The result of the evaluation of management’s approach helps “weighty findings” following its investigation of the Company to the Audit committee on a quarterly basis. the Company to understand and further develop its compliance arising from two petitions brought by a significant shareholder, Alhaji Dahiru Mangal and an indirect investor, Ansbury Inc. framework as well as meet up with compliance obligations with respect to employee sensitization and training. Oando PLC Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 32 33 Inspiring Energy Building Brighter Futures Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions, Partnering for the Goals 0 continued Another strategy employed by the Company The Company is committed to the highest standards of antiRemuneration of Board and senior executives Executive Remuneration corruption compliance and this is evidenced in a number of is to ensure that all employees in sensitive ways: • Fixed pay and variable pay: Remuneration for all employees business units such as Procurement, a. There are formal anti-bribery and corruption policies in place, with the Company are generally in accordance with a fixed namely; Anti-Corruption Policy, Know Your Customer Policy, Finance, Sales & Marketing and Human Insider Trading Policy, Related Party Policies; pay principle. • Bonuses: The Company recognizes the importance or Resources Departments are specifically b.The procurement policy and procedure includes a declaring bonuses and profit-sharing. In this regard, it applies commitment by vendors to the Company's anti-corruption trained on methods of dealing with the policy. All third party business partners must sign a nona formula which takes into consideration the profit attributable to the company’s shareholders after certain adjustments. different ethical scenarios that may occur solicitation commitment confirming that they will not receive or • Deferred or vested shares: Share options are currently not give bribes on behalf of the Company in the discharge of their whilst carrying out their daily job functions. business with Oando and its subsidiaries. awarded to directors. However, where share grants are given Operations assessed for risks related to to executives as part of bonus compensation, the board sets c. The Group is a member of several national and international and approves the grant of such options. corruption anti-corruption Initiatives, including the Partnering against • Sign-on bonuses or recruitment incentive payments: Sign-on Corruption Initiative of the World Economic Forum, the United bonuses may be made as a one-off payment to new hires in The Company has a risk and internal audit unit which regularly Nations Global Compact and the Convention on Business senior management only and shall be based on negotiation at reports to the REHSSQ Committee. Management assist the Integrity. the point of recruitment. The Company reviews and sets the Board with its oversight role and decision making with regards d.The Company annually trains all directors, employees and level of sign-on bonus payments to ensure its attractiveness to risk by continuously improving enterprise risk assessment. business partners on corruption risk and how to effectively to prospective employees on a caseby-case basis. The Group Risk Management and Control department facilitates deal with it. • Retirement benefits Gratuity entitlements are payable (on the identification, assessment, evaluation and monitoring of e. The Company maintains a whistle-blowing hotline managed exit) to employees who have attained a minimum of three (3) controls established to mitigate any downside risk to the by KPMG for the reporting by any employee, shareholder, years of uninterrupted service with the Company. Entitlements business. All vendors and business partners are assessed for business partner or other stakeholder of any wrong-doing shall be as stipulated by Nigerian employment regulations corruption in line with our KYC process. involving the Company. and Company policy from time to time. Employees who are f. During the reporting period, there were no confirmed summarily dismissed shall automatically forfeit their right to The Company maintains an in-house risk committee known as incidents of corruption, no confirmed incidents of contracts any gratuity/severance payments being terminated due to corruption and no legal cases Process for determining Board remuneration the Group Risk Management Committee (GRMC) chaired by the Group Chief Financial Officer and made up of senior relating to corruption brought against the Company. Monetary value of significant fines for nonmanagement. The committee acts as an advisory body on compliance with laws and regulations enterprise-wide risk management. The GRMC provides regular The Company has a formal written remuneration policy that During the reporting period, there were no reports to the REHSSQ Committee who have primary provides a framework for the remuneration of all non-executive confirmed incidents of corruption, responsibility for reviewing the adequacy and overall and executive directors, the chairman and the company no confirmed incidents of contracts effectiveness of the Company’s risk management function and There were no fines for non-compliance secretary. The Board determines the remuneration of the Executive Directors. Compensation for non-executive directors being terminated due to corruption its implementation by Management. levied against the Company during the are fixed by the Board after due consultation with remuneration and no legal cases relating Communication and training on anti-corruption reporting period. The Company complied consultant. The remuneration of non-executive directors is policies and procedures to corruption brought against the approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. with the principles and all relevant Company. All anti-corruption policies and procedures of the Company are provisions set out in the SEC Code of The remuneration policy states that communicated to all employees. The Group Chief Executive is the Chief Ethics Officer and has overall responsibility for Corporate Governance throughout the director’s remuneration should be amongst ensuring the existence of a robust framework for all ethics and reporting year. In addition to complying with other things linked to the good performance anti-corruption compliance within the Company. This responsibility is shared and delegated to the CCO&CS. applicable corporate governance of the Company. Indicators of good requirements, the Company also complied performance are; return on capital The Governance team is responsible for with the listing rules and regulations of the employed, profitability, increased turnover, implementing the Compliance and antiNigerian Stock Exchange and the earnings per share growth, industry’s corruption strategy of the Group throughout Johannesburg Stock Exchange. considerations of good performance, the organization. There are also TRIPP improvement in goodwill based on empirical (Teamwork, Respect, Integrity, Passion and data, and total shareholder return. Professionalism) Champions with responsibility for monitoring and reporting Independent consultants are recruited to on Compliance and anti-corruption carry out the Board Remuneration breaches in all of the Company's locations. exercises. Oando PLC Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 34 35 Inspiring Energy Building Brighter Futures Patnering with our stakeholders for the Goals (SDG17); OUR MATERIAL ISSUES IN 2017 our units and their stakeholder approaches Engaging our host communities Our Environmental, Health, Safety, Security and Quality unit and her stakeholders Stakeholder Management: In 2017, the Company engaged the following stakeholders in the course of its operations across different communities in the Niger Delta. They were: traditional rulers; Community Development Committee (“CDC”) leaders; community women In meeting statutory requirements while carrying out its operations, the company engaged with various regulatory agencies with and youth leaders; State and Local Government Authorities; pressure groups; as supervisory oversights within the Oil & Gas industry. These agencies include: well as various Government Regulatory Agencies (such as the National Petroleum (i) Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) Investment Management Services (“NAPIMS”), Department of Petroleum (ii) Federal Ministry of Environment Resources (“DPR”), and the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (iii) National Oil spill Detection & Response Agency (NOSDRA) (“NCDMB”), etc.). (iv) Lagos State Ministry of Environment The Community Relations unit approach to stakeholder engagement Most of the engagements with these agencies centered on proposed or amended regulations that had the potential of affecting the manner in which issues surrounding protection of the Environment and Health & safety were managed, particularly in the area of implementation. A few of these engagements were carried in conjunction with other oil & gas companies under the auspices of the In order to create active and well informed stakeholders, we proactively engage and Oil Producers Trade Section of the Lagos State Chambers of Commerce. All key stakeholders were taken into consideration as create interactive opportunities to manage issues of concern. The Company believes proposed changes to the regulations had significant financial and legal consequences. that satisfying its stakeholders is incidental to a conducive operating environment devoid of rancor. Feedback from engagements with regulatory agencies are discussed extensively at operational and departmental meetings. This feedback was similarly communicated to the Company’s senior executives and Board who were able to dimension the effect of the Stakeholder’s table showing identification, engagement, issues and resolution strategy proposed changes on the Company’s strategy and corporate goals and further provided steer and encouraged continuous engagement with agencies to ensure that Company’s objectives were achievable. Stakeholder Group Basis of Format/Mode of Key Stakeholder Resolution Internal Audit and Risk unit; engaging stakeholders to mitigate our risks Identification Engagement concerns/issues Strategies Stakeholder engagement is key to the successful implementation and effective operation of the risk management and control function. Internal stakeholders engaged in 2017 include the Board of Directors, Risk Committee, Audit Committee, Executive Community Management, function heads, Operations and Technical Staff. External stakeholders include operators of our JV assets, NAPIMs, Leadership Reconnaissance visit, Daily, weekly, Monthly, Employment, Economic Signing of Memorandum Introductory Letters, Quarterly, Annually. Empowerment, Homage, of Understanding NNPC officials during the sub-committee process and external auditors. Government gazette, Social projects execution (“MOU”) / Global Opinion leaders etc. etc Memorandum of Engaging all identified stakeholders is implicit to the success of the risk management and control function. Understanding (“GMOU”), agreement Frequency after Round table, S/N Stakeholder of engagement Mode of Engagement Workshops, Town hall meetings, etc Internal Regulators Laws establishing the Quarterly and Annual Execution of Annual Work Sign-off in Performance 1 Board of Directors Quarterly Through the Risk Committee reports regulatory agencies, meetings Programs, Compliance to review meetings, 2 Risk Committee Quarterly Face to face meetings, presentations and reports, emails Correspondence regulations Compliance with regulatory framework. 3 Audit Committee Quarterly Face to face meetings, presentations and reports 4 Executive Management Daily Face to face meetings, presentations and reports, email Pressure groups Correspondence Round table meetings, Employment / Agreement signing, 5 Function Heads Daily Face to face meetings, emails legal means Environmental issues, Settlement resolutions, 6 Operations and Technical Staff Daily Face to face meetings, emails Economic opportunities Alternative Dispute resolutions External 1 Counterparts on JV assets Quarterly Face to face meetings How has the organization responded to Stakeholder topics and concerns? 2 NAPIMs/NNPC Officials Quarterly Face to face meetings 3 External Audit Annually Face to face meetings, emails Oando continues to proactively engage communities and regulators at all levels to address concerns raised. For the communities, the first proactive step is usually the execution of a Memorandum of Understanding (“MoU”) which would clearly define the obligations of parties – company and community. Employment quota of different categories are provided to members of the communities. Sustainable community development programs that are a reflection of the needs of the people and in line with standards global practice are planned and executed. The Company provides various human capacity building programs such as scholarships, skill acquisition and trainings. We handle environmental issues promptly and strictly in line with regulatory requirements. Oando PLC Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 36 37 Inspiring Energy Building Brighter Futures Patnering with our stakeholders for the goals; our units and their stakeholder approaches continued Oando Foundation; partnering for development A detailed overview of our identified stakeholders and concerns raised for the period under review is highlighted in the Stakeholder Table below: Stakeholder engagement is crucial to the success of our work. The Foundation deploys a multi-faceted approach to Stakeholder Basis of Format/Mode of Frequency Key Stakeholder Resolution Group Identification Engagement concerns/issues Strategies stakeholder engagement. This is done by maximizing an array of communication tools to reach diverse stakeholder State Universal Basic Education Education Sector • Letters / emails Ongoing Availability of quality The Foundation is groups and maintain a strong presence across the Board mapping • Meetings Quarterly data at SUBEB & building capacity of States Education • Key Informant LGEA level SUBEB & LGEA on communities we work with. Connecting with the public, Index Report Interview (KII) data management in donors, clients, employees, local leaders and communities • Periodic project Education, as well 10,000 update as providing help us remain relevant; ensuring the needs of our mentorship on beneficiaries are being addressed effectively. school / teacher performance At the Foundation, stakeholder engagement goes beyond people simply being assessment and informed and consulted. It includes people participating and being involved whilst data collation striving for a greater focus and commitment to improve the overall outcome of our strategies work. Implementing Partners Robust procurement • Emails Ongoing Disparity in the The Foundation has In the course of our work, we have identified and cultivated multilevel partnerships process, • Meetings quality of delivery set up mechanisms with a range of groups across various levels – Government, International Development Capacity • Phone calls across board to check IP Agencies, Political/ traditional & Religious Leaders, NGO’s, Civil Society Assessment Report performance Organizations, philanthropists and communities. These include SUBEBs, LGEAs, including providing SBMC, head teachers of adopted schools, secondary school principals, scholarship templates for boards and parents reporting, implementation Over 10,000 teaching and learning manuals and materials (TLMs) were deployed to periodic monitoring aid the transfer of knowledge and by staff enrich the students’ learning experiences in adopted schools. Community Members Community • Focus Group Quarterly Effective The Foundation mapping Discussions Ongoing management and involves community based on State • Phone calls maintenance of members through SBMC policy provided school the project cycle facilities and provides training on maintenance of provided facilities Teachers Government • Focus Group Quarterly Abrupt transfer and The Foundation is adopted schools Discussions Ongoing retirement of trained working with the • Meetings teachers SUBEBs to ensure • Interviews trained teachers are retained for the period of the projects. Oando PLC Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 38 39 Inspiring Energy Building Brighter Futures Patnering with our stakeholders for the goals; our units and their stakeholder approaches continued Engaging with our Financial Partners reporting guidelines for our environment. iii. Prioritize our stakeholders based on For 2017, we have maintained the calls/conferences, in-person meetings, JV partners are ranked high priority as their respective impact on the identification and classification of our key round table discussions, town hall we work together with them to generate business; stakeholders (outside of our employees) sessions etc. We went further to In 2017, the company’s finance unit revenue for the business and there is iv. Adequately understand what our key in the following groups: personalize stakeholder management by engaged with the following stakeholders therefore a strong need to influence the stakeholder concerns & issues are; • Customers organizing Focus groups. The groups among others: activities of the JV. v. Resolve or manage the stakeholder • Vendors and Business Partners were formed in order to directly engage • JV partners concerns identified; • Investors & Shareholders with employees to encourage them to air • Auditors Government authorities are ranked high vi. Update stakeholders on resolutions to • Governments and Regulators concerns, thoughts and raise • Tax authorities priority as they regulate the industry and their concerns and advance • Communities suggestions on general employee • Government authorities (DPR, NNPC) Stakeholder engagement set guidelines for operations. improvements. matters such as choice of HMO, • Banks, lenders and Financial advisers Contravention of these guidelines may remuneration and benefits, talent lead to business disruptions. management and so on. Vendor Stakeholders are identified relative to In 2017, we maintained all possible Engagement with government has a appraisals were also introduced in order their significance of impact on the avenues for employee engagement, direct impact on our license to operate. to get 360 feedback from employees and business of the company and based on including but not limited to direct emails vendors. and email campaigns, telephone Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Group Basis of Means of Stakeholder Approach/addressing Stakeholder Group Basis of Format/Mode of Key Stakeholder Resolution Identification communication concerns concerns Identification Engagement concerns/issues Strategies Employees (Full JV partners time employee Company staff Emails, focus groups, HMO – more option, HMO providers are invited to Revenue Regular Meetings, Email, Late payment of Cash Structured payment “FTE”) in-person meetings, robustness of package engage all employees on available Telephone calls calls agreement on all round table offerings, limitations and Operational Activities amounts owed discussions, town hall exclusions where applicable. The Governance meetings JV Profitability sessions HCM team manages and resolves Operational Efficiency Provide key support all concerns that arise in this Increase Production and through governance regard. manage Asset integrity meetings, JV issues improvement Initiatives Remuneration and Employees are constantly and technical benefits – engaged to better understand collaboration. their contractual terms, benefits available to them and ways to better enhance the organizations Government Employee Value Proposition (EVP). agencies (DPR) License to Operate Meetings Late payment of Structured payment plan Royalties Performance The Company undertakes a managementeffective biannual appraisal cycle based on Tax authorities measurement of corporate objectives for the year in License to Operate Meetings, Emails, Disagreements on Objection, performance; view which is managed by the Letters, Telephone calls amount of tax payable Negotiation/Settlement grievances et al HCM team Relevant Tax Authority and structured payment Vendors plan Training Facilitators Email and phone calls Value add of available Source credible and relevant learning interventions; facilitators for learning payments; interventions based on business Communicating stakeholder Human Capital Management needs. concerns to the Board unit and her Stakeholders Outsourcing Companies Third party contractors Emails, in-person Aligning with corporate HCM includes all outsourced staff Feedback is communicated by At Oando, our systems are continuously meetings, round table culture, business goals in town hall meetings where management to the board through designed and driven by the discussions. and strategy general matters refer. 3rd Party reports, meetings and Internal memos understanding (as declared in previous contractors undergo a level of reports) that every organization has induction to familiarize them with Engagement with Board Sub-committees stakeholders whose differing interests the Company objectives, its • Management provides feedback to the may sometimes conflict. policies and culture. Board and its Sub-committees Management and • Monitoring by Risk, Governance and We ensure that we continuously: Executives Audit units, all reporting directly to the i. Know who our stakeholders are; Group Leadership Emails, focus group, Cascading information. Town hall engagements; provide Board. ii. Identify the impact of every Council in-person meetings, Driving the right culture organizational reports and drive • Hot Line for direct feedback on stakeholder to the business and vice round table implementation of policies infractions versa; discussions, town hall • Solutions are agreed upon and sessions executed Oando PLC Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 40 41 Inspiring Energy Building Brighter Futures Sustainable Cities and Communities, Reduced OUR MATERIAL ISSUES IN 2017 Inequalities (SDGs 11 & 10) COMMUNITY RELATIONS Mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of Any related adjustments to the management the management approach approach Our Local Communities Some of the mechanisms we used to evaluate the management There is a plan to institute an annual award for the ‘Most approach are: Friendly Community’. This award will be given to communities The local communities are material to our business • Rate of downtime caused by community disturbances. If that provided the Company with the best social license to because they are our ‘landlords’ and grant the social there is zero downtime recorded within a specific operate within a given period. Development and impact of infrastructure activity/period under review, it shows that there is a sync in license required for us to operate within the environment. investments and services supported the engagement approach. However, if the rate of disturbance is high and results in operational downtime, the How we manage impact on local communities Current or expected impacts on communities and local management approach is ineffective and has to be reviewed. economies. • Rate of successful implementation of signed In managing our impact on the local communities, we are guided by a proactive MoU/Resolution/Agreements. This is also an indicator which implementation of the Company’s community relations strategy – POWERS shows how successful a relationship management approach The Company implements projects and renders services to (Partnership, Ownership, Win-Win, Empowerment, Respect, and Sustainable is with stakeholders. A high rate of implementation gives a identified stakeholders on a pro bono basis and in line with Development). positive outlook while a lower rate shows a negative outlook. agreed MoUs/GMoUs. • Feedback from stakeholders received during various formal The Company’s projects have a number of positive impacts on Community Relations Strategy and informal meetings similarly provides indices to evaluate management approach acceptance. During engagement the communities including: sessions, if the feedback is commendation rather than • Improved social and economic lives of the people. confrontation, it indicates the management approach is • Improved health/sanitary status of the people. acceptable with stakeholders. • Improved economic mobility of the people. Partnership The results of the evaluation of the management • Improved community/company relationship. • Improved company visibility in the community. approach • Partnership, collaboration and trust between parties. In 2017, our community relations management approach Despite the good externalities contributed by these projects, Sustainable showed improved relationship with the communities, social these have been dampened by the instability in the community Ownership freedom to operate, lower operating cost, good working leadership due to rancor and internal power tussles. Development relationship with stakeholders and more visibility of the Company within the communities. POWERS Respect Win-win Empowerment Most engagements culminate in the signing of agreements, resolutions, MoUs or GMoUs which guide obligations of the Company and the respective community. Our impact on the communities have been managed in a mutually beneficial way such that there has been an increase in social investments and infrastructural development. The Company’s projects have also improved the economies and livelihood of individuals within the communities, increased life expectancy, and reduced Company/ Community conflict. In turn, our operating environment is more conducive and balanced. Oando PLC Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 42 43 Inspiring Energy Building Brighter Futures Sustainable cities and communities, reduced innequalities continued 33,000 5.6b Alignment of our Sustainability Practices to the As Africa’s largest integrated energy UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) solutions company, we recognize that the Within the period under review, the Company, in conjunction with its joint venture partners actively engaged and executed SDGs are the global priority for the next various sustainable community development programs which couple of years. Understanding our role as helped foster relationships, improved infrastructural development and wellbeing of its stakeholders. a vital partner in achieving the SDGs nationally and globally, we have made it our In 2017, Oando and its joint venture responsibility to begin implementing it as partners cumulatively expended the overarching framework through which approximately NGN5,624,991,111.00 we shape, communicate and report our on various sustainable community strategies, goals and activities as a Through our partnerships cutting development projects and programs. business. across all levels of governance in the (NNPC/NAOC/OANDO basic education sub-sector, more than JV NGN4,960,503.00; Network/Oando We understand that effective communication and cooperation 33,000 enrolled out of school not just across government and international institutions, but JV NGN15.2m and Energia/Oando also between businesses and individuals is the only way that children, particularly girls and JV -NGN649,288,111.00). the SDGs can be successfully implemented. We have focused vulnerable children, on highlighting the significant SDGs that are relevant to our Projects executed range from tangible businesses in order to make a positive difference in our society, economy and environment. projects such as road construction, housing, school infrastructure, and health to The most amazing feature of the SDGs intangible projects such as scholarships, however is the observed interconnectivity of 2,169 welfare, security programs, youth capacity them all. We have discovered that while building etc. focusing on the targets of one goal, we are simultaneously addressing some of the 10,000 targets of other goals. In 2017, Oando and its joint venture partners cumulatively expended approximately NGN5,624,991,111.00 on various sustainable community development projects and programs. Some 2,169 school teachers have improved their core subject knowledge Over 10,000 teaching and learning and pedagogical practices and materials (TLMs) were deployed to are passing on this knowledge to aid the transfer of knowledge and over 102,000 children in adopted enrich the students’ learning schools. experiences. Oando PLC Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 44 45 Inspiring Energy Building Brighter Futures Quality Education, Clean Water and Sanitation, Gender OUR MATERIAL ISSUES IN 2017 Equality, Reduced Inequalities (SDGs 4, 6, 5 & 10) OANDO FOUNDATION Our Mandate increased awareness and project scale up. We build on the goodwill and commitment demonstrated by state and local Background Since 2011, Oando Foundation has worked with multilayered partners, working within the ambits and strengthening stakeholders across communities in Nigeria to improve access government systems to create ownership and sustained to quality basic education. The achievement of every child’s At Oando, we believe that education is the greatest right to education drives the Foundation’s mandate to radically participation in the programme. This has resulted in improved skills and capacity building of the State Ministries of Education, improve the quality of teaching and learning in our schools and investment to secure sustainable development in Africa. communities by ensuring access to world class basic education States’ Universal Basic Education Board (“SUBEB”), Local Since 2003, Oando, as part of its corporate social systems; leveraging resources, best practices, and crossGovernment Education Authorities (“LGEA”), School Based Management Committees (“SBMCs”) to deliver basic education cutting solutions. responsibility initiatives, has demonstrated its commitment dividends to their communities and strategically contextualizing to achieving the right of every child to quality education in The Universal Declaration of Human Rights recognizes not only our approaches and solutions for sustainability and scale up. Our Model the right to access education, but also of the quality of Nigeria; working with host communities to support primary education: «...Education shall be directed to the full education. However, to maximize impact and scale, in 2005 development of the human personality and to the strengthening of respect for human rights and fundamental freedom. It shall Oando envisioned the creation of an independent Provide acess to education promote understanding, tolerance and friendship among ... Foundation dedicated to the course of basic education in racial or religious groups...» (Article 26). Despite the wide recognition of education as an empowering right and one of Nigeria. the most powerful tools by which economically and socially marginalized children and adults can lift themselves out of Consequently in 2011, we established the Oando Foundation (the “Foundation”) as an poverty and participate fully in society, millions of children and independent charity to support the Nigerian Government in achieving its Universal adults remain deprived of educational opportunities, many as a Infrastructural Basic Education goal with a vision to create sustainable and equitable educational result of social, cultural and economic factors. Development systems in communities that empower every child, through its signature project, the Adopt-A-School Initiative (“AASI”). The AASI deploys a holistic approach of integrated The right to education is one of the key school improvement, addressing critical supply and demand factors that affect learning, teaching, management, parental/community participation and principles underpinning the Education 2030 responsiveness to children’s needs, while creating proof of concept for project Agenda and Sustainable Development Goal replication and scale up. A B 4 (SDG4) adopted by the international C The Foundation’s activities are funded by Oando PLC as the key donor, and community. SDG 4 is rights-based and supplemented by income generated from partnerships with development partners Early ICT Education Scholarships and select private sector entities. seeks to ensure the full enjoyment of the Childhood right to education as fundamental to Care Education achieving sustainable development. Through our partnerships cutting across all levels of governance in the basic education sub-sector, more than 33,000 enrolled out of school children, particularly girls and vulnerable children, are on the path to acquiring literacy and numeracy skills that will improve their lives and impact positively on their communities. Advocacy Girl Child Out of School Some 2,169 school teachers have improved their core subject Education Children knowledge and pedagogical practices and are passing on this Mobilization knowledge to over 102,000 children in adopted schools. The teachers are able to engage school children in an effective Improve the quality of education manner that builds their cognitive and socio-emotional skills; resulting in cumulative average annual retention rate of 83%. Over 10,000 teaching and learning materials (TLMs) were Capacity strengthening for: deployed to aid the transfer of knowledge and enrich the students’ learning experiences. 37,363 students now have access to technology-enhanced learning through 33 ICT centers established in adopted schools. We are changing behavior towards education in the communities we serve by strategically empowering our Teachers Local School Based implementing partners, school based management committees, Government Management and grassroots mobilizers with evidence-based messaging on Education Committees the importance of basic education, and their role. Our strategic Authorities collaboration with key technical partners remain critical to the overall programme quality; providing opportunities for Oando PLC Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 46 47 Inspiring Energy Building Brighter Futures Quality education, clean water and sanitation, gender equality, reduced inequalities continued 40 2,673 33 Our Reach Impact Infrastructure 5 Early Childhood Care Solar powered ICT improvements across 1,123 Centres established Centres established 96,676 42 54 schools benefiting 2,673 children Sokoto (6) Katsina (7) Kaduna Bauchi (5) Scholarships awarded to Teaching and learning Improved data vulnerable children 102,000 2,169 materials supplied to schools management systems in 42 120 Katsina (4) (2) Adamawa benefitting 96,676 pupils LGEAs across the country FCT (1) (6) Kwara (4) Plateau (6) 88 Osun (1) Ekiti Taraba (3) (4) Ondo (2) Ogun (3) Lagos (8) Edo (1) Enugu (2) Ebonyi 102,000 Children 2,169 teachers trained 120 school support (3) supported across Oando officers trained Cross Region No of Adopted adopted schools River (5) Schools Akwa Bayelsa Ibom North Central 15 (3) (2) River (7) North East 15 Organizational Structure North West 15 Furthermore, the Foundation leverages on shared services South East provided by Oando Plc. These include Finance, Legal, Human 5 The Foundation is governed by a Board of Trustees (“BoT”) Resources, and Admin services. This significantly reduces the with members overseeing the Nigeria, UK and US arms of the South South 18 administrative burden to the Foundation, while guaranteeing Foundation. The BoT provides oversight to an Executive Head, premium world-class controls. who is supported by a team of 5 dedicated staff and volunteers Limitations South West 17 to manage its daily operations. The programme officers are Operations drawn from scholarly, scientific, and professional disciplines with extensive experience. • Utilization of multiple implementing partners poses disparity To effectively implement and coordinate the programme risks in the quality of programme implementation across implementation process, the Foundation works with 10 different States of the Federation. implementing partners (Community Based Organizations) • The rise in competing priorities for global funds affecting the across 6 geo-political zones to ensure active programme availability of funds for basic education mandate. Strategy implementation and monitoring. In addition, consultants are 88 adopted schools across 23 engaged to provide specialized services in conducting states and the FCT surveys, data collection and analysis, support to the LGEA and • The complexities of a holistic approach to education reform teacher capacity building components, among others. may create challenges for scale up and replication. Oando PLC Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 48 49 Inspiring Energy Building Brighter Futures Quality education, clean water and sanitation, gender equality, reduced inequalities continued Our Beneficiaries The Foundation currently supports 17 adopted schools across The Foundation has further supported  Gender    representation of OOSC enrolled in 2017 3 states in Northeast Nigeria – Adamawa, Bauchi, and Taraba; community participation and ownership by Mobilized Out of School Children In line with our commitment to inclusive and equitable quality some in locations close to the state-government approved basic education, the Foundation directly targets disadvantaged children between the ages of 5 -15 in public primary schools, settlement camps for displaced persons, working strengthening the capacity of over 1,133 collaboratively with respective state and local government Out of School Children (“OOSC”) including internally displaced education managers, community groups, and partners to SBMC members, awarded scholarships to persons, children with special needs, orphans, and vulnerable children in target communities. Our aim is to increase access to implement key components of the AASI. 1,123 pupils, trained 269 teachers, and basic education, and improve quality of learning for these donated over 10,000 learning and groups through AASI. Our work is geared towards strengthening   instructional materials across adopted  the capacity of government and community  Our target communities are selected schools. stakeholders to support active mobilization    following a review of varying research and enrolment of out-of-school children, outputs and information sources,  In 2017, the Foundation continued to prioritize participatory especially those who have been displaced approaches in the implementation of programme interventions, triangulated data along OOSC population,  or orphaned by the insurgency; whilst tracking early outcomes across key components of the AASI,  7RWDO security risks, logistical accessibility, Girl improving systems within the school and strengthening strategic partnerships and institutional 0DOH )HPDOH capacity at the state and local levels to implement, monitor, Child Education ratio, and presence of communities to promote retention and sustain, and scale interventions provided. 2. School Infrastructure Improvement development partners/thematic focus. Our improved learning outcomes. We also engaged in various advocacy initiatives and sector selection process prioritizes areas with the discourses supporting basic education and school Infrastructure development remains a key driver for 2017 PROGRAMME UPDATE increased access to and retention of OOSC. Conducive most educational needs and relatively low improvement. Owing to the effective deployment of the learning environments also have direct impact on improved Foundation’s programme approaches, we witnessed attribution security risk, to maximize impact and in policy changes, state-wide replication of our training models, learning outcomes. The Foundation’s infrastructure promote project continuity. The Foundation is committed to improving increased community participation in project implementation intervention supports adopted schools with facilities required access to quality education in Nigeria by processes, improvement in teaching and learning experiences, to meet learners’ needs (classrooms, furniture, boreholes, toilets, and wash bays), utilizing the Community Based Key Target Groups and cumulative increase in school enrolment. creating world-class learning environments Below is a summary of the Foundation’s key Renovation Approach (“CBRA”) which is aimed at increasing Out of School Children – Nigeria still has an estimated 10.5 in public primary schools across the community participation and ownership, empowering local achievements in 2017: artisans, and optimizing project costs. million out-of-school children the world’s highest number. 60 country. Through our signature project the 1. Mobilization of Out of School Children (OOSC) per cent of those children are in northern Nigeria. The Foundation deploys an integrated approach that thrives on the Adopt-A-School Initiative (AASI); leveraging In 2017, the Foundation constructed 9 blocks of 30 classrooms, refurbished 8 blocks of 28 classrooms and involvement of multiple stakeholders (SUBEB, LGEA, SBMC, our resources, best practices, and crossOut of school children are those from ages 7 and above who provided 2,104 units of furniture for students and teachers in and Teachers etc.), deployment of effective community have never attended formal school or dropped out due to engagement practices and provision of ancillary support where cutting solutions that have delivered similar various reasons – distance, poverty, conflict etc. According 15 schools in Bauchi, Niger, Adamawa, Taraba, Kwara, Katsina, Sokoto, and Plateau. To improve school sanitation necessary. This approach ensures the entire process – OOSC results, we have achieved and aim to to UNESCO, of the 59 million children out of school and hygiene, we have constructed 75 units of integrated enrollment, retention and monitoring is community driven, worldwide, 10.5 million are Nigerian, representing 15.2% of sustainable and cost effective. achieve more outstanding results in the the 59 million OOSC. Many children who are victims of the child friendly toilets, and provided 14 motorized boreholes (kitted with power generating sets), water storage facilities educational sector. Girl child – About 60 per cent of OOSC in Nigeria are girls. North-East insurgency have had their schooling interrupted, and wash bays across adopted schools. WASH sensitization some have become orphaned, while others lack financial campaigns are on-going to promote and sustain behavioral Many of those who enroll drop out early. Low perceptions of the resources to continue schooling in their new settlement. change amongst students and teachers. value of education for girls and early marriages are among the The Foundation’s programme interventions support the reasons. Some northern states have laws requiring education of actualization of Sustainable Development Goals 4 (Quality The Foundation is committed to ensuring every child has girls and prohibiting their withdrawal from school. Girls’ primary Education); 5 (Gender Equality); 6 (Clean water and sanitation) access to quality education. Hence, we work with various The direct correlation between school attendance has been improving, but this has not been and 17 (Partnerships for the Goals) in Nigeria. stakeholder groups including the School Based infrastructure upgrade in adopted schools the case for girls from the poorest households. The Foundation Management Committees and State Agencies for Mass mainstreams gender across all its programme interventions, Till date, we have adopted 88 public primary schools across 23 Education to mobilize and enroll OOSC within our school and increased enrolment is evident in the whilst making concerted efforts that target girls specifically to states in Nigeria, renovated over 40 of these schools; communities. Where required, we also provide back-to17% cumulative average increase in bridge the gender gap. established 33 ICT centres and 5 Early Child Care school materials to support their integration into formal Development (ECCD) centres. general school enrolment recorded Children affected by crisis – The North-Eastern part of Nigeria school. A total of 17,827 OOSC were enrolled into adopted schools in 2017, making a total of 33,639 OOSC enrolled to across supported schools in 2017. Over has become significantly displaced educationally due to Boko date. Haram insurgency. Many children who are victims of the 96,000 children now have access to insurgency have had their schooling interrupted, some have conducive learning spaces. become orphaned, whilst others lack the financial resources necessary to continue schooling. Schools in Muchalla and Nzangula communities in Gombi and Madagali LGAs were destroyed by the insurgents, making it impossible for children to continue schooling. Oando PLC Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 50 51 Inspiring Energy Building Brighter Futures 774 Quality education, clean water and sanitation, gender equality, reduced inequalities continued 3. Scholarships 7. Local Government Education Authorities (LGEA) 8. Partnership and Advocacy The Oando Foundation Scholarship programme remains one of the key drivers of Oando Foundation’s LGEA component is designed to increased enrollment and retention of pupils in adopted schools. The Programme improve efficiency and effectiveness of LGEAs in evidenceAt the Foundation, we believe in the supports children from relatively low income backgrounds, who have excelled in based planning and decision making in the basic education power of partnership as a platform for their academics to transit to and complete Secondary School whilst building a sub-sector across all government levels. We achieve this by culture of excellence among children in Oando adopted schools. 1,123 children strengthening the capacity of LGEA officials in the effective sustainable, replicable and scalable have benefitted from the scholarship to date, including 21 new scholars selected in application of Education Management Information Systems interventions. Our Adopt-A-School 2017. (“EMIS”) in school data collation and reporting. This Programme is hinged on effective 4. Information Communication and Technology (ICT) Centers intervention is based on the premise that accurate education data will lead to proper planning, budgeting and ultimately, partnership with public and private sector The Foundation’s objective is to bridge the existing gap in the implementation of achievement of desired outcomes at the schools and ICT education in public primary schools through the establishment of solargovernment level. actors committed to improving the basic powered ICT Centers in adopted schools and empowering students with education sub-sector. technological skills through creativity and learning. Our intervention approach In 2017, the Foundation trained and supported 125 LGEA In 2017, the Foundation trained 120 strengthens the utilization of the existing Nigerian Educational Research and EMIS officials, and donated laptops to support EMIS related Leveraging newly established and existing partnerships with LGEA school support officers, 774 Development Council (“NERDC”) curriculum, capacity building and support for ICT activities in the quality assurance and EMIS departments at key players in the sector, the Foundation raised over N250 teachers (including 43 head teachers, and provision of educational software to aid curriculum implementation. the LGEAs and SUBEBs. Early outcomes of this intervention million, being direct contributions for projects in adopted teachers/assistants, 693 classroom include the overhaul of the EMIS system at the Lagos State schools. Our partnership with Sumitomo Chemical, a 125 teachers, and 38 ICT teachers) In 2017, the Foundation established 16 ICT Centers across Adamawa, Bauchi, Quality Assurance Department (LSQAD) and replication of Japanese Chemical Company, resulted in the establishment across 30 adopted schools Taraba, Kaduna, Sokoto, Niger, Plateau, Kwara, and Lagos; trained 38 ICT the training model in Lagos and Bauchi States. A total of 245 of 3 solar powered ICT Centres in schools across three teachers; and provided NERDC-approved text books and educational software. In LGEA officials were trained in 2017 (120 School Support states – Kaduna, Lagos and Taraba; benefitting over 2,400 in 9 states. students. We also partnered with the Nigerian Stock addition, 60 girls from 2 adopted schools in Lagos have benefitted from our pilot Officers and 125 EMIS Officers). code club, in partnership with Theirworld UK, aimed at empowering Nigerian girls Exchange to address education needs of the teeming out-ofwith technological skills and promoting interest in Science Technology Engineering school population in the North-East occasioned by the Boko and Mathematic (“STEM”) education. To date, the Foundation has established 33 Haram insurgency through construction of the Mainsandari ICT Centers, improving access to technology based learning for 37,363 students in Alamderi Model Nursery and Primary School, Maiduguri, predominantly rural communities. Borno State. 5. School Based Management Committees (SBMCs) The Foundation advocated for increased access to basic Having identified the need to increase community involvement in primary education on various national and international platforms in education; the Foundation ensures that there are functional School Based 2017, including the Global Business Coalition on Education Management Committees in each adopted school, and empowers them to (GBC-Ed), World Innovation Summit on Education (WISE), effectively discharge their roles and responsibilities especially increasing demand Global Education and Skills Forum (GESF), and the African for quality education, participation in school improvement processes, resource Philanthropy Forum (APF). Our direct advocacy engagement mobilization, strengthening voice and accountability in basic education for with the Universal Basic Education Commission resulted in improved education quality, and increased access. us being selected to champion the strategic coordination of other private sector education affiliates supporting basic In 2017, 496 SBMC members were trained across 16 school communities across 4 education in Nigeria. states. Increasingly, trained SBMCs are effectively championing OOSC mobilization and enrolment, school improvement efforts, and resource mobilization to support capital projects in their schools. 6. Teacher Training The Foundation’s teacher training programme replicates the Department for International Development (“DFID”)-Teacher Development Programme (TDP) training model, uniquely designed to improve teachers’ skill in modern pedagogy and content knowledge in three core subjects of Mathematics, English Language and Science & Technology through a phased training approach. It is also designed to strengthen the capacity of head teachers in school management and leadership and school support officers to provide mentorship for teachers’ post training. Subject-specific teacher guides, lesson plans, and audio-visual materials are In 2017, the Foundation trained and provided to promote self-study and support teachers in preparation and delivery of supported 125 LGEA EMIS officials, class lessons. and donated laptops to support In 2017, the Foundation trained 120 LGEA school support officers, 774 teachers EMIS related activities in the quality (including 43 head teachers/assistants, 693 classroom teachers, and 38 ICT teachers) across 30 adopted schools in 9 states. The Foundation has recorded assurance and EMIS departments at marked improvements among trained teachers in the application of pedagogy the LGEAs and SUBEBs. skills and utilization of teaching guides and lesson plans provided. Oando PLC Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 52 53 Inspiring Energy Building Brighter Futures Quality education, clean water and sanitation, gender equality, reduced inequalities continued The table below shows a full list of partnerships and collaborations established and sustained by the Foundation in 2017: Educate A Child (EAC) Oando Foundation partners with EAC, a global initiative UKAID Teacher Development Programme (TDP) The Foundation partners with the DFID-TDP to replicate its launched by Her Highness Sheikha Moza bint Nasser of training model for teacher development and capacity Qatar. This joint partnership is aimed at reducing the building in adopted schools. TDP provided technical number of out of school children (OOSC) in Nigeria by support for the Foundation’s WIC component. We also enrolling 60,000 OOSC across the Foundation’s adopted reproduce teacher guides and lesson plans developed by schools over a 3-year period. The partnership is a TDP for use in adopted schools. This is a technical matching fund grant. partnership with zero funding implication. Utilizing these models allow us leverage existing capacity and knowledge Sumitomo Chemical thereby reducing project cost and ensuring sustainability. Partnership is aimed at promoting ICT and STEM education by establishing solar powered ICT Centers in Oando adopted schools. 3 ICT Centers were established National Home Grown School Feeding (HGSF) Programme In 2016, the Federal Government announced its intention under this partnership in 2017, and 3 additional Centers to commence the National Home Grown School Feeding will be established in 2018. Programme (HGSF) aimed at providing breakfast for children in primary school. Partnership for Child North-East Regional Initiative (NERI) Development (PDC) – a key partner of the Federal Oando Foundation established a strategic partnership with government saddled with the responsibility of the USAID-NERI to support enrolment and quality of strengthening the evidence on the costs and benefits of learning in rebuilt schools across communities hardest hit the HGSF reached out to the Foundation on the need for by the Boko Haram insurgency in Adamawa State. Two collaboration in adopted schools. The outcome of this schools rebuilt by NERI have been adopted by the engagement informed the reconsideration of our school Foundation in Gombi Community. We supported with feeding approach to providing ancillary facilities (water, OOSC mobilization and enrolment, teacher capacity sanitation, and hygiene) in adopted schools, as support for building, training of LGEA and SBMC in Education the HGSF programme. Management Information Systems and school governance, provision of learning materials, and award of scholarships, among others. Nigerian Stock Exchange Oando Foundation has supported the construction of Mainsandari Alamderi Model Nursery and Primary School, Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC) Maiduguri, Borno State, in partnership with the Nigerian UBEC is the federal agency in charge of basic education Stock Exchange and Bridge Academies. The school which in Nigeria. Oando Foundation was recently appointed to consists of 3 fully equipped blocks of administrative and coordinate other private sector education affiliates learning purposes, was built to address education needs supporting basic education in Nigeria. In this role, we of the teeming out-of-school population in the North-East, champion strategic engagements with UBEC, to transform occasioned by the Boko Haram insurgency. Pupils are the basic education sub-sector and strengthen partnership largely made up of children from IDP camps around Abuja with relevant state education institutions under UBEC’s Talakawa; a low-income community in Maiduguri. supervision. USAID Education Crisis Response Programme (ECR) Oando Foundation is partnering with USAID-ECR to support the mainstreaming of OOSC (including internally Displaced Persons) from non-formal learning centers into adopted schools in Adamawa and Bauchi. 2,008 children have been mainstreamed under this partnership; 500 in 2016 and 1,580 in 2017 DFID Education Sector Support Programme in Nigeria (ESSPIN) The Foundation is replicating the DFID-ESSPIN training model and manuals for the SBMC and LGEA programme components. We are also utilizing the services of Consultants who worked with ESSPIN for training in adopted schools. Oando PLC Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 54 55 Inspiring Energy Building Brighter Futures Decent Work and Economic Growth, Gender Equality OUR MATERIAL ISSUES IN 2017 (SDGs 8 & 10)  ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Mitigation measures are deployed to be proactive and also to Gender Distribution All Employee type gender distribution 2017 effectively manage breaches when they occur. Metrics are Oando is a responsible company focused on safety used to measure adequacy, cost effectiveness, and audits awareness based on globally applicable HSE standards and and reviews are conducted to ensure compliance to the security policy. best practices. Furthermore, through feedback from employee engagements on safe practices and learnings from Remedial actions are taken to close gaps identified during audits and reviews. Processes delivering the expected results previous incidents we have continued to build a stronger HSE are sustained while efforts are constantly geared towards   culture within the Company. overall continuous improvement. The Company did not record any minor or major accidents In all, about 122 persons including and as such there were no fatalities within the operations employees and third parties attended which it managed for the year in question. security related trainings. Safety Awareness & Training: HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT 0DOH )HPDOH Full time Employee gender distribution 2017 Organizational profile People Security awareness sessions were held to help ensure safety of the employees. Particularly, end of-year sessions were held to equip our employees with vital security knowledge as a result of high security risks that may be encountered during the ember At Oando, we understand that people are pivotal to building a months. sustainable company, thus, our people constitute the foundation of our existence. While the nature of our work In addition, the company understands that it’s most valuable resources are its workforce changes frequently, our core values do not. In 2017, we and continues to train its personnel to be sensitive to dangerous situations and learn how positioned the organization to attract and retain diverse talents to avoid them. Responsibility was also placed on employees to extend their learnings and empowered them to continuously seek developmental from the trainings to family & loved ones so that they are able to create a safe   opportunities. environment at home. The company’s EHSSQ team provided guidance regarding the introduction of new EHS concepts, standards or procedures while external facilitators The Organization’s employee profile is displayed below: were also brought in to train the employees on other EHS matters. Approximately 90 employees underwent various EHSSQ awareness sessions and training. Total Employees by Subsidiary EMPLOYMENT CATEGORY OER GROUP FOUNDATION OTD TOTAL Key EHSSQ Awareness Sessions & Courses included: 1. EHS level 1 training Full time employee (FTE) 82 47 5 13 147 0DOH )HPDOH 2. EHS level 2 training 3rd Party 55 12 1 1 67 3. EHS level 3/HSE in Project training Total workforce by Management (Mgt.)/ senior (Snr.) staff Consultant 2 0 0 0 2 4. Basic Offshore Safety & Induction & Evacuation Training (BOSIET) showing gender distribution Interns 8 6 0 0 0 5. Fire-fighting training 6. First Aid training Total 139 72 5 0 216 7. Healthy Living sessions FTE SNR STAFF MGT EXECUTIVE MGT TOTAL 8. Ergonomics awareness session M 31 51 4 86 We pride ourselves as an equal opportunity employer by F 37 21 3 61 ensuring our policies and procedures are poised to Security Practices: Total 68 72 7 147 W continuously propagate inclusion and diversity. We continuously dissociate ourselves from unethical practices Workforce distribution by management and gender Managing security risks through structured Security Risk assessment is important to including but not limited to child and forced labour ensuring the protection of the lives of employees, contractors, preventing damage to engagements. Our people initiatives in the current year were company assets and sustaining operational capability. Security deployment and other aimed at enhancing and instituting commitment, motivation and mitigation are developed and managed with due consideration to respecting human rights. employee engagement. A security unit under the EHSSQ department has been We respect our employees’ rights to collective representation 57% 43% Executive Mgt and freedom of association in all our locations. We have a established to manage security issues. Standard Operating healthy representation with the Petroleum and Natural Gas Mgt Staff 71% 29% procedures are in place to guide the implementation of the Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PENGASSAN) Lagos chapter and a collective bargaining agreement covers our company’s security policy. Security incidents are reported, engagement with employees who are members of this Snr Staff 46% 54% recorded and investigated. Process audits and reviews are association. conducted to ensure compliance with Security Standards 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% 120% and respect for human right. Male Female Oando PLC Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 56 57 Inspiring Energy Building Brighter Futures Decent work and economic growth, gender equality continued As shown in the diagram below, in 2017, the proportion of Demography Oando, participates in the mandatory pension scheme as We regard people management as extremely material to our FTE Age Distribution, 2017 female in management positions increased when compared to specified by the Pension Reform Act 2014. The Company pays operations. This embodies the general management position 2016. A step towards addressing a target of SDG 5, Gender 14.2% of gross pay as its contribution to the Pension Fund regarding developing, maintaining and improving employee Equality, “ensuring women’s full and effective participation and Account of each employee, which is 2.2% above the 12% relationships. This is done via communication, performance equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision recommendation of the Pension Reform Act 2014, while the management, processing grievances / disputes as well as making in political, economic and public life.” We aim to employee contributes 8% of their gross pay into the same interpreting and conveying the organization’s core values and continue to increase female participation at all levels of 50 scheme. This serves as our participation in retirement plans and policies. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE management within the company, one step at a time. 42 gives our employees some comfort for life after work. Females in Management Positions, 2016 vs 2017 39 Why economic performance is material to the 40 In our bid to build a sustainable organization, our competitive company 30 30 pay position anchors Oando’s fixed pay around the 50th 20 percentile of comparative competitor pay levels, obtained 15 through appropriate and reliable market/industry surveys. The company’s economic performance is material to the 10 11 We engage third party outsourcers for temporary or part time business as it enables the Company meet its obligations to all 3 3 4 employees to aid operations and ensure that the organizations stakeholders and shareholders in the immediate and on a long0 engaged provide their employees with adequate benefits term sustainable basis. These obligations includes our cash call 20-29 30-39 40-49 50+ including but not limited to: obligations to our joint venture partners, Debt service F Male Female • Life Insurance obligations, employee remuneration and benefits and returns to • Health Care shareholders. How the Company manages her economic • Annual Leave • Sick Leave performance Oando strongly advocates diversity and equal opportunity. This • Parental Leave is reflected in the composition of the organization with a total of • End of year allowance 21 21.5 22 22.5 23 23.5 24 24.5 216 employees who are committed to the development of the The company’s financial forecasts for the current year are • Others organization as a whole and to the identification of new potential Learning and Development prepared in the fourth quarter of each preceding year and Mgt 2017 Mgt 2016 investments. updated periodically to properly reflect current realities. Any significant changes in forecasts are highlighted and reported to In 2017, Oando employed 16 people across Finance, Training and development is pivotal to Oando’s business in its management. Management takes a decision on how to best Corporate Communications, Legal, and Engineering drive for continuous improvement and building a sustainable mitigate the situation. Total number and rates of new employee hires and departments on full time contracts. The proportion of women in organization. We have continued to improve on our existing employee attrition by age group, gender and region the reporting year was 38% and 62% for men. We aim to employee skill profile through various learning interventions Key variables prone to changes are commodity price increase the proportion of women in management as well as on including but not limited to: classroom training, e-learning, onfluctuations which management hedge against, cost the Board. the-job training, coaching and mentoring, and self-study. management of joint venture expenditures via various Remuneration, Benefits & Employee Welfare NEW HIRES 2017 TOTAL RATE Learning interventions were effected through blended learning governance meetings, financial discipline via debt censure to Age Group 20-29 30-39 40-49 50+ 16 11% methods to address identified competency gaps. The gaps ensure debt service obligations are met. were identified through our routine competency assessment Mechanisms for evaluating Management’s M 1 11 1 1 At Oando, we are strong advocates of equal opportunity and report and business exigencies. All these activities are geared approach F 2 we place strong emphasis on linking performance with reward; towards building organizational and individual capacity to thus, we adopt a pay-for-performance culture. The Oando ensure a sustainable organization. Reward Framework guides our remuneration process for all employees. In addition, for company executives and Board These mechanisms include the periodic review of performance ATTRITION 2017 TOTAL RATE 0 In 2017, we leveraged on the vast wealth of internal knowledge with stakeholders on a monthly, quarterly and/or annual basis level remunerations, the Governance and Nominations   and organized a number of learning sessions tagged “Lunch via the various governance structures that ensure befitting and Age Group 20-29 30-39 40-49 50+ 13 9% Committees provide guidance in line with the Board and learn”, which were open to all employees. A total of 30 lasting solutions to challenges encountered are adequately M 2 3 Remuneration Policy. employees attended other formal learning interventions ranging proffered, discussed and implemented. The Board and its F 6 2 from Classroom trainings, Seminars, workshops and Committees meet at least quarterly to review the Company’s As stated in previous reports, we provide Direct/ full time conferences. All employees were trained on fire safety and performance on various matters and ensure that management employees (based on defined eligibility criteria) across all safety related courses. are implementing the strategic objectives set by the Board in a company locations the following benefits: Performance and Talent Management In 2017, there was a total number of 16 new • Pension manner that considers all applicable risks to the business and leads to the maximum positive impact to the stakeholders of the hires, 14 male and 2 female hires. In 2017, • Group Life Insurance Company • Health Insurance To sustain the growth trajectory of the Organization, Consolidated Entities in the Company’s Audited we recorded a total of 13 voluntary exits; 5 • Annual Leave • Performance management remains a pillar of our corporate Financial Statements. males and 8 females. All exits during the • Sick Leave governance framework ensuring that our people strive to • Leave of absence reach their highest possible potential, achieve their time were recorded as relocation, leave of • Maternity Leave objectives and in turn the organization’s objectives. This is Oando includes the performance of its subsidiaries in her absence and exits to seek other • Casual & Compassionate Leave achieved through our performance management system consolidated financial statements. The subsidiaries are: Oando • Study Leave which runs bi-annually. opportunities. • Examination Leave • Succession planning and collegiate review exercises are Logistics and Services Limited, Oando Resources Limited, Oando Terminals and Logistics, Oando Trading DMCC, XRS 1, • Mortgage Support Facility continuously carried out within all entities to the aim to build Oando Trading Limited, Oando Netherlands Holdings 2 • Car Benefit talents. These exercises typically involve evaluating direct Cooperative U.A, Oando Netherlands Holdings 3 Cooperative • Car Grant reports on employee performance and potential in line with U.A, Oando E&P Holdings Limited, Ebony Oil and Gas South • Social & Professional Subscription the Organization’s short and long term objectives, vision and Africa Proprietary Limited, Royal Ebony Terminal Proprietary • Mobile Phone mission. Limited, Ebony Trading Rwanda Limited, Petrad Mozambique • End of Year Allowance Oando PLC Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 58 59 Inspiring Energy Building Brighter Futures Decent work and economic growth, gender equality continued Limitada, XRS 11, Churchill Finance C300-0462 Limited and Organizational Profile Stakeholder Engagement Internal StakeholdersEmployees Oando Energy Resources Inc. (Subsidiary of Oando E&P External StakeholdersRegulators and Vendors The critical changes to the supply chain organization are listed Holdings Limited) below: Economic Value Distributed/Retained • Shrinking of the Supply Chain organization to be led by the Services Manager. The role of the Group Head, Supply In 2017, all communication to external stakeholders were Our economic value in 2017 was distributed as shown below: Chain and Admin Services was eliminated. This is a through the corporate communications unit of the Company. • Operating costs – ₦40.39B testament to the organization’s job shadowing and • Employee wages and benefits ₦460.91M succession planning initiative and a demonstration of career The purpose of communication to internal stakeholders is to • Payments to providers of capital (Equity)– NIL progression and enrichment. ensure the following: • Payments to providers of capital (Debt) – ₦63,50B • All Related Party transactions for the year 2017 were • Requests are channeled to the appropriate teams • Payments to government (by country) – Tax ₦15.90M reported through the Related Party Panel and the • Elimination of any down time to business operations. Governance and Nominations Council Our economic value retained is ₦30.62B The supply chain organization ran a lean structure with Financial assistance received from government emphasis on efficiency by retaining subject matter experts. This guaranteed our support to the business more as we had better  experienced hands. In addition to that, there was also a The Company did not have any financial assistance from the Customer Satisfaction Survey to measure internal customer government in 2017 in the form of tax relief, tax credit or satisfaction. Procurement Practices subsidies. SUPPLY CHAIN AND PROCUREMENT Organizational Profile 5)35)4 (YDOXDWLRQ &RQWUDFW 325HFHLSW ,QYRLFH 3D\PHQW 32 9DOLGDWLRQ Governance & /RFDO6XSSOLHU3DUWLFLSDWLRQ 5HTXHVWIRU4XRWDWLRQ Board Governance & Related Party 6FRSH'RFXPHQW  Nominations Committee Transaction Panel 7LPHOLQH)RU6XEPLVVLRQ 9HQGRU 7UDQVDFWLRQ&RXQW 3D\PHQW7HUPV ,QW·O  /RFDO  Executive Mgt. (YDOXDWLRQ Key Responsibilities 7HFKQLFDO(YDOXDWLRQ 7RWDO  CCSO &RPPHUFLDO(YDOXDWLRQ%LG$QDO\VLV Sourcing Vendor Management Travel Management  &RQWUDFW 32 Facilities Management 'HSDUWPHQWDO+LHUDUFK\ Fleet Admin & Courier $SSURYDO/LPLWV Management Archive Management /RFDO6XSSOLHU6SHQG Logistics Services Manager  325HFHLSWV 9HQGRU&RPSOHWLRQ,QYRLFH 'HOLYHU\1RWH-RE&RPSOHWLRQ 9HQGRU 6SHQG 1*10LOOLRQ ,QW·O  ,QYRLFH9DOLGDWLRQ %XGJHW/LQH9DOLGDWLRQ /RFDO  Procurement Admin. Services Admin. Services 2IÀFHU 6XSSRUWLQJ'RFXPHQWVIRU32 7RWDO  2IÀFHU 2IÀFHU 2IÀFHU 7D['HGXFWLRQV  3D\PHQW 3D\PHQW9RXFKHU&UHDWLRQ /RFDO ,QWHUQDWLRQDO Oando PLC Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 60 61 Inspiring Energy Building Brighter Futures Decent work and economic growth, gender equality continued        Energy NonRenewable Energy (Generator) Human Rights INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AS A TOOL FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Executive summary Energy forms the bedrock of our operations. It is required In the year under review, vendor operations cuts across to power all our office locations as well as other site locations construction/civil works, office & Guest house maintenance 3% 1% including guest houses. Energy consumption is managed alongside cleaning and installation works. The nature of these   1% directly and indirectly by the respective landlords and each tasks regardless of the urgency undergoes a high level of The increased adoption of technology in its diverse forms is a location’s consumption pattern is peculiar to occupancy health and safety scrutiny including provision of Bio major driver of service innovation and growth across the world. and use. data/CV/certificate of fitness before deployment of resource to This results in the need for efficient data collection, faster site on each of the tasks. There are processes and processing, improved storage and retrieval of information. Direct energy consumption is tracked via bills from the public documentation required before execution, all of which are Oando is keen on leveraging Information Technology to run its utility company  as well   as AGO (Diesel) usage sheet.    clearly stated in a pre-agreed Service Level Agreement shared business efficiently with the aim of improving overall productivity with all contractors. and enhanced stakeholder value. Non Renewable Energy (Public Power) Go-Forward Plan 2018 & Beyond 2017 saw the Information Technology (“IT”) department deliver  value by focusing on how technology is employed. This led us to seek better alternatives to optimize work processes by In 2017, we commenced and completed the fit out works for the implementing automated solutions with major consideration for new Head Office at the Wings Tower and relocated. The focus simplicity and service delivery models adopted. The period also was to build an office that was not only functional but also witnessed IT execute further strategic plans following the sustainable, in line with the “Oando Green Plan”. Group’s resolution to return the Company to profitability.   While technology utilization was aligned with business In view of this, emphasis was placed on the following: objectives, the dynamism of our daily operational activities were • Use of natural lighting managed using a mix of diverse and customized services and • Collaborative work environment sustaining a working flexible architecture model which was • Energy efficiency adopted recently. Most notable of the strategic initiatives Lagos Lagos Abuja $UFKLYH Archive   /$*26+4 /0*+ Management $EM*+Guest completed during the period are listed here below: Headquarter Guest House House The use of clear glass as against drywall partitioning in most • Company-wide cyber security training: a continuous initiative areas helped ensure the transmission of natural light and aimed at creating the right cyber threat awareness amongst  reduced electricity consumption. This was further consolidated employees and other stakeholders. with the use of LED lighting across the floors which reduced our • Productivity Tools: deployment of Skype for business on    61/RFWLRQ /LWUHV $*2 .Z+ -RXOH energy consumption and ultimately reduce our carbon footprint. mobile and a desktop popup tool to improve collaboration and staff engagement. The implementation of the sustainability plan   /DJRV+4    • IT Service Level Agreement (SLA) Adjustment: The call resolution time was reviewed to meet the demands of current  /0*+    for Wings also ensured that all plumbing business realities and Do it Yourself (DIYs) were developed   $EM*+    installations had motion sensors to control for users. • Cost Containment Initiative: Optimization and rationalization of  Lagos Lagos $UFKLYH    water leakage and any possible waste. The technology use through business process reengineering to $EM*+Abuja faucets and urinals were fitted with sensors   /DJRV+4 Headquarter /0*+ Management Guest drive operational efficiency. 7RWDO    Guest House House • Enterprise Risk Professional (ERP) Systems Optimization: thereby saving about 75% of water that Reviewed and revised sourcing model to optimize the Supply     /LWUH $*2  .Z+ would have been lost from the use of chain process.  61/RFWLRQ &RQVXPSWLRQ .Z+ &RQYHUVLRQ -RXOH .Z+ P manual taps. In addition to this, These key initiatives were underpinned by a robust governance  /DJRV+4    P -RXOHV  multifunctional flusher systems were committee – the IT Steering Committee, membership of which include senior business leaders with the mandate, amongst /0*+    installed in the toilets to ensure the others, to ensure business and IT alignment. appropriate proportion of water is used. Transportation $EM*+     7RWDO    Oando operates a carpool system in an effort to reduce traffic Oando also relocated its datacenter to a collocated facility congestion  and Carbon emissions. Pool car allocations are leading to the discontinuation of 2 units of power generating. done on the basis of daily requests received and business Needless to say that this reduced pollution and AGO location. consumption. The estimated reduction in CO2 emissions from /LWUH $*2  .Z+     discontinuing the use of generators is 130 tonnes. .Z+ PThe Oando staff bus scheme is a larger representation of this conscious effort at reducing pollution. Our staff buses continue P-RXOHV to transport employees  to and from work. Staff buses transport an average of 150 employees daily, significantly reducing the number of cars in traffic by 70 cars. This reduced CO2 emissions by 322 metric tonnes in 2017 Oando PLC Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 62 63 Inspiring Energy Building Brighter Futures Decent work and economic growth, gender equality continued IT Management Approach • Make available integrated systems that are scalable, reliable, II. Policies • Business Applications Manager and conform to appropriate standards The IT manual2 (“the manual”) establishes the information • IT Security Lead Our Information Technology operations references business • Increase visibility and recognition of Oando as a leader in technology policies and guidelines required to • Systems Administrators continuity frameworks, global service delivery standards and the energy sector appropriately identify information resources and business • Cyber Security Administrators security frameworks such as ISO27001, ISO20000 and requirements while ensuring that these are effectively • Business Information Coordinator Information Technology Infrastructure Library (“ITIL”) which The steering committee is constituted to oversee and ensure protected. The manual also stipulates IT Service Operation • Application Developers enables our business meet acceptable service delivery and technology investments yield the right ROI. The IT function guidelines and requirements to govern IT Service • End User Support security benchmarks. This very pragmatic approach is guided leverages an operating model depicted by the diagram below: management. The manual takes into cognizance the • Helpdesk Officers by a governance structure that gives oversight responsibilities I. IT Planning Process industry Oando operates in and how technology can be • IT Productivity Coaches to the IT steering committee, a hybrid (co-sourced) VII. Grievance mechanisms (i.e. Helpdesk) organizational structure, to deliver on imperatives that will: utilized to support its broad objectives. Adherence to the The planning process maintains a direct line-of sight with manual safeguards the integrity, confidentiality and • Give users access to the right information when they need it the business, and is periodically recalibrated to establish, availability of Oando’s information. The Helpdesk is a functional unit made up of a number of • Provide the right tools and technology systems structured to plan, execute and monitor performance. As depicted below, devoted staff responsible for dealing with a variety of the needs of users a corporate view of the technology imperatives and 2 The manual contains the Server Down Policy, Server Back-up Policy, service events, often made via telephone calls, emails or Information Technology Security Policy, Email Policy, Desktop Move, Add • Deliver good quality services that can be relied upon and performance measures are developed through a direct feed and Change Policy. verbally reported incidents. with complete cost transparency from the business strategic objectives. • Deliver affordable technology services based on a III. Commitments The Helpdesk serves as a single point of contact for users reasonable return on investment (“ROI”) The Information Technology team is committed to ensuring to report service disruptions or degradations, IT service Oando leverages on technology deployed appropriately to requests, incident resolution etc. They also provide a point achieve competitive advantage, increase market share, of coordination for IT groups and processes with the improve quality and drive efficiency through automation of ownership of incidents/requests through lifecycle. VIII. Processes, Projects, Programs and Initiatives manual processes. IV. Goals and Targets • IT Security awareness sessions conducted by IT &RUSRUDWH9LVLRQ ,79LVLRQ0LVVLRQ Leverage existing IT: to leverage existing information Productivity coaches for all departments across the technology and expertise to maximize investments and company with focus on Social Engineering and Information 0LVVLRQ 9DOXHV ,PSHUDWLYHV reduce costs. Security • A work tool refresh survey was carried out to obtain Foster new and emerging IT: to identify and foster new and employee feedback on systems and general IT work tools. emerging information technology to maximize mission Results of the survey informed management on the work accomplishment and reduce costs. tool type to be deployed across the organization. • A customer Satisfaction survey was carried out to drive Automated Processes: to identify opportunities to continuous service improvement *URXS6WUDWHJ\ streamline manual work processes to improve staff • Staff were informed of the various variants of ransomwares productivity and accelerate work output. and advised on control measures put in place to avoid falling a victim of cyber-attacks. Evaluation of IT Management Approach IT Governance, Policies, and oversight processes: to provide departmental IT governance, policy, and oversight (QWLW\6WUDWHJ\ processes with the aim of ensuring secure, efficient, and On a bi-annual basis, IT Management approach for information cost effective use of resources. systems is subject to an audit exercise to identify gaps in current procedures and processes, which are reported to Risk-based cyber security: to strengthen enterprise executive management and monitored until identified gaps are ,76WUDWHJLF situational awareness which will foster near-real-time risk closed out. management and combat the advanced persistent threat. It 3ODQ also forges inter-agency and sector partnerships to This bi-annual audit of IT management approach leads to: protect critical infrastructure, promote information sharing, • Closure of identified gaps &RUSRUDWH (QWLW\ and advance technologies for cyber defenses. • Updated processes and procedures V. Responsibilities 2EMHFWLYHV 2EMHFWLYHV • Policy amendment • Updated Risk register Information Technology and the Environment The Oando IT team are a group of professionals who specialize in various disciplines within the field of Data Center Move Information Technology providing advice and expertise on IT strategy, infrastructure, design, building, and 8QLW,QGLYLGXDO Data centers require a tremendous amount of energy, which maintenance within the organization. can be harmful to the environment. Following the relocation to VI. Resources 2EMHFWLYHV the Company’s new office space in 2017, we took steps to change the way we operate our primary data center and in turn People constitute a key part of the resources and change the impact on the environment for good. To achieve capabilities required to deliver quality IT services to the this, the in-house data center was moved to an energy efficient business. The roles include; Tier 3 colocation facility. This helped reduce our carbon • Chief Strategy Officer footprint, eliminate inefficient energy utilization and provide • Head, IT better visibility with effective monitoring systems. • Service Delivery Manager Oando PLC Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 64 65 Inspiring Energy Building Brighter Futures Decent work and economic growth, gender equality continued Employee Engagement Customer Satisfaction (“CSAT”) In our bid to shift Internal Communications from being output-focused to outcome-focused, Via The 2017 customer satisfaction survey of information technology services (“ITS”) was Snapcoms; a cloud based communication tool was deployed The highly visual internal conducted to achieve the following objectives: communication tools deepened internal engagement with its various modes of reaching • To ascertain the quality of ITS being rendered to our customers, employees. • To receive feedback from customers on their satisfaction levels Reviewed Secure Print Services • To identify areas of improvement. The secure print service was reviewed to ensure the actual number of printers required was in A total of 104 respondents representing 43% of the expected employees in the place and strategically positioned within the office building. This reduced the print volume by organization (OER, OTD, Foundation & PLC) took part in 2017 C-SAT survey with a 50% thereby reducing the cost of printing, paper usage, energy consumption and carbon satisfaction level of 81%. The anonymous survey ran for a duration of 10 days. footprint. The Questionnaire Knowledge Sharing Sessions/Employee Development Questions of the survey were focused on the IT customer service experience of the From early 2017, the management of the IT department business. This was designed to rate the satisfaction level of our service delivery to the business units. introduced knowledge sharing sessions to ensure that members of the department are aware of the latest technology trends that is The Result 81% satisfaction level was achieved, whilst, 6% of respondents were not satisfied with capable of changing business dynamics and promoting the process of resolving issues. This provided an opportunity to increase customer sustainability in the oil and gas industry. This was achieved satisfaction levels. through research and presentations by members of the IT team. However, 11% of respondents believed that the IT service can be improved upon. Knowledge sharing presentations are delivered on a weekly basis. This activity gives every team member the opportunity to Overall Satisfaction with Customer service experience scan the technology landscape for innovative products and operational best practices that massively impact on the business and the entire Oando staff. The output from the knowledge 70% sharing sessions translate to projects executed by the 60% 60% department. 50% It Waste Disposal 40% In line with the Oando IT Asset Management Process, some faulty and obsolete IT assets were 30% disposed during the year under review. A summary of items disposed were from previous 21% Head office (Zenon) located at Victoria Island. Details of the items is captured in table below: 20% 13% 10% S/N ITEM DESCRIPTION QUANTITY 5% 1% 1 Cisco IP Phones 32 0% 2 Other Cisco Devices (Switches, Routers, Access points etc.) 29 VHU\6DWLVÀHG 6DWLVÀHG Neutral 8QVDWLVÀHG VHU\8QVDWLVÀHG 3 Server Racks 11 4 Polycom and Accessories (Desk Phones, Assy, Sound Station etc.) 12 5 FM200 Cylinders 7 6 UPS / AVS 8 Summary Of Findings 7 Laptops Computers and Accessories (Locks, Screens, Batteries, Hard Drives) 114 On the overall, the following were the findings that were gathered from the survey: 8 Desktop Computers 24 • Users need IT to improve issue resolution time 9 Monitors 79 • There is room for improvement in the quality and effectiveness of work tools 10 Printers / Scanners 17 • Wireless speed and reliability needs to be optimized • Access and availability of IT peripherals should be improved 11 Toner/Cartridge Modules 64 12 14” CRT Screens 3 Reviews And Audits 13 Projectors 5 What the IT unit did well; 14 Microsoft Surface Pro 18 • Customer service was provided in a courteous and patient manner 15 Others (cables/monitor stands/fire alarms/keyboards) 77 • Average First Call Resolution (FCR) rate increased from 18% in the previous year TOTAL 500 to 23% • Better understanding of issues encountered Oando PLC Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 66 67 Inspiring Energy Building Brighter Futures Targets and data for 2017 Database for NNPC/NAOC/Oando JV projects commissioned 2017 Database for NNPC/NAOC/Oando JV projects commissioned 2017 S/N Name and Location LGAProjects State Date Contract Impact S/N Name and Location LGAProjects State Date Contract Impact of Projects Commissioned No:Projects of Projects Commissioned No:Projects 1 46000025692 10 4600022510 Upgrade in EPEBU Extension of Low ONELGA RIVERS 25/01/17 • Infrastructural development Electrification OGBIA BAYELSA 10/03/17 • Infrastructural development Voltage Lines and • Entrepreneurship development • Entrepreneurship development lights in ISIUKWA installation of street • Improved social lives & security community. • Improved social lives & security • Improved relationship between community & • Improved relationship between community & community. the JV the JV • Oando visibility • Oando visibility 2 4500023344 11 4600011404 4.86km OMOKU Construction of ONELGA RIVERS 10/03/17 • Improved movement and transportation Roads in OKWUZI 2KM Internal Asphalt ONELGA RIVERS 26/01/17 • Improved movement and transportation • Improved relationship between community & • Improved relationship between community & community. the JV Internal Road in the JV • Oando visibility Omoku Clan. • Oando visibility 3 2 KM Internal Road ONELGA RIVERS 26/01/17 4500023310 • Improved movement and transportation 12 Construction of 1KM SILGA BAYELSA 29/03/17 4600031671 • Improved movement and transportation Concrete Road. • Portable drinking water OKWUZI community. and Drainage in • Improved relationship between community & the JV • Improved relationship between community & • Oando visibility the JV • Oando visibility 4 4600022765 13 4500029996 OSEKWENIKE Low Tension Line in SAGBAMA BAYELSA 31/01/17 • Infrastructural development Construction of 20,000 SILGA BAYELSA 29/03/17 • Portable water for community • Entrepreneurship development in OKPOTUWARI Gallon Water Scheme • Improved relationship between community & community. • Improved social lives & security the JV • Improved relationship between community & community. • Oando visibility the JV 14 • Oando visibility Concrete Flooring of AHOADA WEST RIVERS 30/03/17 4600011897 • Improved movement and transportation 5 4600022906 UKEPLIEDE Market in • Improved relationship between community & 500 M Concrete Road SAGBAMA BAYELSA 31/01/17 • Improved movement and transportation the JV OSIFO community. and Drainage in • Improved relationship between community & Kingdom. • Oando visibility the JV 15 • Oando visibility Construction of 4 AHOADA WEST RIVERS 30/03/17 5600010696 • Better environment for trading particularly 6 4600025767 open Market Stalls market women Electrification SAGBAMA BAYELSA 31/01/17 • Infrastructural development UKEPLIEDE Bock A,B,C,D in • Improved relationship between community & ABUETOR Kingdom. Extension in • Entrepreneurship development the JV • Improved social lives & security Kingdom. • Oando visibility • Improved relationship between community & 16 5600010697 the JV • Oando visibility Construction of 4 AHOADA WEST RIVERS 30/03/17 • Better environment for trading particularly Lock-Up Market Stalls market women 7 4600026056 UKEPLIEDE – Block A,B,C,D in • Improved relationship between community & 500m Concrete Road SAGBAMA BAYELSA 31/01/17 • Improved movement and transportation the JV ABUETOR Kingdom. with Drainage in • Improved relationship between community & Kingdom. • Oando visibility the JV • Oando visibility 17 Construction of 1no AHOADA WEST RIVERS 30/03/17 4600014821 • Better environment for trading particularly 8 UKEPLIEDE Market Toilet in market women 4600041555 • Improved relationship between community & Centre in AGBERE Youth Development SAGBAMA BAYELSA 01/02/17 • Recreational development. 4600010361 • Improved relationship between community & Kingdom. the JV community. the JV • Oando visibility 18 • Oando visibility Installation of 350 YENEGOA BAYELSA 26/04/17 4600030163 • Infrastructural development 9 4600020128 in AYAMA-AKPEDI, KVA CAT Generator • Entrepreneurship development 1km road and two OHAJI / IMO 06/03/17 • Improved movement and transportation 4600020644 BISENI Clan. • Improves social lives & security ETEKWURU side drains in EGBEMA • Improved relationship between community & • Improved relationship between community & the JV the JV community. • Oando visibility • Oando visibility Oando PLC Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 68 69 Inspiring Energy Building Brighter Futures Targets and data for 2017 continued Database for NNPC/NAOC/Oando JV projects commissioned 2017 Database for NNPC/NAOC/Oando JV projects commissioned 2017 S/N Name and Location LGAProjects State Date Contract Impact S/N Name and Location LGAProjects State Date Contract Impact of Projects Commissioned No:Projects of Projects Commissioned No:Projects 19 Construction of NEMBE BAYELSA 26/04/17 4500027124 • Educational development 29 Supply of School NEMBE BAYELSA 17/08/17 4600024989 • Educational development Science Laboratory • Improved relationship between community & Furniture/Household • Improved relationship between community & Block in OLOGOAMA the JV Equipment and the JV AZUZUAMA community. • Oando visibility Chemicals for • Oando visibility 20 Community Construction of SILGA BAYELSA 02/05/17 4600026804 • Infrastructural development 30 4600024262 Okoron-Ama • Entrepreneurship development Community • Improves social lives & security Supply of Medical SILGA BAYELSA 17/08/17 • Improved health of the people. Laboratory • Improved relationship between community & in OKORON-AMA Electrification project • Improved relationship between community & the JV Equipment and the JV KOROKROSEI community • Oando visibility Furniture at • Oando visibility community 31 4600022445 H2 Supply of school SILGA BAYELSA 17/08/17 • Improved health of the people. Household • Improved relationship between community & Equipment and the JV 21 4600004912 KOROKROSEI Oruama Community AWELGA RIVERS 19/07/17 • Portable water for community Furniture at • Oando visibility ORUAMA Community Water Scheme in • Improved relationship between community & the JV community • Oando visibility 22 500M Concrete Road NEMBE BAYELSA 19/07/17 4500026636 • Improved movement and transportation 32 Supply of School ONELGA BAYELSA 22/08/17 4600031565 • Improved health of the people. OGU-AMA and drain in • Improved relationship between community & Furniture/Household • Improved relationship between community & the JV Equipment and the JV AMURUTU • Oando visibility Chemicals for • Oando visibility 23 4600016514 Community Rehabilitated Asphalt ONELGA RIVERS 19/07/17 • Improved movement and transportation 33 Road (School/Health • Improved relationship between community & 4600024987 in IDU OSOBILE Centre/Onyige Street) the JV Supply & Installation SILGA BAYELSA 11/09/17 • Infrastructural development • Oando visibility for KOROKOROSEI of 500 KVA Generator • Entrepreneurship development • Improves social lives & security 24 4500035127 COMMUNITY • Improved relationship between community & Construction of 1km NEMBE BAYELSA 20/07/17 • Improved movement and transportation the JV AGBAKABIRIYAL Road and Drains in • Improved relationship between community & • Oando visibility the JV 34 • Oando visibility • Educational development Constructing of Shore SILGA BAYELSA 06/10/17 4500030415 • Infrastructural development FIEREBAGHA-AMA Protection Project for • Entrepreneurship development 25 • Improves social lives & security Construction of 3 SILGA BAYELSA 21/07/17 5600011658 • Educational development • Secure life and properties. (Block A); • Improved relationship between community & Quarters (Block A, B Nos. Teachers • Improved relationship between community & 5600011657 the JV & C in IKEBIRI 11 the JV (Block B) & • Oando visibility • Oando visibility 5600011659 26 Construction of 1. No SILGA BAYELSA 21/07/17 5600011616 • Educational development IKEBIRI 11 6-Classroom Block in • Improved relationship between community & the JV • Oando visibility 27 Supply of Medical ONELGA RIVERS 17/08/17 4600025349 • Improved health of the people. Laboratory • Improved relationship between community & Equipment and the JV OBIGBOR Chemicals for • Oando visibility community Health Centre 28 Supply of Medical NEMBE BAYELSA 17/08/17 4600023905 • Improved health of the people. Laboratory • Improved relationship between community & AKAKUMAMA Equipment for the JV • Oando visibility community. Oando PLC Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 70 71 Inspiring Energy Building Brighter Futures Targets and data for 2017 continued Community trust fund Summary of scholarship awarded in 2017 • For period under review, a total $2,128,815 (approximately N 649,288,111) representing 3% of the gross production revenue) In conjunction with her JV partner, the Company awarded three hundred and thirty five scholarships to students in tertiary accrued to the Community Trust Fund. institutions to study both in Nigeria and abroad. Find below break down of the total number of students with their level of education: • Below is the cumulative revenue to date: Ebendo Bursary Program # COMMUNITY % REVENUE TRUST FUND CUMULATIVE REMITTANCES 2017 REVENUE CATEGORY NUMBER OF STUDENT 1 Ebendo 1.25% ₦1,085,881,605.02 ₦274,367,605.63 MSC/PGD 16 2 Obodougwa 0.75% ₦651,528,963.38 ₦164,528,963.38 LLB 6 3 Umusam 0.35% ₦304,064,404.73 ₦75,840,493.23 BSC/HND 194 4 Isumpe 0.26% ₦225,945,943.57 ₦57,121,309.50 OND 113 5 Ogbeani 0.11% ₦95,592562.86 ₦166,707.86 NCE 6 6 Umsadege 0.28% ₦233,982,528.02 ₦52,171,383.81 GRAND TOTAL 335 TOTALS 3% ₦2,596,996,008.19 ₦649,288,111.94 Oando/Nepn JV Scholarship Award Summary of community engagements in Q1 & Q2 (January – June 2017) CATEGORY NUMBER OF STUDENT SN ACTIVITY PLANNED ACHIEVED OND 18 HND/BSC 37 1 Host & Impacted Communities Trust Board Meetings 4 4 TOTAL 55 2 Ebendo & Obodougwa Peoples Parliament Meetings 4 3 3 MoU Renewal (Ebendo and Obodougwa Communities) 2 0 4 NDDC/OPTS Working Level Community Meetings 6 1 5 Sustainable Community Development Projects 5 5 6 Community disturbances 0 0 Trust fund running projects – (disbursements for these year-to-year projects are up to date) 1) Ebendo Elders Welfare Scheme – ₦13.6m/annum 2) Obodougwa Elders Welfare Scheme – ₦6m/annum 3) Ebendo Education Bursary Scheme – ₦15m/annum 4) Funding for Obodougwa Secondary School – ₦4.2m/annum 5) Maintenance of Ebendo Isue Security Vigilante – ₦5.6m/annum 6) Energia/Oando Scholarship Scheme – ₦16m/annum 7) Chiefs welfare – ₦400,000 monthly stipends to Council of Chiefs and elders (Ebendo) – ₦4.8m/annum 8) Youth Incentives – ₦200,000 monthly allowance for youth body (Ebendo and Obodougwa) – ₦2.4m/annum Oando PLC Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 72 73 Inspiring Energy Building Brighter Futures Targets and data for 2017 continued Oando Foundation Schedule of 2017 Activities Infrastructure Development Oando Foundation Adopt-A-School Scholarship Award for 21 pupils (a total of 1,123 scholars to date) • Construction of 1 block of 3 classrooms, renovation of 1 block of 3 classrooms, and 3 units of child-friendly toilets at Central Primary School Gamawa, Bauchi ICT Centers • Renovation of 1 block of 3 classrooms at Central Primary School, Liman Katagum, Bauchi Established solar-powered ICT Centers (fully equipped with furniture, solar powered inverters, computers, server, • Construction of 3 units of child friendly toilets at Sabon Kaura Primary School, Bauchi projectors, printers, ICT educational software and text books) in 16 adopted schools: • Construction of 1 block of 3 classrooms and wash bay at Maitunbi Primary School, Minna, Niger • Construction of 2 blocks of 6 classrooms, 3 units of child-friendly toilets, and 1 motorized borehole kitted with power generating • Central Primary School, Gamawa, Bauchi sets, water storage facilities at Yoledepate Primary School, Yola, Adamawa • Central Primary School, Liman Katagum, Bauchi • Construction of 1 block of 3 classrooms, and 3 units of child friendly toilets at Nyibango Primary School, Yola, Adamawa • Sabon Kaura Primary School, Bauchi • Construction of 1 motorized borehole kitted with power generating sets, water storage facilities at Sangere Primary School, Girei, • Our Lady of Fatima Primary School, Jos, Plateau Adamawa • Ibrahim Gusau Nizzamiya Islamiyya Model Primary School, Sokoto • Construction of 1 block of 3 classrooms, 3 units of child friendly toilets, and 1 motorized borehole kitted with power generating • Mabera Magaji Model Primary School, Sokoto sets, water storage facilities at Low Cost Primary School, Jalingo, Taraba • Maitunbi Primary School, Minna, Niger • Construction of 1 motorized borehole kitted with power generating sets, water storage facilities at Wuro-Sembe Primary School, • Muslim Community Primary School, Omupo, Kwara Jalingo, Taraba • Baptist LGEA Primary School, Okuta, Kwara • Construction of 1 motorized borehole kitted with power generating sets, water storage facilities at Female Model Primary School, • Ansaru Islam Primary School, Oke-Aluko, Kwara Jalingo, Taraba • Female Model Primary School, Jalingo, Taraba • Renovation of 1 block 9 classrooms, construction of 3 units of child-friendly toilets, and provision of 1 motorized borehole kitted • Low Cost Primary School, Jalingo, Taraba with power generating sets, water storage facilities, and Wash bay at Ansaru Islam Nursery & Primary School, Oke-Aluko, Kwara • Yoldepate Primary School, Yola, Adamawa • Construction of 1 block of 3 classrooms and 6 units of child-friendly toilets at Baptist LGEA School, Okuta, Kwara • Nyibango Primary School, Yola, Adamawa • Construction of 6 units of child-friendly toilets at Gidado Primary School, Katsina • LGEA Primary School, Rido, Kaduna • Construction of school perimeter fence, renovation of 1 block of 3 classrooms, 3 units of child-friendly toilets and 1 hand pump • Dele Ajomale Primary School, Ilasa, Lagos borehole at Daurama Nursery & Primary School, Katsina • Renovation of 1 block of 2 classrooms, Construction of 3 units of child-friendly toilets, and 1 hand pump borehole at Ahmad Danbabar Primary School, Sokoto • Construction of 1 block of 3 classrooms , renovation of 1 block of 3 classrooms, provision of 1 motorized borehole kitted with power generating sets, water storage facilities & Wash bay in Mabera Magaji Primary School, Sokoto • Renovation of 1 block of 3 classrooms, construction of 3 units of child friendly toilets and Wash bay at Ibrahim Guzau Islamiyya School, Sokoto. • Construction of 1 block of 3 classrooms, 3 units of child friendly toilets at Salihu Anka Primary School, Sokoto • Construction of 1 block of 3 classrooms, renovation of 1 block of 2 classrooms, and provision of Wash bay at Our Lady of Fatima Primary School, Jos, Plateau • Construction of 3 units of child friendly toilets, 1 motorized borehole kitted with power generating sets, water storage facilities and wash bay at LEA Primary School, Babale, Plateau Oando PLC Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 74 75 Inspiring Energy Building Brighter Futures Targets and data for 2017 continued Furniture • Provision of 1,960 units of twin desks for students and 144 units of teachers’ desks in 22 Schools Capacity Building • 774 teachers trained (693 classroom teachers in key subject competence and modern pedagogy, 43 School Administrators in leadership and management; and 38 ICT Teachers) • 245 LGEA School Support and Principal Quality Assurance (EMIS) Officers trained to provide school improvement support • 496 SBMC members trained to support effective school management and governance • Over 4,000 learning and instructional materials distributed across 48 schools Special Projects • Scholarship award for 5 indigenous pupils of Ogun State to Nobel house College • Scholarship grant to 4 university beneficiaries on the Ebola Education Trust Fund • Donation of Back-to-School materials to 1,580 IDP children in Adamawa and Bauchi to support their re-integration into formal school • Donation of exercise books to Idi-Odo Primary School, Gbagada, Lagos, Ogo-Oluwa Primary School, Gbagada, Lagos, Temidire Primary School, Gbagada, Lagos, Archbishop Taylor Memorial Primary School, Victoria Island, Lagos, and Hauwa’u Memorial International School, Kaduna • Donation of exercise books and fez caps (in commemoration of Day of the Girl Child) to students of Senior Girls Academy, Lafiaji, Lagos Island. Oando PLC Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 76 77 Inspiring Energy Building Brighter Futures GRI Content Index Page number(s) Page number(s) GRI Standard Disclosure GRI Standard Disclosure and/or URL(s) and/or URL(s) GR 101: Foundation 2016 GR 102: General Oando 2017 Annual Disclosures Report page 157 Disclosure 10225 Conflicts of interest GR 102: General Page 2 Oando 2017 Annual Disclosures Disclosure 102-1 Name of the organisation Report page 42 Disclosure 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, Page 11 values Disclosure 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Oando 2017 Annual Back page Report page 42 Disclosure 102-27 collective knowledge of the highest governing body Disclosure 102-3 Location of headquarters Disclosure 102-4 Location of operations Page 8 Oando 2017 Annual Page10, Oando 2017 Report page 42, Disclosure 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental and Annual Report page Disclosure 102-5 Ownership and legal form pages 48-49 social impacts 40-41 Page 28 Page 11 Disclosure 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Disclosure 102-6 Markets served Disclosure 102-7 Scale of organization Page 8 and 11 Oando 2017 Annual Report pages 43-44 Disclosure 102-31 Review of economic, environmental and social topics Disclosure 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Page 57-58 Page 32 Page 60-61 Disclosure 102-33 Communicating Critical concerns Disclosure 102-9 Supply chain Page 32 Page 10, Page 60-61, Disclosure 10234 Nature and Total number of concerns Disclosure 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Disclosure 102-35 Remuneration Policies Page 35 Disclosure 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Page 28-31 Disclosure 102-36 Process for determining Remuneration Page 35 Disclosure 102-12 External initiatives Page 25 Disclosure 10237 Stakeholders involvement in remuneration Page 35 Disclosure 102-13 Membership of associations Page 25 Disclosure 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Pages 36-37 Disclosure 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Pages 1217 Disclosure 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Page 58 Disclosure 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities Pages 29-31 Disclosure 10242 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Pages 36-41 Disclosure 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior Page 5 Disclosure 10243 Approach to stakeholder engagement Pages 36-41 Disclosure 10217 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Page 32 Disclosure 10244 Key topics and concerns raised Pages 40-41 Disclosure 10218 Governance Structure Pages 32 and 33 Disclosure 102-45 Entitites included in the consolidated financial Pages 59-60 statements Oando 2017 Annual Pages 4-5, 26-29 Report page 47 Disclosure 102-19 Delegating Authority Disclosure 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Pages 26-29 Oando 2017 Annual Disclosure 102-47 List of material topics Report page 42 Disclosure 102-20 Executive level Responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics Disclosure 10250 Reporting period Page 4 Oando 2017 Annual Page 4 Report pages 42-46 Disclosure 102-20 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental Disclosure 10251 Date of most recent report and social topics Disclosure 10252 Reporting cycle Page 4 Oando 2017 Annual Cover page Report Pages 34-38, Disclosure 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its Disclosure 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report pages 45-46 committees Disclosure 10254 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Cage 4-5 Oando 2017 Annual Standards Report page 34 Disclosure 10223 Chair of the highest governance body Disclosure 102-55 GRI Content Index Pages 77-85 Oando 2017 Annual Report page 42 Disclosure 10224 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Oando PLC Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 78 79 Inspiring Energy Building Brighter Futures GRI Content Index Page number(s) Page number(s) GRI Standard Disclosure GRI Standard Disclosure and/or URL(s) and/or URL(s) GR 103: Management Pages 26-29 GRI 201: Economic d. Percentage of salary contributed by employee or Oando 2016 Approach Performance Sustainability Report Disclosure 103-1 Page 28-29, 32-33, 36page 46 employer. 38, 42-43, 47-49, 56, Disclosure 103-2 57-58, 59-60, 60-61, e. Level of participation in retirement plans, such as Oando 2016 62, 63-65. Sustainability Report page 46 participation in mandatory or voluntary schemes, Page 28-29, 32-33, 36regional or country-based schemes, or those with 38, 42-43, 47-49, 56, Disclosure 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach financial impact. 57-58, 59-60, 60-61, a. Total monetary value of financial assistance received Page 60 62, 63-65. Disclosure 201-4 by the organisation from any government during the reporting period, including: GRI 201: Economic b.The information in 201-4-a by country Page 60 Performance Management Approach a. Direct economic value generated and distributed Page 60 c. Whether, and the extent to which, any government is Oando 2017 Annual Report page 40-41 Disclosure 201-1 (EVG&D) on an accruals basis, including the basic present in the shareholding structure. components for the organization’s global operations as GRI 202: Market Presence listed below. If data are presented on a cash basis, report the justification for this decision in addition to Management Approach a. When a significant proportion of employees are Page 58-59 reporting the following basic components: Disclosure 202-1 i. Direct economic value generated: revenues Page 60 compensated based on wages subject to minimum wage rules, report the relevant ratio of the entry level ii. Economic value distributed: operating costs, Page 60 wage by gender at significant locations of operation to employee wages and benefits, payments to providers of the minimum wage. b. When a significant proportion of other workers Page 58-59 capital, payments to government by country, and community investments; (excluding employees) performing the organization’s iii. Economic value retained: ‘direct economic value Page 60 activities are compensated based on wages subject to generated’ less ‘economic value distributed’. minimum wage rules, describe the actions taken to determine whether these workers are paid above the b. Where significant, report EVG&D separately at Page 60 minimum wage. c. Whether a local minimum wage is absent or variable Page 58-59 country, regional, or market levels, and the criteria used for defining significance. at significant locations of operation, by gender. In a. If the plan’s liabilities are met by the organization’s Oando 2016 circumstances in which different minimums can be used Sustainability Report Disclosure 201-3 as a reference, report which minimum wage is being page 46 general resources, the estimated value of those liabilities. used. b. If a separate fund exists to pay the plan’s pension Oando 2016 d. The definition used for ‘significant locations of Page 8-9 Sustainability Report operation.’ page 46 liabilities: Oando 2016 GRI 203: Indirect Sustainability Report Economic Impacts i. The extent to which the scheme’s liabilities are Management Approach page 46 estimated to be covered by the assets that have been set aside to meet them; a. Extent of development of significant infrastructure Pages 19-23, Pages 42-45, pages 46-56 Disclosure 203-1 Oando 2016 investments and services supported. Sustainability Report ii. The basis on which that estimate has been arrived at; b. Current or expected impacts on communities and Pages 19-26, pages page 46 local economies, including positive and negative 42-45, pages 46-56 Oando 2016 impacts where relevant. Sustainability Report iii. When the estimate was made. c. Whether these investments and services are Pages 19-23, pages page 46 commercial, in-kind or pro bono engagements. 42-45, pages 46-56 c. If a fund set up to pay the plan’s pension liabilities is Oando 2016 a. Examples of significant identified indirect economic Pages 19-23, pages Sustainability Report 42-45, pages 46-56 Disclosure 203-2 page 46 not fully covered, explain the strategy, if any, adopted impacts of the organization, including positive and by the employer to work towards full coverage, and the negative impacts. timescale, if any, by which the employer hopes to achieve full coverage. b. Significance of the indirect economic impacts in the Pages 46-56 context of external benchmarks and stakeholder priorities, such as national and international standards, protocols, and policy agendas. Oando PLC Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 80 81 Inspiring Energy Building Brighter Futures GRI Content Index Page number(s) Page number(s) GRI Standard Disclosure GRI Standard Disclosure and/or URL(s) and/or URL(s) GRI 204: Procurement Pages 60-61 GRI 303: WATER AND Page 63 Practices EFFLUENTS Management Approach Management Approach Disclosure 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Page 61 a. A description of how the organization Interacts with Oando 2016 Sustainability Report Disclosure 303-1 Pages 41, 51 water, including how and where water is withdrawn, GRI 205: Anti-Corruption Page 32 consumed, and discharged, and the water-related Management Approach impacts caused or contributed to, or directly linked to a. Total number and percentage of operations assessed Page 33-34 the organization’s activities, products or services by a Disclosure 205-1 business relationship (e.g., impacts caused by runoff). b. A description of how water-related impacts are Page 61 for risks related to corruption. b. Significant risks related to corruption identified Pages 32-34 addressed, including how the organization works with through the risk assessment. stakeholders to steward water as a shared resource, a. Total number and percentage of governance body Pages 33-35 and how it engages with suppliers or customers with Disclosure 205-2 significant water related impacts. a. Total volume of water recycled and reused by the Page 63 members that the organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken Disclosure 303-3 down by region. organization b. Total number and percentage of employees that the Pages 34-35 organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures GRI 304: BIODIVERSITY Oando 2016 Sustainability Report Management Approach have been communicated to, broken down by employee category and region. Page 41 c. Total number and percentage of business partners Pages 34-35 a. For each operational site owned, leased, managed in, Oando 2016 Sustainability Report Disclosures 304-1 that the organization’s anti-corruption policies and Pages 40, 41 or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high procedures have been communicated to, broken down biodiversity value outside protected areas, the following by type of business partner and region. Describe if the information: organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to any other persons or a. Nature of significant direct and indirect impacts on Oando 2016 Sustainability Report Disclosure 304-2 organizations. Pages 40 biodiversity with reference to one or more of the d. Total number and percentage of governance body Pages 34-35 following: members that have received training on anti-corruption, a. Size and location of all habitat areas protected or Oando 2016 Sustainability Report Disclosure 304-3 broken down by region. Pages 40, 41 restored, and whether the success of the restoration e. Total number and percentage of employees that have Page 34-35 measure was or is approved by independent external professionals. received training on anti-corruption, broken down by employee category and region. b. Whether partnerships exist with third parties to protect or restore habitat areas distinct from where the GRI 302: ENERGY a. Total fuel consumption within the organization from Page 62 organization has overseen and implemented restoration Disclosure 302-1 or protection measures. non-renewable sources, in joules or multiples, and GRI 305: EMISSIONS including fuel types used. b. Total energy consumption within the organization, in Management Approach Page 62 Pages 62 & 63 joules or multiples. Disclosure 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Disclosure 302-4 a. Amount of reductions in energy consumption Page 63 GRI 306: EFFLUENTS AND Page 14 achieved as a direct result of conservation and WASTE efficiency initiatives, in joules or multiples. Management Approach b. Types of energy included in the reductions; whether Disclosure 306-2 Water waste by type and disposal method Page 41 fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, steam, or all. c. Basis for calculating reductions in energy GRI 307: Pages 6, 19, 27 ENVIRONMENTAL Management Approach COMPLIANCE consumption, such as base year or baseline, including the rationale for choosing it. Disclosure 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Page 37 d. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. Oando PLC Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 82 83 Inspiring Energy Building Brighter Futures GRI Content Index Page number(s) Page number(s) GRI Standard Disclosure GRI Standard Disclosure and/or URL(s) and/or URL(s) GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT Page 57 GRI 412: HUMAN RIGHTS Page 13, 26 ASSESSMENT Management Approach Management Approach Disclosure 401-1 New employee hire and employee turnover Page 57 Disclosure 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights Page 63 Page 58 Pages 56, 63 reviews or impact assessments Disclosure 401-2 Benefits provided to full time employee that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees Pages 56, 63 Disclosure 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or Page 58 procedures Disclosure 401-3 Parental leave Disclosure 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that GRI 402: Page 58 include human rights clauses or that underwent human LABOUR/MANAGEMENT Management Approach rights screening RELATIONS GRI 413: LOCAL Page 36 GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL COMMUNITIES Management Approach Page 56 HEALTH AND SAFETY Pages 42, 43, 44, 45, Management Approach 46 Disclosure 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact Page 56 Disclosure 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management– assessments, and development programs Page 43 worker health and safety committees Disclosure 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative Page 56 Disclosure 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational impacts on local communities diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of GRI 415: PUBLIC POLICY Pages 32, 33 work-related fatalities Management Approach GRI 404: TRAINING AND Pages 57, 59 Page 32 EDUCATION Management Approach Disclosure 415-1 Political contributions Page 59 GRI 419: Disclosure 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition Pages 21, 3234 SOCIOECONOMIC assistance programs Management Approach Disclosure 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular Pages 56, 59 COMPLIANCE Disclosure 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social Page 35 performance and career development reviews and economic area GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND Page 58 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Management Approach Disclosure 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Page 58 Disclosure 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Page 58 GRI 406: NONPages 57, 58 DISCRIMINATION Management Approach GRI 408: CHILD LABOUR Management Approach Page 57 Disclosure 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents Pages 57, 63 of child labor GRI 409: FORCED OR Page 57 COMPULSORY LABOUR Management Approach GRI 410: SECURITY Page 56 PRACTICES Management Approach Disclosure 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or Page 56 procedures Oando PLC Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 84 85 Inspiring Energy Building Brighter Futures Feedback In preparing this report, we have focused on including the particular type of information which we believe would interest our stakeholders. However we are open to receiving any feedback in the form of questions, comments or where clarification is required regarding any section of this report, please contact the following: Ayotola Jagun Chief Compliance Officer and Company Secretary ajagun@oandoplc.com or Alero Balogun Head of Corporate Communications albalogun@Oandoplc.com Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2017 86
