UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) 2018 Statement of the CEO I am pleased to confirm that Lainisalo Oy (later expressed as Lainisalo or This report confirms the results of annual inspection about how the ten the Company) continues to support the ten principles of the Global principles has come true in our actions during last year. Our commitment is Compact with respect to human rights, labour, the protection of the communicated to our employees, the public and our stakeholders through environment and anti-corruption. With this communication on progress our web page. (COP) we express our continuous support and aim to advance those principles in our sphere of influence. The ten principles are part of the company strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. Sincerely yours, The Company has actively supported Global Compact principles several Lainisalo Oy years. During these years these principles were implemented to the Company´s culture and day-to-day operations. The compliance of ten principles in company´s different organization stages has been audited internally once a year. Implementation on principles seems to have been a success and the staff have a positive attitude towards them. So I am happy to see, that nowadays the Global Compact principles come true automatically in the Company´s operations and actions. Lainisalo Oy The Industrial Paint shop Valuraudantie 5-7, Fi-00700 Helsinki, Finland · Tel. +358 (0)2 07 769 610 · Email: firstname.lastname@lainisalo.fi 2 15.1.2019 / M Saarinen Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Human rights policy ethnic background, sexual orientation does not have any The Company continually supervises that the Company´s influence on employee salary, working time or job. human rights policy is implemented in the company The Company´s all organizations and groups supports and organizations and it is part of day to day culture and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human For the company and its employees it is clear that it is operations. In addition to this the Finnish authorities rights. forbidden to have business or any other relationships with supervise the Company´s actions with different kind of companies and/or stakeholders which are not respecting inspections and reporting-demands. The Company has a written operations manual (later the human rights or which are complicit in human right expressed as handbook) where the main principles related abuses. The Results of internal inspection to human rights are described. Good professional skills, motivation and well-being are topics which are handled in Practical actions The Company´s actions has been equal with the the handbook and are important for the company. The company´s human rights policy. Company gives full respect and support for employees to The Company's operations are ISO 9001 –certified which is continuous improvement in these topics. not possible to achieve if the Company´s actions are According to the Company´s self-monitoring there has not against human rights. Significant part of the Company's been any kind of violations of human rights. The Company The Company complies with the Finnish laws and certified operating system are literally documents which has also actively worked for that, its customers, suppliers regulations. According to the Finnish Laws and the guide day-to-day operations. These documents are for and other stakeholders respects the human rights in their company´s policy the company does not accept any kind of example handbook, general rules for the staff, sick-leave own actions. The Company has successfully passed all discrimination or abuse because of age, race, sex, religion, rules, instructions for recruitment, and principles for inspections (The Finnish authorities, other stakeholders) ethnic background, sexual orientation or any other reason different kind of harassment situations. These documents and the Company has made the required reports as it which would be against the internationally proclaimed maintenance and development are continuous. All should. human rights. documents are compatible with the Company´s human rights policy and Global Compact principles. The Company´s written documents, strategy, culture and day-to-day operations follow that age, sex, race, religion, The Company´s human rights policy is educated for staff and managers constantly monitoring their compliance. Lainisalo Oy The Industrial Paint shop Valuraudantie 5-7, Fi-00700 Helsinki, Finland · Tel. +358 (0)2 07 769 610 · Email: firstname.lastname@lainisalo.fi 3 15.1.2019 / M Saarinen Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Principle 5: The effective abolation of child labour. effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. corruption. Labour policy  The staff well-being and health are important told to staff that the Company does not accept any kind of topics for the Company. The Company wants to discrimination or abuse because of employees political  The Company´s every employee can choose promote them and help employees to live more opinions or any other personal reason. themselves to be member of labour union or not. healthily. The Company does not affect by any ways to  All statements above are executed in the The Results of internal inspection employees decisions. Company´s strategy, culture and day-to-day  The Company operates in accordance with the operations. The Labour principles has come true in Lainisalo Oy during Finnish labour law in collective negotiations. last year.  The employees can freely choose the shop Practical actions steward in Lainisalo´s plants. The Basics for positive analysis are following:  The Company does not use forced or compulsory All employees are paid a salary that is at least the minimum labour. salary according to Finnish law and which correspond to the  According to the results of internal and external  The Company does not use child labour or does labour unions agreements. All contracts between the monitoring there has not been any problem in not do any kind of business with companies or Company and employee are written. If employee wants, the labour union issues, shop steward procedures or communities that are likely to use child labour. employee has the possibility to terminate contract at any salary and contract procedures.  When leased manpower has to be used time and for any reason.  The Company´s zero tolerance for child, forced temporarily, the Company uses only companies and compulsory labour has been successfully which are acting in accordance with Finnish Law. If the employee has wanted, the Company has paid the implemented. There is not any kind of abuse. In  According the company guidelines the company labour union member fee straight from employee´s salary. addition the Company has not detected them in does not accept any kind of discrimination or Everyone has been able to choose to be member of labour stakeholders organizations. abuse because of any personal reason or any union or not to be. There are also a shop stewards who are  The Company has not detected discrimination or other reason. elected by the staff. abuse because of any personal reasons or  Employees political opinions does not affect in political opinions. any ways to their status or treatment. Child, forced and compulsory labour are forbidden in the  The company has openly supported employees Furthermore the Company has never asked to Company´s organizations. It is also forbidden to make any to train themselves and to take care of their wellreveal anyone´s political opinions to the kind of business with stakeholders that are likely to use being. For example the company offered company. The company's employees have the child, forced or compulsory labour. These statements were vouchers to employees to get discount from sport freedom to engage in political activities. told to staff, especially for managers and foremen. It is also fees and supported them to stop smoking . Lainisalo Oy The Industrial Paint shop Valuraudantie 5-7, Fi-00700 Helsinki, Finland · Tel. +358 (0)2 07 769 610 · Email: firstname.lastname@lainisalo.fi 4 15.1.2019 / M Saarinen Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Environment policy 14001. For example the Company has set specific Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals) environmental targets and methods for their tracking. The legislation and practice to monitor the use of conflict The Company environmental management is ISO 14001 – Company has also calculated and documented amount of minerals in the company´s sphere of influence. certified. The Company has own annual environment wastes and VOC (volatile organic compouds) and searched program and monitoring system for environmental topics. methods to reduce them. The Results of internal inspection The main environmental targets for the Company are: The Company has monitored changes in the legislation and The Company´s environmental management according to  Reducing the amount on volatile organic cooperated with authorities in environmental issues. For ISO 14001-certificate has been successfully audited by compound (VOC) emissions. example the environmental declarations were made external auditor.  Reducing the amount of waste. according to the requirements and on time.  Using as little as possible natural resources. The annual environmental declarations has been made on  Aiming to use environmentally friendly processes The Company estimate continuously methods for ensure time and the authorities who are responsible among them in production. the environmental protection and how to prevent are accepted them. Feedback of declarations has been  Take good care of materials, products and work environmental accident in advance. Methods for this are positive. safety. internal audits, managers meetings and systematic dialogue with representatives of authorities. During the last year there has not been any kind Practical actions environmental accidents in the Company´s sphere of The company has practices related to RoHS 2011/65/EU influence. Also near miss situations has been avoided. (restriction on the use of certain hazardous substances in The Company environmental management has been electric and electronic equipment) and REACH (European RoHS, REACH and Conflict Minerals clearances has filled implemented according to the demands of standard ISO REACH Regulation No 1907/2006 on the Registration, the company's own and its stakeholders expectations. Lainisalo Oy The Industrial Paint shop Valuraudantie 5-7, Fi-00700 Helsinki, Finland · Tel. +358 (0)2 07 769 610 · Email: firstname.lastname@lainisalo.fi 5 15.1.2019 / M Saarinen Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Anti-corruption policy Company´s organization monitors company´s processes There has not been any kind of corruption at the and methods internally and Finnish authorities externally. Company's sphere of influence. All of the Company´s The Company does not accept any kind of corruption. actions has been compliance with company´s ethical Everyone's responsible is to intervene if corruption has To ensure that there is ethical instruction for staff. In the instruction. detected or suspected. ethical instruction is clarified which kind of presents are acceptable to give or receive. There is also determined that According to the Company´s self-monitoring the Company The Company sales, purchase and production processes everyone must tell if finds irregularities. The Company´s and its staff works continuously against corruption in all its ethical instruction advises which kind of business forms, including extortion and bribery. must be transparent and documented. relationships are acceptable and which issues are important to pay attention in business relationships. The Company´s stakeholders feedback has been positive in Practical actions issues which are related to the actions against corruption. The Results of internal inspection The Company continuously monitors that there are not any kind of corruption in the Company's operating range. The Lainisalo Oy The Industrial Paint shop Valuraudantie 5-7, Fi-00700 Helsinki, Finland · Tel. +358 (0)2 07 769 610 · Email: firstname.lastname@lainisalo.fi
