UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 ABOUT THE DANISH AGRO GROUP Danish Agro was founded in 1901 and is now one The group operates mainly within the sale of feed of the largest and most important agribusiness mixes, ingredients and vitamin mixes, fertiliser, groups in northern Europe. crop protection, seeds and energy, and purchases crops from farmers. The Danish Agro group is an international farming-based enterprise with 5,000 employees in Furthermore, the group distributes a number 16 countries, primarily in Scandinavia and the of leading farm machinery brands and runs an Baltic region. extensive chain of hobby and leisure retail outlets. Danish Agro is an independent cooperative comThis report concerns a number of policies, all of pany, owned by approx. 9,000 Danish farmers. which have been adopted by the group, and thereDanish Agro is a member of DAKOFO, the industry fore apply to all its underlying subsidiaries. organisation for grain and feed traders in Denmark, and of the Landbrug & Fødevarer (farming and feeds) industry association in Denmark. 2 FOCUS ON SUSTAINABILITY The fundamental basis of the way Danish Agro Our trainee schemes have also been very much runs its business is full consideration for the in focus in 2018, as we believe in taking direct environment, society at large and financial manaresponsibility for young people to give them a gement. good start in the agribusiness industry, including training and sharing our know-how and experiThe main criterion for a productive, competitive ence with them. and efficient business is sustainable development in society. We believe that contributing to that is In our own commercial practices we oppose any the only responsible thing to do. form of corruption, including blackmail and bribery, and our business activities comply with local, This is the Danish Agro group’s fourth Communational and international law and regulations nication on Progress report and concerns the that are relevant to our business. group’s statutory report on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). In all other respects, our dealings on the global market take place in free competition, in accorOur CSR activities centre on those areas in which dance with the relevant competition laws and we have expertise and know-how, and we focused respecting trade restrictions applied by the UN. last year on measures that have a direct relevance to our business, and to the environment we are a We look forward to working further with the Glopart of. bal Compact principles in the year ahead. We take a proactive approach to our social and environmental responsibilities throughout the value chain and based on the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. We also draw inspiration from the UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals, expressed in a number of areas within our business and in connection with specific activities and initiatives. With regard to climate and the environment, we strive to make as little impact as possible. We entered into a climate partnership agreement in 2016 with our energy supplier in Denmark, Ørsted A/S, an agreement that was extended in 2017 and 2018. That agreement committed us to reducing our energy consumption for the year to come. We seek to make this partnership a template for similar Henning Haahr projects elsewhere in the group. Group CEO With regard to social responsibility, we are focusing on an employee policy that centres on a healthy working environment, training and safety at work. We want to engage in constructive, innovative dialogue with our suppliers based on the principles for human rights and rights in the workplace. We therefore focus on health and a healthy working environment and do not tolerate forced or child labour. 3 HUMAN RIGHTS The Supervisory Board takes these recommendatiUN PRINCIPLES REGARDING SOCIAL ons into consideration. They are part and parcel of RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY any Board discussion or evaluation of the need to bring in experience and expertise, and the guideAs a company, we should: lines compiled for its dealings with the Executive Board. 1. Support and respect the protection of internationally-proclaimed human rights, At its AGM in 2018, Danish Agro was asked to carry and on the process of revising its Articles of Association to describe a delegated assembly that will be 2. Ensure that we are not complicit in responsible for appointing directors to the Superhuman rights abuses. visory Board, amongst other things. The revised articles will be presented as a motion at the general meeting in 2019. POLICIES The objective is for such a delegated assembly to be able to strengthen the democratic representaDanish Agro respects and supports internationaltion regardless of regions, farm type and the comly-recognised human rights throughout its busipetencies of the company’s members. ness. That means that we support and respect international agreements on human rights. We have also quantified targets and policies for gender equality in the management team, Danish Agro does not accept forced or child and reporting for the same. Danish Agro operalabour, and we respect the right of our workers to tes within a male-dominated industry, and it is organise and take part in collective bargaining. generally difficult to attract women to board and management posts in the agribusiness industry. We also observe all applicable standards concerNine members were elected to the current Superning working hours throughout the group. Finally, visory Board at regional meetings, all of them men. we ensure that wages comply with the law and industry standards in the countries in which we Danish Agro believes in diversity – including genare active. der equality on the Supervisory Board. Diversity has to be prioritised, but not at the expense of the competences needed. ACTIVITIES AND RESULTS Our objective for the gender composition of Danish Agro’s Supervisory Board adopted at the The group’s support and respect for international AGM in 2018 was to increase current female repreconventions on human rights is reflected intersentation to 15% (equivalent to 1 person). This nally within our organisation, including in our HR objective for greater diversity has not been reapolicies, and externally in the trade and collaborached, primarily because there have been no chantion activities we engage in internationally. ges in board members, and the objective must also be viewed in the light of it requiring Danish In 2018 Danish Agro worked with the Committee Agro to be able to attract a higher proportion of on Good Corporate Governance’s recommendatiwomen on the board than the average number of ons of 6 May 2013. ’Good Corporate Governance’ female self-employed farmers. is a universal term for a number of actions and initiatives that form part of good management of Danish Agro’s Supervisory Board will continue to large companies. The recommendations are acceswork for greater diversity in its composition, and sible on the committee’s website at a new objective has therefore been set. Our objecorporategovernance.dk. ctive for the gender composition of Danish Agro’s 4 Supervisory Board is to increase current female and equal opportunities for leadership at all representation to 15% (equivalent to 1 person) by levels of decision-making, which is also the case in no later than the AGM in 2022. Danish Agro. The aforementioned objective applies only to The objectives have been adopted for the group’s board members elected by the AGM and regions. major businesses which reflect that our subsiEmployee-elected board members are not includiaries also operate within a male-dominated ded. industry. But it should be noted that several of our objectives were achieved in 2018, which indicates The composition of subsidiary company boards is that our positive approach to fulfilling them did based on group considerations for maximum supyield results. port for group strategy. DAVA Agravis International Holding A/S and For this reason, subsidiary boards are often comVilomix Holding A/S have both recruited new posed of members of group management in members of the under-represented gender to Danish Agro a.m.b.a. plus the owners’ representatheir Supervisory Boards, and have therefore both tives. These boards also include members reprefulfilled their objective in 2018. senting external minority shareholders. The same applies to Dansk Vilomix A/S, that not Danish Agro has set the following objectives for only fulfilled its objective in 2017 and 2018, but has the proportion of the under-represented gender also over-achieved it. on the boards of its subsidiaries, drawing inspiration from such sources as the UN’s global goals for Board composition for the other subsidiaries consustainable development, a sub-goal under goal tinues to be an expression of management repre5, which concerns gender equality, is that women sentation, and no changes have been made. shall be ensured full and effective participation PERCENTAGE OF TARGET SUBSIDIARIES MEN WOMEN TOTAL UNDER-REPRESENTED PERIOD NUMBER GENDER DANISH AGRO MACHINERY HOLDING A/S 3 0 3 0% 33 % End of 2022 DANISH AGRO MACHINERY A/S 3 0 3 0% 33 % End of 2022 DA AGRAVIS MACHINERY HOLDING A/S 4 0 4 0% 25 % End of 2022 DAVA INTERNATIONAL HOLDING A/S 5 0 5 0% 20 % End of 2022 DAVA AGRAVIS INTERNATIONAL HOLDING A/S 4 1 5 20 % 20 % End of 2022 VILOMIX INTERNATIONAL HOLDING A/S 5 0 5 0% 20 % End of 2022 VILOMIX HOLDING A/S 3 1 4 25 % 25 % End of 2022 DANSK VILOMIX A/S 2 1 3 33 % 25 % End of 2022 HATTING A/S 3 0 3 0% 25 % End of 2022 DAN AGRO HOLDING A/S 5 0 5 0% 20 % End of 2022 HEDEGAARD A/S 3 0 3 0% 33 % End of 2022 DAVA FOODS HOLDING A/S 5 0 5 0% 20 % End of 2022 DAVA FOODS DANMARK A/S 3 0 3 0% 25 % End of 2022 DLA AGRO A.M.B.A. 7 0 7 0% 14 % End of 2022 SCANOLA A/S 5 0 5 0% 20 % End of 2022 6 We have also worked proactively towards our goal MAJOR RISKS RELATED TO of appointing more women within management, HUMAN RIGHTS and a policy for the management team has been The major risks related to human rights are linked finalised. It is designed to improve representation to gender composition on Supervisory Boards and of the minority gender within the management management posts in the group, as Danish Agro of the Danish Agro group in line with Section 139a, operates in a male-dominated industry, making it subsection 1 (2) of the Companies Act. difficult to attract women to board and management posts. Danish Agro’s current gender ratio in management positions is as follows: The group is aware of the problem, and is working 1. Group executive board 0% actively using objectives and policies to enhance 2. Group management, including staff 0% the proportion of the under-represented gender 3. Company management within group 23% in board and management posts. Compared to last year, the proportion of women in management positions within the group has increased. The activities below have been implemented to increase the proportion of the minority gender in management jobs: Danish Agro wants to: • Ensure that its personnel policies promote gender equality within all career opportunities, including for employment procedures and recruitment. • Ensure that female and male candidates apply for internal and external management vacancies as far as possible. • Provide internal training and career development designed to develop the talents of men and women. Furthermore, in relation to human rights, Danish Agro’s subsidiary DAVA Foods increased its focus on CSR in 2018, because of its engagement in the Victory Nursery School in Tanzania, among other things. The school is open to children between the ages of four and eight. The objective is to provide a safe, stable everyday life for them, which can help prevent social problems such as criminality and alcoholism, prepare them for secondary school and thus an escape from poverty. The project is long-term and constantly monitored. DAVA Foods sponsors 1/3rd of the entire project, which ensures that over 100 children receive a daily meal and permanent facilities. Project partners are the FeEdAC (Feed and Educate African Children) foundation. 7 LABOUR RIGHTS ACTIVITIES AND RESULTS UN PRINCIPLES REGARDING SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY Danish Agro is a member of the GLS-A employer’s federation. Membership acts as a guarantee for As a company, we should: decent conditions for the company’s employees via collective and local wage agreements. 3. Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right The group’s HR function continued to build on its to collective bargaining; work over the last few years on a process designed to strengthen executive performance through tra4. Support the elimination of all forms of ining, workshops etc. The objective is to enhance forced and compulsory labour; our commercial activities and support the group management in terms of change management, 5. Support the effective abolition of communication and employee relations. child labour; and We continued to focus on the group’s trainee 6. Eliminate discrimination in respect of programme in 2018, aimed at young people with employment and occupation. an agricultural background interested in training to sell in the wholesale sector. Two trainees completed the course in the summer of 2018, one of whom was offered a full-time job in Danish Agro. POLICIES Five new trainees started in September 2018, bringing the total up to seven. They follow a speWe seek to offer an attractive, exciting, efficient cially-designed apprenticeship programme focuand involving workplace for all group employees. sing on either pigs, cattle, plant breeding, poultry That means that we will provide a multifaceted or logistics, taking them into every aspect of the and inclusive workplace, offering opportunity for agribusiness industry. everyone. The programme features spells on internal couOur employees will be at liberty to progress in rses and postings within the parent company their job, and we develop leaders who can inspire and subsidiaries where the focus is on sales. We their staff to perform at their best. We work conbelieve that we have a responsibility to share our stantly throughout the group to ensure effective know-how and experience with young people work processes. who show an interest in the industry. Agricultural courses at academic institutions give young We focus hard on creating a safe, healthy working people an excellent grounding, something the environment, and offering competitive terms for Danish Agro apprenticeship supplements with our employees. In particular, we offer working concommercial skills and practical experience. Danish ditions that comply with the law, relevant guideliAgro intends to take on a further three trainees nes and the standards of the UN Global Compact. in 2019. Danish Agro also has a standing working environWe also recruited several students from vocatioment committee to ensure the best working connal education, including two office trainees, three ditions for all our employees. trainee truck drivers, two retail trainees and a trainee media graphic artist. As is the case with our Another enhancement here is the coordination own apprenticeship programme, we believe we committee, on which the management and have a responsibility to share our know-how and employees are both represented, and charged experience with young people whilst giving them with supporting job satisfaction and dialogue a better chance of getting established on the job throughout the group. market at the end of their studies. 6 Danish Agro’s subsidiary Hatting received Billund most of the lifting work. Less heavy lifting protects Municipality’s social activity award in December backs and improves the process of working with 2018 for its work on helping socially deprived sacks in general. people find a job. To further protect our warehouse personnel, we Part of Hatting’s CSR strategy involves a certain bought stacker trucks to pack pallets in 2018. Effipercentage of its working hours being dedicated ciency is improved and workers are physically proto either students, practical experience or to ’fletected, as the stackers are easier to get in and out xijob’ working. The objective is to practice social of compared to an ordinary forklift truck. responsibility and to give a helping hand to those who otherwise find it hard to enter into gainful Our subsidiary Baltic Agro has joined forces with employment. Trioplast, a manufacturer of polythene sheet for wrapped bales in Estonia and Lithuania to take Hatting’s Billund branch has done exceptionally part in the Pink Help campaign, designed to raise well in terms of taking in and integrating this money for and awareness of breast cancer. group as their colleagues, gaining richly-deserved recognition in the form of the CSR award. The campaign is part of the Do Not Delay awareness programme for breast cancer. A number of To ensure better, more efficient working processes farmers took part by donating money and wrapfor our workforce, Danish Agro started installation ping bales in pink plastic with the aim of geneof vacuum suction in our warehouses in 2018. The rating awareness for the campaign due to the system is installed in the ceilings and makes sacks eye-catching colour. As a result of the campaign’s easier to handle, as the vacuum suction pipes do collection, 382 women in Estonia and 697 women 7 in Lithuania could be given a free check-up, which would otherwise have required payment or health insurance. The campaign also raised such awareness of breast focus that visits to mammography buses increased by up to 80%. MAJOR RISKS RELATED TO WORKERS RIGHTS The major risks related to workers’ rights concern possible dissatisfaction with their jobs. Prevention is in the form of such measures as Danish Agro’s working environment committee, which ensures optimum working environment conditions for our workforce, and the group also has a cooperation committee, on which workers and management are represented and which is charged with enhancing job satisfaction and dialogue in the group. The group’s HR function also continued a process designed to strengthen management’s effectiveness through such measures as training and workshops, with the aim of supporting group management in terms of change management, communication and employee relations. 6 7 8 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE ensure that rules, corporate and environmental UN PRINCIPLES REGARDING SOCIAL responsibilities are all observed. We also work RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY actively on cutting our need to import such commodities as soya beans used as a source of protein As a company, we should: in feed production. 7. Support a precautionary ap­proach to Danish Agro’s subsidiary, Nordic Seed, is expeenvironmental challenges; rimenting with the use of broad beans, locally produced in Denmark, as an alternative source of 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greaprotein for feed production to replace soya beans, ter environmental responsibility; and which will benefit the environment and society. The objective of the project Nordic Seed is part of 9. Encourage the development and difis to produce new varieties of broad beans in this fusion of environmentally friendly country that will make local production econotechnologies. mically viable, reducing the need to import soya bean protein. Other measures designed to help the environment are being implemented by our Finnish subPOLICIES sidiary Hankkija Oy. For example, the number of ’demo parcels’ on the trial fields used in Hankkija’s Danish Agro seeks to reduce the group’s carbon growth programmes has risen by 40%. footprint to an absolute minimum – not least in the communities in which the group is active. The trial fields help develop more productive and We encourage sustainable processes within the eco-friendly ways of cultivating different crops. group and consistently discuss environmental Hankkija is also working with the Baltic Sea Action challenges with other stakeholders. Group (BSAG), with the common objective of minimising emissions of phosphor and nitrogen from Otherwise, we will focus on saving energy and the fields, which can drain into the Baltic. cutting material consumption by constantly monitoring and adjusting the way we operate. We Hankkija is working with Yara Suomi Oy and the comply with all relevant legislation and require4H organisation on a campaign to encourage ments and take a proactive approach to the printhe re-use of plastic bags in the interests of ciples of the UN Global Compact. the environment. This year’s collection yielded 680,000 kilos of plastic bags. The campaign uses hundreds of young 4H members at 250 different locations where plastic bags are collected. The ACTIVITIES AND RESULTS campaign has been a success ever since 1975. Corporate social responsibility and care for the environment are integrated into the way we do CONTINUED FOCUS ON ENERGY business. Without a sustainable development of EFFICIENCY IN 2018 society, we cannot run a productive, competitive We have drawn inspiration from the UN’s 17 Gloand efficient business. bal Goals, also known as the Sustainable Development Goals (SBG), as demonstrated by our focus We have clear procurement criteria (codes of on energy savings as defined by goal no. 7, concerconduct), which our suppliers sign, and that help ning Affordable and Clean Energy. 9 The Danish Agro group concentrates consistently FOOD SAFETY AND QUALITY on our environmental footprint, focusing heavily Danish Agro focuses strongly on food safety and in recent years on energy saving measures in Denquality through consistent quality management. mark, including our climate partnership agreement with the Danish energy provider, Ørsted A/S. For us, quality-assurance concerns the quality of The agreement commits Danish Agro to reduce feeds and food products. The criteria applied by energy consumption by our Danish companies the authorities and the standards we have chosen over the next few years. to be certified to become stricter every year. They are, of course, intended to improve food and feed As part of the agreement, Ørsted will provide conquality for humans and animals. sultancy and implementation of energy-efficiency measures, whilst we have undertaken to buy a Danish Agro wants to cover the entire chain from certain amount of electricity from sustainable farm to table with the same standard, bringing sources. We will be running the projects set up by together management responsibility, resource Ørsted at the speed possible for the group over management, the production of safe products, the next few years. validation, verification and improvements in an all-encompassing system. All Danish Agro group We will be focusing on profiling the effect of the agribusiness and support companies supplying energy-saving measures we realise during the feed products are GMP+ certified to ensure the year, rather than on the energy consumed. This is free movement of crops and feeds nationally and because our energy consumption will depend to internationally. a considerable degree on the weather, over which we, of course, have no control. In years with high Vilomix is certified according to FAMI-QS (specifirainfall, for example, more corn will have to be cally for vitamins, minerals and additives) and facidried, causing high energy consumption compalitates the same level of free trade between group red to years with lower rainfall. companies and the ability to operate on national and international markets. We changed our lighting to energy-efficient LED lights in all Danish Agro Shops in 2018 and will The volume of organic production in Denmark continue our efforts to switch to LED lights at within the pet and plant sectors grew considerably other locations. in 2018, as did the amount sold by Danish Agro and on our neighbouring markets. That results in We have also been investing in forklifts that run increasing pressure on the availability of organic on electricity rather than gas or diesel, giving ingredients at home and abroad. Unfortunately, considerable CO2 savings and less noise. Keeping such demand gives rise to falsification of ingreenergy saving accounts when we replace or renew dients, which only increases the requirements for machinery and materiel makes a big difference supplier approval and inspections on arrival. in relation to achieving our objective of cutting energy consumption, and we will continue in 2019. We document quality assurance within organic feed for egg-laying chickens by certification accorAnother aspect of Danish Agro’s focus on energy ding to KAT (Verein für Kontrollierte Alternative savings is training courses for our Danish drivers. Tierhaltungsformen e. V.) to be able to be part of All our Danish truck drivers attended a course the chain supplying products to Germany. at Scania Denmark’s Driver Academy in 2018. We expect savings of around 10% on fuel and a conDanish Agro also supplies VLOG-certified feeds and siderable reduction in CO2 emissions from our ingredients. Dairy product producers in Denmark trucks as a result. especially want non-GM feeds. We also started the construction of a new bioenergy plant in 2018, located at Skamby, on the MAJOR RISKS RELATED TO THE ENVIRONisland of Funen. The leftovers from corn producMENT AND CLIMATE tion will be gathered here and used as fuel to The major risks related to the environment and generate energy instead of being destroyed. The climate are linked to the group’s energy connew bio-energy plant was started up in December sumption and use of ingredients for e.g. feed 2018, and hereafter it will help maintain our conproduction. Danish Agro is focusing on continued tinued focus on energy saving. The long-term plan implementation of energy-optimised initiatives calls for the energy-saving measures above to be and choice of ingredients and carefully monitors rolled out to the rest of the group. selected areas. 10 THE DANISH AGRO GROUP HOLDS THE FOLLOWING CERTIFICATIONS: ISO 9901 GMP + B1, B2 OG B3 Management standard Management standard for production, sales, warehousing and transport. ISO 22000/TS 22002-6 Management standard focusing on feed proKAT ducts and feed FEED/PRODUCTS Exported to Germany ISO 14001 FAMI QS Management standard – environment Quality assurance for special feeds, vitamins, minerals and additives ISO 17025 / AKKREDITERING Requirement for testing laboratories ISCC Sustainability certification — rapeseed oil for VLOG the diesel industry. Non-GM certification, Verband Lebensmittel ohne Gentechnik. 11 ANTI-CORRUPTION UN PRINCIPLES REGARDING SOCIAL ACTIVITIES AND RESULTS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY All Danish Agro group employees work according As a company, we should: to a predetermined set of internal competition rules. The rules are designed to ensure that our 10. Work against corruption in all its employees abide by the law in Denmark and corforms, including extortion and bribery. responding national legislation in the countries in which we operate. All group managers sign a declaration that they will abide by our internal competition rules as POLICIES part of their contract of employment. The objective of such legislation is to protect free enterprise In the Danish Agro group we focus on integrity in a healthy, competitive economy, which is essenwhen we generate commercial results. In other tial to Danish Agro’s business. words, we apply high standards to our business ethics along the value chain and throughout the Furthermore, we have hired a group policy comgroup. pliance officer to cement our internal competition rules and compliance work. We did not detect We strive to provide transparency in our business any violation of competition legislation among decisions and practices based on our value set our companies in 2018, which we regard as very when dealing with dilemmas. We abide by all positive. applicable laws and adopt a proactive approach to the principles of sustainability in the UN Global Danish Agro will not accept unethical business Compact. practices. MAJOR RISKS RELATED TO ANTICORRUPTION The major risks related to anticorruption are contingent on the group’s use of suppliers that fail to observe national legislation and internationally-recognised standards and conventions. That’s why all group managers sign a declaration as part of their contract of employment that they will observe our internal competition rules. We also continuously promote those rules internally, and compliance is enhanced via the recruitment of a Compliance Manager responsible for the entire group. 11 Køgevej 55 4653 Karise Denmark +45 7215 8000 www.danishagro.com
