BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD Communication on Progress 2018 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD. Facilitate Global Communication for Better International Relations http://www.grouphorse.com/en/ Room 1007, Tower A, 28 East Andingmen Street, Yonghe Plaza, Beijing, China 1 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD TABLE OF CONTENTS TABLE OF CONTENTS ........................................................................................................................ 2 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT ............................................................................................ 3 COPORATE PROFILE .......................................................................................................................... 4 TEN PRINCIPLES OF UN GLOBAL COMPACT .................................................................................... 18 Human Rights ................................................................................................................. 18 Labor............................................................................................................................... 20 Environment ................................................................................................................... 25 Anti-Corruption .............................................................................................................. 27 2 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Period covered by our Communication on Progress (COP) From April 10, 2018 to April 9, 2019 April 2019 Beijing Grouphorse Translations Co., Ltd. is proud to have been a participant of the United Nations Global Compact since 2017, and is committed to upholding the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. As we seek to facilitate global communication for better international relations, we have established a sound system to internalize these principles and expand the scope of human rights, labor rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption practices within our sphere of influence. I am glad to confirm that Grouphorse reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles. This is our second annual Communication on Progress that presents our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our strategy, culture and daily operations. We will make greater efforts to increase awareness about corporate social responsibility. Yours sincerely, TANG Xing President/Chairman Beijing Grouphorse Translations Co., Ltd. 3 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD COPORATE PROFILE Headquartered in Beijing, Grouphorse Group (www.grouphorse.com) has branches in major cities including Shanghai, Guangzhou, Shenzhen, Nanjing, Chengdu, Changsha, Hangzhou, and Wuhan, and is a United Nations vendor for language services registered at the highest level (ID: 496547) and a participant of the United Nations Global Compact (ID: 109301). As one of China’s most prestigious international language service providers, Grouphorse has been the official language service provider for APEC summits, the Boao Forum for Asia, and China International Import Expo. It is the translation partner of the 2018 China Education Symposium at Harvard and the official sponsor for the XIX FIT World Congress as well as one of China’s first service providers to offer internships and placement for Master of Translation and Interpreting (MTI) candidates. Grouphorse is also an organizational council member of the Translators Association of China (TAC), a corporate member of the American Translators Association (ATA), and co-organizer of the Eighth National Conference and International Forum on Interpreting. Mr. Jiading Guo, former Director-General of the Department of Translation and Interpretation and the Advanced Professional Titles Appraisal Committee at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) of China, served as the first director of translation and interpretation, overseeing language services and training programs at Grouphorse. Mr. Guo reviewed and finalized the 4 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD English bid documents for the Beijing 2008 Summer Olympics, the World Expo 2010 Shanghai China, the 2010 Asian Games in Guangzhou, and the 2011 Summer Universiade in Shenzhen. Ms. Yanan Xu is the current chief advisor for translation and interpretation at Grouphorse, and served as Chief of the Chinese Translation Service of the Documentation Division of the Department for General Assembly and Conference Management (DGACM) at the UN and Director-General of the Department of Translation and Interpretation at the MFA. At Grouphorse, we are proud of our precise management, transparent work flow modeled on international standards, customized services and strategically-distributed branches. The proven quality of our language service solutions makes Grouphorse stand out in the sector. We are the preferred language service partner for Chinese enterprises and organizations with overseas business, foreign-invested companies, embassies, consulates, and missions of international organizations in China. Grouphorse has received letters of appreciation from political leaders including former British Prime Minister Gordon Brown, former French Prime Minister Jean Pierre Raffarin, former Australian Prime Minister John Howard, and former British Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne. As a key step towards corporate management improvement, Grouphorse has brought on Mr. Jian Xu, a renowned lawyer and Dean of the RUC Law School, as its legal advisor. Before joining Grouphorse, Mr. Xu was a long-time legal advisor to Hong Kong tycoon Sir. Ka-shing Li, one of the world’s best-known business 5 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD leaders. Grouphorse and the UN On January 24, 2019, Alexander A. Mejía, director of CIFAL Global Network of the United Nations Institute for Training and Research (UNITAR), accompanied by Wu Yugang, deputy director of CIFAL Shanghai, UNITAR, visited Grouphorse Shanghai. Alexander A. Mejía highly appreciated the perseverance of Grouphorse in maintaining high standards of quality in the teaching and practice of professional translation and interpreting. He looked forward to the prospect of this cooperation in the belief that it would accelerate the realization of the goals set by the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Alexander A. Mejía (in the middle), Director of CIFAL Global Network, UNITAR, and the Grouphorse management at Grouphorse Shanghai. 6 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD On January 23 and 24, 2019, Grouphorse provided interpreting services for the Learning Conference “Implementing the 2030 Agenda in the Asia-Pacific Region”, which was organized by UNITAR, ESCAP, UNDESA and Shanghai Academy of Social Sciences, and co-organized by UNITAR-CIFAL Shanghai. On September 20, 2018, Klink ZHOU, general manager of Grouphorse Center for Translation and Interpreting, gave a keynote speech at the UN Procurement Orientation and Matchmaking Meeting hosted by the United Nations Office for Project Services and the UNPD. Klink ZHOU gives a keynote speech at the UN Procurement Orientation and Matchmaking Meeting In July, 2018, Grouphorse provided interpreting service for the meeing between Vice Mayor of Shanghai Chen Qun and a UN delegation. 7 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD In May 2018, Grouphorse sent an interpreting camp to ESCAP for on-site interpreting training and practice. Translation and Interpretation Services Grouphorse is certified to the ISO 9001: 2015 standard and owns ten branches and subsidiaries offering services including translation, interpreting, translation and interpreting training, conference services, multilingual headhunting, and R&D for computer-aided translation tools. Grouphorse works with a pool of over 1,000 simultaneous interpreters who have served domestic and foreign political leaders and completed conference interpreting assignments totaling over 1,000 hours. Also included are over 6,000 senior translators who serve businesses, public institutions, and UN bodies, such as the UN Secretariat, UNESCO, UNDP, UNHCR, FAO, WHO, WTO, etc. More than 80 percent of Grouphorse’s employees hold a master’s degree or above. Management staff are all graduates of top-level universities, such as Columbia University, Renmin University of China, Fudan University, Beijing Foreign Studies University, Shanghai International Studies University, etc. These give Grouphorse an edge in providing headhunting services for clients looking for professionals with excellent language skills and expertise in finance, engineering, law and medicine, in a low-cost, low-risk and efficient way. 8 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD l Business Performance The Center for Translation and Interpreting (CTI), Grouphorse’s high-end language service platform, serves clients around the globe with the best language services provided by over 1,000 linguists at home and abroad with expertise in multiple fields. The CTI has been the language service provider for world-renowned organizations and events, including but not limited to: ² UN bodies ² Boao Forum for Asia ² China International Import Expo ² Bloomberg New Economy Forum ² Cambridge English Assessment ² APEC China CEO Forum ² China Education Symposium at Harvard ² Sino-Australian Entrepreneurs Summit (SAES) ² Learning Conference: “Implementing the 2030 Agenda in the Asia-Pacific Region” ² China-U.S. CEO and Former Senior Official’s Dialogue ² China-South Korea CEO and Former Senior Officials’ Dialogue ² China-Japan CEO and Former Senior Officials’ Dialogue ² Xiangya Hospital, Central South University ² APEC Summits 9 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD ² G20 SMART Innovation Forum ² Global Innovator Conference ² 2017 Berkshire Hathaway Annual Shareholders Meeting ² Sino-European Entrepreneurs Summit ² Sino-African Entrepreneurs Summit ² Universiade Shenzhen 2010 Grouphorse staff at the China International Import Expo. 10 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD U.S.-China CEO and Former Senior Officials’ Dialogue. China-Japan CEO and Former Senior Officials’ Dialogue. 11 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD China-South Korea CEO and Former Senior Officials’ Dialogue. APEC China CEO Forum. l Areas of Specialization ² Legal & Government & Culture & Education ² Finance & Consultation ² Advertising & Marketing & PR 12 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD ² Information Technology & Telecommunication ² Mechanical Engineering & Electronics & Auto ² Chemistry & Energy ² Medicine & Biochemistry ² Construction Engineering & Real Estate ² Life & E-commerce l Training Programs and Cooperation with Universities Cema Translators Training Institute (www.cemachina.com) is widely recognized as the champion in the industry in terms of teaching quality, number of trainees enrolled, range of training levels and geographical coverage. With its unique teaching method combining comprehensive training with interactive learning, Cema is dedicated to cultivating first-class translators and interpreters with global vision. It has been commended by senior Chinese officials such as Mr. Huaqiu Liu, former Division Director of the Office of Foreign Affairs Group of the Central Committee of Communist Party of China. Cema customizes translation training programs for companies directly under the central government, foreign-invested companies, and embassies and consulates of countries such as Australia and Norway, including but not limit to: ² China National Offshore Oil Corporation ² State Nuclear Power Technology Corporation ² Commercial Aircraft Corporation of China ² China Southern Airlines ² Novo Nordisk 13 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD ² PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) ² Porsche, Mitsubishi, and Honda For years, Grouphorse has supported the disciplinary development of the Master of Translation and Interpreting (MTI) education program by assessing the MTI candidates of China’s high-level “Project 211” universities, including but not limited to: ² Beijing Foreign Studies University (BFSU) ² Zhejiang University ² Shanghai Jiao Tong University ² Sun Yat-sen University ² Tongji University ² Southeast University ² Shanghai International Studies University ² East China Normal University. ² Xi’an International Studies University Grouphorse establishes a practice base at Xi’an International Studies University. Through corporate as well as personal network efforts on the part of senior leadership, Grouphorse has developed both formal and 14 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD informal relations with top-notch universities abroad including Columbia University, Middlebury Institute of International Studies, University of Westminster and University of Essex. It is the only institution in China that runs initial testing admission procedures and screening for the University of Westminster’s MTI program. Signing ceremony of the cooperation agreement between Grouphorse Group and University of Westminster. ² International Exchanges Over the years, Grouphorse has actively promoted international exchanges. Our delegations have visited many organizations and enterprises in Europe and the US, including UN agencies, the China-Britain Business Council, the University of Oxford, the University of Cambridge, the Googleplex and headquarters of enterprises including Intel, Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, etc. As a language service provider, Grouphorse always seeks to 15 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD promote Sino-foreign exchanges, cultivate language professionals, and contribute to China’s role in global governance and its voice in the international community. With social responsibility at heart, we at Grouphorse have managed to achieve sustained, stable, fast and coordinated growth over the past decade. Alexander A. Mejía (right), director of CIFAL Global Network, UNITAR, at Grouphorse Shanghai. In May, 2018, Ann Carlisle, CEO of Chartered Institute of Linguists (CIL), and Florence Lam, head of East Asia Division visited the Center for Translation and Interpreting of Grouphorse. 16 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD Ann Carlisle (second from left) and Florence Lam (third from left). In May 2018, Grouphorse sent an interpreting camp to ESCAP for on-site interpreting training and practice. Members of Grouphorse’s interpreting camp at ESCAP. 17 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD TEN PRINCIPLES OF UN GLOBAL COMPACT Human Rights Policy At Grouphorse, we see to it that all personnel and our partners respect the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and take respecting human rights as the basis of corporate sustainable development. The employees have never experienced discrimination on the grounds of their race, age, gender, marital status, religion, ethnicity or physical disability at Grouphorse. Implementation Grouphorse works with a strong sense of social responsibility and has been strictly observing the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other international human rights protection rules. We have been constantly improving the Grouphorse Human Rights Protection System that incorporates rules in the Labor Law of the People’s Republic of China and the Social Insurance Law of the People’s Republic of China according to the realities of our business operations and needs of stakeholders. ² Employees In the past year, we managed to create a more open and positive workplace environment where employees feel free to express their opinions and complaints. For instance, we have held a monthly meeting where employees can talk about their work or life problems, and the management and HR Department would 18 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD try to solve these problems in a timely manner, which has made employees feel that they are very valued members of Grouphorse and become more motivated and engaged. And as their problems got solved, they can work more efficiently. A Human Rights Education Program was launched at Grouphorse to familiarize employees with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other international human rights protection rules, which also pushes the management to constantly reflect on the past and explore new practice. ² Clients We further improved the mechanism of our Complaints Department responsible for ensuring that clients are satisfied with the services and providing troubleshooting solutions 24/7, which is an important way to protect clients’ rights. As a result, our client satisfaction reached an all-time high in the past year. ² Supervision on Management We have established a Human Rights Risk Management Task Force in each department. It conducts risk checks, risk control training sessions regularly and keeps a close eye on relevant violations, especially those caused by decision makers of the department. ² Supplier We always pay attention to how our suppliers handle human rights issues. We only work with suppliers with good standing in 19 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD the industry and lays out relevant human rights protection provisions in the procurement contracts so that the suppliers would be legally bound to protect human rights. Grouphorse will continue to conform with the UNGC human rights principles, launch more initiatives to raise the awareness of human rights protection within the company as well as in the industry. Outcomes We have always been the upholder of human rights and exercise zero tolerance on human rights infringement. In the past year, there was no investigation, lawsuit, punishment or other incidents concerning human rights infringement at Grouphorse. Labor Policy At Grouphorse, we have incorporated key requirements of the International Labor Organization (ILO) Code of Practice into our internal management and quality control system and developed practical rules and regulations to protect the rights and interests of the personnel. We value our employees and are dedicated to giving back to the community. Last year, we continued to carry out the Grouphorse Regulations on Promotion and Incentives and offered incentives to employees who handled the most translation or interpreting tasks exceptionally. Employees also benefit from the Grouphorse 20 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD Flexible Working Arrangements and comprehensive training programs. We have not employed and will not employ children or minors. Implementation ² Desirable Employment Benefits The contract we sign with our employees lays out terms that protect employees’ interests in terms of salary, working hours, insurance and social welfare benefits, and other employee treatment-related issues. In the past year, we have raised the minimum salary standard, improved the salary system and increased the salaries of both new and ordinary employees. Those who worked on external assignments or worked overtime were given a bonus, and those with outstanding performance were offered a pay raise and an extra paid vacation. And we will continue to review the employees’ performance regularly and make an exception for the outstanding ones when it comes to promotion. We have mapped out the Grouphorse Regulations on Overtime Working to curb overtime working so that our employees would not be physically and emotionally drained. With the Grouphorse Flexible Working Arrangements, our employees are offered flexible hours so they can fit the work 21 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD around other commitments. This means that they do not have to come to the office every day and punch the clock. They can start work later or leave early, choose the work locations or work on the move as long as they get their job done for the day, which is more time-saving and comfortable. Also, some of them are offered extended holidays if they have been working intensively. We do not force our employees to perform any task that is hazardous or detrimental to their health or wellbeing. ² Team-building Events In the past, we held major events such as Grouphorse Global Translation and Interpreting Summit, Grouphorse Global Translation and Interpreting Summit on Belt and Road Initiative, and some activities such as essay and knowledge contests, photography and calligraphy exhibitions, which fuels the team spirit while promoting our brand image. This year, we plan to hold the Grouphorse Global Translation and Interpreting Summit 2019. 22 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD Grouphorse Global Translation and Interpreting Summit Dr. Ho Yong, Chinese language supervisor of the UN Chinese Language Program (CLP) at Grouphorse International Translation and Interpreting Summit on Belt and Road Initiative. 23 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD ² Discrimination Report System We work against all forms of discrimination that involve internal or external stakeholders, which may be based on factors such as race or gender, age, nationality, religion, sexual orientation, etc. People can report anonymously such discrimination to our email, suggestion box, or trade union. And employees can take legal actions and have authorities concerned initiate the investigation. ² Training Programs Grouphorse has been organizing various trainings for employees and clients. We have held induction programs for new employees in all branches to help them get acquainted with the company policy. We also hold training sessions regularly to enhance their professional competencies, invite linguist experts, such as Ms. Yanan Xu and Dr. Kevin Lin, Dr. Yong HO to give lectures on translation and interpreting, and send our employees out for cooperation and exchanges. ² Free will-based Employment We do not impose any restriction on employees’ freedom or force them to stay employed by us through menace of any penalty including sanctions, threats, violence, loss of rights of privileges, etc. We make fair and respectful employee separation arrangements. Outcomes In 2018, there was no complaint, petition or any incident 24 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD involving acts of discrimination, forced labor or other violations of the labor principles at Grouphorse. All the efforts made by Grouphorse have paid off and further unified all staff members. The employees are more satisfied with team leaders and Grouphorse as a company. Environment Policy At Grouphorse, we take reaching environmental excellence as one of our main objectives, and have made significant efforts to address key sustainability issues. We have launched the “Grouphorse Environmental Protection Initiative” by raising employees’ environmental awareness and implementing our own environmental protection rules through a variety of activities, which has contributed to environmental protection, energy conservation and emission reduction. Implementation In the past year, Grouphorse has devoted more human and financial resources to environmental protection and sustainable development, which is initiated by the corporate management who supervises the whole process. ² Office Recycling and Waste Management Guided by the UNGC principles, the Initiative calls on employees to take part in the Earth Hour every year and attaches great 25 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD importance to office recycling and waste management. We have conducted a “Waste Audit” to know what kind of waste is being produced and should be recycled. We also monitor the amount of recycled waste to evaluate our recycling system and make sure everyone knows how to use the recycling facilities. For example, we always print on both sides of the paper, reuse old office supplies and electronics, and save water and electricity. ² Sustainability Learning Platform We have launched an online learning platform to help the management gain a solid understanding of relevant policies and practices of sustainable development, which helped them make greener decisions and advance the goal of environmental excellence. ² Performance Evaluation System We also rolled out a system to assess how the environmental protection policies are carried out. Heads of departments are required to set environmental KPIs to keep track of employees’ environmental protection efforts and regularly evaluate their performance, prepare a report and submit it to the corporate management. Outcomes 26 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD In the past year, Grouphorse was not involved in any environmental pollution incidents and greatly saved costs by implementing the office recycling program. Grouphorse will continue to strictly abide by the principles on environmental protection, proactively echo initiatives launched by the UN and the Chinese government on environmental protection, and further contribute to the sustainable development of the world. Anti-Corruption Policy Acting with integrity is one of our core values guiding our daily operations. We comply with anti-corruption laws and policies, and have been running an honest business and allowing for no corruption at any level. Since joining the UNGC, we have been in compliance with global standards in terms of business integrity and committed to working against corruption in all its forms and strictly abiding by the United Nations Convention against Corruption and other relevant international regulations. We have formulated Grouphorse Anti-Corruption Regulations and Grouphorse Staff Manual, which are constantly updated to reflect the latest corporate developments and relevant laws and regulations. We proactively promote the zero-tolerance approach 27 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD to corruption, extortion and bribery and assist our staff in handling extortion and bribery. Implementation ² Training Sessions on Business Integrity We regularly hold training sessions on anti-corruption and business integrity to ensure that our staff has a clear understanding of relevant national and corporate policies and initiatives. ² Anti-corruption Procurement During procurement, we always do a background check to ensure that the supplier has not been involved in corruption-related activities. We require our suppliers to abide by anti-corruption rules, which is clearly specified in the contract. ² Mutual Supervision System In the past year, we have established a system where employees and the management supervise each other. Anyone can report bribery, fraud, extortion and other illegal business activities, and those violators are subject to full investigations and disciplinary actions. Outcomes In 2018, there was no investigation, lawsuit, ruling, fine, and other incidents related to corruption in all its forms at Grouphorse. We will continue to comply with UNGC’s anticorruption 28 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD principle and make greater efforts to prevent corruption. As a UNGC participant, Grouphorse will continue to implement the ten principles concerning human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption and work towards greater social responsibility. As we continue to run a modern and honest business, we will actively participate in various UNGC campaigns across the world and strive to become a role model and get more businesses involved in giving back to society. Should you have any questions, please feel free to contact us. Contact: Jingqi ZHOU E-mail: klinkzhou@grouphorse.com Phone: +86-18502185884 Homepage: www.grouphorse.com/en 29
