ROHM Group Corporate Profile 2018 / 2019 Company Mission and Policies C o mp a ny M i s sio n The ROHM Group has communicated the Company Mission to its employees since its establishment in order to become a company that can be trusted and relied upon by society Quality is our top priority at all times. Our objective is to contribute to the advancement and progress of our culture through a consistent supply, under all circumstances, of high quality products in large volumes to the global market. 01 Policies to achieve the Company Mission are laid out and serve as guidelines for all business activities. Although the environment surrounding the company has changed with the emergence of an information-based society and increased diversification of values, these policies remain unchanged and serve as the driving force and foundation of all business activities. BASIC MANAGEMENT POLICY BASIC GOALS FOR EDUCATION Secure reasonable profit through a concerted company-wide AND TRAINING effort for a comprehensive quality assurance program. 1. Develop personnel at all levels to constantly strive to obtain Develop globally leading products by improving upon new knowledge and to acquire empirical reasoning ability technologies held by each department for continued from a broad perspective. advancement of the company. 2. Train staff to be dedicated as leaders in their field by utilizing Maintain healthy and vigorous lifestyles and refine intellect their knowledge and experience. and humanitarianism, hence contributing to society. Search extensively for capable human resources and cultivate 3. Develop personnel who can overcome any adversity and them as cornerstones for building long-term prosperity. strive towards achieving targets. 4. Train staff to place the highest value on teamwork, resulting from the combined efforts of all individuals. BASIC QUALITY ASSURANCE POLICY BASIC POLICY FOR EDUCATION 1. Promote internal standardization for the whole company AND TRAINING and establish structures for QC management by data. 1. All employees will use every available opportunity to 2. Conduct comprehensive and continuous research for the enhance self-development. development of new technologies and products. 2. Those in leadership positions will exemplify model behavior 3. Proactively utilize methods of statistical control for all areas at all times. of company activities. 3. The emphasis of education is on-the-job training led by the supervisors through daily operations. Supplementary training 4. Establish quality assurance structures for all manufacturing off the job is also provided. processes. 4. Each head of all management levels will appraise staff fairly 5. Exert effort for cost reductions of each product by continual and conduct effective training programs periodically and modernization of manufacturing systems. consistently. 6. Secure quality assurance programs of raw materials and 5. Appraisals for each head of all management levels is based, components with our suppliers through contracts. as a general rule, on the success of staff education and training. Index 01 03 Company Mission and Policies/Index Message from The Top 05 Quality Initiatives 07 Products and Technologies 09 Four Growth Solutions 13 CSR/CSV-Related Topics 19 Mecenat 21 Financial Highlights 23 Corporate Data 02 Message from The Top Message from The President This year marks the 60th anniversary of Achieving Sustainability ROHM, which was founded in 1958 as a resistor manufacturer. On behalf of everyone at ROHM I would like to give thanks and express how grateful we are to all of our stakeholders. For 60 years, in the midst of a business environment that has undergone significant changes and endured numerous difficulties, we remain steadfast in our resolve to contribute to the advancement of culture and society by providing innovative, high-quality products based on our Company Mission established since ROHM was founded. At the same time, we will continue to promote CSV (Creating Shared Value) activities and work to resolve social issues (SDGs Sustainable Development Goals). Under our new organization, each employee will carry out our Company Mission and Basic Management Policy to achieve further growth while continuing to pursue new methods to improve quality. 03 'Quality First' Unwavering since our founding ROHM offers a number of products that have become key devices in a wide range of fields, particularly in the industrial equipment market where energy conservation and IoT conversion are required, as well as in the automobile industry which is experiencing increased innovation. Supporting our product development is a vertically integrated production system in which all steps, from development to production, are implemented within the Group. “Quality is our top priority at all times” has become our mindset from the very beginning and one which we continue to maintain and protect. Infusing a high level of quality into every process ensures reliable traceability and an optimized supply chain, allowing us to contribute not only through our products but an in-house manufacturing system as well that guarantees stable delivery. Solutions for solving social issues We are committed to proposing solutions that leverage our considerable lineup, ranging from resistors and discretes to ICs, modules, and more. Analog power solutions are at the core of what we offer. Our industry-leading analog ICs, which include motor drivers and PMICs, are developed utilizing 3 core technologies covering circuit design, layout, and processes. And by taking advantage of power device technology centered on cutting-edge SiC along with power solutions combining control IC and module technologies that maximize the performance of these devices, ROHM contributes to increased energy conservation and miniaturization in the automotive and industrial equipment fields. Maintain healthy and vigorous lifestyles and refine intellect and humanitarianism, hence contributing to society More than anything, it is the 'people' that make the greatest contribution in all corporate activities, and in fact this word can be found in our Basic Management Policy. In an increasingly diversified society, we carry out workplace reforms and accelerate corporate activities by creating a thriving environment that allows every ROHM Group employee to express their individuality and abilities to the fullest, with the goal of meeting the expectations of our stakeholders. June 2018 Tadanobu Fujiwara, President 04 Quality Initiatives Quality Vertically Integrated Production System ROHM strives for “Quality First” as our Company Mission. Quality is incorporated into every process of our vertically High Quality Stable Supply integrated production system, from ingot pulling to finished products, embodying our quality-first pursuit. In pursuit of ‘Quality We deliver long-term, We are further strengthening our activities to achieve the best First’, we are engaged in stable supply to ensure production facilities in the world, for example through our activities to enhance worry-free use of our quality in all processes, p ro d u c t s u t i l i z i n g a n proprietary ROHM Production System (RPS) that provides from development and integrated production unparalleled quality by thoroughly removing all waste production to marketing system that is less generated during operation, transportation, and delays. and services, throughout susceptible to external the entire Group. factors. Raw Materials In-House Photo Mask Wafer production from silicon Pursuing high quality through integrated ingot pulling quality control, from IC chip design layout to Raw silicon photo mask production Production Site: ROHM Apollo Co., Ltd. (Japan) Si Silicon Silicon Ingot CAD Photo Mask Wafer Wafer Process SiC Silicon Carbide SiCrystal Wafer Process Production Sites: Developing innovative devices from the (Japan) ROHM Co., Ltd. wafer process, centered on our ROHM Hamamatsu Co., Ltd. production facilities in Japan ROHM Wako Co., Ltd. ROHM Apollo Co., Ltd. LAPIS Semiconductor Co., Ltd. SiC Single-Crystal Wafer Manufacturer LAPIS Semiconductor Miyagi Co., Ltd. LAPIS Semiconductor Miyazaki Co., Ltd. SiCrystal, a German SiC single-crystal wafer ROHM Shiga Co., Ltd. manufacturer, became a member of the (U.S.) Kionix, Inc. ROHM Group in 2009 Production Site: SiCrystal GmbH (Germany) ROHM Hamamatsu Co., Ltd. 05 In-house Dies and Lead Frames To ensure the highest levels of quality, all dies for lead frames, lead frame punching, and molding are developed and produced in-house Production Sites: (Japan) ROHM Mechatech Co., Ltd. (Philippines) ROHM Mechatech Philippines, Inc. (Thailand) ROHM Mechatech (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Frame Modules Assembly Line Packaging Die / Mold In-House Production System State-of-the-Art Packages Production Sites: We developed our own production Our overseas production facilities (Korea) system to precisely meet the needs of leverage the latest assembly ROHM Korea Corporation our customers. technologies, including SiP, CSP, (Philippines) QFN and BGA. ROHM Electronics Philippines, Inc. (Thailand) ROHM Integrated Systems (Thailand) Co., Ltd. (China) ROHM Semiconductor (China) Co., Ltd. ROHM Electronics Dalian Co., Ltd. (Malaysia) ▲ All production equipment developed ROHM-Wako Electronics (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. in-house ROHM Integrated Systems (Thailand) Co., Ltd. 06 Products and Technologies Superior Technologies The ROHM Group offers a broad variety of products that contribute to solving social issues related to energy conservation, safety, and security, ranging from passive and discrete devices to ICs and modules. Power Management/Power Supply ICs ROHM contributes to the evolution of battery life and equipment systems by efficiently providing optimized power to the MCU and CPU, which serve as the brains of the device. We provide solutions that combine both power supply ICs and PMICs 80V High-Voltage control ICs customized to each application to ensure greater (System Power DC/DC Converters Management ICs) reliability and efficiency. Motor Driver ICs (Motor Controllers ICs) Nearly half of the electric power consumed worldwide is said to be due to motors, and this power demand is only expected to rise as the number of motor-equipped products such as air conditioners and robots continues to increase. High-Voltage Isolated ROHM develops high-precision motor driver ICs that ensure Fan Motor Drivers Gate Drivers efficient motor drive, contributing to reduced power consumption worldwide. General-Purpose ICs ROHM’s broad lineup includes memory, op-amps/comparators, reset ICs, power supply ICs, data converters, and other products Broad Package Lineup featuring systemized characteristics and packages that contribute to improved functionality in a range of devices. Microcontrollers (Low-Power MCUs) Our microcontrollers utilize proprietary low-power technology to deliver class-leading low energy consumption. We offer a lineup of microcontrollers that stand up to harsh 16-bit Low-Power noise and high temperature environments, resulting in Microcontrollers improved reliability and energy savings in home electronic appliances and industrial equipment. Wireless Communication Devices We respond to the expanding needs of the IoT market with wireless communication devices that support a range of protocols, including Wi-SUN and Sigfox ® that enable communication over long distances with minimal energy, as well as EnOcean® ’s battery-free standard. LPWA Wi-SUN ・Sigfox® is a registered trademark of SIGFOX S.A. Communication ICs Modules ・EnOcean® is a registered trademark of EnOcean GmbH. for Sigfox® 07 Transistors We are moving forward with expanding and enhancing our portfolio of high-power devices based on our industry-leading SiC MOSFETs while pursuing technologies in the compact, low-power sector. This will allow us to contribute to greater Small-Signal Full SiC power savings and miniaturization in Transistors SiC MOSFETs power modules industries ranging from automotive and industrial equipment to smartphones. Diodes ROHM offers a wide lineup that provides low loss and high reliability in a variety of applications, including Schottky barrier diodes for rectifying the secondary side of power supply TVS Diodes Schottky Barrier circuits, TVS (Transient Voltage Suppression) diodes widely Diodes used for circuit protection, and Zener diodes. LEDs/Laser Diodes We make compact, high-power devices a reality by combining proprietary device and precision processing technologies. Compact Multi-Beam High-Intensity Lasers Recently, we have expanded our development into new fields 3-Color Chip LEDs such as motion and position sensors. Resistors As a resistor pioneer, ROHM developed the world’s first rectangular chip resistors in 1976 and continues to lead PSR Series GMR Series the industry. We have further strengthened our product lineup with high High-Power Shunt Resistors reliability, high-power products that support the automotive and industrial equipment fields. Thermal Printheads Our thermal printheads command the top share in markets such as receipt and logistics barcode printers through the High Reliability utilization of high reliability thin-film and deposition technologies. Thermal Printheads Sensing Devices ROHM creates a wide range of sensing devices by combining a variety of sensor elements that leverage MEMS (Micro-Electro Mechanical System) and photonics technologies with ASICs (Application-Specific Integrated Accelerometers ROHM Circuits) optimized for using these elements. Sensor Medal 08 Four Growth Solutions Analog Solutions ROHM contributes to the enhancement of systems by leveraging unmatched analog technologies made possible through our vertically integrated production system Power supply solutions for high-performance processors Power supply solutions for 48V systems ROHM continues to collaborate with top processor manufacturers Our Nano Pulse Control technology for ultra-high-speed pulse to develop power management ICs that maximize processor control was created through the fusion of analog technologies performance in a wide range of fields including IT devices, covering circuit design, layout and processes. automobiles and industrial equipment. We minimized the control pulse width of our power supply ICs We utilize processor power supply technologies cultivated over down to the nanosecond to realize a breakthrough step-down ratio. many years to provide the multiple power supplies and protection This technology will allow us to make significant contributions functions necessary for operation in an integrated package, towards smaller, simpler 48V systems, such as those used in mild contributing to system optimization and shorter development times. hybrid vehicles and industrial robots. Fusing state-of-the-art analog Power Management IC technologies through a vertically USB / Battery Buck Converter 1 Buck Converter 2 integrated production system Circuit Buck Converter 3 Buck Converter 4 Processing LDO 1 design LDO 2 LDO 3 Layout Buck Converter 5 LDO 4 LDO 5 Processor We continue to develop products featuring Buck Converter 6 LDO 6 LDO 7 industry-leading analog technologies Buck Converter 7 Buck Converter 8 MUX Switch Protection Crystal Oscillator Driver Circuits Interface Control Power On Key Logic Controller Power On Key Detection Interrupt Memory SD Card Power Line Control Line 09 Power Solutions Offering solutions for high-power applications with our industry-leading SiC devices at the core Inverters for Formula E SiC power solutions for onboard vehicle chargers As a stage for showcasing electric vehicle innovation, Formula E Electric vehicles require high-performance charging applications continues to attract motorsports fans around the world. that can handle large amounts of power. And as an official technology partner of Formula E team Venturi, ROHM offers power devices with superior characteristics centered ROHM contributes to the evolution of power electronics systems on SiC devices as well as gate drivers that maximize performance used in the premier racing class for electric vehicles through the to achieve greater miniaturization, higher output, and faster supply of high-performance SiC devices. charging in battery-equipped applications. Season 2 Season 4 High Voltage Weight: 6kg less Volume: Reduced 43% PFC Block Full Bridge Block Rectifier AC Isolated SiC Isolated SiC Isolated SiC Gate MOSFET Gate MOSFET Gate MOSFET HVDC Input Driver Driver Driver Output or or SiC SiC SBD SBD Inverter with Power Line Conventional Inverter Full SiC Power Module Power Supply IC Micro Controller Control Line (Weight: 15kg) (Weight: 9kg) 10 Four Growth Solutions Sensor Solutions Supporting IoT through high-precision sensors, analog ICs, and wireless communication devices Sensor solutions for industrial equipment and IoT IoT continues to expand into new areas to provide new services and functions, such as improving operations by visualizing and Geomagnetic analyzing data collected during Gyroscope environmental and motion-related Ultra-low-power monitoring and provide early detection of Proximity Accelerometer Consumption Devices abnormalities. ROHM supports the spread of IoT by Pressure Operational Low Power Wireless Sensor Micro Communication providing stable sensing for industrial Ampliﬁer Controller Device equipment, delivering high-accuracy Ambient Pulse amplification for sensors that detect Light conditions such as light, acceleration, and Power Supply IC geomagnetic fields, and by combining Infrared Color ultra-low-power power supply ICs, MCUs, Power Line and wireless communication devices. Data / Control Line Temperature Hall 11 Mobile Solutions Contributing to greater miniaturization and improved functionality in mobile devices with the industry's smallest components Ultra-compact devices ROHM supplies thin, ultra-compact components that support the continuing evolution of smartphones, wearable devices and other increasingly multifunctional devices. We continue to pursue miniaturization technology that allows us to offer the smallest components in the world, from passives and discretes to ICs and modules, including the RASMID and PICOLED series, contributing to improved functionality and smaller form factors. 12 CSR/CSV-Related Topics ROHM Group CSR and CSV Activities The ROHM Group aims for sustainable growth of the Group and healthy development of society by conducting business activities with integrity in accordance with the goals and policies outlined in our Company Mission and Basic Management Policy. We are also contributing towards SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) achievement, which are global goals adopted by the United Nations. Contributing to society and creating value for CSV CSV both ROHM and society CSR and CSV Compromise the Core of through our business Creating Shared Value activities Our Business Activities Working towards a better society by The ROHM Group’s Company Mission and Basic Management Policy CSR CSR complying with societal Corporate Social rules and supporting embody our firm desire to enrich society through our products and Responsibility international norms provide a basis for each employee to integrate into their own work. Based on these goals and policies, we will work to be a company that Putting our corporate can meet the expectations of our shareholders by further expanding objectives and basic management policy into practice CSV to solve social issues through CSR initiatives in line with social requirements and international norms. Framework for Promoting CSR/CSV Within the ROHM Group, the CSR committee comprised of all ■ Management System Acquisition and Operational Status directors and department heads with equivalent authority bears Management System Certification/ responsibility for CSR themes across the entire company, including the Themes Customer Demands environment, society, and governance—with the president acting as chairman. Eight sub-committees further down in the organization Quality ISO9001 identify issues after performing risk assessments in each field and Product obtain certification of the management system by forming Quality Quality/Functional Safety ISO/TS16949 sub-committees and task forces for implementing the PDCA cycle of for the Industrial IATF16949 CSR management (see table at right). /Automotive Industry ISO 26262 Environment ISO14001 Promotional CSR Committee Organization at ROHM Headquarters Committee Chairman/President Management Occupational Health and Safety OHSAS18001 Quality CSR Office (Secretariat) (Quality of Business Activities) Information security ISO/IEC27001 Work-Style Reform Committee Environmental Risk Management and CSR Promotion Committee Central Health and Quality Committee Compliance Committee Information Labor, Health and Safety, RBA*1, VAP Audit*2 BCM Committee Environmental, Ethics Safety Committee Management Systems Disclosure Committee Conservation Committee *1: RBA stands for 'Responsible Business Alliance' Organizations (and their norms) comprised of electronic equipment manufacturers and the Advisory Committee Fire Prevention automotive, toy, aviation and IoT technology companies to which their products are provided. *2: VAP stands for 'Validated Audit Process.' This is a third-party audit of the RBA code of conduct. on 'Decent Work' Committee 13 CSR/CSV Initiatives The ROHM Group believes it is necessary to be proactive in solving social issues to ensure the sustainable growth of the company. Linking the SDGs established by the UN in 2015 to our business activities will help make CSV, which are the shared values of society and the company, a reality. To make CSV a reality and further advance the company and society, we set up opportunities for global dialogue with various stakeholders and defined six CSR Priority Issues for ROHM to tackle. Based on these priority issues, we will accelerate CSR and CSV initiatives and actively contribute to achieving a sustainable society through our business activities. ■ The ROHM Group’s CSR Priority Issues CSR Priority Issue Related SDGs Resolve social issues through innovative products and technologies Ensure a stable supply of high quality products Develop a global workforce that can contribute to the international community Make considerations for labor practices and thoroughly respect human rights in the value chain Carry out business activities that protect the global environment Contribute to local communities through business activities Visit our website for more information: https://www.rohm.com/csr1 *ROHM Group CSR information can be accessed on our website. The information provided online features a wider variety of information than the digest version (this pamphlet) and includes the latest updates. 14 CSR/CSV-Related Topics ROHM Headquarters ローム株式会社 Person responsible for implementing the CSR management system Govern an ce Person responsible for the CSR management system at each company 19 domestic/overseas production plants For details on governance: Management System https://www.rohm.com/csr1/csr-organization Environment Health and Safety Labor and Ethics Fire and Disaster Prevention Supply Chain Promoting CSR activities throughout the value chain The ROHM Group has acquired management system ●Various internal audits (audits by each company) certifications in a variety of fields, including quality, the ●Various administrative internal audits (audits by headquarters) ●Management reviews related to each management system environment, occupational health and safety, and information security. In addition, we implement the PDCA cycle of CSR management while undergoing internal and external audits. CSR management system report (for each company) We also fulfill our responsibility to society throughout the value Administrative CSR management system report (ROHM HQ) chain by requesting CSR self-assessments for our business ROHM Group CSR management system circulation diagram partners and implementing CSR procurement audits. Voluntary RBA audits Number of companies targeted for CSR Since 2013, the ROHM Group has voluntarily self-assessment in 2017 undergone audits through the RBA Validated 1,390 Audit Process (VAP). Six of our overseas production plants have finished their audits as of 2017. Through these audits, we confirm that the entire ROHM Group is complying with the RBA code of conduct of CSR management and we are working to strengthen management quality. （95% of targeted companies received an A or B evaluation） ROHM Co., Ltd. Manager, CSR Division, CSR Headquarters Yuka Nakata BCM (Business Continuity Management) promotion The ROHM Group develops countermeasures to minimize the risk of disruptions to our business activities and performance. Further, to minimize the impact on our customers and society as a whole, we are focused on BCM (training, strengthening our system, risk response) at each of our production sites. Dialogue with local residents First-response fire extinguishing drill Risk Management/BCM Organizational Diagram Carrying out fire extinguishing drills President based on requests from local residents Every year at our Thailand production facility we hold a dialogue with our stakeholders to understand any issues CSR Committee and requests that residents in the local community may ・Practice risk prevention and have, which are then used to decide on CSR activities in Risk Management/ countermeasures BCM Committee ・Perform guidance, expansion, cooperation with management. In 2017, our internal Business Division （Supervising Department） and verification for affiliated ERT (Emergency Response Team) conducted drills to ・Provide confirmation and companies guidance for the risk ・Report to the Risk Management teach local residents how to put out initial fires. management system /BCM Committee ROHM Integrated Systems (Thailand) Co., Ltd. to the supervising Discrete Quality Control Div., Quality Improvement. , department ・Implement risk-related ・Report to the CSR countermeasures based on Assistant Department Manager / Committee Affiliated Companies guidance from ROHM Emergency Preparedness & Response Director ・Report to the supervising Seksan Ngamwiset department at ROHM 15 Env ironm e nt For details on environmental initiatives: https://www.rohm.com/csr1/csr-environment Reducing CO2 emissions The ROHM Group promotes the visualization of equipment power usage and office energy consumption to reduce wasted energy while working to actively reduce CO2 and PFC gas emissions that contribute to the greenhouse effect. Furthermore, we calculate the amount of CO2 used throughout our entire value chain in an effort to reduce CO2 emissions in all of our business activities. Solar power system 2017 ROHM Group CO2 reduction vs. BM* 273,000 Energy conservation activities to reduce CO2 At our Shizuoka facility we are actively engaged in tons activities to protect the environment. In 2017, we installed a thermal recovery heat pump chiller and (approx. 31% reduction) solar power generation system that reduced our *BM (Benchmark): CO2 output by 6,009 tons vs the previous year. 2005 (The 19th Conference of the Parties And we continue to work on energy conservation of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change) activities for the entire company, such as by retrofitting fluorescent lamps with LEDs. ROHM Hamamatsu Co., Ltd. Manager, Plant Management Department Keisuke Nagakura Pursuing cyclical management Within the flow of business activities ranging from material procurement to development, production, and sales, the ROHM Group works to reduce waste and recycle to eliminate wasted energy and limited resources. We also proactively carry out activities to solve environmental problems rooted in the local communities at each site. Plastic bottle cap recycling 2017 international evaluation of water resource management CDP Water Program Recycling plastic bottle caps to help more people obtain polio vaccinations AA Leadership Every year at our facility in Germany we AB recycle plastic bottle caps and donate Management them to a non-profit organization that BC helps people in Africa receive vaccinations Awareness Cagainst polio. Our contribution made it D possible to provide vaccinations to Information Disclosure ROHM’s evaluation Daround 50 people in Africa in 2017. score *Evaluations are ranked in eight areas SiCrystal GmbH Management Secretary Sonja Kimball 16 CSR/CSV-Related Topics S o c i al For details on social initiatives: https://www.rohm.com/csr1/csr-laborsystem Developing human resources through diversity The ROHM Group states in its corporate objectives and policies that it will “search extensively for capable human resources and cultivate them as cornerstones for building long-term prosperity” and seeks to utilize and nurture a diverse workforce without being bound by gender, nationality, religion, or other factors. We will actively promote diversity and develop our human resources in order to contribute to continued advancement and become a global leader. Malaysian employees participating in training Europe 1% Personnel exchange program Japan between mother and overseas plants America 25% 1% At our Malaysian production facility, we created a program that regularly sends employees to Japan to promote the exchange of employees with the mother plant in Okayama Ratio of prefecture. The goal is to give employees at the two facilities a deeper understanding of their respective cultures, ROHM Group Asia religions and philosophies, allowing the mother and 73% Employees overseas plants to carry out their duties as a unified team. by Region At right: Administration Group 2, Administration Department, ROHM Wako Co., Ltd. Group Manager Yasuhiro Kajita At left: ROHM-Wako Electronics (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. Administration Division, Human Resources Department Manager Abd Wahid Bin Nor Providing global support to engineers of the future At the ROHM Group, we implement a variety of educational activities for local students in areas we do business in order to contribute to the development of the next generation of human resources possessing both a rich sense of humanity and intellect. We offer classes on manufacturing, sponsor robot contests, give company tours, and more in the hopes of inspiring as many Group photo after company tour students as possible to become engineers who can make a positive contribution to society. Message from a student who participated in a company tour Number of students who attended a manufacturing class hosted by ROHM in 2017 The tour was a fantastic experience 1,980 for us to gain an understanding by seeing the facilities and listening to explanations on prevalent semiconductors are in our daily lives and how they will Over continue to be important in the future. Nova Academy（Sweden） Jakob Elgen 17 Special Feature Work-Style Reforms in the ROHM Group (Achieving a flexible work life) The ROHM Group believes that it is necessary to have an environment that allows us to achieve success using a wide range of human resources and a work style that leads to greater productivity as we continue to put our Company Mission into practice. We are also implementing work-style reforms at each of our companies that will enable both the company and employees to enjoy cyclical growth. In this regard, ROHM has established a company-wide Work-Style Reform Committee, the members of which are ■ Ratio of paid vacation selected from various departments and have different roles. They study and implement different policies based on days used (%) feedback from the workplace centered on four themes: (1) organizational climate and awareness reforms, (2) 100 program-based reforms, (3) operational process reforms, and (4) innovation-based reforms. 72.5% 60.3% 63.7% 75 50 25 Examples of policies introduced 0 2015 2016 2017 Transitioning fixed-term Career track Flex-time system employees into full-time conversion program ・Employees can adjust their employees ・Depending on their career working hours based on their ・From April 2018, all interested plans, employees can switch work situation. candidates who have completed from general to career tracks. a five-year contract are converted ■ No. of employees taking leave to full-time employees. for child-rearing 56 53 54 60 Interval system Telecommuting program Rehiring program 45 ・Employees are given an ・Employees who find it difficult ・Employees who need to leave the interval of at least ten hours to get to work every day due to company for reasons beyond their 30 between the end of their shifts personal injury or the need to control, such as child-rearing, caring and the beginning of the next care for elderly family member(s) for elderly family members, or a 15 to guarantee sufficient rest. are permitted to work from transfer in their spouse's work home. location, are given opportunities to 0 rejoin ROHM. 2015 2016 2017 Expanded leave of Expanded child Expanded system for absence program rearing-related program elderly nursing care ・Employees who relocate with ・The amount of leave employees ・The length of time ■ No. of employees using the their spouse to a new location can take for child-rearing has employees can request a short time system are granted a leave of been extended one year, from leave of absence to care absence of up to two years. the day their child turns two for elderly family 109 120 ・Employees undergoing years old to the day they turn members has been infertility treatment are allowed three. extended from one year 83 90 to take leave for up to two ・The period of time that to three years. years. employees can work shorter 53 60 hours has been extended from the time their child reaches second grade to the 30 time their child reaches sixth grade. 0 2015 2016 2017 18 Mecenat Cultural Support Activities Implementing activities that contribute to the dissemination and development of music culture Performance of Opera Project XVI, “Gianni Schicchi” by the Seiji Ozawa Music Academy in the Main Hall of ROHM Theatre Kyoto Photo: Michiharu Okubo Rohm Music Foundation The Rohm Music Foundation was established in 1991, with the goal of contributing to the (a Public Interest Foundation) popularization and development of music culture in Japan. As of 2018, the foundation has granted 464 scholarships and continues to host Scholarship Concerts performed by current Number of visitors that attended concerts scholars. The Foundation organizes the Kyoto International Music Students Festival to promote supported and hosted by ROHM and international exchange among young musicians and music seminars to foster professional the Rohm Music Foundation in 2017 musicians. The Foundation also offers financial support for music-related performances, 116,000 research and more. Rohm Music Foundation website: https://www.rohm.com/rmf Over total ROHM Theatre Kyoto: As an active supporter of the music arts for many years, ROHM acquired the naming rights of A Cultural Institution ROHM Theatre Kyoto, which reopened on January 10, 2016, for the next 50 years. The theatre is located in the heart of one of the city’s most prominent cultural areas, home to numerous historic shrines and art museums. We hope that this theatre will be cherished as an institution representing the cultural arts of Japan. ROHM Theatre Kyoto home page (part of ROHM’s website): https://www.rohm.com/theatre Performance of Opera Project XVI, “L’enfant et les sortilèges” by the Seiji Ozawa Music Academy ROHM Music Festival held at the South Hall of ROHM Theatre Kyoto Photo: Masatoshi Uenaka Photo: Tatsuo Sasaki 19 Kyoto International Music Students Festival Photo: Tatsuo Sasaki Activities by ROHM and the Rohm Music Foundation that express the splendor of music Seiji Ozawa Music Academy We continue to support the “Seiji Ozawa Music Academy,” a development project for young An Educational Project Produced at musicians conducted by world-renowned conductor Seiji Ozawa. This is an unprecedented ROHM Theatre Kyoto program in which young musicians in Asia are selected by audition to perform alongside top-class vocalists, led by professional musicians active on the global music scene as well as Number of elementary school students invited by Seiji Ozawa himself. This academy has hosted performance in ROHM Theatre Kyoto as the to perform in the ʻOpera for Childrenʼ at production base since it was opened in 2016. The academy has also hosted performances of 8,700 ROHM Theatre Kyoto Opera for Children” since 2015, inviting elementary school children in Kyoto to enjoy this extravagant event. Over (as of June 2018) International Exchange Through Music: The Kyoto International Music Students Festival, which has been held every year since 1993, Kyoto International Music invites students from leading music schools around the world as well as in Japan. This premier Students Festival music festival promotes international exchange through music and provides a nurturing environment for young artists. Public performances are held over five days in a variety of genres 2,529 Number of music students who participated using piano, stringed and wind instruments, vocals and orchestra. More than 2,000 visitors come each year to hear the lively performances of students that bring color to the start of the Kyoto summer season. Includes 545 students from overseas (as of June 2018) ROHM Music Festival: Since 2016, the ROHM Music Festival has been held at the entire ROHM Theatre Kyoto for two A Music-Filled Event days per year. This festival features performances by the “Rohm Music Friends,” a collective of musicians who have been supported by ROHM and the Rohm Music Foundation and are Number of ‘Rohm Music Friends’ Musicians actively working as professional musicians, and by junior and senior high school students in the supported by ROHM and the Rohm Music Kansai area. During this time the area comes alive with music, with good times enjoyed by all. 4,437 Foundation: (as of June 2018) ROHM Music Festival held at ROHM Square in ROHM Theatre Kyoto Photo: Tadashi Osawa 20 Financial Highlights Key Financial Data Results as of Net Sales 397,106 million yen March 31, 2018 Operating Income 57,004 million yen （14.4％） Ordinary Income 54,213 million yen （13.7％） Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent 37,249 million yen （9.4％） Figures in parentheses indicate percentage of sales Sales Operating Income/Operating Income Ratio (in millions of yen) (in millions of yen) （%） 500,000 60,000 57,004 15.0 14.4 397,106 50,000 38,800 12.5 400,000 362,772 352,397 352,010 33,635 31,827 331,087 10.7 40,000 23,635 9.5 9.0 10.0 300,000 7.1 30,000 7.5 200,000 20,000 5.0 100,000 10,000 2.5 0 0 0.0 ’14/3 ’15/3 ’16/3 ’17/3 ’18/3 ’14/3 ’15/3 ’16/3 ’17/3 ’18/3 ■■ Operating Income Operating Income Ratio Sales by Segment Sales by Application Others Computers and OA 21,930 11.7％ 5.5％ Modules TeleAutomotive 41,829 397,106 communication 397,106 32.2％ (million yen) LSI (million yen) 10.5％ 10.7％ total as of 183,430 total as of March 2018 46.2％ March 2018 Discrete Consumer Semiconductor 33.3％ Industrial Devices 12.1％ 149,915 37.8％ Note: Some figures are estimates. 21 Research and Development Costs Capital Expenditures (in millions of yen) （%） (in millions of yen) 70,000 14.0 60,000 56,686 55,911 60,000 11.0 11.0 11.6 12.0 48,739 10.6 50,000 9.8 42,182 50,000 10.0 39,996 40,868 40,000 36,536 37,277 38,852 31,754 40,000 8.0 30,000 30,000 6.0 20,000 20,000 4.0 10,000 2.0 10,000 0 0.0 0 ’14/3 ’15/3 ’16/3 ’17/3 ’18/3 ’14/3 ’15/3 ’16/3 ’17/3 ’18/3 ■■ Research and Development Costs AS % of Net Sales Net Income per Share/Net Assets per Share Dividends/Payout Ratio (in yen) (in yen) （%） 8,000 250.0 240.0 150.0 6,975.07 7,104.04 7,000 6,672.33 6,854.01 6,149.79 200.0 6,000 110.0 100.0 5,000 150.0 130.0 130.0 130.0 4,000 68.2 85.0 53.7 65.0 52.0 3,000 100.0 65.0 50.0 80.0 2,000 50.0 30.0 30.9 50.0 1,000 297.65 420.16 241.91 249.88 352.14 16.8 45.0 65.0 50.0 65.0 20.0 0 0.0 0.0 ’14/3 ’15/3 ’16/3 ’17/3 ’18/3 ’14/3 ’15/3 ’16/3 ’17/3 ’18/3 ■■ Net Income per Share ■■ First Six months Payout Ratio ■■ Net Assets per Share ■■ Year-End ■ Commemorative Dividend Shareholders' Equity/Total Assets Number of Employees 751,425 754,407 864,380 804,134 834,503 870,034 （%） (in millions of yen) (people) 87.9 87.0 87.8 86.9 86.4 90.0 1,000,000 25,000 23,120 21,171 21,308 80.0 19,985 20,843 800,000 662,983 751,937 705,774 724,986 70.0 20,000 60.0 600,000 15,000 50.0 40.0 400,000 10,000 30.0 200,000 20.0 5,000 10.0 0 0.0 0 ’14/3 ’15/3 ’16/3 ’17/3 ’18/3 ’14/3 ’15/3 ’16/3 ’17/3 ’18/3 Equity Ratio ■■ Shareholders' Equity ■■ Total Assets Investor relations webpage: https://www.rohm.com/investor-relations 22 Corporate Data Global Network Sales Offices R&D Centers QA Centers Production Facilities Distribution ［ Global ］ Main Sales Offices R&D Centers ASIA ROHM Semiconductor Korea Corporation ASIA Korea Design Center ROHM Semiconductor Trading（Dalian）Co., Ltd. Shanghai Design Center ROHM Semiconductor（Shanghai）Co., Ltd. Beijing Design Center ROHM Semiconductor（Beijing）Co., Ltd. Shenzhen Design Center ROHM Semiconductor（Shenzhen）Co., Ltd. Taiwan Design Center ROHM Semiconductor Hong Kong Co., Ltd. India Design Center ROHM Semiconductor Taiwan Co., Ltd. AMERICA America Design Center（Santa Clara） ROHM Semiconductor Singapore Pte. Ltd. ROHM Semiconductor Philippines Corporation EUROPE Europe Design Center ROHM Semiconductor（Thailand）Co., Ltd. ROHM POWERVATION Ltd. ROHM Semiconductor Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. Finland Software Development Center ROHM Semiconductor India Pvt. Ltd. AMERICA ROHM Semiconductor U.S.A., LLC QA Centers ROHM Semiconductor do Brasil Ltda. ASIA Shanghai QA Center / Shenzhen QA Center LAPIS Semiconductor America Taiwan QA Center / Korea QA Center EUROPE ROHM Semiconductor GmbH Thailand QA Center AMERICA Detroit (America) QA Center EUROPE Europe QA Center 23 Com pany Inf o rm ati o n Company Name: ROHM Co., Ltd. Headquarters: 21 Saiin Mizosaki-cho, Ukyo-ku, Kyoto 615-8585 Japan Tel: +81-75-311-2121 Fax: +81-75-315-0172 Date Established: September 17, 1958 Capital: 86,969 million JPY (as of March 31, 2018) Representative: Tadanobu Fujiwara, President Sales Volume: Consolidated 397,106 million JPY (fiscal year ending March 2018) Number of Employees: Consolidated 23,120 (as of March 31, 2018) ［ Japan ］ ［ Japan ］ Production Facilities Sales Offices Production Facilities ASIA ROHM Korea Corporation Kyoto Matsumoto ROHM Co., Ltd. ROHM Electronics Philippines, Inc. Tokyo Mito ROHM Hamamatsu Co., Ltd. ROHM Integrated Systems（Thailand）Co., Ltd. Yokohama Nishi-Tokyo ROHM Wako Co., Ltd. ROHM Semiconductor（China）Co., Ltd. Nagoya Sendai ROHM Apollo Co., Ltd. ROHM Electronics Dalian Co., Ltd. Fukuoka Takasaki ROHM Mechatech Co.,Ltd. ROHM-Wako Electronics（Malaysia）Sdn. Bhd. Utsunomiya LAPIS Semiconductor Co., Ltd. ROHM Mechatech Philippines, Inc. LAPIS Semiconductor Miyagi Co., Ltd. ROHM Mechatech（Thailand）Co., Ltd. R&D Centers LAPIS Semiconductor Miyazaki Co., Ltd. AMERICA Kionix, Inc. ROHM Shiga Co., Ltd. Kyoto Technology Center (Head Office) EUROPE SiCrystal GmbH Kyoto Technology Center (Kyoto Ekimae) Yokohama Technology Center QA Centers Distribution Kyoto QA Center ROHM Logistec Co., Ltd. Yokohama QA Center 24 Some parts are printed with inks other than vegetable inks. 61C7146E 08.2018 ROHM © 5000・SG
