Nolato’s Sustainability Work 2018 1 / 34 Nolato’s Sustainability Work 2018 Nolato’s Sustainability Work 2018 2 / 34 The Nolato Group Nolato is a Swedish public limited company with approximately 6,400 employees in Europe, Asia and North America. Nolato was founded in 1938 as Nordiska Latexfabriken i Torekov AB, with the trademark Nolato, which has been the company name since 1982. Today’s global Group is the result of organic growth and acquisitions. The head office is still in Torekov, Sweden, but the majority of operations are now based abroad. Nolato develops and manufactures products in polymer materials such as plastic, silicone and TPE for leading customers within medical technology, pharmaceuticals, consumer electronics, telecom, automotive and other selected industrial sectors. Nolato’s business model is based on close, long-term, innovative collaboration with our customers. Nolato endeavours to create added value for both customers and shareholders through leading polymer technology, wide-ranging capabilities and highly efficient production. Nolato’s sales are generated within three customer-focused business areas – Medical Solutions, Integrated Solutions and Industrial Solutions. While these business areas are based on common values and technologies, they each create their own optimal conditions to succeed in their respective market. Nolato sustainability reporting 2018 For Nolato, sustainability work is an integral part of financial value creation and contributes to a sustainable society. This report on Nolato’s sustainability work should be regarded as an integrated report that provides information about the relationship between financial and non-financial results, and ­demonstrates how the Group’s strategy, governance and earnings can create value for stakeholders. The purpose of this report is to provide more detail and complement the mandatory Sustainability Report in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act included in Nolato’s Annual Report 2018. Contents CEO’s introduction 3 The Nolato Group in brief 4 2018 in brief 5 Nolato and sustainable development 6 Targets and KPIs 10 Nolato, plastics and the environment 11 Environmental responsibility 12 Social responsibility 18 Business partners and other stakeholders 20 Financial responsibility 22 Risks and opportunities 23 A busy year 25 About this sustainability report 26 GRI index 2018 27 Global Compact 30 Definitions and glossary 31 Nolato AB (publ), 269 04 Torekov, Sweden | +46 431-442290 | www.nolato.com | info@nolato.com Nolato’s Sustainability Work 2018 3 / 34 Focus on environmentally sustainable products Strong financial position proud of the products we make using the Nolato’s task is to generate a long-term fantastic properties of plastics. At the same healthy return for our shareholders. We do time, we realise that essentially all the plastic this by building on our successful business we use comes from oil, a non-renewable raw model and developing our role as the cusmaterial that contributes to climate change. tomer’s first choice of partner. During the We are also keenly aware that plastics conyear, Nolato’s three business areas made a taminate our oceans and spoil the countryconcerted effort and the Group’s sales were side. Naturally we have been affected by the the highest in our history. Naturally, it is results that have been presented by researchalso pleasing to see that the business areas ers and attracted considerable attention in exhibited considerable commitment within the mass media over the past year. sustainable development and contributed In order to reduce the environmental impractical, concrete solutions within a number pact of Nolato’s products, we have decided Christer Wahlquist President and CEO of areas while creating value for our staketo adopt a clear strategy to cut back on the holders. use of plastics based on fossil raw materials. Essentially we intend to increase the use Persistently good results of bio-based and recycled plastics. We are in sustainability work already seeing that more customers want Corporate citizenship is part of our culture to move towards ‘greener plastics’, and by and day-to-day operations, and over the nudging them gently in the right direction years we have improved our sustainability I’m convinced that we will be able to generwork in several areas: ate benefits for both the business and our We are gradually improving our energy efenvironment. To achieve this we do of course ficiency via energy audits and investments need the know-how and experience required in energy-smart injection moulding mato use bio-based and recycled materials in chines, lighting and infrastructure. our technologies. Phasing out of fossil fuels, greater energy We will almost certainly meet obstacles efficiency and increased purchase of fossilalong the way every now and then, but I am free electricity all contribute to reducing confident that we will be able to overcome emissions of the greenhouse gas carbon technical and other difficulties. It is also clear dioxide. to me we need to avoid projects where it is We have set the bar high when it comes evident that the product cannot be associated to offering positive, stimulating and safer with reasonable sustainable requirements. workplaces. The accident rate remains low I look forward to continuing this exciting and roughly a third of the companies had journey together with all our talented and no accidents at all in 2018. Our vision to committed employees, united in our ambieliminate accidents in the workplace is a tion of developing offerings that create both genuine commitment. environmental and business benefits. Social engagement was further developed both locally and globally. We work with organisations such as schools, universities Torekov, March 2019 and sports associations. At a global level, we work according to the principles of the UN Global Compact and Nolato’s Group targets contribute to the 2030 Agenda for Christer Wahlquist Sustainable Development. President and CEO ‘Nudging’ for a sustainable value chain Nolato’s concept and core business are based on converting polymer materials, primarily various types of plastics. We are extremely Nolato’s Sustainability Work 2018 4 / 34 The Nolato Group in brief Nolato in brief 3 Nolato is a Swedish publicly listed group with operations in Europe, Asia and North America. Our three business areas develop and manufacture products in plastic, silicone and TPE for leading, often global, companies. Medical Solutions Integrated Solutions Industrial Solutions Medical devices and products for Components and subsystems for Products and product systems for administering pharmaceuticals. fast-growth areas of technology. industrial companies. Share of Group sales Share of Group operating profit (EBITA) Our values Employees 80 years 6,400 Our history Nolato was founded in 1938 as Nordiska Nolato has a long tradition of Latexfabriken i Torekov AB and has responsible business practice. become a global group through organic Our basic principle is that effecgrowth and acquisitions. Our headtive business operations must quarters remain in Torekov in southern be combined with ethics, corSweden, but most of the Group’s actiporate responsibility and environNolato’s average no. employees in 2018. vities are now based outside Sweden. mental awareness. Our global presence North America, etc. 9% Sweden 14% Asia 41% Rest of Europe 36% Development, production & sales Sales & technology Nolato’s Sustainability Work 2018 5 / 34 2018 in brief Financial performance s­ olutions relating to choice of raw materiduce measures concerned with more efficient Nolato’s consolidated sales rose by 21% to als, product design, production technologies use of energy, water and materials, along SEK 8,102 million (6,720), which was the and transportation. We are confident that with ­reduced carbon footprint. We have also highest level of sales ever in Nolato’s history. greater use of bio-based and recycled raw maintained our focus on activities that conAdjusted for currency and Group structure, materials will create both environmental and tribute to a safe and stimulating work envisales rose by an exceptionally strong 17%. business benefits. We are continuing to introronment.  Sales for Medical Solutions rose by 16% to SEK 2,270 million (1,955), for Integrated Solutions by 32% to SEK 3,720 million (2,810) Sustainability KPIs and for Industrial Solutions by 8% to SEK 2,119 million (1,968). 2018 2017 2016 Financial responsibility Sustainable development Sales, SEKm 8,102 6,720 4,447 Interest in sustainable development grew in many of the countries in which Nolato operOperating profit (EBITA), SEKm 949 763 457 ates. Climate change and the role of plastics EBITA margin, % 11.7 11.4 10.3 in the environment were just two of the isAverage number of employees 6,449 7,249 6,418 sues that Nolato’s stakeholders engaged in during the year. We therefore continued to Environmental responsibility work on reducing the Group’s climate imBreach of environmental and occupational environment legislation, 0 1 0 pact, and in 2018 we implemented several number of cases interesting projects that could mean greater Energy consumption, GWh/SEKm sales 0.022 0.028 0.038 use of bio-based plastics and recycled plastic Water consumption, m3/SEKm sales 18.1 26.5 36.8 raw material in the long term. Positive results Greenhouse gas emissions, CO2 tonnes /SEKm sales 4.5 7.2 11.5 were also achieved in other strategic areas Waste, tonnes/SEKm sales 0.9 1.0 1.2 such as energy, waste, health and safety, soCertified environmental management system, % of total no. of plants 95 95 91 cial responsibility and business ethics. The Group’s sustainability work was reSocial responsibility ported to the Global Reporting Initiative Workplace accidents, (cases of ≥1 day’s absence; cases per million 47 (4.1) 47 (3.7) 63 (5.0) (GRI), UN Global Compact and Nasdaq hours worked) Listing Center (ESG; Environment, Social, Certified health and safety management system, % of total no. of plants 24 27 27 Governance). Separately, we also reported Female employees, % 46 45 49 under the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). Training on Nolato’s Basic Principles and Code of Conduct, % of number >90 >90 >90 of employees Further work Application of ethical & humane principles and number of registered We will increase environmental activities 0 0 0 breaches of corruption rules in 2019 and focus on customer interaction. Evaluation of suppliers; evaluations performed re. environmental/ 247 235 173 Nolato will actively present sustainable social responsibility Nolato’s Sustainability Work 2018 6 / 34 Nolato and sustainable development An increasing number of stakeholders expect r­ esource-efficient production and greater responsible business practices, which we conNolato to contribute to sustainable developuse of environmentally sustainable raw sider self-evident in a world facing environment. These expectations relate to corporate materials, we generate both business opmental problems and dwindling resources. citizenship, transparency and sound business portunities and environmental benefits. ethics, but also to the Group harnessing opCredibility and transparency – Nolato Active measures for portunities to develop products and services complies with international conventions sustainable development that are environmentally sustainable. Corand principles for sustainable developNolato is a key operator within the polymer porate citizenship is one of Nolato’s Basic ment, including via being a signatory to industry and it is time for us to make a clearPrinciples and is an important aspect of the the Global Compact. The long-term tarer contribution to sustainable development. Group’s long-term strategy to create growth gets set out the road map for our sustainWe will therefore be increasing our enviand value for its stakeholders. ability work and we openly report on both ronmental activities and focus on customer our progress and setbacks encountered, interaction. Nolato will actively present susOur view of corporate citizenship according to international standards for tainable solutions relating to choice of raw Nolato has a long tradition of corporate citisustainability reporting. materials, product design, production techzenship and a carefully designed sustainable nologies and transportation. Greater use of development strategy. The strategy covers Clear link to mission bio-based and recycled polymers will provide activities within three areas: social responsiOur mission is the basis for our operations good opportunities for reducing our carbon bility, business ethics and the environment. and describes how we can meet our customfootprint from a life cycle perspective. ProdWe are seeing positive results in all these arers’ needs: uct design for sustainable development can, eas, but there is scope for improvement in the “Nolato is a high-tech developer and for example, help make the products easier environmental area, chiefly with regard to manufacturer of polymer products and systo recycle. We should also be prepared to dethe environmental attributes of our products. tems for leading customers in specific market cline assignments that are incompatible with Contributing towards sustainable solutions areas. With its many years of experience, our environmental ambitions. will make us the partner of choice for cusin-depth expertise in materials and processes, tomers within sustainable development. This early involvement in customer projects, adKey guidelines is what we mean by corporate citizenship: vanced project management and detailed The Nolato Spirit booklet summarises the Proactive approach – We will be the exknowledge of each customer’s specific reGroup’s core values, Code of Conduct and perts regarding the impact of our business quirements, Nolato is an effective and innopolicies and explains how they relate to the on people, the environment and society. vative partner.” business model. We reduce risk and cost through prevenOur success is based on close and longSince 2010, Nolato has been a signatory to tive measures, risk analysis and investterm customer relationships. We support the UN Global Compact, a framework documents in modern technology. customers and constantly endeavour to find ment that comprises 10 principles on the enBusiness opportunities – Through improvements. Furthermore, Nolato adopts vironment, human rights, labour conditions  Some important steps towards sustainability Tougher energy and carGroup-wide sustainbon emissions targets ISO 50001 is introResponsibility Group-wide enviability targets duced at several units and good organThe Group ronmental policy Gradual introducEmployee Care Energy audits in Updated susisation – Nolato’s changes its GRI sustainability tion of OHSAS accordance with tainability tar18001 health and Programme, BuilBasic Principles name to Nolato reporting ding Hope Together the EU Energy Efgets safety standard ficiency Directive 1938 1950 1982 1997 2005 2010 2012 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Nordiska LatexThe first Group The Basic PrinciA clear link between Course on busifabriken i Torecompany ples, Code of ConSustainability sustainability and business ethics kov is founded achieves ISO duct and policies work adapted to ness in a new version of Sustainability 14001 certifiare compiled in ISO 26000 The Nolato Spirit Health and safety strategy with and environmental cation The Nolato Spirit focus on ‘green Endorsement of A whistleblowNolato’s sustainabillaws set minimum booklet products’ UN Global Coming system is ity targets are linked requirement to the UN Sustainable pact introduced Development Goals Nolato’s Sustainability Work 2018 7 / 34 and the combatting of corruption. The 10 Using ISO standards and concepts such as principles are integrated into Nolato Spirit, lean manufacturing, Medical Excellence and our long-term targets are linked to the and 5S, we create a systematic approach to UN Sustainable Development Goals (see fact and credibility for our sustainability work. box to the right). We involve our employees through a safe, Nolato’s sustainability work is reported in gender-equal and stimulating work enviaccordance with the Swedish Act on Sustainronment. Sustainability work should be ability Reporting by Large Companies, GRI something that helps encourage new emThe UN presented its Sustainable Development guidelines, CDP, the Nasdaq Listing Center ployees to apply to the company. Goals in 2017, within the scope of the 2030 Agenda and the UN Global Compact (CommunicaNolato should be a good corporate citizen for Sustainable Development. The 17 goals provide tion on Progress; COP). and apply sound business principles and a clear and useful framework for addressing globProduction facilities are certified to the good ethics. Preventing corruption is an al challenges, and they have had a huge impact international standards ISO 14001 (environimportant aspect of this work and someon society. At the same time they are a catalyst for ment), ISO 9001 (quality management) and, thing we have undertaken in accordance innovation and business opportunities within the where applicable, to industry-specific ISO with the principles of the UN Global Comfield of sustainability. standards. We also work with health and pact. Private and public organisations have an imporsafety and energy management standards. Sustainability issues are part of Nolato’s tant role to play, and businesses are expected to The ISO 26000 social responsibility standbusiness model and strategy. contribute by adopting responsible business pracard provides guidance for our overarching tices, providing transparent reporting of their own sustainable development efforts. Governance and monitoring targets and outcomes and developing products and We manage sustainability issues in a meservices that foster sustainable development. Strategy thodical way and have integrated them into The UN Sustainable Development Goals help us Our sustainable development strategy instrategic planning and our day-to-day operaidentify key areas within suscludes the following areas: tions. We have set Group sustainable develtainable development, and We aim to create business opportunities opment targets (see page 10). Operational we have highlighted several through responsible conduct and transparresponsibility for sustainable development goals that are clearly relevant ent communication of our sustainability is delegated to the Managing Director of to the Group’s operations. efforts. Business opportunities also arise each Group company. These activities are With these goals as a starting through resource-efficient production followed up through dialogue with the compoint, we can see that we are methods and the development of products panies’ management and through internal able to both reduce our enviwith the lowest possible environmental and external audits. Along with the annual ronmental impact and create footprint. In short, we aim to be customSustainability Report, we also carry out an business opportunities. ers’ first choice for sustainable developin-depth analysis of compliance with legislaWe have therefore linked ment. tion, target outcomes and the development of the Group’s targets to seven We reduce risk and cost through prevenperformance and key performance indicators of the UN Sustainable Develtive measures, risk analysis and invest(KPIs) during the year. One representative opment Goals. This allows us ments in modern technology. Issues reon Nolato’s Board has special responsibility to contribute to an even more garding energy and carbon emissions are for sustainability issues. Matters relating to sustainable world, while genparticularly prioritised and are subject to strategy, risks, monitoring, sustainability reerating profitable growth for long-term targets. Regarding the use of porting, sustainability issues associated with Nolato. materials, we aim to increase the percentacquisitions and dialogues with investors are Minimising Nolato’s use age of recycled plastic raw material and managed at Group level.  of resources is an important the use of bioplastics. principle in achieving our targets. We accomplish this by working with innovation, efficiency improvements, investments in new technology, greater use of renewable energy and initiatives focusing on bio-based and recycled plastics. The UN Sustainable Development Goals also provide inspiration for measures within social responsibility, social engagement and business ethics.  Nolato’s Sustainability Work 2018 8 / 34 Materiality analysis Materiality analysis 2018 Within the framework of the ISO 14001, 1.1.Sustainability Sustainability requirements requirements fromfrom High customers OHSAS 18001 and ISO 50001 standards, customers 2 1 2.2.Sound Sound business business ethics ethics Nolato’s businesses endeavour to identify 9 4 3.3.Attractive employer Attractive employer and manage issues relating to environment, 8 6 4.4.Legal Legal requirements requirements Significance for Nolato’s business strategy health and safety, and energy. This involves 5.5.Sustainability Sustainability aspects aspects in China in China not only identifying risks, but also looking 10 3 5 6. Polymers in a life-cycle perspective 6. Polymers in a life cycle perspective for opportunities within sustainable develop7. Supply of materials and services 14 11 7. Supply of materials and services 8. Energy and climate ment. 7 8. Energy and climate 9. Safe and developing workplace Analyses of risks and opportunities, com9.10. Safe and stimulating humanworkplace bined with requirements and expectations 12 10. 11.Diversity, Diversity, rights rights human requirements from a range of stakeholders, provide the ba13 Sustainability from sis for the materiality analysis. This is based 15 investors requirements from 11. Sustainability 12.investors Engagement in society on sustainability reporting standards (GRI) 17 12. Environmental 13.Engagement impact of transport in society and provides the background for which areas Sustainability 14.Environmental 13. risksofduring impact transport are examined in greater detail in sustainabilacquisitionsrisks during acquisitions 14. Sustainability 15. Emissions to air and water, waste Medium ity reporting and which GRI indicators are 15. Emissions to air and water, waste used. The end of the report (pages 27–29) 16 16. External nuisance (noise, odor) 16. External disruption (noise, odour) contains a list of the GRI indicators to which Medium Significance for Nolato’s stakeholders High 17. Use of chemical products we refer. The chart shows the issues that were idenpriorities at a local level, we are generally in ers and politicians highlighting the issue of tified in 2018 as significant and our Sustainagreement that the materiality analysis prothe impact of plastics on the environment led ability Report describes how these issues are vides a fair overview of the areas to focus to an already prioritised area moving even managed and monitored. As a background on. We have made a few minor adjustments higher up the agenda (see also page 11).  to the overall materiality analysis, feedback to this year’s analysis that primarily relate to is regularly sought from the Group’s comthe area ‘plastics in a life cycle perspective’. panies. Although there may be different Mass media coverage, coupled with researchNolato’s Sustainability Work 2018 9 / 34 Value for stakeholders stakeholders are significant – and what they reviews with employees, customer satisfaction consider to be important – is based on experisurveys, analyst meetings and cooperation Nolato interacts with a number of stakeence and long-standing commercial relationwith customers, suppliers and contractors.  holder groups, which brings requirements ships, as well as events over the past financial and expectations in relation to sustainable year. Stakeholder engagement is carried out development. Our understanding of which in multiple ways and includes performance Overview of stakeholder engagement in 2018 Stakeholder Key issues, requirements and expectations Value created Nolato’s companies are affected by customer requirements regarding susIn 2018, customers carried out follow-ups at approximately 60% of the tainable development. These requirements include matters such as environGroup’s companies. The outcome was positive and the results were used mental management systems, prohibited chemical substances, conflict minto enhance the Group’s sustainability work and strengthen customer relaCustomers erals, environmental declarations, product labelling, code of conduct, and the tionships. The operations in China and Malaysia are certified as Sony Green fulfilment of specific legislation. Partners. Attractive employer – values, health, safety, pay, benefits, social conditions, We carried out performance reviews and provided training, professional wellbeing, development opportunities. development and health care. Preventive health and safety measures were prioritised and the frequency of accidents remained low. The Employee Employees Care Programme was further developed in China. During the year, Nolato paid SEK 1,645 million in wages to employees. Nolato endeavours to maintain long-term and transparent relationships with Suppliers have been informed of Nolato’s Code of Conduct and we expect suppliers. The aim is to ensure the right quality, financial stability and sustainthem to share the Group’s values. We assessed suppliers’ sustainabilable development for both parties. Suppliers expect consistent and clear reity work and conducted around 250 surveys and audits. Suppliers met the quirements. Group’s requirements to a satisfactory degree. In 2018, Nolato paid its supSuppliers pliers a total of SEK 5,757 million. Reduce risks, create business opportunities and demonstrate credible and Integration of sustainable development in strategies and day-to-day work forward-looking sustainability work. created value for shareholders. Use of the Sustainability Report allowed shareholders and potential investors to evaluate the Group’s sustainabilShareholders ity work. Over the last five years, the average dividend yield from Nolato’s shares was 3.8%. The share dividend is expected to amount to SEK 368 million. Social engagement is an important aspect of The Nolato Spirit and something Social engagement created trust and interest in Nolato. Contact with that is expected by local communities where the Group operates. As a global schools and universities helped attract future employees. The school procompany, we are expected to undertake measures that contribute to national ject in China was further developed. As a signatory to the UN Global ComSociety and global sustainable development goals. pact, Nolato contributed to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. In 2018, Nolato paid SEK 199 million in tax. Nolato’s Sustainability Work 2018 10 / 34 Targets and KPIs We work systematically using a long-term UN’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable DevelopThe table below provides an overview of approach with issues related to the environment and Sustainable Development Goals. how our work on these targets is developing ment, people and society. We believe this The production facilities work with local tarand how we evaluate our ability to achieve creates a benefit for society and the Group’s gets based on the UN Sustainable Developthem. Detailed information on emissions business operations. Several of the groupment Goals, primarily within the framework data and other parameters are presented in wide sustainability targets are linked to the of ISO 14001. other parts of the Sustainability Report.  Area Sustainable development goals Outcome More efficient energy use, and up until 2020 usage should decrease by u Work with energy audits continued during the year. Specific measures in20% compared with the average for 2011–2012. The groupwide KPI clude investments in more energy-efficient production equipment (electric is GWh/net sales and production units use locally adapted targets and injection moulding machines), infrastructure and lighting (LED bulbs). We beEnergy KPIs. lieve the target is achievable. A 20% reduction in emissions of the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide u Measures to reduce our carbon footprint are based on more efficient en(CO2) up to the year 2020 compared with the average for 2011–2012. ergy consumption, more environmentally sustainable transportation and the The target relates to CO2 emissions from energy consumption. The purchase of electricity from renewable sources. Opportunities to purchase Carbon emissions group-wide KPI is tonnes of CO2/net sales and there are also different ‘green energy’ are currently limited in certain countries. We believe the tartypes of local targets. get is achievable. Hazardous chemical substances should be identified and, where possiu Hazardous chemical substances should be identified and, where possible, phased out. The percentage of recycled and/or renewable raw mable, phased out. The percentage of recycled and/or renewable raw materials terials should increase. Nolato will take part in projects aimed at reducshould increase. Nolato will take part in projects aimed at reducing the enviChemicals, raw ing the environmental impact of existing or new products. ronmental impact of existing or new products. ­materials and environmentally sustainable products The amount of waste should continually decrease in relation to net u We are seeing a positive trend over the long term, with the percentage of sales. The percentage of recycled waste should increase. The Group’s waste disposed of in landfill declining and the percentage that is recycled units use their own targets regarding scrap and waste management. rising. This target is part of the Group’s continual improvement measures Waste and has no specific deadline. All units to be ISO 14001 certified. u All production units, with the exception of one facility that is in the start-up Acquired companies should be certified within two years. phase, are certified to ISO 14001 standard. Opportunities for achieving the target are considered to be very good. Environmental management systems The number of workplace accidents should be minimised with the longu The accident rate is low from an industrial perspective. In 2018, the KPI term targeting of zero occurrences. All units must have a functioning was 4.1 accidents with absence per million hours worked. Systems for resystem for registering and addressing near misses. This work should be cording near misses have been introduced and there are certified health and Safe conducted systematically, for example using certified management syssafety systems in place at five units. Continued technical and organisational workplaces tems relating to health and safety. initiatives are required to ultimately eliminate all accidents. There should be no cases of infringements of human rights, discriminap During the year, employee training was held on The Nolato Spirit. No castion or forced labour. Active information shall continue to be provided to es of infringements of human rights were recorded. Recruitment of people employees and new staff. with disabilities continued. The recruitment of more female managers is imHuman rights portant to Nolato. and gender equality There should be no cases of bribery, corruption or cartel formation. Conp Training, information and discussions are tools being used in anti-­ tinued active information to employees. corruption work. Senior executives participate in an online training session Anti-corruption focusing on business ethics. The Group has introduced a whistleblowing system and no events relating to corruption or inadequate business ethics were recorded during the year. Customer requirements regarding the environment and social responsip Evaluations and audits were carried out during the year at two-thirds bility should be met by a comfortable margin. of the production facilities. Customers were highly satisfied with Nolato’s ­efforts within sustainable development. Customers Improved evaluation of suppliers’ sustainability work. p In 2018, Group companies conducted roughly 250 evaluations of suppliers’ sustainability work. The suppliers satisfied Nolato’s requirements at an Suppliers acceptable or good level. Reporting must be in accordance with GRI and CDP guidelines. Nolato p Positive results from independent evaluations of our sustainability work. will continue to endorse the Global Compact. We aim to achieve good Transparent reporting of sustainability work via several different channels. Society, investors and results in evaluations by analysts and independent institutions through analysts transparent information in the field of sustainability. p The target was achieved u Positive trend, but work remains to achieve the target q Negative trend u Unchanged situation Nolato’s Sustainability Work 2018 11 / 34 Case study – the environmental impact of plastics Nolato, plastics and the environment Plastic materials make life easier for most people. Plastics have fantastic properties and it is possible to make almost anything from them. They are everywhere, and it is almost impossible to try and avoid them in everyday life. Usage is growing, and global annual production totals around 300 million tonnes, which is an increase of How interested are customers ? 100% in 15 years. We are seeing heightened interest among customers who use our packPlastics are often climate-smart and save energy. The fact that they aging for products such as cosmetics and dietary supplements. There is replace metals and other heavy materials in the automotive and aviaa marked interest in the automotive industry, where one key customer tion industries means a reduction in weight and fuel consumption, has established a target of all new vehicles containing 25% recycled and thus carbon dioxide emissions. In the construction industry, plastics by the year 2025. There is also growing interest among cusplastics are used as an insulation material, which is positive from an tomers in the hygiene and furniture sectors. We have a number of energy perspective. Plastics as packaging material in retail reduce ongoing or initiated projects with such customers. Interest within weights and fuel consumption. pharmaceuticals and medical devices is less pronounced. This is most However, there is another side to the coin and plastics are associatlikely to do with the fact that it is costly and complicated to register ed with several environmental problems. They can contain hazardous changes in technical specifications with the pharmaceutical regulatory additives that can cause harm to people and the environment. The authorities. majority of plastics are made from fossil crude oil – a non-renewable raw material that has a negative climate impact. One particular enWhat is bioplastic and is it biodegradable? vironmental problem that has come to the fore in recent years is Bioplastic is a concept that is being increasingly used, but that can contamination of our oceans. It is mainly caused by plastic used in have many meanings. consumer products with a short lifespan in countries with underdeBioplastic is a plastic that is entirely or partially based on renewable veloped collection and recycling systems. Large quantities of plastic raw material. However, the concept says nothing about how much rubbish end up in the ocean, where it can take hundreds of years to of the plastic comes from renewable material. Is it the polymer, filler, break down. plasticiser and/or the other components that are renewable? Bioplastics can be made from alcohols and acids that are found in What is Nolato’s view of plastics in the environment? nature, for example it is possible to make polyethylene from ethanol, We share the view that plastics have both positive and negative qualiwhich comes from sugarcane. In practice, a monomer is taken from a ties from an environmental perspective. We use somewhere in the biorefinery and polymerised using the same technique as when making region of 42,000 tonnes of plastic a year and we make products that fossil-based plastics. However, issues relating to the environment and have both a long and a short lifespan. Long-lasting products are used health and safety when growing the sugarcane and other plants are as components in items such as vehicles, mobile phones, household still important in assessments from a life cycle perspective. appliances and medical devices. Most of the time there are efficient Bioplastics can also be made from macromolecules from the plant systems in place for collecting and recycling the plastic in products kingdom, for example polysaccharides, proteins and lignin. Cellulosesuch as these. Short-lived products include pharmaceutical packagbased plastics have been around for some time, but unfortunately the ing, single-use products within health care and certain other types of manufacturing processes are not particularly good for people or the packaging. Much of this packaging is recycled, but we cannot rule environment. out the possibility of some of it ending up littering the environment. The fact that a plastic is based on a biological material does not necessarily mean that it breaks down easily in the natural environment. What is Nolato doing to reduce the environmental There are fossil plastics that are easily biodegradable and bioplastics impact of plastics? that are difficult to break down. We have taken action to reduce or completely phase out the use of hazardous additives in the plastic. This move is driven by chemicals So which way is Nolato heading? legislation and clear customer requirements, and is a process that will Our choices are made in cooperation with our customers, but in ormost likely continue for several years. We are following developments der to achieve commercial success we need to have a good knowledge closely. of different environmentally sustainable materials. Nolato Jaycare Another example of environmental adaptation is cutting the prois a forerunner and has evaluated bio-based plastics from sugar in portion of fossil raw materials used in the product. For example, we its production technologies. It is an excellent material, and projects have developed pharmaceutical packaging in which reduced weight are underway with several customers. Other customers are showing generates environmental benefit while bringing costs down. Increasgreater interest in recycled plastic, and there are a number of interesting the content of the filler material chalk is also a solution that is ing projects happening here too. There are plenty of opportunities, but being applied in a number of products. We use roughly 640 tonnes of of course there are also risks involved in replacing raw materials. For recycled plastic. example, risks could relate to technical specifications, costs and access to the raw materials.  Nolato’s Sustainability Work 2018 12 / 34 Environmental responsibility Technologies and environmental aspects for medical devices such as autoinjectors, EU directives (REACH, RoHS, CLP, WEEE, Nolato develops and manufactures products for which assembly is performed on a fully energy efficiency, sustainability reporting), in polymer materials such as plastic, silicone automated basis at high volumes. or other national or international legislation, and TPE for customers within medical techPost-processing – We provide comporelate in the main to the Group’s operations nology, pharmaceuticals, consumer electronnents with the desired finish through and products. About two-thirds of the units ics, telecom, automotive and other selected painting, decoration and metallisation are covered by legislation concerning proindustrial sectors. We manufacture everyof components for products like mobile ducer responsibility for packaging. In most thing from individual components, which phones and medical devices. cases, regular reports are submitted to the the customer assembles in its own product, environmental authorities, and the supervito complete products that are ready for deThe manufacture of products in polymer sory authorities carry out inspections. No livery to a customer’s client. We also develop materials is associated with a number of breaches of environmental legislation were and manufacture our own products, such as significant environmental aspects. Some exregistered in 2018. pharmaceutical packaging. amples include the use of materials (plastics, silicone rubber, metals), chemicals (solvents, Environmental management systems Production technologies include: varnish, paints), energy and water. Emissions The ISO 14001 environmental management Injection moulding – Technology for manof greenhouse gases and solvents (VOC), system standard was introduced in 1996, ufacturing components from plastic, silialong with the occurrence of various types and Nolato had its first plant certified to the cone, TPE and ceramics to highly precise of waste, are other key environmental issues. standard in 1997. Since then this environdimensions and stringent quality requireIndirect environmental aspects relating to mental standard has been a key element of ments. Our most common production products, packaging and transportation are our sustainable development strategy and technology. also significant. In the Group, the ISO 14001 systematic approach, as the environmental Injection blow moulding – Technology for environmental management system is a valuaudits and certification create confidence manufacturing plastic containers and botable tool as part of efforts to systematically among the Group’s stakeholders. All units, tles. We use this method for the manufacreduce our environmental impact. with the exception of one company in China ture of pharmaceutical packaging. that is in the start-up phase, are certified. Extrusion – Technology for the production Environmental legislation Internal and external environmental audits of tubing and other tubular products. This Nolato’s companies are subject to extensive are conducted to check that environmental technique is used to manufacture items legal requirements relating to the environmanagement systems meet ISO 14001 resuch as surgical instruments and urine ment. This concerns both overarching legisquirements. Nolato has around 119 (137) catheters, as well as EMC shielding gaslation and specific terms for each business. internal environmental auditors, who conkets. We use ISO 14001 to identify applicable ducted 137 (106) environmental audits last Dip moulding – Technology for the prolegislation and our companies implement the year. The facilities were reviewed by external duction of flexible, airtight latex rubber relevant measures. From a strategic perspecauditors on 21 (20) occasions. All certified products. This is used to manufacture tive, it is important to evaluate the risks and facilities have now updated the environmenitems such as catheter balloons and opportunities of future legislation, and the tal management system to the latest version breathing bags. Group does this by participating in networks (ISO 14001:2015). Die-cutting – Technology for producing and through regular contact with various flat products from one or more materials authorities. Percentage of production units and for providing effective joining of comAll production units in Sweden apart from 100 ponents and electronics. We use die-cutting one are obliged to provide notifications pur80 60 for manufacturing adhesive, gaskets, seals suant to the Swedish Environmental Code. 40 and cosmetic details for customers in the Most of the Group’s units outside Sweden 20 telecom, automotive, medical technology require permits or are covered by similar 0 and electronics industries. requirements in accordance with environISO OHSAS ISO ISO Andra Other 14001 18001/ 50001 9001 cert. certificates EMC shielding – Techniques and materials mental legislation in the country in question. ISO 45001 developed to achieve electromagnetic comSales from operations with permit requirepatibility, i.e. to prevent disruption from ments and notification obligations make up All companies apart from one are certified electromagnetic radiation between electhe majority of the Group’s net sales. Routo requirements in the ISO 9001 quality astronic components. Radio base stations tine updates to the environmental permits surance system. Over 75% of units are also are an example of a customer product that will be carried out at five plants in 2019. In certified in accordance with standards for uses EMC shielding. a couple of cases, these updates are required the automotive industry (ISO/TS 16949), Assembly – Assembly of components to due to an expansion of operations. We do medical technology (ISO 13485) or other create a complete product or subsystem. not anticipate any significant legal or finanstandards. At many of the plants, the various This may take place on a fully automated, cial consequences as a result of the renewal management systems are entirely or partly semiautomated or fully manual basis. of these environmental permits. integrated into the overall operational sysAutomated assembly is mainly carried out Environmental legislation in the form of tem.  Nolato’s Sustainability Work 2018 13 / 34 The health and safety management system Energy consumption (OHSAS 18001) has been introduced at Energy GWh GWh/SEKm 5 (6) units. The standard was replaced in Energy is consumed by production equip200 0.07 2018 by ISO 45001, and seven companies ment, lighting, ventilation, cooling, transport, 175 0.06 are planning to introduce the new standard. purification facilities and heating. Nolato 150 0.05 Two units at UK-based Nolato Jaycare are mainly uses indirect energy in the form of 125 certified under the ISO 50001 energy manelectricity (85%) and district heating (10%). 0.04 100 agement standard. The ISO 26000 social Some units use fuel oil, natural gas or pro0.03 responsibility standard provides a guideline pane for heating and running purification 75 0.02 for our group-wide sustainability work. This equipment. The use of fuel oil accounts for 50 standard is based on seven fundamental around 1% of total energy consumption 25 0.01 principles and describes how an organisation and is decreasing gradually. Fuel oil is be0 0.00 can work with environmental issues, social ing replaced by heat pumps or biofuel. Fos2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 responsibility and ethics. sil fuels account for approximately 5% and Total Group energy consumption, GWh Consumption divided by sales, GWh/SEKm purchased ‘green electricity’ for 53% (46) of total energy consumption. Energy consumption amounted to 182 GWh (188) in 2018 and the key performance indicator, which places energy use in relation to sales, has shown a declining trend since Buildings and lighting – The use of surplus 2011. The cost of energy was approximately heat from equipment to heat premises and SEK 137 million (136). Measures aimed at warehouse buildings at Nolato Contour. boosting energy efficiency include: At the same plant, the roof was painted Energy audits – Energy audits in accordwith paint that reflects the sunlight, imance with the EU energy efficiency direcproving the indoor environment and retive have been performed at 10 units. The ducing energy consumption. The installainvestigations reveal that there are opportion of systems for free cooling is reducing tunities for saving energy, for example by energy consumption at Nolato Hungary. optimising ventilation, cooling, lighting Lighting is also being extensively replaced and compressed air. Nolato is carrying out with LED bulbs. Installation of movement cost-effective measures and thee units are sensors for lighting. Installation of electricplanning to conduct audits over the next ity meters at strategic points in buildings. few years. To cut consumption of fuel oil, Nolato Energy-efficient equipment and processes Lövepac expanded capacity in the heat – The change from hydraulic injection pump system. moulding machines to electrical machines Training and engagement – Measures to increases energy efficiency and reduces the minimise scrap and production reruns, handling of hydraulic oils. The change was which also reduces energy consumption. implemented during the year at Nolato Training and close monitoring of energy Cerbo, Nolato Plastteknik and Nolato consumption gets employees involved in Polymer. The dipping robot at Nolato saving energy. MediTor continues to generate significant  energy savings. Production planning to gain maximum efficiency from equipment and the turning off of equipment when not in use. Shorter cycle times for presses reduces energy consumption. This also applies to variable-frequency control of electric pump motors of production equipment at Nolato Jaycare. Optimised production planning meant that it was possible to close down one of the painting plants at Nolato Beijing. ISO 50001 – The certified energy management system (ISO 50001) at UK units is highlighting energy efficiency. Nolato’s Sustainability Work 2018 14 / 34 Changes to production and reduced enCarbon dioxide emissions, CO2 Atmospheric emissions ergy requirements at the largest plant in Tonnes Tonnes/SEKm China resulted in a decline in carbon diox70,000 21 Greenhouse gas emissions ide emissions of around 10,000 tonnes. 60,000 18 Nolato’s emissions of the greenhouse gas Nolato Jaycare in the UK has signed a 50,000 15 carbon dioxide are caused by energy connational climate change agreement to sumption, transportation of raw matericounteract climate change. The agreement 40,000 12 als and finished products, and an array of covers energy-intensive industry and, by 30,000 9 indirect activities among our suppliers and reducing energy usage, participating com20,000 6 customers. Reporting of emissions primarpanies can receive reduced charges under ily includes direct and indirect energy cona system in the UK known as the Climate 10,000 3 sumption. Emissions from transport, busiChange Levy. 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 ness travel, suppliers and users of Nolato’s products are not immaterial and amount to Other atmospheric emissions Group CO 2 emissions, tonnes Emissions divided by sales, tonnes/SEKm a couple of thousand tonnes a year for the The use of more than 90 tonnes (360) of Swedish business. paints and solvents resulted in emissions of In 2018, Nolato’s production plants emitaround 26 tonnes (55) of VOCs (volatile ted 36,600 tonnes (48,900) of CO2, less organic compounds). The majority of these than 4% of which was caused by the direct substances are used for the painting of mouse of fossil fuels. Other emissions mainly bile phones and other products in Beijing. arose from the production of electricity and Effective purification equipment, which was district heating in the countries in which we installed in 2015, combined with adjustoperate. Countries such as China, the US ments to the product range have resulted in and Poland use coal extensively for electricVOC emissions now ending up at around ity production, causing significant carbon 6 tonnes/year. The measures to improve air dioxide emissions, which has a major impact quality in Beijing are appreciated by local on the Group’s carbon footprint. This mainly environmental authorities. The production of applies to our operations in China. The situbreathing bags at Nolato MediTor currently ation regarding Nolato’s carbon footprint is accounts for the largest source of VOC emisaffected by a number of factors, such as the sions. Around 19 tonnes of gaseous ethanol following: was released into the atmosphere during the The businesses in Sweden, the UK and year. Hungary are reducing indirect CO2 emisThere are just over 3.1 tonnes (3.1) of sions by roughly 20,000 tonnes a year by ozone-depleting substances (HFCs; F-gases) purchasing fossil-free electricity. in air-conditioning and other equipment at Our carbon footprint is decreasing as a rearound 10 production units. A minor leakage sult of measures to boost energy efficiency, occurred during the year, which correspondincluding energy audits and the introduced to less than half a percent of the installed tion of ISO 50001. And the phasing-out of amount. Emissions of sulfur dioxide and fuel oil and installation of heat pumps or nitric oxides remained low and amounted to the use of biofuel is also helping reduce the 3 tonnes (3). Emissions of dust and malodorcarbon footprint. ous substances are negligible, and no comOther measures concern reduced scrap, plaints were received during the year. better waste management, the purchase of  more fuel-efficient vehicles, increased use of teleconferences and improved logistics. Nolato’s Sustainability Work 2018 15 / 34 R  aw materials and chemicals Water issues Water consumption m3 m 3 /SEKm Production processes used around 42,500 Nolato’s facilities use municipal water for 200,000 50 (39,000) tonnes of polymer materials in purification equipment, some production 2018. More than 97% consisted of plastics processes, cleaning, sanitation and cooling. 160,000 40 and the rest of synthetic rubber. This involves In 2018, 146,300 m3 (177,900) of water was silicone and latex rubber used in medical used at a cost of around SEK 2.3 million 120,000 30 devices. Other materials used, amounting to (2.9). around 1,500 tonnes (1,900) per year, are Plants have systems in place to reduce wa80,000 20 paints, solvents and metals. ter consumption, such as closed cooling waFor a number of the Group’s products, ter systems for injection moulding machines 40,000 10 the customer requires the polymer to consist and other equipment. Nevertheless, there are of virgin raw materials. This mainly applies some production processes in which water 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 to pharmaceutical packaging and mediconsumption is high. This mainly applies to Total water consumption for the Group, m3 cal devices. Some customers are expressing the manufacture of latex rubber breathing Consumption divided by sales, m3 /SEKm interest in recycled plastic, for example for bags in Torekov, which accounts for around components for vehicles, furniture and gar16% of total water usage. den equipment, as well as for packaging for Nolato in Beijing has several thousand dietary supplements. The amount of recycled employees, and this is reflected by the fact plastic used during the year was approxithat the business accounts for just over mately 640 tonnes (400) and customer pro40% of the Group’s water consumption. jects are underway with the aim of increasing The city of Beijing has been identified as the proportion of recycled materials. We are a water shortage area and the company is also seeing interest in reducing polymer usundertaking various measures to reduce its age in some products, which is beneficial water consumption. This relates to involvboth in terms of cost and environmental iming personnel, identifying leaks, repairing pact. Nolato has an express aim of increasing leaking equipment and checking that water its use of renewable raw materials and recyis not being used when equipment and premcled raw materials (see page 6). ises are not in use. Changes to production One environmental aspect that concerns at the plant meant that water consumption most of the Group’s companies is customer declined by around 40% in 2018 compared requirements for products to not contain cerwith the previous year. tain hazardous chemical substances. In adThe amounts of pollutants discharged to dition, there is continued substantial interest wastewater are limited and consist mainly of in the issue of conflict minerals (see Glossary sanitary water. All production units are conand Definitions). Chemical substances that nected to municipal wastewater treatment are identified by customers, and/or that have plants. Emissions of wastewater are not norbeen identified as candidates for risk reducmally expected to result in any environmention under REACH chemical legislation are a tal impact. One exception is certain chemipriority. In practice this means that a limited cal substances used at Nolato MediTor in number of chemical substances are subject Torekov, which previously had an effect on to phasing-out or other risk reduction measthe purification processes of the municipal ures. These include, for example, softening wastewater treatment plant. A research prophthalates and silicone rubber, which conject in collaboration with Lund University tains cyclic siloxanes. Continual activities Faculty of Engineering, which was completed are being undertaken to reduce risks associin 2018, was able to identify and rectify the ated with chemical substances, and during problems. the year around 10 chemical products were  substituted with alternatives that are better for the environment and health. Nolato’s Sustainability Work 2018 16 / 34 Waste Transport Waste tonnes tonnes/SEKm Approximately 7,300 tonnes (6,500) of We work continually to reduce the environ7,500 2.0 waste was generated in 2018. The increase mental impact of the transportation of goods in the amount of waste is mainly attributand business travel. Here are some examples 6,000 1.6 able to increased production and a number of action taken: of construction projects. Around 49% (54) Central procurement of transport services 4,500 1.2 of waste was recycled as materials and 28% in Sweden incorporates sustainability (21) as energy. Landfill disposal of waste criteria, including access to emissions 3,000 0.8 remains at a low level, amounting to around data for CO2, NOx, SO2 and other air 5% (8) of the total amount. From an envipollutants. In China too, Nolato places 1,500 0.4 ronmental perspective, it is positive that the environmental requirements on transport 0 0.0 percentage of waste disposed of in landfill is firms and asks that they use environmen2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 decreasing and the percentage being recycled tally certified vehicles. In the UK, the main Group waste, tonnes is increasing. This is the result of more decarrier used is a company registered under Waste divided by sales, tonnes/SEKm manding legislation in many countries, but the Fleet Operator Recognition Scheme ultimately relates to a range of preventive (FORS). This is a scheme that covers legal measures introduced at Nolato’s facilities. An compliance, safety, efficiency and environISO 14001-based approach, lean manufacmental protection. turing and 5S are important tools to reduce Many Group companies make use of opscrap and the occurrence of waste. Hazardportunities for video and online conferencous waste accounted for 5% (7). External ing. waste management costs amounted to SEK When changing vehicles and company cars 6.3 million (5.5). Nolato chooses low-emissions models, such as hybrids. Many of the Group’s companies are optimising transportation, including through higher fill ratios in trucks, coordinated transport and environmentally optimised routes. Nolato MediTor is working on approving Nolato Stargard in Poland as a direct supplier to a customer in Germany. This reduces shipments by an estimated 7,000 km a year. Several of the companies use rail or boat as an alternative means of transportation to truck or plane. Bulk handling instead of handling material in sacks reduces the number of shipments. Intelligent packaging solutions by Nolato Jaycare are cutting the number of shipments between the UK and Italy.  Nolato’s Sustainability Work 2018 17 / 34 Products with for use in garden equipment. The outdoor packaging for products such as dietary environmental benefits product ‘Light My Fire’ uses 20–70% biosupplements. The products were presented material. during the year at one of Europe’s major Together with customers, we contribute Nolato Gota and Nolato Lövepac manupackaging trade fairs, and several customconcept development, design, choice of mafacture components for Volvo Cars’ Driveers expressed interest in ‘green plastic’. terials, structure, prototypes, production E generation of engines. These engines Nolato Lövepac has developed eco-friendmoulds, high-volume production and postare around 20% more efficient than their ly traps for bedbugs. Instead of pesticide processing. The environmental performance predecessors. Nolato Gota uses more than they use strips with dark cavities that atof products has become an increasingly im600 tonnes of recycled plastic in some of tract bedbugs, which are then killed off portant competitive factor. For Nolato, this its products. when exposed to the natural material applies to everything from mobile phones, Plastics are replacing other materials in silicon dioxide, found in algae. vehicle components, domestic appliances and vehicles, household appliances and chainchainsaws, to pharmaceutical packaging and saws. This results in reduced weight and medical devices. Below are some examples of fuel consumption. Accidents and complaints ongoing projects and existing products: Nolato Jaycare in Portsmouth in the UK A project is underway at Nolato Plastmanufactures containers for handling hazThere were no cases of accidents or unconteknik to replace aluminium with plastic ardous clinical waste (Sharpak). The aim is trolled environmental emissions in 2018. in vehicle components. A project has been to establish Sharpak as the first choice for Two complaints from local residents regardlaunched in cooperation with a significant clinical waste management globally. ing noise levels and light were recorded.  customer, which aims to substitute plastic Nolato MediTor’s environmentally optiin packaging with bio-based and recycled mised breathing bags use less polymer maplastics. terial and have a smaller carbon footprint. Nolato MediTor is validating a completed The company also offers phthalate-free project in which the content of PP plastic breathing bags. in certain applications has been reduced by Nolato Jaycare in Newcastle has tested almost 40%; a change that offers benefits production using fossil-free polyethylene from both an environmental and logistics plastic, which is a raw material produced perspective. from sugarcane. This bio-based plastic Nolato Beijing is working on a number of works perfectly in all the company’s proprojects relating to increasing the use of duction processes. recycled raw materials. The company is Nolato Cerbo produces pharmaceutical also examining opportunities to use fewer packaging (SC Light Caps) with smaller types of material in the same product. amounts of plastic and therefore a smaller Nolato Polymer has tested a raw material carbon footprint. The company has carthat contains 70% bio-based materials ried out tests using bio-based plastics for Nolato’s Sustainability Work 2018 18 / 34 Social responsibility Employees Gender equality and Average no. employees The average number of employees at Nolato combatting discrimination in 2018 was 6,449 (7,249). Of the total numThe gender equality policy is an integral part 9,000 ber of employees in the Group, 46% (45) of Nolato’s Code of Conduct and day-to8,000 were women. All units are wholly owned by day activities in this area are delegated to 7,000 Nolato and comply fully with the guidelines the management of local companies. Gender 6,000 in Nolato’s Basic Principles and Code of equality measures are conducted according 5,000 Conduct. The practical work relating to perto the gender equality plans of the Group’s 4,000 sonnel issues in the Group is decentralised. companies and includes activities aimed at 3,000 This means each individual Group company creating a balance between men and women 2,000 is responsible for managing issues in a way in employment and career development, as 1,000 that complies with both Group guidelines well as measures that create opportunities 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 and the legislation and culture of the country for people with disabilities. Formal gender in question. equality plans are in place at around twoIn Beijing, China, where the Group has its thirds of units and over the year 10 units inEmployees by business area largest workplace with around 52% (66) of troduced measures to promote gender equalits employees, an Employee Care Programme ity, for example relating to recruitment. Industrial Solutions Medical Solutions was introduced and further developed in In 2018, 46% (45) of Nolato employees 17% 23% 2018. The total figure for the average numwere women. The balance between the number of employees includes staff in China who ber of men and women varies from country are employed through staffing agencies. This to country, and in Sweden, the UK and Switform of employment has mainly been chosen zerland there is a predominance of male staff. to make it easier for the business to recruit In Hungary, China, Poland and Romania a workforce for various projects and consethere is a predominance of women. Of NoIntegrated Solutions 60% quently avoid creating its own large recruitlato’s Board members, 30% (30) are women, ment organisation. In accordance with the while the corresponding figure for Group Group’s Code of Conduct, these employees management is 0% (0). At the production Employees by country are covered according to the same princiunits, 31 (29) of other senior executives are ples as Nolato’s other employees in China women, which corresponds to an average of Hungary with regard to the setting of wages, benefits, 23% (20). The recruitment of female man11% working hours, work environment, social agers continues to be an important issue for UK Sweden 4% responsibility, etc. Nolato. 16% Switzerland 3% In accordance with the undertakings in US Code of Conduct provides guidance the Code of Conduct, we work to combat all 4% Other Nolato’s Code of Conduct provides clear discrimination. One target group is people 5% guidance on how the Group’s business prinwith disabilities, and these employees are ciples and values should be put into practice. treated the same as other employees. PeoIt can be viewed as an ethical compass to be ple with disabilities work at units in Beijing China followed by all staff, irrespective of work(China), Gothenburg (Sweden), Newcastle 57% place and function. The Code applies to (UK) and Mosonmagyaróvár (Hungary). Nolato’s Board members and contract-based Nolato’s work in Hungary has received sigstaff as well. The Code of Conduct also sets nificant attention and has been recognised out what we expect of our suppliers in terms with awards. of responsible business practice. Whistleblowing Everybody has the right of representation In order to quickly alert the company to All Nolato employees have the right to be breaches of the Group’s Code of Conduct or represented by trade unions, and to collective other serious irregularities, employees can agreements. In Sweden and China, the masound the alarm regarding any irregularities jority of employees are covered by collective without risk of reprisals or pressure (whistleagreements. At the units in other countries, blowing). No such cases were reported in there are no unions or collective agreements, 2018. and this reflects a normal situation in these  countries. Nolato’s Sustainability Work 2018 19 / 34 Training and personal development involves both technical improvements and Causes of occupational accidents Nolato offers management development training. Formal safety committees are in courses, as well as a large number of speplace at 90% of units, covering essentially cific training courses on quality, technology, all employees. An important aspect of this Falls/Slips our Code of Conduct and health and safety. systematic work is the introduction of health 84% New employees are an important target and safety management systems Machinery group for information and training meas(OHSAS 18001). Five (six) units are cur11% ures. In 2018, employees attended a total of rently certified and a further six are planLifting, etc. 154,000 (341,000) hours of training, which ning certification over the next year or so. 3% Other equates to approximately 24 (47) hours per With the recent publication of ISO 45001, 2% employee. The fall in the number of training a number of units are deferring certification hours is down to the fact that the number of and will opt for the international health and temporary staff at the Group’s largest plant safety standard. With regard to health and Occupational accidents in China was significantly reduced during safety, 8 (8) units were inspected by occupathe year. tional environment authorities during the Year 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 During the year, around 2,308 (2,380) emyear. Some minor deviations were noted and LWC* 47 47 63 36 43 ployees participated in performance reviews, these have been rectified. LWC per 4.1 3.7 5.0 2.3 2.9 career development or other assessments of In 2018, there were 47 (47) lost work employee their own work. Employee surveys are carcases (LWCs), which resulted in a total of ried out regularly at a number of the Group’s 453 (564) days of absence. We recorded one units. In most cases, they are performed accident concerning contractors. The most LWD** 453 564 447 405 929 every year or every other year, and during the common reasons were falls and injury from LWD per 40 45 35 27 62 year 11 (10) surveys were conducted. Overequipment and machinery. Over a five-year employee all, the work atmosphere was deemed to be period the accident rate averages 3.6 accigood and a number of improvements were dents resulting in absence per million hours suggested by employees. worked. This is low from an industrial perWe carry out special initiatives in China to spective, but additional measures remain * LWC = Lost Work Case (absence ≥ 1 day) ** LWD = Lost Work Day attract, retain and develop both permanent to be implemented for all accidents to be and temporary employees. These activities ultimately eliminated. Systems for recording come under the umbrella of the Employee near misses have been further developed and Care Programme, which includes activities during the year 734 (689) near misses were concerning health, safety, sports, lifestyle investigated and corrective and preventive and language tuition. The programme also action taken. includes employee surveys, which are supTraining courses on the environment and plemented by a forum that enables employhealth and safety are part of our preventive ees to regularly express their views to the work and an average of 7.7 hours (5.8) per company’s CEO. E-learning is widely used employee were spent on these courses. New and the system contains 400 modules on employees were an important target group. lean manufacturing, quality management, Training on first aid, chemical health risks, safety, project management and other areas. personal protective equipment, hot work, During the year, 451 employees participated forklift driving, fire safety, ergonomics and for more than 17,000 hours in these online machine safety is provided frequently. training courses. Personnel activities also Nolato Hungary received the Disabled extend to an e-book lending service, English Friendly Workplace Award for its initiatives language instruction and various courses in regarding employees with disabilities.  engineering, quality management and leadership. A recurring activity is the trip to central Beijing. Some 1,400 employees took part in the Beijing One Day Tour in 2018. Health and safety Our preventive health and safety measures are implemented systematically. We identify risks and the causes of incidents and accidents and take appropriate action. This Nolato’s Sustainability Work 2018 20 / 34 Business partners and other stakeholders Application of sound business ethics for the year shows that the Group’s compawhich Lövepac Converting, Nolato Beijing In accordance with the principles of Nolato’s nies are working on issues of business ethics and Nolato Malaysia have qualified. Code of Conduct and the tenth principle of at the same ambitious level as in previous As part of these requirements from custhe Global Compact, our business princiyears. No cases of bribery, corruption or cartomers, Nolato is expected to pass corples should be characterised by integrity and tel formation were recorded in 2018. responding requirements along its supply responsibility. The Code of Conduct states chain. This is done by informing supplithat: Interaction with customers and suppliers ers about Nolato’s Code of Conduct and Nolato does not offer gifts, benefits or payNolato’s customers operate in industries specification requirements, as well as differments that could influence, or be regarded in which issues regarding the environment, ent types of monitoring. Over the year, we as influencing, the objectivity of the recipihealth and safety and ethics have a high carried out 247 (235) reviews of suppliers ents’ decisions or that breach legislation priority. This applies to sectors such as autowith a focus on sustainable development. and/or local practice. motive, food, telecom and pharmaceuticals. Around 200 of the reviews were based on Nolato avoids situations in which comRequirements on us as a cooperation partner questionnaires and 44 cases involved formal pany loyalty could come into conflict with are increasing and monitoring is becoming audits. These reviews did not identify any personal interests. increasingly efficient. Customer requirements risks relating to the environment and social Nolato complies with competition law and are making a constructive contribution to the responsibility that cannot be managed, but promotes fair competition. development of Nolato’s sustainability work. we did identify a number of areas that need Nolato ensures that all staff can raise conIn 2018, virtually all units reported customer improvement. cerns about irregularities within the comrequirements within sustainable developAssessments of suppliers’ sustainability pany without the risk of personal consement (see table). Requirements shift over the measures are extensive and time-consuming. quences (whistleblowing). years and are affected by changes such as the We therefore apply a risk-based model for introduction of new legislation and new apselecting suppliers for review. The detailed For a global company, these matters are comproaches to sustainable development within criteria for which suppliers are selected varplex and the perception of normal business the corporate sector. ies among the Group’s companies, but it is principles varies between countries and culDuring the year, 13 (16) of the Group’s usually new suppliers, key suppliers, or suptures. The Group uses the following methods units were reviewed by customers from pliers with particular risks that are selected for governance and monitoring of the applia range of sectors. This involves a signififor follow-up. A substantial proportion of cation of sound business ethics: cant number of questionnaires and audits. Nolato’s suppliers consist of global groups Nolato’s Code of Conduct applies to all Overall, customers were very satisfied with in the polymer and chemical industry. These employees and Group company manage­Nolato’s efforts, but some expressed a desire types of companies often have well-develment teams are responsible for conveying to see improvements, such as certain phthaoped and transparent sustainability activities the values in their organisation. late-free medical device products. In addiand the risks are consequently considered to We monitor costs, expenditure and revtion to review systems, some customers have be low. We therefore do not carry out deenues on an ongoing basis. established systems under which suppliers tailed assessments of such companies. We pay particular attention to ethical isqualify for sustainable development certifica sues in our relationships with our parttion. One example is Sony Green Partner, for ners. Standard business practice must be observed in each individual country, but Percentage of units that report customer requirements if business principles do not comply with Nolato’s Code of Conduct, we must refrain Customer requirements Percentage of units that report from doing business or take alternative customer sustainability requirements (%) relevant actions. 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Introduce environmental management 67 55 67 55 53 Senior managers and personnel in sales and ­systems marketing must complete an online course in Phase out hazardous chemicals 38 32 38 40 42 business ethics. Using the Global Compact Compliance with REACH and RoHS 71 96 71 30 37 checklists, we conduct annual evaluations of Product-related environmental information 48 32 52 65 53 what measures companies take to counteract bribery. The assessment for 2018 shows that Compliance with customer’s code of con71 64 71 75 79 duct/CR requirements this work is governed by Nolato’s Code of Conflict minerals 76 82 80 80 58 Conduct and the companies are continuing to actively combat corruption. An assessment Other requirements 57 27 24 25 10 Nolato’s Sustainability Work 2018 21 / 34 Investors Contributions made in 2018 included also actively participates in organisations Nolato’s sustainability work is analysed regquilts, coats, food and support for families operating within science, engineering and ularly by investors and other organisations. in particular need. the plastics industry. The Group is still approved under Swedbank More than half of units were in contact Nolato Plastteknik is involved as a guest Robur’s responsible investment criteria. with schools and universities, includlecturer on lean manufacturing at Chalming through study visits and internships. ers University of Technology. The students Social engagement Nolato MediTor participates in the Engivisit the company as part of the course. Nolato engages with those local communities neering Courses of the Future (‘Framtidens Nolato Malaysia supported the ‘Engineerwhere we have operations. It is important teknikutbildningar’) network. Nolato ing Leadership’ conference at the Univerfor Nolato to maintain contact with uniMediTech is participating in the ARKAD sity of Science, Malaysia (USM). versities and schools and demonstrate that project at Lund University Faculty of EngiIn Hungary, the employment of staff with Nolato is an attractive employer. This may neering. different types of disability continued. take the form of family days, ‘open house’ Nolato MediTech presented Nolato’s susEmployment has provided people with days, study visits, workplace degree projects, tainability work at Swedbank’s Närings­ visual and hearing impairments with a employment fairs for applicants, internships livsdag in Ängelholm, an annual meeting better quality of life, and they are making and development projects. Below are some for businesses. an excellent contribution to the company’s examples: Nolato Cerbo celebrated its 70th anniverwork. Our units in China and elsewhere Nolato provides financial support for sary with a family day and open house. also employ people with disabilities. schools, health care, sports associations Roughly 250 people visited the plant. The Nolato Stargard organised an eco-excurand social activities, and in many cases our company participates in the City of Trollsion for employees and their families. involvement is long-term and Group emhättan’s ‘TOPP’ project focusing on basic Nolato Jaycare in Portsmouth regularly ployees contribute in different ways. One training. participates in a breakfast network on sussuch project is Building Hope Together in Nolato Contour is involved in organisatainable development, together with other China, which for the past six years has intions that aim to develop the local labour companies. volved us helping a school in a poor area, market. The company offered study visits, Over the year, Nolato continued its colaround four hours’ drive north of Beijing. internships and help with career planning. laboration with Lund University’s InternaThe pupils live at the school as their parThe initiatives related to both school putional Institute for Industrial Environmenents work in various locations in China. pils and university students. The company tal Economics (IIIEE).  Nolato’s Sustainability Work 2018 22 / 34 Financial responsibility Record year with Financial highlights strong financial position Consolidated sales rose by 21% to SEK SEKm (unless otherwise specified) 2018 2017 2016 8,102 million (6,720) in 2018, which was the Net sales 8,102 6,720 4,447 highest level of sales ever in Nolato’s hisOperating profit (EBITA) 949 763 457 EBITA margin, % 11.7 11.4 10.3 tory. The Group’s operating profit (EBITA) Profit after financial income and expenses 921 731 438 increased sharply to SEK 949 million (763). Return on capital employed, % 29.7 26.6 20.6 The EBITA margin was a strong 11.7% Return on shareholders’ equity, % 30.4 29.4 19.0 (11.4). Equity/assets ratio, % 50 45 47 Basic earnings per share, SEK 27.44 21.74 12.77 Sustainable development Dividend per share (2018 proposal) 14.00 12.50 10.50 and financial performance Average number of employees 6,449 7,249 6,418 In 2018, Nolato invested SEK 38.7 million (15.2) in measures that directly or indirectly help reduce environmental impact and improve health and safety. Just over 80% of the investments related to energy measures, Environmental investments Environmental costs primarily more energy-efficient production Avfallshantering Waste management equipment. Around 13% went on preventive Energy efficiency Energieffektivisering 81 % 34 % 34% 81% health and safety initiatives. Environmental costs amounted to SEK 18.1 million (18.2) and were dominated by Administration Administration Authority charges Avgifter myndighet 5% 5% 30% 30 % operating expenses for purification facilities, Externa tjänster External services 6% 6% waste management, internal administration Health & Safety ISO 14001 14001 ++OHSAS Arbetsmiljö ISO OHSAS18001 18001 and fees to authorities and certification com12% 13 % 7% 7% Avfallshantering Waste manageDrift av reningsanläggningar Purification facilities panies. Environmental improvement meas2 % 2% ment 18 % operation 18% Övrigt investments ures during the year generated cost savings of Other 4% 4% SEK 2.5 million (2.8). Savings arose mainly from more efficient energy consumption and Percentage share of the Group’s environmental, Percentage share of the Group’s environmental, improved waste management. The cost of and health and safety investments. and health and safety costs. water supply and sanitation amounted to SEK 2.3 million (2.9) and energy costs were SEK 137 million (136). Financial value for stakeholders Financial value for stakeholders Nolato’s business generates financial value Stakeholder 2018 2017 2016 Comments that is distributed between various stakeSuppliers 5,757 4,495 2,767 Material costs holders. These include suppliers, employees, Employees 1,645 1,534 1,283 Salaries and benefits shareholders, creditors and society. See also Shareholders 368 329 276 Dividend page 9 for further information about the Lenders 24 13 6 Interest expenses value created for stakeholders. The effective Society 199 159 102 Recognised effective tax, Group tax rate was 21.6% (21.8). Excluding nonTotal 7,993 6,530 4,434 recurring items and adjustment to a lower tax rate in Sweden, the tax rate was 22.1% (21.8).  Nolato’s Sustainability Work 2018 23 / 34 Risks and opportunities Nolato’s strategy includes continuously miniEnvironmental legislation Contaminated land and mising operational risks through active and Nolato’s production units have the permits hazardous substances in buildings planned risk management, while still capitalrequired for their operations, and no more There has been no known occurrence of ising on the business opportunities that conextensive applications for permit renewcontaminated land, neither are there any trolled risk-taking brings. The main features als are planned for 2019. A few units are requirements in terms of investigations or of risk management are identification, evaluplanning routine updates of their permits. decontamination. In Sweden, three plants ation, governance, reporting, monitoring and Authorities in Beijing, China, have tightened have been classified according to the ‘MIFO’ control. For significant risks, there are proceair pollution regulations. We met these new method for contaminated soil. The risk asdures for accepting, reducing or eliminating requirements by installing an advanced pusessment is administrative in nature and is the risk. rification facility in 2014 that cuts solvent not based on actual sample-taking. All the Nolato’s Annual Report for 2018 provides emissions. With regard to the air pollution plants are in the lowest risk category and are detailed information about operational and situation in Beijing, the risk that the authorinot prioritised by the authorities for further financial risks. In terms of sustainability, we ties will take further measures cannot be inspections or measures. have identified a number of risks of potential ruled out. Hazardous substances such as asbestos importance to the Group’s financial posiWhere applicable, the Group’s units meet are present in some individual buildings tion. More demanding environmental legisREACH chemical legislation, RoHS product and only result in measures in the event of lation, taxes, fees and other environmental legislation, producer’s liability for packaging refurbishment or renovation work. Their requirements can entail significant costs for waste, CLP chemical legislation (on classifioccurrence is documented and their status industrial operations. There are also risks cation, labelling and packaging) and other is inspected regularly. PCB inventories have from a business perspective relating to the relevant environmental and health and safety been conducted at our Swedish operations environment and social responsibility, which laws. We currently expect no increase in in which small amounts of these hazardous have gained attention in recent years, with a risks concerning new or amended legislation. substances were identified. Decontaminaparticular focus on our own production and Nolato is subject to the EU’s Energy Effition has been carried out in accordance with that of suppliers. Nolato carries out regular ciency Directive and energy audits have been Swedish environmental legislation. risk assessments in order to identify new conducted at 10 units and additional audits risks and/or costs relating to the environwill be carried out. We believe there are good  ment, ethics and social responsibility as early opportunities for improving energy efficiency on as possible. and achieving cost savings. Reporting to the Sustainable development also creates lots Swedish Energy Agency was undertaken in of opportunities for Nolato and by integrat2018. ing these issues into strategic efforts, product development and marketing we actively try to utilise these opportunities. We want customers to regard us as an important partner in sustainable development efforts. Nolatos produktionsenhet i Torekov Nolato’s Sustainability Work 2018 24 / 34 Environmental adaptation of products Climate-related risks Human rights Society has a growing interest in environNone of the Group’s units are exposed to Infringement of human rights at the Group’s mentally sustainable products, and one extreme weather conditions or flooding. The companies or our suppliers could damage identifiable business risk could be our produnits in Beijing are located in an area with both the Group’s reputation and its business uct range including products that are not limited access to water. Climate change is an operations. Nolato’s Code of Conduct apaccepted by customers for health and enviimportant issue to Nolato, and an overview plies in the same way around the world. We ronmental reasons. The fossil-based origin of the Group’s efforts to reduce its carbon promote the protection of human rights by of plastics has been called into question by footprint is provided on page 14. However, informing people, training staff and through various stakeholder groups. And the issue of we need to be prepared for how climate internal regulations and monitoring. microscopic particles of plastic in the world’s change may affect the Group in financial oceans has also gained attention. terms. This may relate to damage to plants Energy costs As a supplier, Nolato has some possibilities and infrastructure, and also aspects pertainThere is a risk of electricity prices rising and to counter this risk, but as most products are ing to raw materials supply, supplier circumhaving a material negative impact on profitproduced for customers, development must stances and changed customer behaviour. ability and within Nolato this mainly applies be carried out in collaboration with our cliTaxes, charges and limitations on emissions to the purchase of electricity. The risk of ents. We constantly monitor developments so could, of course, also affect Nolato. negative effects from rising electricity prices we can initiate the substitution of hazardous is addressed by the Group entering into fixed substances, introduce more environmentally Business ethics price agreements for 20–80% of electricity friendly polymers and develop new products. Deficient business ethics could damage Norequirements for the next four to 12 quarThe Group is stepping up its efforts within lato’s reputation and business operations. ters.  environmentally sustainable product develNolato has large units active in Sweden, opment to reduce the risk of losing business, Hungary, the UK, Switzerland, the US and and to contribute to sustainable developChina. The majority of our employees are ment. outside Sweden. The concentration in Asia brings a heightened risk in areas such as working conditions and business ethics (corruption). There is always a risk of failure to apply sound business principles, irrespective of where operations are pursued. The materiality analysis therefore gives business ethics a very high priority. We take systematic measures to prevent corruption and other irregularities (see page 20). Nolato’s Sustainability Work 2018 25 / 34 A busy year Over the course of a year, Nolato undertakes Hungary and Romania management, leadership, lean manufactura host of measures relating to sustainable Nolato Hungary in Mosonmagyaróvár ing and language training. Continued supdevelopment. Below is a small sample of continued working on the system to proport for Building Hope Together, an initiaactivities at our units around the world. Furvide quarterly monitoring of energy use tive which involves Nolato contributing to ther information about local initiatives can and the volume of waste. Once again the a better situation for pupils and teachers at be found in other parts of the Sustainability company received the Disabled Friendly a school in a remote region north of PeReport. Workplace Award for its employment of king. people with disabilities. Nolato Lövepac in Beijing carried out Sweden Nolato Romania in Negoiesti introduced monthly initiatives for positive corporate Nolato Polymer in Torekov and Ängpackaging that is returned by customers. culture and quality. Work continued on elholm made significant investments in the introduction of lean manufacturing. equipment with enhanced energy perforUK Furthermore, work progressed on the mance. Nolato Jaycare in Portsmouth installed construction of the company’s production Nolato MediTech in Hörby and Lomma more automatic gasket lines to improve plant in Schenzen, including preparations continued Medical Excellence-related health and safety and efficiency. Training for certification to ISO 9001, ISO 14001 activities. The company spoke to students was provided for all employees on enviand ISO 45001 standards. about the industry and its business, includronmental and energy issues. Improved ing at events like the ARKAD careers fair sorting of recyclables cut the amount of Malaysia at Lund University Faculty of Engineering. waste sent to landfill. The purchase of fosNolato EMC in Penang supported the Nolato MediTor in Torekov carried out a sil-free electricity began in autumn 2018. Engineering Leadership Conference at a significant energy initiative via the instalNolato Jaycare in Newcastle improved university of technology. lation of more efficient heat exchangers at its environmental performance compared the dipping facility for breathing bags. with previous years, for example water US Nolato Gota in Götene continued with consumption was lower, energy efficiency Nolato Contour in Baldwin extended its its target work to reduce usage of energy, higher and there was a decline in carbon social engagement programme, with the water and fossil fuels. dioxide emissions. One key reason for the aim of encouraging pupils and students As part of efforts to phase out fossil fuels, reduced carbon footprint was the purchase to apply for jobs at the company or other Nolato Lövepac in Skånes Fagerhult exof fossil-free electricity that began in aucompanies in the region. During the year panded capacity in its geothermal installatumn 2018. No occupational accidents the company completed several meastion. resulting in absence occurred during the ures that raised energy efficiency, cut the Nolato Cerbo in Trollhättan installed its year. amount of waste sent to landfill and imfirst hybrid machine (partly electric) for proved health and safety.  injection blow moulding of pharmaceutiPoland cal packaging, and the energy saving is Health and safety improvements were estimated to total 30–40% compared with implemented via better lighting and noise traditional hydraulic injection moulding reduction. For the second year running machines. The amount of waste is also the company undertook an eco-excursion, dropping. Tests were conducted using biowith employees and their families taking based raw materials. The work environpart. The aim was to generate interest in ment was made safer through risk analyses the countryside and the environment, and related to the use of forklift trucks. The the day included various competitions. company celebrated its 70th anniversary with several activities for employees and Switzerland their families. Nolato Cerbo has been repNolato Treff achieved ISO 14001 certificaresenting the Group in the Nordic Bioplastion. tics Association since 2018. For several years, Nolato Plastteknik in China Gothenburg has been investing in energyNolato Beijing (Mobile, Medical, EMC) efficient injection moulding machines, continued with its Employee Care Prowhich resulted in a decline in energy congramme. E-learning activities were further sumption in 2018 of 5%. developed with a focus on safety, quality Nolato’s Sustainability Work 2018 26 / 34 About this sustainability report A focus on materiality Company/plant Country Average Building Year Permits Significance to number area (m2) established under sustainability Nolato’s Sustainability Report for 2018, of environreport in accordance with GRI Standards and the employmental ees legislaCommunication On Progress (Global Comtion pact), includes aspects relating to the environment, health and safety, social responsiNolato Beijing, Beijing China 3,383 37,795 2001 Yes High bility and business ethics. Our ambition is Nolato Hungary, Mosonmagyaróvár Hungary 710 18,431 2000 Yes High for this report, together with supplementary Lövepac Converting, Beijing China 308 6,168 2010 No Medium information, to give our employees and external stakeholders a transparent view of the Nolato Polymer, Torekov/Ängelholm Sweden 74 11,100 1973, 1995 Yes Medium company’s corporate responsibility activities Nolato Jaycare, Portsmouth UK 116 11,132 1986 Yes Medium (CSR/CR/ESG) and how these interact with our business activities. Nolato Jaycare, Newcastle UK 110 4,790 1998 Yes Medium All units that were part of the Nolato Nolato MediTech, Hörby Sweden 154 12,000 1999 Yes Medium Group in 2018 are included in the report. One company that was divested during the Nolato MediTech, Lomma Sweden 72 5,000 1980 Yes Medium year is not included in the report. Data was Nolato Cerbo, Trollhättan Sweden 136 11,000 1971 Yes Medium contributed by a total of 21 (22) producNolato MediTor, Torekov Sweden 77 4,500 1973 Yes Medium tion facilities. A plant under construction in ­Suzhou, China, is not included in the report. Nolato Gota, Götene Sweden 245 25,948 1965 Yes Medium A summary of the various units’ significance Nolato Contour, Baldwin US 229 8,361 1993 Yes Medium in terms of reporting is provided in the table. Nolato Plastteknik, Gothenburg Sweden 122 14,600 1980 Yes Medium Reporting principles Nolato Treff, Degersheim Switzerland 196 13,000 1946 No Medium Each production unit provides quantitative Nolato Lövepac, Skånes Fagerhult Sweden 47 4,200 1968 No Low and qualitative information in accordance with Nolato’s sustainability reporting form. Nolato Romania, Negoiesti Romania 56 3,450 2010 Yes Low The annual reporting cycle is shown in this Nolato Silikonteknik, Hallsberg Sweden 88 3,600 1995 Yes Low image. The head of each company/unit is responsible for assuring the quality of the inNolato Stargard, Stargard Poland 113 4,633 1996 No Low formation submitted. The year’s performance Nolato, Penang Malaysia 131 3,350 2016 No Low is compared and verified against information Lövepac Converting, Shenzhen China 47 4,172 2018 No Low for previous years. Further quality controls are conducted in connection with interviews and site visits. Emissions of carbon dioxide, sulfur dioxide and nitric oxides from direct energy usage are established using conversion facReporting of data tors. These are based on the energy content Questionnaire for all units and quality of the fuels used. The calculation Quality control of data of carbon emissions from indirect energy Q4 Q1 Preparations for a new report Sustainability section in the annual report consumption – mainly electricity – is based on emission factors from DEFRA (ConverQ3 Q2 GRI/COP/CDP report sion Factors for Company Reporting 2015) for those countries in which Nolato operates. Where energy suppliers provide specific information regarding the energy mix, the Follow-up and review of sustainability data supplier’s calculation model is used. Information about VOC emissions (from solvents) is principally based on mass balance calculations.  Nolato’s Sustainability Work 2018 27 / 34 GRI index 2018 The organisation behind GRI (Global Rewith GRI Standards, and the indicators have detailing the outcome of the group-wide porting Initiative) has established voluntary been adapted in line with the evaluation of targets. The table below does not therefore comprehensive standards for how companies the significant sustainability aspects detailed provide specific references to Management and other organisations should report their on pages 8–9. Approach for the material topics. sustainable development activities. ReportThe table below shows the extent to which Nolato has chosen not to have the Susing in accordance with GRI should focus on Nolato works in accordance with GRI tainability Report independently verified. sustainability aspects that are significant to Standards. When it comes to Management The contact for the Sustainability Report is the organisation and its stakeholders. Approach, the table refers to the overarch­Torbjörn Brorson (info@nolato.com). The reporting should provide a compreing governance principles detailed on pages SR in the table refers to pages in the Sushensive, balanced, comparable, thorough 6–7. Boundaries, governance and evaluation tainability Report (this document), and AR and credible presentation of the organisaof the material topics follow the same funto pages in the Annual Report for 2018.  tion’s sustainability performance. It should damental principles, and comments on these include both positive and negative aspects. are given where the outcome of the mateNolato has chosen to report in accordance rial topics is reported, as well as in the table General Standard Disclosures GRI indicator Description Page reference Organisational profile 102-1 Name of the organisation SR 2 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services AR 15, 28–39 102-3 Location of headquarters Torekov, Sweden 102-4 Location of operations AR 3 102-5 Ownership and legal form AR 40–41 102-6 Market served AR 13–18 102-7 Scale of the organisation AR 3 102-8 Information on employees and other workers SR 18 102-9 Supply chain AR 15–17 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain SR 26 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach SR 6, 12, 19 102-12 External initiatives SR 6–7 102-13 Membership of associations SR 25, 30 Strategy and analysis 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker SR 23 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour AR 11, SR 6–7 Governance 102-18 Governance structure SR 7 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups SR 9 102-41 Collective bargaining agreement SR 18 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders SR 9 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement SR 9 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised SR 9  Nolato’s Sustainability Work 2018 28 / 34 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements SR 26 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries SR 8–9 102-47 List of material topics SR 8 102-48 Restatement of information SR 26 102-49 Changes in reporting Inga 102-50 Reporting period 2018 102-51 Date of most recent report March 2018 102-52 Reporting cycle SR 26 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report SR 26 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards SR 27 102-55 GRI content index SR 27–29 102-56 External assurance Nothing Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary SR 8–9 103-2 The management approach and its components SR 7 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach SR 7 Topic-specific Standards GRI indicator Description Page reference Economic Material topic GRI 201: Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed SR 22 Material topic GRI 205: Anti-corruption 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures SR 20 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken SR 20 Material topic GRI 206: Anti-competitive behaviour 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, antitrust and monopoly practices SR 20, 23–24 Environment Material topic GRI 301: Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume SR 15 301-2 Recycled input materials used SR 15 Material topic GRI 302: Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation SR 13 302-3 Energy intensity SR 13 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption SR 13 302-5 Reduction of energy requirements of products and services SR 17 Material topic GRI 303: Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source SR 15  Nolato’s Sustainability Work 2018 29 / 34 Material topic GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) SR 14 305-2 Indirect (Scope 2; energy) emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) SR 14 305-4 GHG emissions intensity SR 14 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions SR 14 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) SR 14 306-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx) and other significant air emissions SR 14 Material topic GRI 306: Effluents and waste 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination SR 15 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method SR 16 306-3 Significant spills SR 17 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste SR 16 Material topic GRI 307: Environmental compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations SR 12 Material topic GRI 308: Supplier environmental assessment 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria SR 20 Social Material topic GRI 403: Occupational health and safety 403-1 Workers’ representation in formal joint management-worker health and safety committee SR 19 403-2 Types of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and work-related fatalities SR 19 Material topic GRI 404: Training and education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee SR 18–19 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programmes SR 18–19 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews SR 18–19 Material topic GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees AR 44–46, SR 18 Material topic GRI 406: Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken SR 18 Material topic GRI 407: Freedom of association and collective bargaining 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of collective bargaining may be at risk SR 23–24 Material topic GRI 408: Child labour 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk of child labour SR 23–24 Material topic GRI 409: Forced or compulsory labour GRI 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour SR 23–24 Material topic GRI 412: Human rights assessment 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures SR 18–19 Material topic GRI 413: Local communities 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programmes SR 20–21 Material topic GRI 414: Supplier social assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria SR 20 Nolato’s Sustainability Work 2018 30 / 34 Global Compact Ten principles on by the UN in autumn 2015 are now also Communication On Progress responsible business practice connected to the Global Compact. In 2016, Organisations that have endorsed the Global In 2010, Nolato endorsed the UN initiative Nolato linked its Group targets to the UN Compact must produce an annual Commufor responsible business, the Global ComSustainable Development Goals. nication on Progress (COP) detailing how pact. This meant the Group joining a global The booklet The Nolato Spirit, which they meet the ten principles. In Nolato’s case, network of more than 9,900 businesses includes the Group’s Code of Conduct, is an we use the information provided in the Anin 162 countries. Nolato participates as a important internal document, guiding and nual Report and the Sustainability Report. ­signatory. coordinating employee activities in line with Together, these reports provide a fair presenThrough the Global Compact, Nolato the ten principles. Group companies’ complitation of Nolato’s support of and compliance endorses ten basic principles in the areas of ance with the Group’s Code of Conduct is with the Global Compact principles. We use human rights, working conditions, the envievaluated on a regular basis. In the introducGRI Standards in order to simplify Commuronment and anti-corruption. These ten printion to the Sustainability Report, Nolato’s nication On Progress, and the table of crossciples are based on various UN conventions, CEO Christer Wahlquist comments on the references below shows which indicators are such as the Declaration of Human Rights company’s Global Compact work during the relevant in the context.  and the Convention against Corruption. The year. Sustainable Development Goals presented Global Compact principles GRI indicators Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 103-2, 412-2, 413-1 2. Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses 103-2, 412-3, 414-1 Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 103-2, 102-41, 407-1 4. Businesses should work to eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour 103-2, 409-1 5. Businesses should work for the effective abolition of child labour 103-2, 408-1 6. Businesses should work to eliminate all discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 103-2, 102-8, 401-1, 401-2, 406-1 Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 103-2, 102-11, 301-1 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 103-2, 301-1, 302-4, 302-5 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 103-2, 301-2, 302-4, 305-5 Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 103-2, 102-16, 205-2, 205-3 Nolato’s Sustainability Work 2018 31 / 34 Definitions and glossary 5S. A Japanese method of organisation in the Conflict minerals. Tantalum, tin, gold and ESG. Stands for Environmental, Social and workplace. It involves sorting, systematising, tungsten are referred to as conflict minerals if Governance. It is also referred to as ‘sustaincleaning, standardising and ensuring. 5S is an they originate from the Democratic Republic ability’. important element of lean manufacturing. of Congo and neighbouring countries. The term arose because of the armed conflicts in Extrusion. A method for continuously manuCarbon dioxide (CO2). Carbon dioxide is the region, where mining operations often facturing products in strands, such as tubing. formed in all carbon combustion processes, contribute to continued conflicts and lead to such as fossil fuel combustion. Emissions of human rights abuses. GHG. Greenhouse gases. Nolato provides carbon dioxide increase global warming (the details of greenhouse gas emissions in the greenhouse effect). CSR/CR. Corporate Social Responsibility/ Sustainability Report. Corporate Responsibility. A term that enCDP. The Carbon Disclosure Project is a compasses how companies handle issues Global Compact. A UN initiative for responvoluntary system for reporting the environconcerning the environment, social responsible business practice. Participating organimental impacts caused by businesses. The sibility, financial responsibility and business sations undertake to endorse ten fundamenprimary target group is international invesethics. Often used in the same sense as the tal principles in relation to human rights, tors that can refer to information on climate term ‘sustainable development’. occupational conditions, the environment risks when making investment decisions and anti-corruption. Nolato became a signaabout companies. Nolato has been reporting EMC. The shielding of electronics to achieve tory to the Global Compact in 2010. according to CDP since 2015. electromagnetic compatibility (EMC). GRI. The Global Reporting Initiative has esCFCs/HFCs. Gases containing chlorofluoroEnergy consumption. Nolato reports both tablished voluntary comprehensive standards carbons (CFCs), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) direct energy consumption (usage of fuel in for how companies and other organisations and pollutants containing fluoride have negown energy facilities) and indirect consumpshould report their sustainability activities. ative impacts on the environment as a result tion (purchased electricity and district heatof their ozone-depleting properties and their ing). Injection moulding. A method for manufaceffect on the climate. These gases are called turing polymer components. The material, F-gases because of the fluoride content and Energy Efficiency Directive. The EU directive such as a type of plastic, is injected under these types of gases have been regulated in that was introduced in 2015 and that, among high pressure into a mould in which the comthe EU since 2015 by the F-gas regulation. other things, covers energy audits at large ponent is formed. These gases may be found in cooling and companies. Nolato is subject to the directive heat pumps, fire protection equipment and and conducts energy audits. ISO 14001. International standard relating circuit breakers. to environmental management systems that Environmental aspects: The parts of an orwas introduced in 1996. Just over 360,000 CLP. Classification, Labelling and Packagganisation’s activities, products or services organisations globally are currently certified ing is EU legislation that addresses dangers that interact with the environment. according to ISO 14001. An updated version posed by chemical substances and mixtures of the standard was published in 2015 (ISO and how users should be informed about Environment-related costs. Costs attribut14001:2015). them. These regulations were introduced in able to measures for preventing, reducing 2015. or restoring environmental impact directly ISO 26000. International standard that procaused by the organisation’s operations. The vides guidance for organisations on how Code of Conduct. Guidelines for Nolato’s same applies for costs concerning the octo manage social responsibility issues. This employees, Board of Directors, suppliers, etc. cupational environment. These costs include standard was introduced in 2010 and proregarding business ethics, the environment, administration, purchase of services extervides the backdrop to Nolato’s Code of Conlabour relations and social responsibility. nally, authority fees, environmental manageduct. ment system maintenance, waste and exterCOP. Communication On Progress is an annal inspections and audits. ISO 45001. International standard relating nual report submitted to the United Nations to health and safety that replaces OHSAS specifying how Nolato operates according to Environment-related investments. Invest18001. the ten principles of the Global Compact. ments for preventing and reducing environmental impact from the organisation’s operaISO 50001. An international standard relattions. The same applies for investments to ing to energy management systems. enhance the occupational environment.  Nolato’s Sustainability Work 2018 32 / 34 Lean manufacturing. A systematic method Polymers. Chemical compounds comprising Sustainability report. Under an EU Directive, for the efficient management of resources. very long chains made up of small, repeatthe Swedish government has decided that Lean manufacturing aims to identify all the ing units (monomers). Plastic and rubber are as of 2017 it is mandatory for large compafactors in a production process that do not examples of polymer materials. nies to publish a sustainability report. The create value for the customer. sustainability report should contain the nonUN Sustainable Development Goals. At the financial disclosures required to understand LWC. Occupational accidents causing at least UN summit in 2015, the world’s heads of the company’s performance, position, results one day’s absence (Lost Work Case). state adopted 17 Sustainable Development and consequences of its business operations, Goals and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable including information on issues concernNOx. Nitrogen oxides are gaseous ­oxides Development. The Sustainable Development ing the environment, personnel and social formed during combustion processes Goals and the 2030 Agenda aim to eradicate matters, respect for human rights and the through the oxidation of nitrogen. Harmful poverty and hunger, ensure the rights of all combating of corruption. Nolato’s mandato health and the environment and cause acid people are respected, achieve equality and tory Sustainability Report is contained in the rain and eutrophication. empowerment for all women and girls and Annual Report. ensure lasting protection for the planet and OHSAS 18001. Standard relating to health its natural resources. The UN Sustainable VOC. Volatile Organic Compounds. A group and safety in the workplace. Gradually being Development Goals are integrated and inof organic compounds that easily vaporise at replaced by the ISO 45001 standard. divisible, and they balance the three dimenroom temperature. The concentration of volsions of sustainable development: economic, atile hydrocarbons in the air has a negative Occupational disease. An occupational dissocial and environmental. effect on health and the environment, e.g. it ease is a disease caused by long-term expocontributes to the formation of ground-level sure to a particular factor in the occupational REACH. EU chemical legislation for the safer ozone. environment. Examples are noise, dust and handling of chemicals. Chemical substances solvents. must be registered for a certain use and Water footprint. The total volume of fresh particularly hazardous substances can have water used to produce a company’s goods Occupational injury. An occupational inrestrictions imposed on them. and services.  jury is a sudden event (accident) that may be attributed to the job and that gives rise RoHS. EU legislation limiting the use of certo a wound or other type of injury. Typical tain substances that are hazardous to health injuries in the polymer industry are cuts, falls and the environment. and injuries caused by heavy lifting and repetitive tasks. Nolato reports occupational SO2. Sulfur dioxide is formed in the combusinjuries as an accident that causes more than tion of petroleum products. The gas contribone day of absence, called Lost Work Case utes to the acidification of watercourses and (LWC). The rate is gauged by the number soil. Large concentrations are harmful to of occupational injuries per million hours human health. worked. Sustainable development. Development that PCB. Polychlorinated biphenyls are a group “satisfies today’s needs without jeopardisof industrial chemicals that are hazardous to ing future generations’ possibilities to satisfy health and the environment. The use of PCB their needs”. Sustainable development enwas prohibited in Sweden in 1972, but the compasses ecological, social and economic substance remains in the environment due to sustainability. its slow decomposition. Nolato’s Sustainability Work 2018 33 / 34 Nolato’s Sustainability Work 2018 34 / 34 Nolato AB Nolato Jaycare Nolato Polymer 269 04 Torekov, Sweden Portsmouth, UK 269 04 Torekov, Sweden Visiting address: Nolatovägen Walton Road, Farlington Visiting address: Nolatovägen Phone: +46 431 442290 Portsmouth Hampshire, PO6 1TS Phone: +46 431 442200 E-mail: info@nolato.com UK Ängelholm Phone: +44 2392 370102 Framtidsgatan 6 Nolato Beijing Newcastle, UK 262 73 Ängelholm, Sweden 402 Longsheng Industrial Park New York Way, New York Ind. Park Phone: +46 431 442200 7, Rong Chang Road East Newcastle upon Tyne NE27 0QF Beijing Development Area UK Nolato Silikonteknik Beijing 100176, China Phone: +44 191 296 0303 Box 62, 694 22 Hallsberg Phone: +86 10 6787 2200 Besök: Bergsmansvägen 4 Suzhou, China Lövepac Converting Phone: +46 582 88900 Nolato Electronic Technology (Suzhou) Co. Ltd. 4th Floor, Building 3, Gyõr, Hungary Building E Pingqian lndustrial Park No. 21 Xingsheng Road Nolato EMC Production No. 46 Chunxing Road BDA, Beijing, 100176 Center Limited Liability Company Xiangcheng District China Bükkfa utca 10 Suzhou 215100, China Phone: +86 10 6780 5580 HU-9027, Gyõr Phone: +86 512 6939 0380 Shenzhen, China Hungary Nolato Beijing Medical First Floor, No. 3 building, Beijing, China 402 Longsheng Industrial Park No.1 Lirong Rd. Changyi Industrial 402 Longsheng Industrial Park 7, Rong Chang Road East Area, Xinshi Community, 7, Rong Chang Road East Beijing Development Area Dalang St. Longhua District Beijing Development Area Beijing 100176, China 518109 Shenzhen, China Beijing 100176, China Phone: +86 10 6787 2200 Phone: +86 755 8610 6065 Phone: +86 10 6787 2200 Kristianstad Penang, Malaysia Penang, Malaysia Krinova Incubator & Science Park Nolato EMC Production Center Nolato EMC Production Center Sdn. Bhd. Nolato AB 2022:210 Plot 368, Lorong Perindustrian Bukit Plot 368, Lorong Perindustrian Bukit Stridsvagnsvägen 14 Minyak 21, Penang Science Park, Minyak 21, Penang Science Park, 291 39 Kristianstad, Sweden 14100 Simpang Ampat 14100 Simpang Ampat Phone: +46 708-74 41 70 Penang, Malaysia Penang, Malaysia San Diego, USA Phone: + 604 50 57 830 Phone: + 604 50 57 830 16208 Palomino Mesa Ct San Diego, CA 92127, USA Nolato Lövepac Nolato Stargard Phone: +1 858 859 5270 Ringvägen 5 UL. Uslogowa 1 286 73 Skånes Fagerhult, Sweden 73-110 Stargard Nolato Cerbo Phone: +46 433 32300 Poland Box 905, 461 29 Trollhättan, Sweden Beijing, China Phone: +48 91 573 6362 Visiting address: Verkmästarevägen 1-3 Nolato Automotive Components Phone: +46 520 409900 402 Longsheng Industrial Park Nolato Treff Paris, France 7, Rong Chang Road East Taastrasse 16, 15, Rue Vignon Beijing Development Area 9113 Degersheim FR-75008 Paris, France Beijing 100176, China Switzerland Phone: +33 1 47 975284 Phone: +86 10 6787 2200 Phone: +41 71 372 55 55 Nolato Contour Nolato MediTech 660 VandeBerg Street Box 93, 242 21 Hörby, Sweden Baldwin, WI 54002, USA Visiting address: Medicingatan 4 www.nolato.com Phone: +1 715 684 4614 Phone: +46 415 19700 Lomma Nolato Gota Box 28, 234 21 Lomma, Sweden Box 29, 533 21 Götene, Sweden Visiting address: Koppargatan 13 Visiting address: Alsborgsgatan 2 Phone: +46 415 19700 Phone: +46 511 342100 Nolato MediTor Nolato Hungary 269 04 Torekov, Sweden Jánossomorjai utca 3 Visiting address: Nolatovägen HU-9200 Mosonmagyaróvár, Hungary Phone: +46 431 442260 Phone: +36 96 578770 Negoiesti, Romania Nolato Plastteknik DIBO Industrial Park, H13 Box 4123, 422 04 Hisings Backa, Sweden Negoiesti, Prahova, Visiting address: Exportgatan 59 Romania, 107086 Phone: +46 31 588400
