LEO Annual Pharma Report A/S Communication on 2018 Progress 2018 LEO Pharma Communication on Progress 2018 01. Our Performance 3 CEO letter: Our responsible commitment 7 LEO Pharma at a glance We pioneer 02. Our Business dermatology 11 Our strategy 13 Our CSR Commitment by looking 15 Empowering patients 17 Removing barriers to healthcare beyond today 19 Strengthening patient voice 22 Sustainable operations 23 Reducing our environmental footprint to constantly 25 Building a unique workplace driven by a strong purpose 27 Business integrity improve and 29 Strengthening a culture of safety by engaging employees 30 Data protection across the globe extend what’s 31 Working responsibly with our suppliers possible for 03. Our Governance 35 Special business and financial risks the benefit of 37 Company information 41 Defining our CSR issues patients. 43 Human rights at LEO Pharma 45 Programs supporting our CSR Commitment 2018-2020 53 LEO Pharma in the world LEO Pharma 01. Our Performance Communication on Progress 2018 Our responsible commitment 01 As a global company, we have the opportunity I am pleased and as well as the obligation to pursue our business and strategic objectives in a way that fulfills our proud that, as a UN responsibilities to the society we operate in. This is Global Compact member, reflected in our CSR Commitment. LEO Pharma supports the I am pleased and proud that, as a UN Global Compact member, LEO Pharma supports the Ten Ten Principles. Principles, which cover the areas of human rights, Gitte P. Aabo labor, environment and anti-corruption. We remain President & CEO committed to engaging with our stakeholders. From 2018 onwards, we will report on our progress, actions and measurements of outcomes, as we integrate the UN Global Compact principles into our business strategy, our culture and our day-today operations. Gitte P. Aabo President & CEO 3 4 LEO Pharma Communication on Progress 2018 01 Our mission We help people achieve healthy skin Our vision We are the preferred dermatology care partner improving people’s lives around the world Our values Integrity Customer focus Innovation Passion Adaptability 5 6 LEO Pharma Communication on Progress 2018 LEO Pharma at a glance Revenue In 2018, LEO Pharma generated DKK 10,410 million in revenue from the sale of medical treatments. As a leader in medical dermatology with a robust pipeline, Unique workplace Reinvested profit A great and safe place to work for our a wide range of therapies, and a pioneering spirit, LEO 5,500 dedicated employees. Profits are reinvested in R&D, innovations, partnerships and Pharma’s purpose is to make a true difference in the lives acquisitions in order to strengthen our pipeline and of people living with skin diseases. Addressing unmet medical needs By developing innovative medical treatexisting portfolio. ments, we address unmet medical needs in society. Pioneering culture We rely on our engaged and Empowering patients passionate workforce of more than 5,500 employees, always dedicated Our patient-focused approach n extends beyond treatment. Through tio to putting patients first and continuously pushing the boundaries Valu our training programs, digital solutions of knowledge in order to improve ec uts and Artifical Intelligence technology, patient care globally. re Inp we address barriers to treatment and More than a support the needs of 76 million patients 5,500 worldwide. Innovation We apply our patient understanding to advance science and develop safe and effective medical solutions which address Foundation ownership unmet needs in dermatology. employees LEO Pharma is owned by the LEO Foundation. The main purpose of Stakeholder engagement We build and nurture long-term 18% the foundation is to ensure the longDriving medical dermatology term independence and success of relationships with our customers, By building a portfolio of innovative Cor s e a c ti v i ti e patient groups, NGOs, governments LEO Pharma. The foundation is also treatments in medical dermaand industry partners with a collabstrongly engaged in global philantology, such as biologics, systemic orative approach and to improve the thropic activities, supporting the best treatments and new topical solutions. quality of life of patients. dermatology research worldwide. of revenue invested in R&D And by growing and nurturing our strong suite of topical treatments in www.leo-foundation.org dermatology as well as continuing our support of innohep®, our throm76 bosis business. Manufacturing Partners Our five manufacturing sites World-leading R&D We collaborate with Total revenue of established million and 18 contract manufacturOur 750 scientists and academic institutions, research specialists work globally in and innovative portfolio ing organizations ensure the centers, healthcare professionals research and development patients in more than 130 countries high quality of our products and the private sector worldwide, to drive scientific advancewith the shared goal of advancEstablished benefiting from our treatments across our established and innovative portfolios. ment further and to pioneer ing medical dermatology medical dermatology. and delivering innovative treatments. Suppliers Revenue 10,410 10,268 We depend on our trusted suppliers when DKK million sourcing the highest quality materials to 142 manufacture our products. Innovative DKK million 7 8 LEO Pharma Communication on Progress 2018 Our Business 02 LEO Pharma 02. Our Business Communication on Progress 2018 Our Strategy Dermatology is changing. Enabled by science and technology, a new era in dermatology with completely new types of treatments is advancing rapidly. This will fundamentally change the lives of millions of people who do not have the right treatment options for their skin diseases today. Towards 2025, we will increase our focus LEO Pharma’s ambition is to be the key driver in this change, and we have already taken giant leaps in strengthening our position at the forefront of titis, and several other biologics in our pipeline, LEO Pharma’s biotech foothold in dermatology is growing. We will continue to invest and improve on R&D, innovation, medical dermatology. Towards 2025, we will increase our focus on R&D, our ability to tap into the world’s most important innovation environments by strengthening our R&D footprint, mainly in the United States. This includes strategic partnerships innovation, strategic partnerships and acquisitions, with the aims of broadening our portfolio of treatment offerings comprising oral, biologic and partnering with researchers and other companies who work on technologies in this field, with the aim of discovering and launching our first treatment for and acquisitions, with the aims of topical treatments, and investing in treatments for a rare skin disease by 2025. rare skin diseases. Fostering the world’s best broadening our dermatology R&D We drive medical dermaThe long-term ambition of LEO Pharma R&D is to prevent and cure skin diseases by developing tology to help people portfolio of treatment personalized solutions. We will achieve this through achieve healthy skin. targeted investments in R&D, strategic partnerships and acquisitions, as well as an increased focus offerings comprising on digitalization as a key capability for competThe aspiration of LEO Pharma’s 2025 strategy is itiveness. to help 125 million people by 2025. oral, biologic and LEO Pharma’s strategy towards 2025 will require Expanding our established portfolio substantial investments over the coming years, not LEO Pharma has a longstanding heritage in dermaleast in R&D and in product launches, which will lay topical treatments, and tology and a strong portfolio of topical treatments. the groundwork for the company’s future growth Our established portfolio forms the foundation on and profitability. which we will forcefully build our innovative offerings to ensure we remain at the forefront of scientific developments. We will continue to expand this part of our business, with a focus on increasing efficiency and profitability, mainly in targeted areas investing in treatments in Region Europe+ and Region International. Building our innovative portfolio for rare skin diseases. With the successful launch of our product for moderate-to-severe psoriasis, ongoing phase 3 trials for our pipeline product for atopic derma11 12 LEO Pharma 02. Our Business Communication on Progress 2018 Our CSR WE SUPPORT Commitment Corporate social responsibility (CSR) is embedded in LEO Pharma’s business and in the behavior of Helping people achieve healthy skin LEO Pharma people. Our CSR Commitment 2018-2020 At LEO Pharma we have a business-driven CSR LEO Pharma’s CSR Commitment 2018-2020 defines Empowering patients Sustainable operations Business integrity approach, acknowledging our economic, social, our CSR focus areas in which we take action to and environmental responsibility, and promoting contribute to the SDGs. This commitment is built the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global on three pillars: Compact, which cover the areas of human and Expanding Climate change, environment Employee safety labor rights, environment, and anti-corruption. Empowering patients dermatological solutions and energy We are dedicated to always putting the patient first. We build on deep patient insights in researching and developing new, safe and effective mediRemoving barriers Mental well-being at work Personal data protection cines to treat skin diseases. We collaborate with to healthcare our stakeholders in healthcare – including patient organizations, policy makers, HCPs, payers and NGOs – to raise awareness of the importance of Strengthening People development Anti-corruption dermatological health and to address the barriers patient voice to healthcare faced by our patients. Sustainable operations Responsible supply We are committed to operating our business chain management sustainably. We nurture the commitment and passion of our employees to face the challenge of future uncertainties to fulfill our LEO Pharma Animal welfare 2025 strategy. As a healthcare company, we want to minimize the impact of our business operations on the environment – not only today, but well into the future. Business integrity Integrity is one of our core values at LEO Pharma. We uphold high ethical standards throughout our Towards the UN Sustainable Development Goals value chain by being accountable and transparWe commit to operating in a way that contributes ent, respecting human rights, and maintaining to realization of the UN Sustainable Development sound governance. Goals (SDGs) and supports the global agreement to address society’s greatest challenges towards 2030. We believe that aligning our business with the SDGs will help us be stronger and more sustainable, while also contributing to improve health globally. 13 14 LEO Pharma 02. Our Business Empowering patients Patients are our first priority. At any point in time, an estimated one in four people worldwide is living with a skin disease, making these diseases some of the most prevalent worldwide. LEO Pharma’s ambition is to drive medical dermaPatients with skin diseases deserve a stronger voice tology and develop medical treatments that help in society. A key challenge for access to healthcare people with skin disease improve their quality of in psoriasis and eczema is the low prioritization of life. We do this by constantly improving our underthese diseases in health systems around the world. standing of the patient needs and the barriers to LEO Pharma is committed to raising awareness of treatment they face. skin conditions and supporting patient organizations in advocating their cause so that patients At the core of this are our R&D efforts. LEO Pharma have access to the healthcare services and treatoffers a broad range of important standard treatments they need. ments, as well as new innovative solutions for skin diseases. We have built one LEO Pharma programs for achieving I try to remind of the strongest pipelines in eczema – an area of signiour strategy towards 2025 myself that how ficant unmet medical needs – and recently entered the field my skin looks is the least of rare dermatological diseases. Expanding dermatological solutions important thing about me. Patients also face significant As long as I am as healthy, barriers to healthcare because skin diseases are often overRemoving barriers to healthcare as I can be with an autolooked and under-represented immune disease, then in the training of physicians. This leads to long periods where how my skin look visually treatable conditions go unStrengthening patient voice diagnosed or untreated, causdoesn’t matter. I refuse to ing a great burden on patients, let psoriasis be my defining healthcare systems and society. LEO Pharma is working with feature! physicians and patient organizations to address this awareJudith Duncan, Scotland ness gap. Our educational and Mobile Marketing Campaign Manager training programs help patients and blogger @theweeblondie prepare for their consultations with physicians. Moreover, LEO Innovation Lab is building digital solutions to improve the diagnosis of skin disease and to help patients and physicians monitor the progress of treatment. Judith Duncan, Scotland Mobile Marketing Campaign Manager and blogger @theweeblondie 15 LEO Pharma 02. Our Business Communication on Progress 2018 Removing barriers If we want to identify benefits to healthcare that we bring to a patient with a therapy, then we always have to ask the patients about their individual needs. We want to support patients in getting access to the dermatological care they need. This includes raising Kristian Reich Professor for Translational Research in Inflammatory disease awareness through the training of healthcare Skin Diseases, University Medical Center HamburgEppendorf and Skinflammation®, Hamburg, Germany. professionals, digital innovation to improve the speed and accuracy of diagnosis, and identifying solutions to improve access to dermatological services. Psoriasis Academy Mobile access to treatment Engaging and empowering people Bringing dermatology health care to living with psoriasis remote areas in Egypt LEO Pharma Psoriasis Academy is an educaUnder the name “Geldy Elaziz”, which in Arabic tional and train-the-trainers initiative that offers means “My dear skin”, LEO Pharma Egypt estaba unique global program to improve the consullished a comprehensive skin health program to help tation dialogue between patients and their people with skin diseases in remote and underhealthcare practitioners. privileged areas of Egypt. The program strives to promote person-centered Four local venues were rebuilt into fully equipped care and patient empowerment in the field of clinics to host the activities. The project was run psoriasis by providing communication strategies in partnership with the Egyptian Medical Student that help empower patients to take control of their Association (EMSA) and a local Egyptian NGO, condition. Shamseya, which works to create sustainable, community-based solutions to local healthcare LEO Pharma collaborates with a multi-disciplinary challenges. global faculty in the development and facilitation of the train-the-trainers program. The faculty The program included town hall awareness meetpossesses expertise in fields including: dermaings, medical check-ups, diagnosis and prescriptology, psychology, psychodermatology, patient tion. Medical students helped prepare individual communication/empowerment, dermatology follow-up plans for patients, taking severity, costs nursing and patient advocacy. and duration of required treatment into consideration. So far, National Psoriasis Academy Workshops have been conducted in 20 markets, reaching more The project activities covered four districts in than 1,600 HCPs, including dermatologists, nurses the two Egyptian governorates of Gharbeya and student doctors. and Minya, in coordination with local NGOs. LEO Pharma helped 305 attendees through the town hall awareness meetings, in addition to sponsoring 690 dermatology check-ups and 101 follow-up cases. LEO Pharma Egypt estab­lished a comprehensive skin health program to help people with skin diseases in remote and under-privileged areas of Egypt. 17 18 LEO Pharma 02. Our Business Communication on Progress 2018 Strengthening I was pleased to get the opportupatient voice nity to be involved in LEO Pharma’s considerations in relation to investing in the development of treatEmpowering patients to be included, valued and able to ment. Throughout the live life free of restraints of their disease. process, both LEO Pharma and PellePharm showed a sincere interest in the patient-related outcomes. Exposing the true burden of psoriasis Helping people with skin diseases means much 1 Matthew Holbert more than delivering pharmaceutical treatments. It Member of the Board of Trustees means understanding patients and including their of the Gorlin Syndrome Group. voice in healthcare policies and decisions. Challenge misconceptions and In the UK and Ireland, LEO Pharma runs the Voices reduce stigma Engaging patients in assessing business surgery again. You can’t make plans for yourself in Partnership (ViP) program, inviting a group of opportunities or your family because you worry about whether patients to get involved at the heart of our busi2018 saw LEO Pharma engaging with people from and when you might need surgery again. It is those ness. Working in partnership together helps us the Gorlin Syndrome Group in assessing whether uncertainties that cause the high prevalence of understand how we can best give patients a voice and how we should invest in a business opportudepression and anxiety among people with Gorlin to drive positive change and address their chalnity and thereby enter a new area. One of these Syndrome. It feels like it is your identity that is being lenges. Our ViPs are our patient conscience, telling 2 people is Matthew Holbert, member of the Board eroded. So anything that stops that feeling has us when we get it right, and more importantly, when of Trustees of the Gorlin Syndrome Group and a got to be good. we get it wrong. Gorlin Syndrome patient. Matthew participated in the review of the business case regarding LEO Therefore, I was pleased to get the opportunity Champion Teaming up with the Patients Association, an Pharma’s collaboration with PellePharm. to be involved in LEO Pharma’s considerations in individualized, independent national charity campaigning for relation to investing in the development of treatholistic care improvements in health and social care, supported ment. Throughout the process, both LEO Pharma by an expert multidisciplinary task force and some Matthew’s story: and PellePharm showed a sincere interest in the of our ViPs, we developed the PSO What? report, “I was diagnosed with Gorlin Syndrome when I was patient-related outcomes. For example, they which aims to expose the true burden of psoriasis. in my late thirties, by which time I’d already had started off by researching people’s stories rather Uncovering many areas of challenge, the report about 20 basal cell cancers (BCC) removed. In the than going through textbooks or scientific journals. calls for three key efforts: 20 years since then, I’ve had one or two operations That’s a very unusual and very refreshing approach. 3 per year for BCCs due to the lack of other medical treatment or solutions. I think the reason we feel so desperate is that we really want to find something that is designed for So the worst things about the disease are the us, but there is just nothing that is customized to Drive regular surgery, the scarring and the pain. But it’s also very our needs. Therefore, I think the fact that pharma reviews important to me to highlight the psychological is now looking into rare diseases has really posieffect of Gorlin Syndrome. I often hear people say tive implications for us. And so far, it has been a ‘it must get easier for us over time’, because we very positive experience to work together with LEO know what to expect. It is the complete opposite. Pharma and PellePharm. I hope we can continue Because you do know what to expect. You know into the future.” that you will be going to hospital five or six times around the surgery. You know that you will have to overcome pain and scarring. Building on the PSO What? report and aiming to advance HCP education and patient care, the “PSOMorbidities” (psoriasis co-morbidities) education program was developed for healthcare professionals, comprising a website, educational tools and consultation resources. So the main concern people with the disease have is about the future. Because you just don’t know when you might get another BCC and require 19 20 LEO Pharma Communication on Progress 2018 We pioneer dermatology by looking beyond today to constantly improve and extend Sustainable what’s possible for the benefit operations of patients. Our aim is to grow our business sustainably. We foster a workplace where employees can thrive and manage our environmental footprint to promote a healthy planet. We want to pioneer innovations in medical dermatology while progressing towards a prosperous future for all. To fulfill our LEO Pharma strategy moving towards 2025, we need a talented, motivated, and diverse workforce. We want to increase our employees’ satisfaction and motivation by creating a good and healthy working environment that fosters a culture of curiosity, collaboration and innovation, and supports their well-being at work. At our manufacturing sites, we have a responsibility to minimize the impact of our business and strive to strengthen the environmental performance of our operations. This includes reducing our CO2 footprint in production and maintaining sound environmental practices to help shape a sustainable future for generations to come. LEO Pharma programs that support our efforts to contribute to a sustainable future Climate change, environment & energy Mental well-being at work People development 22 LEO Pharma 02. Our Business Communication on Progress 2018 Reducing our Total energy consumption at our sites Mwh 14.0000 environmental 130000 120.000 footprint 110.000 100.000 90.000 0 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 LEO Pharma strives to have a positive impact on the Reducing waste health of the planet through sound environmental At our site in Cork, Ireland Our site in Cork, Ireland uses about 500,000 liters stewardship and practices. of ethanol annually in two different production processes. Instead of buying 99% pure ethanol for both processes, the ethanol used in the first process is re-distilled on site and re-used in the second process, which only requires 93% pure Our ambition is to meet or exceed performance We want to look at the bigger picture regarding ethanol. All ethanol used in both processes is requirements for environmental regulatory complithe impact that climate change has on our operre-distilled and sold to a company in the UK that ance standards in all facilities. ations. Therefore this year, we engaged with an uses it for other industries, such as bio-ethanol fuel external partner and established a company-wide production, textiles, and chemicals. This means In 2018, we reached our goal to obtain ISO 14001 carbon footprint baseline, which will serve as the that there is no ethanol waste stream from the certifications in accordance with the new ISO basis for understanding major climate change production processes. This re-use also reduces the standard for all five manufacturing sites by end contributors that we will look into in 2019. We will need to purchase about 100,000 liters of 99% pure of 2018. Our goal to obtain also develop a plan for climate change mitigation ethanol per year. To support ISO 50001 certifications for all and resilience. manufacturing sites has been At our site in Esbjerg, Denmark LEO Pharma’s delayed and is expected to be To continue to run an environmentally sustainable LEO Pharma’s production facility in Esbjerg, commitment to long-term achieved no later than 2020. business, we will still monitor and improve other Denmark handles 70,000 tons of pig mucosa per areas of our environmental footprint where we year. However, only 1% of the pig mucosa contains sustainability, we are Setting new environmental maintain a strong performance. This includes our the core ingredient needed to make the active goals for 2020 efforts relating to waste reduction and recycling. pharmaceutical ingredient (API). To reduce our always looking for new This year, we have continued our waste, we found a way to dispose of processed opportunities to reduce focus on improving our energy pig mucosa that brings value to the community and environmental performance around the Esbjerg facility. Since 2011, we have waste, conserve energy, across our business. been working with the Danish company and minimize our global Our approach to achieving our OUR GOALS FOR Hede-Danmark, which specializes in making good use of organic materials for agricultural purposes, 2020 carbon footprint. 2020 energy savings target to turn mucosa waste into Fertigro®, a high potency includes purchasing efficient organic fertilizer. With Fertigro®, we are able to lighting and performing infrastructure upgrades reuse 95% of mucosa waste for a product that and replacements that minimize our direct energy brings organic material and nutrients to the fields consumption. In 2018, we made significant progress of about 300 farmers in the Esbjerg area. towards our target by replacing four hydraulic Another valuable waste product is Fertifedt®, engines with energy efficient electric equivalents at a high potency fat product delivered to biogas LEO Pharma’s Ballerup site. We have also initiated plants. Fertifedt® contains a high amount of carboa process of replacing a significant share of our · To save an amount of energy corresponding to hydrates that can be easily transformed into methlighting with more energy efficient LED light fixtures. 10% of our energy consumption in 2013 via energy ane. In 2019, we will continue to invest in new technolosaving projects. gies to help us reduce the energy consumption of Both Fertigro® and Fertifedt® contribute to LEO our operations. · To align our climate ambitions to meet EU targets. Pharma’s circular economy life cycle management. 23 24 LEO Pharma 02. Our Business Communication on Progress 2018 Building a unique workplace driven by a strong purpose We want to create an environment where our employees are empowered to grow and shape the future. In 2018, LEO Pharma undertook a comprehensive The goals are backed up by a development plan global research study among our employees. for the employee’s current job and potential future Supplemented by the latest employee survey, it job roles. showed that employees consider LEO Pharma to be a unique workplace, characterized by: Leadership as a key enabler Gender diversity We know from our benchmarking that we have in management • Being purpose driven and having real focus on strong leaders at LEO Pharma, and we see strong improving patients’ lives due to the foundation leadership as a key enabler for our change journey. We achieved our goal to have at least ownership. In 2018, we prepared and adopted a leadership two female members on the Board of • Having a high level of trust and people who are development strategy for developing the most Directors by 2019 already in 2017. empowered to make an impact and grow. critical leadership behaviors for executing the • Having a caring culture with helpful and collaboLEO Pharma 2025 Strategy. In 2019, we will start to In 2018, we set the goal to have at rative colleagues, creating an environment where launch the leadership development program for least three female board members on each employee can be their best professional self. those who are new to the leadership role as well the Board of Directors of LEO Pharma as our senior leaders. A/S (in addition to the employeeWe achieved a high sustainWe are proud that our employelected board members) by 2021. ees feel that they belong to a able engagement score unique workplace. We do not Sustainable work-life Currently, as one female member of 83%, meaning that LEO take this for granted and will continue to develop our people balance resigned during the course of 2018, one of the eight Board of Directors Pharma employees are highly and enhance their well-being members is female. at work. Our approach to sustainable work-life is anmotivated and commitchored in our new Position on Mental Well-being Women represent a total of 41% of ted, and feel a very strong Enabling people and LEO at Work. management positions at levels Pharma to grow below the Board of Directors of LEO connection to the overall In December 2018, we launched As a caring healthcare company, we recognize Pharma A/S. purpose of LEO Pharma. LEO GROW, a new global that a productive work-life balance is based on process that ensure managers a healthy work life, encompassing good physical and employees have ongoing conversations about and mental well-being. This is a prerequisite for performance and development. As part of this, performance in a modern globalized workplace. the agreed business goals are supplemented with A sustainable working environment is important Statutory report on gender diversity, behavior goals to ensure a dual focus on both in giving our employees satisfaction and enapursuant to section 99b of the Danish what to deliver and how to deliver. bling them to lead good lives at work and with Financial Statements Act. their friends and families. 25 26 LEO Pharma 02. Our Business Business integrity At LEO Pharma, we want to be valued not only for our treatments, but also for the way we work. Integrity is one of our core values, and we are LEO Pharma programs that contribute committed to acting ethically and responsibly to upholding the high integrity throughout our business. Whether it is finding standards of our business technological alternatives to animals in science for our research, safeguarding data privacy, or our zero tolerance to bribery and corruption, we apply Employee safety high standards of ethical practice throughout our business and supply chain. Personal data protection Integrity also defines how we approach dialogue with our stakeholders, including our suppliers. We want to build trust by listening to their concerns and communicating transparently about LEO Pharma. Anti-Corruption To build and maintain trust with our stakeholders, we work with a number of programs in our CSR Commitment 2018-2020 that focus on integrity. Responsible supply chain management Integrity is one of our core values, and Animal welfare we are committed to acting ethically and responsibly throughout our business. We are guided by national law and international frameworks in our approach to responsible business practice. This includes the UN Global Compact, as well as international conventions such as the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. We also comply with our legal obligations, including the social responsiblity reporting under Danish law, the UK Bribery Act, Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Modern Slavery Act, and the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). 27 LEO Pharma 02. Our Business Communication on Progress 2018 Strengthening a Data protection culture of safety by across the globe engaging employees In a rapidly evolving digital world, the responsible handling of personal data is ever more important and complex. Maintaining positive safety performance requires strong, proactive and credible leadership, and direct engagement with our employees across the company. As a global pharmaceutical company, LEO Pharma Building strong data privacy performance processes large amounts of data. Much of this data In 2018, there were zero significant data breaches contains personal information. reported within our operations. A significant data breach is a personal data breach that is likely to At LEO Pharma, we are determined to protect our and motivate their teams through ongoing safety Our employees, patients, customers, and busiresult in a risk to the rights and freedoms of indiemployees by avoiding potential accidents and training and shop floor “toolbox talks”. These interness partners have the right to expect that we viduals and requires reporting to the Danish Data promoting a safe working environment and culture. active sessions strengthen a culture of safety by safeguard their personal data and handle it with Protection Agency. Nevertheless, we did encounOur approach to LEO Pharma employee safety is encouraging employees to engage in their own respect and integrity. The EU General Data Protecter 13 minor data breach incidents. Minor data anchored in our Occupational Health and Safety safety and address potential safety issues through tion Regulation (GDPR) that came into force on breaches are those registred through our informapolicy, yet we believe that a true culture of safety reflections on everyday situations. May 25, 2018 clarifies what companies must do to tion security platform that do not require reportrelies on continued direct engagement with our observe this right. ing to the authorities. In these cases, we work to colleagues. In 2019, we will focus on safety as a guiding prinremedy, investigate the rootcause, and implement ciple when designing new solutions, and we will Our “Binding Corporate Rules” on data protection mitigative actions. Our ambition is to have a safety performance that introduce a data-driven approach to find the best set the highest possible privacy protection standis on par with the best in our industry by 2020. Until risk mitigation solutions for preventing incidents. ard across all countries where we operate, includGoing forward, we want to maintain our proud now, this has been measured in the LTI rate. With We will also develop and report on new valueing those with more lenient data privacy legislation. record of no significant data breaches, while strivan LTI rate of 3.7 in 2018, down from 4.1 in 2017, we creating KPIs that help us improve our safety This means that our employees, patients, customing to further decrease minor data breaches. We are moving in the right direction. performance, while working proactively to identify ers and business partners – regardless of location will incorporate learning from these minor inciand manage risks and prevent accidents. – have their right to data privacy protected in dents into our training and awareness-raising In 2018, we introduced a “Best in Safety” project. accordance with the highest standards, as set programs to further strengthen a culture of rigor One element of the “Best in Safety” project is trainLTI rate* at LEO Pharma manufacturing sites: out by the GDPR. in the handling of personal data. ing managers in production to lead by example 6 Embedding a privacy culture 5 Safeguarding privacy requires company-wide 4 awareness of the importance of accountable 3 and ethical handling of personal data. In 2018, we A safer year in Dublin launched an extensive training program for LEO In 2018, LEO Pharma’s Dublin site celebrated a year with only two incidents 2 Pharma employees who handle personal data. Binding Corporate Rules of lost time due to injury, down from seven incidents in 2017. Stephen Rush, 1 These trainings introduced the legal requirements Binding Corporate Rules (BCR) is a European authority approved mechanism Senior Director in Finished Goods Manufacturing, Dublin, is proud of this 0 of the GDPR, the ethical importance of privacy for data transfers within LEO Pharma. By applying GDPR principles globally, achievement: “We are creating a stronger culture of safety by making small 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 protection, and the new LEO Pharma systems EU data protection authorities allow – upon approval – for the free transfer things important. We try to talk about safety every day and we communiand procedures we are implementing to handle of personal data out of the European Economic Union, thereby permitting *LTI rate per million working hours calculated as: cate minor incidents and near-miss events to get even better. We strive for data responsibly and with integrity. In 2019, we will the use of global functions and IT systems. an injury-free workplace. That is our ultimate goal. (Number of injuries with more than one day complement these trainings with an awareness absent from work x 1,000,000 working hours) campaign to further anchor privacy in the hearts Total number of working hours and minds of all LEO Pharma people. based on local standard working hours 29 30 LEO Pharma 02. Our Business Communication on Progress 2018 Working responsibly 91% with suppliers LEO Pharma wants to create better supply chains in the 9% pharmaceutical and healthcare industry. Through our responsible supply chain management processes, we work to minimize adverse impacts from suppliers of goods and services in relation to labor and human rights, environment, and anti-corruption. Location of Tier 1 suppliers in our Responsible Supply Chain Management Program OECD countries Non-OECD countries We believe we can be more effective by joining sible supply chain management program along will base the site visit program on recommendaforces with other companies in our industry than by the way. Since 2014, we have progressively intetions in the OECD Guidelines for Multinational acting alone. Therefore, in 2018, we engaged with grated our due diligence process into the procureEnterprises as well as the Pharmaceutical Supply two collaborative platforms focusing on improving ment processes of key affiliates. Today, more than Chains Initiative audit framework. the social, environmental, and ethical performance of supply chains in the pharmaceutical and health80% of our spend is covered by our responsible supply chain management processes. In 2018, we complemented our established supplier LEO Pharma due diligence process care industry. assessment program by incorporating an assessLEO Pharma systematically screens all new suppliers based on parameters ment of human rights impacts in our supply chains. aligned with the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact and the LEO First, we initiated a networking group through the Roll-out of Responsible Supply Chain The outcomes of this process allow us to improve Pharma Third Party Compliance Code. Through a risk-based approach, Danish Initiative for Ethical Trade (DIEH) for best Management Program across affiliates our supplier selection and assessment processes we prioritize suppliers for further assessment. In 2018, we implemented new practice sharing and peer learning on implementby identifying potential human rights issues early ranking criteria that will strengthen our due diligence by increasing our ing responsible business practices in pharmaceuand accurately through a process of analysis. 2014 DK knowledge of suppliers’ CSR performance in 2019. tical supply chains. In 2019, we will conduct site visits of key suppliers Second, we joined the Pharmaceutical Supply 2016 FR, IE, AU using recommendations from the OECD guideChain Initiative (PSCI), a collaborative initiative that lines and PSCI audit framework and upload one aims to establish and promote a set of common site assesment to PSCI platform. In 2020, we will 2017 North Europe: UK, BE, NL, FI, NO, SE standards for the continuous improvement of perform five site visits. social, health, safety, and environmental performance in supply chains. Through our work with 2018 Central Europe: CH, DE, CZ, RO, PL, Choosing more sustainable options the audit committee group, we collaborate in the AT, SK at LEO Pharma development of shared tools and standards in the South Europe: ES, IT Sometimes small changes can create a ripple pharmaceutical industry and engage in a proacRest of the world: CH, JP, SG, SKR, effect through the years. As part of our ‘What We tive approach to supplier assessment. Next year, PT, GCCI Buy’ project, we have taken our first steps in the we will also participate in PSCI’s Human and Labour journey of choosing the more sustainable option rights working group. This will enable us to work with at LEO Pharma. our peers on understanding and addressing key In 2019, we will reinforce supplier engagement and human rights risks in pharmaceutical and healthdevelop a site visit program to increase awareness We have looked at changing our indirect products care industry supply chains. about responsible business practices among our to more sustainable solutions in internal collaborapriority suppliers. Our aim in engaging proactively tion with the procurement team. We have decided Stronger assessment of suppliers with the suppliers is to emphasize collaboration to work with the products and services with a green As our supply chains are complex and everand foster dialogue about transparent governance impact that is visible to employees. This project will changing, we must continue to improve our responframeworks and responsible business practices. We continue in 2019. 31 32 LEO Pharma Communication on Progress 2018 Our Governance 03 No one understands how much I am affected by my psoriasis. In my own mind, I think it’s comparable to leprosy in the Middle Ages” Jakob, 65 Denmark LEO Pharma 03. Our Governance Communication on Progress 2018 Special business and financial risks In implementing our 2025 Strategy, it is crucial that LEO Pharma continues to diligently manage the risks inherent in our business activities and reduce the potential negative impact of these risks to an acceptable level. Throughout 2018, a number of initiatives to improve enterprise risk management were enacted, including the establishment of a Global Risk & Complisuccessfully commercialize our development pipeline assets, while also affecting our ability to partner with the right investigators and study sites LEO Pharma, while also negatively impacting the individuals involved. As a ance Officer role reporting to the Audit Committee. The Global Risk & Compliance Officer oversees risk management at enterprise level. for our clinical trials. Operating risks Financial risks Transfer pricing disputes with tax authorities and currency impact due to exchange rate fluctuations foundationThe following section outlines the major negative enterprise risks, all with extensive and continuously Supply disruptions due to delays or failures throughout our global supply chain is a significant risk. These disruptions may result from breakdowns are external risks that could affect LEO Pharma at any time. LEO Pharma’s foreign exchange risk is most significant in USD, GBP and CAD, as the owned company, evolving prevention and mitigation plans in place: Strategic risks in our internal supply processes or those of external partners, causing product shortages for patients and caregivers and negatively impacting LEO foreign exchange risk arising from EUR sales is regarded as low due to Denmark’s fixed-rate policy towards EUR. we have the independence Pipeline attrition is an inherent risk in pharmaPharma’s finances and reputation. ceutical research and development. This includes CSR risks potential development failure of one or more of our Information security breaches, including malware LEO Pharma is committed to addressing CSR risks and obligation to key pipeline assets. attacks and data breaches, form a significant risk. linked to our products and our business operations. The potential risk impact has increased throughout This includes addressing the risks of our business on Market access restrictions and pricing pressure is a 2018, due in part to the wide-ranging legislative society, the environment, and on climate change, put patients first. trend that is expected to continue for the industry requirements coming into effect, including the EU and the risks CSR issues pose to our long-term as a whole and potentially at a higher rate than General Data Protection Regulation, and due to business objectives. expected. The main factor driving this trend is that the extensive malware attacks that have signifprivate and government payers are demanding icantly impacted other medium and large size On pages 41-44 you can find an overview of our increasingly higher discounts and rebates, while corporations recently. CSR risks assessment process, material CSR issues restricting reimbursement and access to new and and the LEO Pharma programs we implement to established products (both topicals and systemics). Compliance risks address them. This poses a significant risk for LEO Pharma across Violations of external legislation, regulations, most geographies, but is most pronounced in the industry codes and internal standards is a potential US market. risk for a company like LEO Pharma, which operates on a global scale in a strictly and increasingly The competition dynamics of the prescription regulated industry. These risks may materialize in dermatology market are rapidly changing, with our internal operations or in external dealings with new players steadily emerging. This can potenbusiness partners, healthcare providers, etc. Such tially impact our ability to maintain market shares violations could lead to investigations by external of established products, sustain product launch authorities and lawsuits filed against LEO Pharma, trajectory of recently launched products, and causing financial and reputational damage to 35 36 LEO Pharma 03. Our Governance Communication on Progress 2018 Company information A proactive and transparent corporate governance Remuneration and Nomination Committee structure promotes sustainable business behavior and The Board of Directors has established a Remuneration and Nomination Committee to assist the Board long-term value creation. of Directors in aspects related to remuneration, assessment and nomination. The Remuneration and Nomination Committee meets when required but at least twice a year. The Remuneration and Nomination Committee is comprised of four members, three of whom are members of the Board of Directors and one of whom is appointed by the LEO Foundation. Ownership structure Board of Directors The Board of Directors has elected the following board members to the Remuneration Nomination LEO Pharma A/S LEO Pharma A/S Committee: Jukka Pekka Pertola (Chairman), Olivier Bohuon, John Robert Weeks & Jesper Mailind (The LEO Foundation) LEO Pharma A/S is a fully owned subsidiary of: Jukka Pekka Pertola Chairman, Board member since 2011 LEO Foundation Lautrupsgade 7, 5th floor Olivier Bohuon 2100 Copenhagen Ø, Denmark. Vice Chairman, Board Member since 2018 Audit Committee Patrik Oluf Dahlén LEO Group legal structure Board member since 2016 The Board of Directors has established an Audit Committee to assist the Board of Directors in overseeing aspects related to financial reporting, auditing, risk management, currency and investment policies and Jesper Høiland compliance. The Audit Committee meets when required but at least four times a year. The Audit Committee LEO Foundation Board Member since 2016 comprises three members, all of whom are members of the Board of Directors. The members possess the relevant qualifications as specified in the Rules of Procedure for the Audit Committee. 100% Cristina Patricia Lage Board Member since 2017 The Board of Directors has elected the following board members to the Audit Committee: Patrik Olof Dahlén (Chairman), Cristina Patricia Lage & Karin Attermann LEO Holding A/S Jan van de Winkel Board member since 2017 100% Anders Ekblom LEO Pharma Group* Board member since 2018 John Robert Weeks Board Member since 2014 Scientific Committee *Group comprises LEO Pharma A/S and its The Board of Directors has established a Scientific Committee to assist the Board of Directors in overDanish and international subsidiaries. Jesper Mailind seeing the Research and Development Strategy and the R&D pipeline. The Scientific Committee meets Board Member since 2018 when required but at least four times a year. The Scientific Committee is comprised of three members, all of whom are members of the Board of Directors. Signe Maria Christensen Employee-elected Board Member since 2018 The Board of Directors has elected the following board members to the Scientific Committee: Jan van de Winkel (Chairman), Jesper Høiland & Anders Ekblom Franck Maréno Employee-elected Board Member since 2018 Jannie Kogsbøll Employee-elected Board Member since 1998 Karin Attermann Employee elected Board Member since 2008 37 38 LEO Pharma Communication on Progress 2018 Research Project Board LEO Pharma’s Global Leadership Team has established the Research Project Board to ensure alignment on managing the research projects, from initiation until decision to start clinical testing. The Research Project Board is a cross-functional board with members from the wider areas of R&D, including LEO Pharma A/S Research, Medical Science and Pharmaceutical Design & Development. Chairman: Thorsten Thormann, Vice President, Research. Global Leadership Team Corporate Social Responsibility Board The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Board is an initiative of LEO Pharma’s Global Leadership Team. The LEO Pharma CSR Board sets the strategic direction for CSR at LEO Pharma and supports implementation. The board discusses and approves high-level CSR initiatives, approves annual CSR reporting and acts as CSR spokespersons, supporting internal and external CSR communication. The board also formally appoints CSR Drivers based on recommendations from the CSR team. The President and CEO of LEO Pharma appoints the members of the CSR Board. The CSR Board is a cross-functional board with members from the following functions: Global Procurement, Global Communications and Public Affairs, Research, Dermatology Value Stream and Cluster Europe (North), Australia & New Zealand. Chairman: Mette Vestergaard, Executive Vice President, Global People & Business Transformation. Development Board LEO Pharma’s Global Leadership Team has established the Development Board to ensure strategic alignment and to maximize the value of the portfolio of projects in development, from first clinical studies until launch. The Development Board is a cross-functional board with members from Global Research & Development, Global Product Supply, Marketing, Region US, Finance, and the CEO. Chairman: Kim Kjøller, Executive Vice President, Global Research & Development. Life Cycle Management Board LEO Pharma’s Global Leadership Team has established the Life Cycle Management Board to ensure strategic alignment, to maximize the value and to ensure compliance for LEO Pharma’s marketed solutions. The Life Cycle Management Board is a cross-functional board with members from Research & Development, Global Product Supply, Marketing & Sales Regions, and Finance. Chairman: Jørgen Damsbo Andersen, Executive Vice President, Region International. From left: Anders Kronborg, Kim Kjøller, Mette Vestergaard, Jørgen Damsbo Andersen, Gitte P. Aabo, Patrice Baudry, Guillaume Clément, Rhonda Duffy & Chris Posner. Compliance Board The Compliance Board is an initiative of LEO Pharma’s Global Leadership Team. The role of the compliance board is to strengthen the overall compliance community and to strengthen the compliance mindset throughout the organization. The compliance board has oversight responsibility with respect to overall compliance programs and Gitte Aabo: President & CEO procedures, and monitors the implementation of compliance programs, procedures and guidelines. The compliance board also oversees the investigation of potential compliance violations. Anders Kronborg: Executive Vice President, Global Finance & Business Services The Compliance Board is a cross-functional board with members from Global Compliance & Risk, Business Ethics, Global Quality and Global Legal. Chris Posner: Executive Vice President, US and President & CEO of LEO Pharma, Inc. Chairman: Mette Vestergaard, Executive Vice President, Global People & Business Transformation. Guillaume Clément: Executive Vice President, Region Europe+ Jørgen Damsbo Andersen: Executive Vice President, Region International LEO Innovation Lab Board Established by LEO Pharma’s Global Leadership Team. Advisory board to LEO Innovation Lab in setting the straKim Kjøller: Executive Vice President, Global Research & Development tegic direction. The LEO Innovation Lab Board consists of the Head of LEO Innovation Lab, the President and CEO of LEO Pharma, Mette Vestergaard: Executive Vice President, Global People & Business Transformation the Executive Vice President Global People & Business Transformation, as well as Jacob Jønck, entrepreneur, and Tommy Ahlers, entrepreneur (stepped down from the board on May 3, 2018). Patrice Baudry: Executive Vice President, G3M – Global Marketing, Market Access & Medical Affairs Chairman: Kim Kjøller, Executive Vice President, Global Research & Development. Rhonda Duffy: Executive Vice President, Global Product Supply 39 40 LEO Pharma 03. Our Governance Communication on Progress 2018 Empowering patients Issue Issue description Program UN Sustainable Development goal Defining our Unmet medical Address unmet medical needs of people with skin Expanding Target 3.4 Target 17.17 needs disease through continued development of medidermatological cines and minimize risk to patients’ safety through solutions robust clinical trials and data transparency. CSR issues Barriers to healthcare Improve accessibility, quality, and affordability of health services available to dermatology patients. Removing barriers to healthcare Target 3.8 Target 17.17 Patient voice in Increase patients’ influence on policies, guidelines, Strengthening Target 3.8 Target 17.17 In our CSR Commitment 2018-2020, we commit to focus healthcare policies and disease management. patient voice and decisions on addressing issues where our impact on society and our business is the most significant. Sustainable operations As a global pharmaceutical company that innoIssue Issue description Program UN Sustainable Development goal vates, researches, produces, and distributes medicines to our patients, our business performs many Resource use and Manage impact of our operations on Climate change, Target 7.3 Target 13.1 functions that impact on society. climate change climate change and the environment by environment and reducing energy consumption and CO2 energy Most importantly, we address unmet medical needs emissions throughout our value chain. and support our patients by helping to remove Sustainable worklife Foster a positive working environment and Mental well-being Target 8.8 barriers to healthcare and promote patients’ voice enhance mental well-being at work. at work in healthcare decisions. We also employ a diverse workforce of blue and white collar employees, and A capable Ensure that we are able to attract, People maintain relationships with a broad range of busiand motivated develop and retain the people with development ness partners throughout our global value chain. workforce the right competences. Our CSR focus areas Our CSR Commitment 2018-2020 sets the framework for working on the CSR issues which are most Business integrity important to our business. Through continuous dialogue with internal and external stakeholders, we work to understand the impact of our business Issue Issue description Program UN Sustainable Development goal on society. Workplace safety Protecting the health and safety of our employees. Employee safety Target 8.8 We included in our assessment views from patient organizations, regulators, policy makers, civil sociCorruption and Work against corruption and bribery in Anti-corruption Target 16.5 ety, business partners and employees. We have unethical business all its forms, with attention to high risk countries, prioritized 11 issues that are considered to be most practices relevant internal functions such as sales and important to our stakeholders and to LEO Pharma. marketing, procurement, legal, finance and audit, These key issues are addressed through our portfoand interaction with public officials, healthcare lio of 11 programs supporting the CSR Commitment. professionals (HCPs) and business partners. Responsible Conduct CSR due diligence and promote Responsible Target 8.7 Target 12.4 conduct of suppliers responsible business conduct of suppliers. supply chain Target 12.5 Target 12.6 management Privacy protection Protect the privacy of clinical trialists (patients), Personal data healthcare professionals (HCPs), our employees protection and other stakeholders in our global operations. Animal welfare in Reduce number of animals in experiments and Animal welfare research refine the use of animals. 41 42 LEO Pharma 03. Our Governance Communication on Progress 2018 Human Rights at Rights holder Business activity Our people Our patients Our business partners LEO Pharma Our business operations • Research & Development Sourcing of materials • Clinical trials • Digital solutions • Distribution of medicines Human rights Working conditions • Right to health • Working conditions As a member of the UN Global Compact, LEO Pharma is focus area • Right to privacy • Intellectual property rights committed to respecting all human rights as described Key issues • Working hours • Patient safety • Working hours in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Inter• Remuneration and pay • Freedom of consent • Remuneration and pay national Bill of Human Rights, and the ILO Declaration on • • Leave and vacation Health and safety in clinical trials • Privacy of personal data • Leave and vacation • Health and safety Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. • Non-discrimination • Responsible lobbying, sales • Non-discrimination • Freedom from harassment and distribution of medicines • Freedom from harassment • Freedom of association • Freedom of association • Privacy of personal data • Privacy of personal data LEO Pharma is committed to business practices building efforts: The Human Rights Working Group • Fair and equitable sharing of benefits that respect internationally recognized human of the UN Global Compact Network Denmark, from use of genetic resources, includrights. As a leader in medical dermatology, we and the UN Guiding Principles Network of Global ing traditional knowledge commit to ensure patient safety and safeguard CSR, and the Human Rights Impact Assessment the right to privacy and freedom of consent in Network (HRIA) of the Danish Initiative for Ethical reference to clinical trials. Across our global operTrade (DIEH). ations, we work to strengthen labor rights through Policies and • LEO Pharma Code of Conduct • LEO Pharma Code of Conduct • Third Party Compliance Code fair and safe working conditions, and promote the documents to • Human and Labor Rights Policy • Human and Labor Rights Policy • Position on Responsible Procurement respect for labor and human rights in our supply Stregthening our due diligence manage our • Protection of Personal Data Policy • Helsinki Declaration • Nagoya Protocol chains. As a member of the UN Global Compact, In 2018, we achieved our goal relating to implemen• Position on Mental • Patient safety (GXP Quality Policy) Human rights LEO Pharma is committed to respecting all human tation of the UN Guiding Principles by conducting Well-being at Work • Protection of Personal Data issues rights as described in the Universal Declaration human rights due diligence on LEO Pharma head• Occupational Health Policy of Human Rights, the International Bill of Human quarters. Over the course of the year, the scope and Safety Policy Rights, and the International Labour Organization was expanded to include LEO Pharma Group. Self• Bullying and Harassment Policy (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and assessment provide us with an understanding of • SOP for Job Descriptions Rights at Work. how our business activities could potentially have • Global Redundancy Policy impacts on rights holders. The self-assessment • Employee contracts also provided an overview of the measures we implement to prevent these impacts. LEO Pharma Code of Conduct and Human Rights Policy Program Employee safety Expanding dermatological Responsible supply chain All LEO Pharma manufacturing sites are located solutions management We want to ensure that our employees respect human rights and integrate human within the EU. We operate in a highly-regulated and labor rights considerations into their daily work. industry in relation to the development, producMental well-being at work Personal data protection Personal data protection Our LEO Pharma Code of Conduct, our Human and Labor Rights Policy, and tion, marketing, and distribution of our products, Third-Party Compliance Code set the framework for our commitment to safeguard and the monitoring of product safety. These indusand respect human rights across our global operations and supply chains. This try regluations inform our LEO Pharma policies, Personal data protection framework has been endorsed by LEO Pharma’s CEO and the Global Leadership which helps us mitigate our human rights risks. The Team. Training on our Code of Conduct is mandatory for all employees and is self-assessment showed that we manage our most available in available in 20 languages. significant human rights risks well, and that our LEO Pharma policies and programs constitute an adequate framework of preventative measures. Access to remedy These policies and preventative measures are We implement the UN Guiding Principles on Busilisted on p. 60. ness and Human Rights (UNGPs), including assessWe recognize the importance of continuously monitoring our potential human rights risks through our due diligence process ing our principle human rights risks in relation to In 2019, we will build upon this work and focus on and whistleblower hotline. This remediation channel gives LEO Pharma people and others associated with LEO Pharma the our operations. supporting areas of the business that are key for ability to report unethical behavior and serious concerns in a secure and confidential way. We participate in three multi-stakeholder human our human rights performance. We will also initiate rights business networks to support our capacity an assessment in one of our key affiliates. In 2018, no reports regarding serious impact on human rights were received through the LEO Pharma Whistleblower Hotline. 43 44 LEO Pharma Communication on Progress 2018 Empowering patients SDG 3 – Target 3.4 SDG 3 – Target 3.8 SDG 3 – Target 3.8 SDG 17 – Target 17.17 SDG 17 – Target 17.17 SDG 17 – Target 17.17 Goal 2020 Status Help people with skin diseases get In progress Expanding dermatological Removing barriers to healthcare Strengthening patient voice access to health and healthcare treatments Empower people with skin diseases In progress Issue: Barriers to healthcare Issue: Patient voice in healthcare policies Issue: Unmet medical needs We seek to understand the barriers to healthcare that people and decisions Train healthcare workers In progress We provide value to our patients and society by developing with skin diseases face. We aim to remove the social, cultural, We advocate for the increased inclusion of the patient medicines to improve outcomes of existing treatments and financial and other barriers to enable dermatological patients voice, as we believe this is pivotal to improving the health conditions for which no other treatment exists. Our committo live full, happy and healthy lives and access the best care and well-being of people living with skin diseases. We work ment to focus on rare dermatology diseases is unique. and treatment for their condition. in close partnership with patient advocacy groups, supporting their work as advocates for our patients. We commit to With the aim to treat more patients, in 2018 we have: We strive to develop patient-focused training programs, as partnerships and follow the guidance of the LEO Code of • Expanded our clinical pipeline. well as digital solutions and artificial intelligence (AI) technolConduct and comply with applicable laws, legislation and • Refocused new projects in Research to be ogy, to support Healthcare Professionals (HCPs) and patients industry codes on relationships between the pharmaceutical First in Class. in skin condition prediction, diagnosis, and progression monindustry and patient organisations. • Built a special unit for rare dermatology diseases, establishitoring. ing a workstream for preparing new projects in rare dermaIn 2018, we worked towards this goal by organizing a semitological diseases. In 2018, we increased the integration of HCPs and patients in nar with patients, payers, policymakers, legislators from the • Expanded our offering globally. Approvals of our Psoriasis Academy. We trained HCPs in two different reFDA, EMA and OECD among others to discuss incorporating established products in new global markets. gions, reaching an estimated total of 15,000 patients. We also the patient perspective at all stages of drug development launched clinical consultation templates for use by patients and patient access decisions. While patients are representWith the ambition to have world class science in our derand physicians alike to optimize the dermatology consultaed with a seat on many committees, further progress needs matology research and development programs, we work in tions, and developed a new content module on suicidal ideato be made in truly incorporating their views on drug access partnerships with academia and other pharma companies tion in psoriasis patients. issues. LEO Pharma will continue to work with patients on this to expand our innovative technologies. important topic. We also launched the “Imagine” tracking tool and Furthermore, we have an Open Innovation Platform for exstarted development of the “Better Visit” chatbot. In 2019, we will: ploring opportunities for drug discovery with external partDesigned to promote more widespread use of the patient • Continue partnering with patients and policymakers to furners. The Open Innovation Platform provides the opportunity template, the chatbot enables patients to use their smartther strengthen the patient voice and further develop our to test, free of charge and in full confidentiality, whether a phone to prepare for a dermatology consultation while in the close partnerships with patient advocacy groups. compound has the potential to treat dermatology diseases. waiting room. • Continue our pursuit to roll put the WHO resolution on psoriOur position on Public Access to Clinical Trials Information apIn 2019, we will: asis at the national level. plies to all Clinical Trials sponsored by LEO Pharma, thereby • Extend the outreach of the Academy to include dermatolensuring that these trials meet and in some cases exceed ogy nursing staff in our sessions, as well as consolidate our regulatory requirements. patient outreach by increasing ease and accessibility of the Academy webpage, and optimizing HCP/patient interaction In 2019, we will: with the prospective introduction of our chatbot. • Continue to develop our projects in our pipeline, and expand our dermatological treatments by both developing • Launch a Policy Commitment outlining our position on access internal projects and looking for external opportunities into health and well-being for dermatological patients. cluding academic collaborations. • Explore the possibility to expand our program to a new dis• Invest in reasearch and development globally, to ensure ease area and work with our partners to develop an “Eczema world class science within dermatology. Academy”, which will support disease awareness. We will also expand our patient understanding by initiating a validation Read more about LEO Pharma’s position on Public Access to study in order to measure patient impact of participating in Clinical Trials Information. our program. Link: leo-pharma.com/clinicaltrialstransparency 45 46 LEO Pharma Communication on Progress 2018 Sustainable operations SDG 7 – Target 7.3 SDG 8 – Target 8.8 SDG 13 – Target 13.1 Climate change, environment and energy Goal 2018 Status Climate change, Mental well-being at work People development Set new climate change KPIs In progress environment and energy Issue: Sustainable worklife Issue: A capable and motivated workforce Plan climate change mitigation In progress Having motivated and healthy employees is the foundation The success of LEO Pharma lies in our people; a competent activities at LEO Pharma Issue: Resource use and climate change for LEO Pharma to reach our corporate strategy 2025. Workand highly engaged workforce is a prerequisite for executing We want to be more efficient in how we power and heat our ing conditions represent a salient influence on our employees’ our LEO Pharma 2025 strategy. In 2017, we launched a new Standardize and reduce internal Partly manufacturing sites and offices. mental well-being. strategy requirering that we are able to build and develop complexity regarding EHS achieved strategic competences that are new to the company. certifications Our policy on Environment, Climate and Energy is part of our Our LEO Pharma Code of Conduct includes our Occupational Code of Conduct, which acknowledges our adherence to inHealth and Safety Policy, which acknowledges our responsiAs a consequence, a number of strategic initiatives were inGoal 2020 ternational conventions and applicable laws and regulations. bility to ensure a safe and healthy working environment that itiated in 2018. We reached the KPIs that we had defined for Furthermore, it describes the responsibility of LEO Pharma complies with applicable laws, regulations and industry codes. the year. Define climate change KPIs In progress people to consider environmental and energy performance in new projects and their daily work. We assess the psycho-social working environment and risks • We reached a sustainable engagement score of 83%, through assessments such as our global engagement survey which confirms that our people are highly motivated and Our five manufacturing sites are ISO 14001 certified. We follow (LEO Voice), and mitigate any gaps in reference to the mental committed. Mental well-being at work the ‘Plan – Do – Check – Act’ due diligence model on which well-being of our employees at work. We acknowledge the this ISO standard is based. occupational risk of work-related stress, which we take meas• We developed a leadership development strategy coverGoal 2018 Status ures to mitigate and prevent. ing all leaders that focuses on developing the leadership On energy efficiency, we have set a goal to save an amount behaviors critical for executing our LEO Pharma 2025 stratPresent a global position to Achieved of energy corresponding to 10% of our energy consumption in In 2018, we took the preventive measures of continuing the egy. enhance mental well-being at work 2013 via energy savings. This is equal to reducing our energy training of managers in Headquarters in organisational stress at LEO Pharma consumption by 12,900 MWh. prevention. • In December we launched LEO GROW – LEO Pharma’s new process to ensure clear individual goals and focused develGoal 2020 In 2018, we made progress towards this goal by replacing venIn 2018, a key deliverable was to develop a LEO Pharma Posiopment through on-going conversations between managCreate a baseline for mental well-beIn progress tilation and installing LED lighting, which led to a total reduction on Mental Well-being at Work, which going forward, will er and employee. ing issues and for current activities and tion of 1,600 MWh. This year, we also decided on the impleserve as our global framework for LEO Pharma employees. initiatives mentation of heat pumps in our new Ballerup factory. Once In 2019, we will: the new factory is in operation, we will be delivering our exIn 2019, we will: • Follow the continued implementation of LEO GROW closely. Share best practices and roll out mental In progress cess heat to the municipal grid in Ballerup 1,650 households • Roll out the LEO Pharma position on mental well-being at well-being supporting material in Ballerup are expected to be warmed with our excess heat, work throughout the organization. • Implement the leadership development strategy, starting which would result in an expected saving of 126 tons of CO2 with new leaders and senior leaders. Engage mangers, HR, and EHS commuIn progress annually. • C  ollect data on metal well-being issues to create a basenicates to enhance mental well-being at line • Build on the Employer Value Proposition that we developed work initiatives for LEO people In 2018, we engaged with an external partner and completed in 2018 and start to move from reactive recruiting to proa company-wide carbon footprint analysis. • Continue to conduct employee engagement surveys active sourcing by creating increased awareness about Follow up on assessment of mental In progress throughout the year to monitor the current status. LEO Pharma as an employer and building relationships with well-being issues and activities In 2019, we will: prospective future employees. • Use data from the carbon footprint analysis to increase our Read more about LEO Pharma’s Position on Mental Well-beunderstanding of our major climate change contributors and ing at Work. • Implement the talent development framework that we People development develop a plan for working with climate change mitigation created in 2018, which focuses on how we accelerate the and resilience. development of talents for key leadership positions. Goal 2018 Status Link: leo-pharma.com/mentalwell-beingatworkposition • Set 2025 goals according to climate change KPI and define leo-pharma.com/codeofconduct We will continue to closely follow the engagement of our Reach 82% or more in Achieved local, site-specific climate change KPIs. people through 3 surveys per year. sustainable engagement score • Aim to reduce 6,000 MWh by saving energy in ventilation, Create a strategy for leadership Achieved pumps, heating, lighting and compressed air, and by installdevelopment ing solar panels. Goal 2020 Read more about LEO Pharma’s Environment, Climate and Implement a global process for In progress Energy policy part of our LEO Code of Conduct. performance management Link: leo-pharma.com/codeofconduct 47 48 LEO Pharma Communication on Progress 2018 Business integrity SDG 8 – Target 8.8 SDG 16 – Target 16.5 Employee safety Goal 2018 Status Employee safety Anti-corruption Set new KPIs In progress Issue: Workplace safety Issue: Corruption and unethical business practices Achieve LTI rate ≤3.5 for manufacturing Not Keeping our employees safe is of great importance in Integrity is one of LEO Pharma’s core values. At LEO Pharma, sites achieved everything we do. We want to protect the health and safewe are committed to upholding high business standards and ty of our colleagues and avoid disruptions to our operations promoting good business conduct globally in our interactions Standardize and reduce internal Partly caused by workplace accidents. We face some challenges with customers, healthcare professionals, public officials and complexity regarding EHS certifications achieved relating to ergonomics and manual handling, which will be other business partners. one of our focus areas in 2019. Goal 2020 Our commitment to work against corruption is set out in our Our Occupational Health and Safety Policy is set out in our LEO Anti-Corruption and -Bribery Policy, which is part of the LEO Define new KPIs In progress Pharma Code of Conduct and reflected in internal procedures. Pharma Code of Conduct. The areas identified as most critiIn terms of safety due diligence, we consistently assess our cal to our global operations from an anti-corruption perspecsystems and processes on safety, while employee and builder tives are where LEO Pharma people interact with healthcare safety is also a key priority in the design and building phase of professionals, healthcare organizations and public officials. new buildings at our sites. Anti-Corruption All LEO Pharma people receive training in the Anti-CorrupOur five manufacturing sites have OHSAS 18001 certifications tion and -Bribery Policy. LEO Pharma people working in areas Goal 2018 Status and we follow the ‘Plan – Do – Check – Act’ due diligence model identified as medium or high risk of exposure to corruption, Develop strengthened Anti-Corruption Achieved on which this standard is based. including the above mentioned high risk areas, receive addiProgram ready for implementation tional training. New employees undergo mandatory training in In 2018, we continued our simplification and standardization anti-corruption shortly after their employment. journey relating to EHS certifications. Our global EHS manageGoal 2020 ment system was implemented in 2018. The sites in Ballerup, The Anti-Corruption Program is supported by the LEO Pharma Develop and implement the AntiIn progress Esbjerg and Cork were audited against this global system and Whistleblower Hotline, where employees and external stakeCorruption program now share the same OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 certifications. holders can report serious concerns in a secure and confidenThe remaining manufacturing sites are expected to join no tial way. Train all employees In progress later than 2020. In 2018, we have been focusing on strengthening our AntiTrain all partners whose employees In progress Furthermore, we strengthened our focus on improving a culture Corruption Program to improve the prevention and early represent LEO Pharma of safety among employees through our ongoing “Best in Safety” detection of corruption. project at our manufacturing sites. This year we have intensified Strengthen awareness of good business In progress our focus on direct engagement, shop floor dialogues and In 2019, we will: conduct individual training. • Implement the new Anti-Corruption program across the business and train all employees. The program will strengthen Our lost time injury (LTI) rate at manufacturing sites fell for the fifth processes of key areas such as risk assessment, training, due year in a row. We came close to the set 2018 KPI of < 3.5 with an diligence, and monitoring and ensuring continuous alignment LTI rate of 3.7. To maintain this trend and continuously improve with global standards and best practices of fighting corrupour safety performance, we started the process of developing tion. additional KPIs to better monitor the causes and severity of incidents that could result in LTIs. • Train partners whose employees represent LEO Pharma by the end of 2019. In 2019, we will: • Assess the maturity and quality of our data collection system Read more about LEO Pharma’s Anti-Corruption and -Bribery to ensure that we have the data needed to produce an acPolicy as part of the LEO Pharma Code of Conduct. curate picture of our safety performance. Link: www.leo-pharma.com/codeofconduct Read more about LEO Pharma’s Occupational Health and Safety Policy in the LEO Pharma Code of Conduct. Link: www.leo-pharma.com/codeofconduct 49 50 LEO Pharma Communication on Progress 2018 Business integrity SDG 8 – Target 8.7 SDG 12 – Target 12.4; 12.5; 12.6 Responsible supply chain management Goal 2018 Status Responsible supply chain Personal data protection Animal welfare Strengthen due diligence procedures Achieved management Issue: Privacy protection Issue: Responsible research We must safeguard the privacy of the LEO Pharma people, Animal experimentation is a prerequisite for drug developReinforce focus on supply chain Achieved Issue: Responsible conduct of suppliers patients, doctors and medical staff with whom we engage, ment. As stated in our LEO Pharma Position on Animal Welmanagement by strengthening We work with around 5,300 active global suppliers. Our LEO and we must protect personal data. fare, we want to adhere to the highest standards in animal procedures Pharma Position on Responsible Supply Chain Management research, based on the 3Rs and the EU Directive on the pro(updated in 2018) and LEO Pharma Third-Party Compliance Our policy on Protection of Personal Data is part of our LEO tection of animals used for scientific purposes. The 3Rs enGoal 2020 Code outline our expectations of our suppliers to operate in Pharma Code of Conduct. Through our commitment to Bindsure replacement, reduction and refinement in the work with compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations, and ing Corporate Rules, we do not distinguish between regions research animals. In practice, this means we only use animals Conduct five supplier site visits In progress to work with high quality and ethical standards. in our approach to safeguarding individual rights and freeif there are no alternatives, and in these cases we use as doms, even though some regions have stricter data protecfew animals as possible and minimize the negative impact Based on the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and tion legislation than others. We set the highest bar everyon each animal. Development (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises where. and LEO Pharma Third Party Compliance Code, we conduct In 2018, we commenced animal registration to monitor the Personal data protection assessments and evaluations through a risk-based approach In 2018, we strengthened our global privacy program to be number of animals used in each research project, with the based on frequency of purchase, dependency, spend, and fully aligned with the EU’s General Data Protection Regulaaim of reducing this use moving towards 2025. Goal 2018 Status known risks. We focus on areas where adverse impact in our tion (GDPR). The program mapped the impact of GDPR on Establish global unified programme and Achieved supply chain is most likely to occur or where the consequences business lines and developed governance and training proAround 70% of our animal research is performed externally conduct awareness campaigns are most severe. grams to be structurally compliant with GDPR. and we have an ongoing focus on improving animal welfare at our partners’ facilities through audits and dialogue. Goal 2020 In 2018, we assessed 1,657 suppliers across all supplier cateAs part of these efforts, in 2018 we trained more than 2,500 In 2018, we audited sites in China and the United States, and gories. In high risk cases, we engaged directly with suppliers LEO Pharma people who handle personal data, both online approved specific research activities where the animal welEstablish a global privacy framework for In progress through self-assessment questionnaires or follow-up questions. and in face-to-face settings. This has been supported by an fare standards comply with our internal standards. stakeholder dialogue and collaboration internal campaign to raise awareness of personal data proIn 2018, we identified our salient human rights in our supply tection requirements. At our animal facility in Ballerup, Denmark, we developed Strengthen data protection culture In progress chain to be: Right to life, Right to health, and Right to adequate and implemented cages for rats that are significantly larger standard of living. We use this outcome to improve processes, In 2019, we will: and contain more enrichment than required. This work was Strengthen stakeholder dialogue, In progress so we place appropriate focus on the categories with high • Keep strengthening the data protection culture internalrewarded with the Animal Welfare Prize 2018 from the Danish engagement and collaboration risk of potential adverse impact on human rights, and take ly through ongoing training of the remaining LEO Pharma 3R Center. preventative measures to adress this risk. people and awareness-raising activities. In 2019, we will: In 2019, we will: • Build collaboration with external stakeholders regarding • Continue to focus on capacity building among our partners • Plan to conduct site visits of key suppliers, using recommendata privacy and establish a global privacy framework for to increase their general animal welfare standards. Animal welfare dations from the OECD guidelines and PSCI audit framestakeholder dialogue and collaboration. work. Read more about LEO Phama’s Position on Animal Welfare. Goal 2020 Read more about LEO Pharma’s policy on Protection of Per•P  erform one site visit and upload one site assessment to sonal Data and Human and Labor rights policy in the LEO Link: leo-pharma.com/animalwelfareposition Engage with approved collaboration In progress the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) Platform. Pharma Code of Conduct. partners with full approvement for all species of laboratory animals. • Train employees in due diligence. Link: www.leo-pharma.com/codeofconduct Use fewer animals in the discovery phase In progress of drug development. Read more about LEO Pharma Third-Party Compliance Code Inspire other research institutions in In progress and Position on Responsible Supply Chain Management under Denmark to use capillary micro sampling the Responsible Supply Chain Management section of our as blood collection technique. website. Produce an overview of experimenIn progress Link: www.leo-pharma.com/thirdparty tal animals used in research, including numbers and species used for drug development projects from 2018 onwards 51 52 LEO Pharma Communication on Progress 2018 LEO Pharma in the world LEO Innovation Lab LEO Science & Tech Hub Copenhagen, Denmark Boston, US Headquarters Ballerup, Denmark Manufacturing R&D Hub Esbjerg & Ballerup, Tokyo, Japan Denmark R&D Hub Shanghai, China LEO Innovation Lab Manufacturing San Francisco, US Cork & Dublin, LEO Innovation Lab Ireland Shanghai, China LEO Innovation Lab Toronto, Canada R&D Hub Madison, NJ, US Manufacturing Vernouillet, France LEO Innovation Lab Tel Aviv, Israel LEO Innovation Lab LEO Innovation Lab London, UK Rumania Treatments available Founded in Present in in more than 130 1908 61 countries and headquartered in Denmark countries 53 54 LEO Pharma A/S Industriparken 55 Phone +45 4494 5888 2750 Ballerup CVR no 56759514 Denmark www.leo-pharma.com The LEO Pharma logo is a registered trademark of LEO Pharma A/S. © April 2019 LEO Pharma A/S
