UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress Report 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 1 CONTENTS FIRM FACTS 03 Firm Facts 08 Environment 29 | Professional Support 48 Governance 6 78 and Development 04 10 | OUR OPERATIONS 50 | OUR OPERATIONS 29 | Disability 10 | B-Green Program 30 | LGBT+ 51 | OUR SPHERE OF INFLUENCE One of the best law 12 | Earth Day 32 | Year in D&I firms for women 53 | Baker McKenzie Law for Welcome 13 | Carbon Offsets Development Initiative Working Mother Magazine Message 36 | OUR SPHERE OF INFLUENCE Law 360 14 | Green Meetings Euromoney 5 | Our CSR Leadership 36 | Gender 54 15 | OUR SPHERE OF INFLUENCE 37 | LGBT+ 18 | Ten Deserts Project 38 | Disability 06 Understanding 20| Fiji 21 | Thought Leadership 38 | 38 | 39 | Wellbeing Social Mobility 2018 Baker McKenzie and Columbia Awards and Accolades #10 in the Top 100 Employers Stonewall 2019 22 Law School Scholarship Our Impact and 40 | Equal Justice Works Fellow Responsibilities 40 | Key Pro Bono Initiatives 6 | Materiality Assessment 42 | The Refugee Integration Program Social GLOBAL REVENUE USD (Billion) 43| End Violence Against Children 24 | OUR OPERATIONS 44 | Homeless Youth Handbook FY14 4,245 World’s strongest legal 100% perfect 25 | Diversity and Inclusion 2010 brand for the ninth score on the 45 | Consortium for Street Children FY15 4,364 26 | Gender 46 | Community year in a row Corporate FY16 4,607 Acritas 2018 Equality Index 28 | Culture and Ethnicity 2018 FY17 4,719 Human Rights Campaign 28 | Wellness and Agile Working *FY18 4,724 29| Healthy and 1 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 Safe Work Environment *Represents full time equivalent (FTE) figure. All numbers correct as of November 2018 2 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 3 WELCOME MESSAGE OUR CSR LEADERSHIP I am delighted to share Baker McKenzie’s 2019 Communication on Progress, which demonstrates many of the ways in which our Firm and our people have supported the UN Global Compact in the past year. Leveraging our global footprint and extensive resources, we are proud to make a lasting difference to many of today’s social and economic challenges. At a time of environmental, social and geopolitical uncertainty — with mounting inequality and the increasingly tangible effects of climate change being felt — we believe that businesses must take a central role in fostering stability and championing accountability. Our clients and our people believe this as well. They look to us to play our part as an ethical and responsible business — from fostering a diverse and inclusive workplace where we invest in the development and wellbeing of our people, to working to reduce our carbon emissions, and using our skills, creativity and influence to help solve some of the biggest challenges facing the world today. This is why we remain committed to the UN Global Compact’s (UNGC) Ten Principles on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. These principles are embodied in our core purpose and culture, and guide what we do. This year, we are also taking steps to align our global strategy with the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Paul Rawlinson John Conroy Ai Ai Wong Constanze Ulmer-Eilfort Global Chair Head of Global Strategic Initiatives Executive Committee Executive Committee Aligning with the SDGs not only provides us with a comprehensive framework to advance our CSR efforts, it also gives us an opportunity to partner with likeExecutive Committee Chair, Asia Pacific Chair, Global Diversity & Inclusion minded people — from our clients, governments, multilateral organizations and civil society — and work together to realize the vision of a sustainable world. Chair, Sustainability Committee This year, we have the honor of serving as a Patron of the UNGC’s Action Platform for Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions. We recognize that the rule of law is an essential foundation for economic growth and development — where the rule of law is strong, business leaders will have the confidence needed to invest in the future. We look forward to continuing our partnership and collaboration with the UNGC, and look forward to an exciting year ahead. Jason Marty Christie Constantine Jaime Trujillo Global Chief Operating Officer Director of Global Corporate Social Responsibility Acting Global Chair 4 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 5 UNDERSTANDING OUR IMPACT AND RESPONSIBILITIES Being a global firm has always been a MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT part of our DNA. We employ over 13,000 people in 78 offices around the globe, and we partner with and advise many of To develop our expanded CSR framework, we undertook a materiality assessment to identify and prioritize our most significant ESG issues. Approximately 1,400 external and internal stakeholders from around the 1,400 online survey world took part in the assessment, giving us insight into what matters most to our people, our clients and responses Over the coming year, we will the world’s top organizations. This global our wider community. evaluate the management make-up allows us the opportunity to We also mapped our highest prioritized ESG issues against the UN SDGs and their 169 corresponding targets practices related to our highest in order to identify which global goals the Firm is best positioned to support going forward. prioritized ESG topics to identify have a lasting positive impact on society, gaps and areas for improvement. the environment and the communities 41 We anticipate that this will and people we are connected with. We include setting targets and KPIs, where appropriate, with are actively committed to a sustainable one-on-one respect to our support of and world for the future in all that we do. interviews engagement with the SDGs. We believe that this bolder, more In 2018, as part of our global Firm strategic approach will enable us to align sustainable practices across 96 strategy, we developed and adopted an our business, more effectively expanded CSR approach that is aligned focus and prioritize our efforts, with the UN Sustainable Development consultations and meet the expectations of our with Firm stakeholders, while creating shared Goals (SDGs) and focused on the leaders through value for our people, our business environmental, economic, social and 6 x 90 minute and society. focus groups governance (ESG) areas where we can have the greatest impact. Significance to Baker McKenzie Lower Tier Topics F = Sustainable Buildings L = Stakeholder Engagement &  Environmental G = Rule of Law & Legislative Partnerships A = Tax Practices  Social Compliance M = Use of Artificial Intelligence B = Marketing Practices (AI)  Economic H = Waste Management  Governance C = Community Engagement I = Risk Management D = Supply Chain Accountability J = Environmental Stewardship E = Improving the Standard of Legal Practice K = Transparency & Public Policy 6 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 7 ENVIRONMENT Operating sustainably and responsibly underpins our Firm’s purpose and strategy and reflects our commitment to our people, our clients and our communities. Our efforts reflect our commitment to align our policies and operations with the United Nations Global Compact’s principles and to support the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. We strive to integrate environmental sustainability meaningfully into our business strategies, operating models and critical processes. Our Materiality Assessment confirmed the importance of environmental responsibility to our people, clients and communities. We contribute to environmental sustainability through strategic partnerships, pro bono and community service initiatives, and through our Climate, Environment and Energy practice groups. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of 8 environmentally friendly technologies. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 9 OUR OPERATIONS OUR B-GREEN ROAD MAP B-GREEN PROGRAM In April 2017, we launched B-Green, our internal global Identify green environmental management program, designed to champion help our offices around the world to “green” their Establish target Reporting and & green team star rating recognition operations. The program provides a road map (see Implementation infographic) for each office to follow, along with tools and guidance to help them measure, evaluate and incrementally improve their environmental performance. The program provides training, guidance, best practice materials, and a bespoke 1 3 5 7 software platform that allows each office to assess its performance, record carbon emissions data, and set goals for improvement year on year. A QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE APPROACH Each year, as part of the B-Green program, offices complete a qualitative self-assessment of their environmental practices and set aspirational targets Our sustainability Specialist, Nikki Lizares, with the B-Green team in Sao Paolo, Brazil. for improvement. Based on this self-assessment, offices receive a Star Rating score reflecting the maturity of their approach to environmental management. As B-Green matures, we will incorporate additional B-GREEN OFFICE VISITS 2 4 6 themes, such as waste management and travel, to This year, a member of our Global CSR team visited drive continuous improvement. To complement these In the program’s first year, offices established B-Green teams in 14 of our largest offices, accounting qualitative measures, our offices have begun recording foundational best practices with a focus on carbon for approximately 50% of our global footprint by their annual carbon emissions data, including energy management and paper consumption. Sample headcount. The aim of the visits was to validate consumption, paper consumption and business air travel. measures include digitization of processes, shifting B-Green program implementation, and to increase to a more robust electronic document management awareness of and engagement with environmental Evaluate baseline Develop B-Green Performance As part of our alignment with the UN Sustainable performance action plan tracking system, and investing in energy-efficient technology. sustainability efforts. Each visit featured presentations Development Goals, we will evaluate the feasibility of These themes were prioritized as they represent areas and training, as well as a session with office setting an emissions reduction target in the coming year. where our offices have both significant environmental management to verify the qualitative and quantitative impact and opportunity to improve. data they have reported and to troubleshoot any issues with data collection processes. 10 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 11 EARTH DAY 2018 CARBON OFFSETS In line with the official global 2018 Earth Day theme, As part of our wider environmental strategy and existing efforts to lessen our environmental impact, we have committed to offset all business air “End Plastic Pollution,” 70 Baker McKenzie offices travel associated with the Firm’s annual and regional partners meetings. We have selected providers who are verified and monitored by leading worldwide celebrated by hosting local screenings of certification standards bodies, and whose offsets provide social benefits in addition to carbon abatement, such as reducing poverty, improving health, the award-winning documentary, “A Plastic Ocean,” empowering women, job creation, or other benefits to local communities. which chronicles the impact of plastic pollution on the world’s oceans and served as inspiration for our offices to reduce single use plastic consumption. Held throughout the month of April, screenings were supplemented with engaging activities such as panel discussions with guest speakers from NGOs, conservation experts, and other community Based in the Western Honduran highland region, Proyecto Mirador’s carbon credits derive from providing clean cook-stoves that improve the health organizations; lunch-and-learn events with staff; and environment for Honduras’s rural poor, while also helping to alleviate poverty. With more than 37.1% of its forests disappearing since 1990, rural and events with Firm clients. Honduras is a significant contributor to global climate change. An estimated 65% of families in Honduras live in poverty, with 54% of rural households subject to extreme poverty. We also convened screenings at the Firm’s annual From left: Global Chair Paul Rawlinson, Global CSR Director Christie Constantine, artist and Garbage Patch State creator In the locations where Mirador works, 82% of households use indoor wood burning stoves. Smoke and soot are a serious health risk, especially to EMEA Partners Meeting with guest speakers Heike Maria Cristina Finucci, WWF Germany Marine Program Director women and children who spend the most time near the stove. By contrast, Mirador’s stoves require half the firewood and run more efficiently — each Vesper, director of WWF Germany’s Marine Program, Heike Vesper, and Baker McKenzie Zurich Partner Michael Treis stove reduces CO2 emissions by nearly 15 tons over its five-year life. and award-winning artist Maria Cristina Finucci, Sala B-Green in Lima creator of The Garbage Patch State. Beyond reduced CO2 and deforestation, families gain back the significant time they would otherwise spend daily to gather firewood, freeing children to attend school and women to focus on other priorities. Finally, construction, installation and monitoring of the stoves create jobs locally and provide a boost to the local economy. In FY17, it is estimated that Baker McKenzie’s offsetting efforts have helped to fund around 83 stoves — the equivalent of avoiding five hectares of deforestation in the span of five years. With projects based in Kenya and DR Congo, Wildlife Works is the world’s leading provider of REDD+ (Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Degradation) credits. REDD+ was originated by the United Nations to help halt the destruction of the world’s forests. Wildlife Works’ ground-breaking REDD+ initiative protects over 500,000 acres of highly threatened Kenyan forest, securing the entire wildlife migration corridor between Tsavo East and Tsavo West National Parks, and brings the benefits of direct carbon financing to more than 100,000 people in the surrounding communities. The essence of the Wildlife Works REDD+ conservation strategy is based on job creation. Jobs create a viable alternative for people who have previously had to destroy their environment just to survive. Some of the jobs created at Wildlife Works’ REDD+ projects include conservation rangers, factory workers, horticulturalists, machinists, seamstresses, foresters, carpenters, construction workers, drivers, mechanics and administrative personnel. Screening of “A Plastic Ocean” for friends and family, hosted in Tree planting in Kyiv partnership with ENGIE 12 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 13 OUR SPHERE OF INFLUENCE GREEN MEETINGS Our Global Meetings & Events Team continues to put sustainability at the heart of its planning and decision-making. The Greener Meetings Initiative, which Our Environmental Practice comprises over 300 lawyers around the world In 2017, we became the first law firm member of the World Business Council launched in 2014, has been a guiding principle as the Meetings team and Global Sustainability Committee work together to reduce the environmental impact who help to prepare companies for the risks and opportunities posed for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), a CEO-led organization of over of Firm meetings. A range of measures guides the planning process, including green meetings checklists and action plans, which provide best sustainability by environmental law and regulation, and promote sustainable business 200 leading businesses working together to accelerate the transition to a practices and help inform sustainable choices, and a questionnaire for venues to help meetings planners assess their “green” credentials. On the ground, our practices through key international partnerships. The group advises clients on sustainable world. We are supporting a growing number of WBCSD work Meetings team implements numerous operational changes to help reduce, reuse and recycle. varied issues, including traditional environmental law, clean and renewable streams and projects on a pro bono basis. These projects range from advising energy and biodiversity issues. It is continually ranked as one of the best the Soft Commodities Forum which aims to develop enhanced sustainability environmental teams across industry tables and directories. standards for soy and palm oil, to a significant retirement and pension fund GREEN MEASURES IN PLACE FOR FIRM MEETINGS HAVE INCLUDED: project seeking to increase materially the opportunities for employees to Our Climate Practice was the first in the world. Over the last 20 years, we invest in sustainability funds as part of company retirement programs. have worked on pioneering deals, including setting up the first carbon contracts, drafting the first carbon funds, and advising on innovative We are also extensively involved in a substantive corporate governance environmental funds, green bonds, climate finance, philanthropic climate project focused on evaluating and enhancing board consideration of risks and Eliminating meeting documents Reducing disposables and individual Utilizing electronic signage boards finance, investment in renewables and other climate solutions. sustainability matters. Working with Deloitte, we are reviewing governance and copies, and providing meeting serving size packaging (e.g., promoting provided by the hotel when possible requirements in 12 jurisdictions, interviewing public company board members details electronically china instead of to-go cups for coffee, We continue to work with governments, financial institutions, multinational across those countries, and developing recommendations for enhancing putting out a carafe of milk rather than companies and international organizations, including the United Nations Board performance. individual packets) and World Bank to execute effective carbon transactions by employing our capabilities in various areas of the law including securities, finance, tax, M&A For the past year, we have been functioning as pro bono outside counsel to and public law. The Climate Practice also has a long history of counseling the UNGC US Network Board, advising on all legal matters pertaining to their Eliminating physical welcome national and state governments including Australia, New Zealand, Norway, operation, from regulatory filings and agreements, to general governance Working with host hotels on and the Republic of Fiji on carbon capture and storage (CCS) legislative and advice and compliance. Introducing a meeting app improved temperature regulation gifts in favor of making charitable donations locally, which reduces policy development, technologies and projects. of meeting space to maximize • Lawyers in our Environmental Markets team in Sydney provided pro bono energy savings and efficiency materials consumption and transportation Our Renewable Energy and Clean Technology Practice advises on structuring legal assistance to World Vision Australia and the Cardano Development and financing a wide range of renewable energy projects including Group in relation to initiatives designed to improve health outcomes in wind, solar, battery storage, biofuels and biogas, helping to promote the the clean cook-stove sector in developing countries, including Myanmar development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. and Zambia. Our lawyers drafted template transaction documents such Reducing the use of office supplies Reducing the number of on site as an Averted Disability Adjusted Life Years (ADALY) purchase agreement, (envelopes, notepads, plastic printer/copiers to save energy We continue to participate in international climate change meetings. which will be used to facilitate a development impact bond to promote folders, and others) and reduce waste, and formatting We regularly attend the Conference of the Parties (COP) to the United the clean cook-stove sector. printers to print double sided Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and COP/ • Through the Global NDC Implementation Partners consortium (GNIplus), we MOP meetings, including the latest COP24. We also closely follow the are supporting governments to mobilize private investment at a scale that development of negotiating issues arising out of those meetings. Notably, can deliver impact on climate change and sustainable development within we acted as advisers to the Fijian government in its role as the president of the context of the Paris Agreement and Sustainable Development Goals. the 23rd COP. 14 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 15 In our first pilot project, we are advising Kenya on options to address • Our Energy and Finance Practice Group in Johannesburg advised water shortages in the Nairobi water basin that are exacerbated due to on the first biomass project to be concluded under South Africa’s the effects of climate change. In particular, we are conceptualizing and Renewable Energy Independent Power Producer Procurement “Recognised as a global leader in the climate undertaking a feasibility analysis for a pilot water trading program as a Programme (REIPPPP). potential policy option to address water shortages. • Hadiputranto, Hadinoto & Partners, member firm of Baker McKenzie change sphere, with formidable expertise • Funded by the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade, we are taking indigenous Australian savanna fire management in Indonesia, advised BNP Paribas and ADM Capital on Asia’s first sustainability bond. The firm advised on the structuring, formation spread across offices in the Americas, Australia techniques to Botswana, working closely with the Kimberley Land and successful closing of the USD 95 million bond, which will help finance a sustainable natural rubber plantation on heavily degraded and the United Kingdom, as well as Africa and Council. • Our London office hosted a workshop in collaboration with the World land in two provinces in Indonesia. This transaction is the first Asia. Handles a range of matters, advising corporate sustainability bond in Asia and the first sustainability bond Economic Forum, and in support of its Climate Governance Initiative, which aims to enhance the climate competence of corporate boards, in ASEAN. governments, businesses and financial to enable informed investment decision-making and to encourage systemic and long-term focused climate risk and opportunity • We regularly provide pro bono assistance to The Nature Conservancy to support their global operations with guidance on IP, corporate, institutions on climate change mitigation.” management. environmental, employment and other matters in countries ranging across the continents. Chambers Global 2018 • We played a key role in the establishment of Australia’s first private carbon trading fund, advising on the structuring of the Aboriginal · We regularly provide pro bono support to the World Resources Carbon Fund (now called the Reducing Carbon Building Communities Institute (WRI) on legal issues and strategies relating to their major Fund). This is the first private carbon fund established to invest in workstreams, such as forestry and water. We also provide regular Australian emission reduction fund (ERF) projects undertaken on advice on global corporate and operational issues ranging from indigenous land or with the involvement of indigenous communities. setting up offices in new countries to IP, contracts, technology agreements and data privacy. This year, we also supported WRI • In San Francisco, we organized the Talanoa Dialogue on Financing in creating a general counsel position and the hiring of their first the Road to Resilience and Net-Zero Economies with key sustainable general counsel. finance experts from Goldman Sachs, World Bank, IFC, Deutsche Bank, BlackRock, HSBC, Citi, EIB, Macquarie, LDF, and Rockefeller, · We provide pro bono legal support to the National Parks Conservation among others. Association, including in relation to legal challenges. • In a joint venture with BHP Billiton and Conservation International, · We provide pro bono legal counsel to the Alliance for the Great Lakes we continue to harness private sector finance to contribute to the with regard to the operation and requirements of the Great Lakes conservation of the world’s forests through the Finance for Forests Compact, including in connection with proposals to remove water Initiative. Established to encourage greater private sector engagement from the lakes and the processes for reviewing such proposals. in projects that reduce emissions by protecting and restoring forests, the initiative provides the foundation and framework for private sector actors to lead on climate change solutions via REDD+, the United Nations program for reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation. In practice, it helps companies identify investment options that will combat deforestation and address climate change while also fulfilling CSR commitments. 16 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 17 Our Sydney lawyers have been working on behalf of the BHP Billiton Foundation to develop and structure the 10 Deserts by engaging indigenous rangers and land managers, who have been settled in the area Project. This is the largest conservation project in the world, preserving indigenous culture and indigenous lands for for over 50,000 years, and complementing their ecological knowledge with contemporary generations to come. The 10 Deserts area of Australia is the word’s largest network of connected protected zones, and methods. Supporting and empowering the indigenous landowners to protect and cultivate spans over more than 35% of the continent. Home to highly diverse ecosystems and rich in unique plant and animal the area is critical to safeguarding both the desert region and the livelihoods of those who life, the area and its inhabitants are under increasing threat due to vast destructive wildfires, invasive noxious weeds are settled there. The employment opportunities supported by this project will help to and feral animals. The impact of these threats is exacerbated by climate change. The project will address these threats sustain remote indigenous communities for generations to come. Rippled sand dune of the Simpson Desert in South Australia. 18 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 19 THOUGHT LEADERSHIP We continue to actively participate in international Locally Managed Marine Area (FLMMA) network, We provide dedicated guidance • To support practical implementation of the Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)’s recommendations, climate change meetings. Our Global Climate Change and Energy Fiji Limited to establish a new publicwe co-produced a series of market reviews together with the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). Our Team advised the Republic of Fiji in its presidency of private partnership that will bring solar power to rural on sustainability to help publication, “Relevance of recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Disclosures in particular the 23rd Conference of the Parties (COP) to the United communities across Fiji. companies make informed jurisdictions,” examines how the TCFD’s voluntary recommendations integrate into existing material risk Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change decisions and guide policy disclosure regulation and soft law in specific markets, and how investors and companies in those markets can (UNFCCC). At its core, this engagement has seen us We are also helping to create and establish the Pacific apply them. act as the strategic trusted legal advisers to the Fijian Climate Finance and Insurance Incubator, with EUR 1 makers on future legislation. • We have prepared “Green Hedging: A Guide to Structuring Corporate Renewable PPAs” with support from government on its presidency of the ongoing climate million seed funding from Luxembourg. This is intended WWF Australia and the New South Wales Office on Environment and Heritage. Aimed at decision makers, the negotiations throughout the year. Fiji is the first small to bring together Pacific Small Island Developing report outlines the fundamentals of corporate power purchase agreements (PPAs) and unpacks the type of island developing state to host a COP. States (PSIDS) governments and broader community structures available in the Australian market. It also considers the opportunities these arrangements can offer, stakeholders to work with leaders in finance, investment as well as the challenges in bringing them to fruition. Our role has involved assisting the Fijian government and insurance to develop and incubate transformational with strategy and advice on the international and scalable initiatives that will ultimately increase • In collaboration with Schneider Electric, we have published a guide which sets out best practice relevant negotiations under the UNFCCC, including providing the flow of climate finance — especially private sector to structuring and executing a collaborative corporate PPA. In addition, we also co-published ground rules training to the national and presidency negotiations climate finance — into climate adaptation, as well as outlining the steps corporates can take in securing cheaper energy supply as part of an energy buyer group. team. We have been supporting Fiji on its international deliver efficient insurance mechanisms that meet the • We have contributed to a special edition of the Australian Law Journal on Climate Change and the Law, climate change engagement process with business, specific requirements of PSIDS. published by Thomson Reuters, highlighting how the law can help fight global warming. governments and civil society through the Talanoa Dialogue, as well as assisting with the development Elsewhere, we are working with Swiss Re on a Climate • We contributed to “Global 250 Greenhouse Gas Emitters: A New Business Logic,” published by Thomson and implementation of Fiji’s climate change plan. Resilience Catastrophe Bond. We are also advising Fiji Reuters in collaboration with CDP. The report looks at best practices across the economy and aims to in its engagement and leadership in the InsuResilience demonstrate the relationships between decarbonization and long-term financial performance. This As part of our work, we assisted Fiji to secure from Global Partnership, under which the German Federal information is critical to investors and policymakers, alongside the demands for increased transparency and governments USD 30 million in international donor Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development accurate and comparable performance metrics. support for its COP presidency and other climate-related (BMZ) announced that it will contribute EUR 110 million • Our Buenos Aires office co-wrote a report with the World Business Council for Sustainable Development investments, which involved establishing the Fijian (USD 125 million) to support a new global partnership to on corporate renewable PPAs in Argentina. The report was developed as part of WBCSD’s broad efforts to National Climate Trust Fund. We are also advising on bring affordable insurance and other financial protection accelerate the deployment of renewables and the transition to a low-carbon electricity system. Fiji’s Sovereign Green Bond, raising FJD 100 million (USD to millions of vulnerable people around the world. 50 million) to support climate change mitigation and • The Firm’s Real Estate Practice Group has established a Global Sustainability Subcommittee to focus solely adaption — the first ever by an emerging economy and We are working with Fiji and the Asian Development on the challenges, drivers and opportunities for sustainable building. In 2015, we began publishing our Global only the third by a sovereign after France and Poland. Bank to assess legal barriers in Fiji’s electricity and Sustainable Buildings Index, now in its second edition. transport sectors that will limit future investment We are directly responsible for conceptualizing and to achieve their 100% renewable energy goals and establishing the launch of a new Rural Electrification shift to cleaner transport. Finally, we are advising on Fund program. Under the program, a newly created the development of the Fijian Development Bank to Fijian charitable trust is joining forces with the become a more sustainable investment bank. Leonardo DiCaprio Foundation, Sunergise, the Fiji 20 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 21 SOCIAL Our people are our biggest asset. That’s why we are committed to fostering a diverse and inclusive workplace. Where development is encouraged, wellness is supported, and equality is paramount, everyone can fulfill their potential. We strive to use our skills, creativity and influence to promote dignity, human rights and equality in every aspect of what we do. Whether fostering our own internal culture, interacting with global clients, or engaging with the communities where we live and work, we are guided by these principles. These commitments are at the core of who we are as a Firm. They are underpinned by our support of the UN Global Compact’s principles on human rights and labor, and reflected clearly in the results of our materiality assessment. Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 4: Principle 2: the elimination of all forms of forced make sure that they are not complicit in and compulsory labor; human rights abuses. Principle 5: Principle 3: the effective abolition of child labor; and Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Principle 6: recognition of the right to collective the elimination of discrimination in 22 bargaining; COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 respect of employment and occupation. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 23 OUR OPERATIONS We take deliberate action to provide safe environments for all our people. Our zero tolerance policy supports the fact we believe DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION everyone deserves respect, protection from harassment, support and equal treatment. No one should be put at a disadvantage — Baker McKenzie strives to be a community where everyone can reach their full potential, a community where differences are celebrated. We seek to create the best professionally, financially or socially — on the basis of who they are. workplace for every employee, regardless of their orientation, belief, background, ethnicity or personal needs. To this end, we are engaged throughout the Firm in building a culture of full inclusion, and diversity is a top priority. Our commitment is genuine and passionate, and does not As outlined in our Code of Business Conduct, all personnel decisions stop at our office walls. In addition to implementing a full suite of diversity and inclusion (D&I) support and development initiatives, we are deeply engaged in D&I efforts must be respectful of differences among employees and potential in the communities where we work. D&I is fundamental to our identity at Baker McKenzie. As one of the world’s largest global law firms, this inclusive mindset enables us to employees, based on factors relevant to their ability to perform the deliver the highest quality services to our clients. work they are, or would be, expected to do, and in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations. This includes decisions related to the recruiting, hiring, assignment, compensation, training and development, promotion and dismissal of personnel, as well as other terms and conditions of employment. Applicable local laws across the jurisdictions in which we operate vary; notwithstanding, we seek to protect and promote diversity broadly, including with regard to race, color, religion, citizenship, national origin, ethnicity and/or cultural background, age, sex, gender, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, marital status, pregnancy, and disability. In addition, we were one of the first law firms to sign the Mindful Business Charter, committing to change avoidable working practices that can cause mental health and wellbeing issues for employees. The charter represents the first time financial and legal services providers have come together to reach a shared agenda Members of our Global Diversity & Inclusion Committee discussed how In Tokyo, our partner Hiroshi Kondo (left) joined the Japan In London, BakerOpportunity presented Social Mobility Week, for supporting mental health wellbeing. to make the Firm a better workplace for all our people. From left: Global In-House Lawyers Association, Women in Law Japan, and Mori featuring personal stories from our people, and ending in a panel Diversity & Inclusion Director Anna Brown, Hong Kong Partner Loke-Khoon Hamada & Matsumoto in expressing support for the legal discussion with external speakers discussing “Social Mobility: can Tan, Global Diversity & Inclusion Chair Constanze Ulmer-Eilfort, Chief Talent recognition of same-sex marriage in Japan. employers address a divided nation?” Officer Peter May, Global Director of Operations Kate Stonestreet, and London Partner Sunny Mann. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 25 GENDER We believe women must be leaders at OUR GLOBAL ASPIRATIONAL TARGETS AND PROGRESS UN WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT PRINCIPLES all levels of the Firm. We seek to foster women leaders in our senior global roles, Baker McKenzie is delighted to have signed the Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP), an initiative of UN Women and the 45% UN Global Compact, to guide businesses on promoting gender equality and women’s empowerment. The principles outline but we are also focusing on ensuring 40% seven steps that businesses can take to promote gender equality in the work place and in society. HEFORSHE that women are leaders of our most 40% In signing the WEP, we reaffirmed our commitment to establish high-level corporate leadership for gender equality, treat all On International Women’s Day significant client relationships. women and men fairly at work by respecting and supporting human rights and non-discrimination; ensure the health, safety 2018, we launched HeForShe at 35% and wellbeing of all our women and men employees; promote education, training and professional development for women; Baker McKenzie. A UN initiative, 31.8% implement enterprise developing, supply chain and marketing practices that empower women; promote equality through HeForShe invites people around Since 2012, we have adopted a 30% 30% community initiatives and advocacy; and measure and publicly report on progress to achieve gender equality. 32% 32.3% 30% the world to stand together to gender policy designed to encourage create a bold, visible force for 29% 30% 25.8% the recruitment and retention of 26.7% 25% LIFT gender equality, and to take action right now to create a gender equal more women, and provide greater world. Our Firm aims to engage opportunities and support for women to 20% Leaders Investing For Tomorrow (LIFT) is a all our people as active allies and landmark sponsorship initiative for women at assume leadership roles. At the partner 16.8% 19% our Firm, designed to support key talent to champions for gender diversity; encourage and increase dialogue, level, we have set gender diversity 16.9% 17% 17% 15% progress to senior roles. A personalized, highly aspirational targets — we are working 15% 16% 16% focused 12-month leadership development understanding and commitment to gender inclusion through shared 10% program, LIFT involves high-potential women stories and public declarations; and to ensure that women comprise at least partners (sponsees) and principals (sponsors) create a culture of openness by 40% of local and national partners, and working closely with practice group leadership speaking up and receiving feedback 5% to accelerate opportunities for career at least 30% of principals and those in about actions and decisions advancement. We recently invited 23 women that affect the experience and leadership positions. 0% partners to our LIFT 2.0 Residential, a two-day progression of women at event which gave them the opportunity to Baker McKenzie. Local Partner Principal Leadership discuss the purpose of the sponsorship and how to elevate their leadership at the Firm. FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 Goal 26 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 27 CULTURE AND ETHNICITY WELLNESS AND AGILE WORKING HEALTHY AND SAFE WORK ENVIRONMENT As a global law firm, we believe the many geographies in which We are committed to a holistic approach to the development and support of our people and As outlined in our Code of Business Conduct, the Firm does not tolerate harassment of any kind in the workplace, whether in we operate enhances and adds to the cultural richness of our their performance. BakerWellbeing is a global initiative of education, activities and support. or outside the office, or through social media. We are committed to maintaining a healthy and safe work environment in all Firm. This is why we build practices from the ground up, taking Our goal is sustainable high performance in a caring and psychologically safe environment, offices. Dangerous, abusive or violent behavior, or the threat of such behavior, is prohibited and will not be tolerated. local cultural sensitivities into consideration wherever we practice an environment where people speak up and ask for help. Resources on health and fitness, law. We have a strong desire to address a lack of equity around mindfulness and stress are available to all staff. Our recently launched BakerWellbeing the world and encourage each of our offices to define racial internal website, available globally, is designed to provide our people with access to PROFESSIONAL SUPPORT AND DEVELOPMENT and ethnic diversity in a way that is representative of their local resources and tools that support their resilience, as well as mental and physical wellbeing. culture, people, clients and business environment, as we recognize The legal environment can be high-pressure and demanding. By raising awareness of this We are committed to developing the talents and skills of our people, and we actively promote a culture of learning. Our the challenges in connection with the underrepresentation of and providing ideas for maintaining physical and mental wellbeing, we can create a positive lawyers and business professionals are encouraged to expand their knowledge and expertise throughout their careers. This ethnic minority groups in the communities where we work. and supportive environment that helps everyone to work healthily and successfully. culture of learning is underpinned by our comprehensive Development Framework, one of the first of its kind adopted by a law firm and selected by Harvard Business School as one of its best practice case studies on talent management. The At our Annual Partners Meeting, Firm D&I leaders facilitated a Agile or flexible working arrangements have been in place in many of our offices for framework outlines the skills and personal qualities employees need in order to be successful when working here, and offers workshop on Working Cross Culturally to several lawyers and years. However, following employee feedback, we have now developed one holistic a clear roadmap to success to help employees fulfill their potential. The framework takes into account all the complexities, talent members. The workshop covered global mindset attributes approach that has been rolled out globally to all employees. Our bAgile program focuses challenges and opportunities of a dynamic career, and it provides everyone in our Firm with a common language for where intellectual, psychological and social aspects were defined on increased flexibility in remote working, reduced working hours, alternative hours, and discussing performance. and aligned with the current Developmental Framework. The time out of the office. We anticipate that these measures will increase productivity and eight dimensions of culture were also enumerated and compared: efficiency, reduce absenteeism, and improve our people’s health, wellbeing and morale. This year we launched Baker McKenzie University, our holistic and aligned approach to learning at the Firm. From global hierarchy, group, relationships, communication, time, control, onboarding and orientation through the BakerWay platform to investing and unlocking the potential of our senior leaders In addition to our global program, our local offices have their own initiatives. During formality, and motivation. Different cultural traits from different at the Partner Leadership Program, we are committed to the ongoing development of our people. Mental Health Month, our BakerBalance committee in Australia hosted panel sessions countries were used as examples. The Culture Wizard App tool on “Wellbeing in the Law” and “Understanding Anxiety,” featuring inspiring stories and was also presented to show how it can help the participants to expertise focusing on the importance of social connections in improving our overall navigate around a new culture and country. mental health and wellbeing. DISABILITY Through our Colour Brave initiative, a program developed In London, we joined the Lord Mayor’s “This is Me” campaign which aims to reduce stigma to advance our racial and ethnic diversity goals, our London associated with mental health through the sharing of personal experiences. To support our At Baker McKenzie, we are committed to cultivating a workplace which is inclusive of all abilities. Any person with a office continues to create an environment where people feel clients’ mental health and wellbeing, the London office is also collaborating to share best disability must be treated equally and reasonable adjustments must be made in individual circumstances. comfortable talking openly about race and ethnicity. Colour practices with other law firms and financial services providers. They will also be rolling out Our Manila Center started its disability awareness initiatives with a talk delivered by a representative of the local Disabilities Brave is one of a number of our Firm initiatives which focuses on mental health first aid training to the office. Affairs government unit. The session revolved around international and local laws, types of disabilities, disability barriers increasing the representation of ethnic minorities. and government benefits. The Center is also partnering with local organizations to continue the disability awareness Baker McKenzie was the first law firm in London to introduce campaign among its staff. name blind recruitment, removing the potential for discrimination based on name. 28 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 29 LGBT+ The Global LGBT+ Business THE GLOBAL Resource Group (BRG) developed LGBT+ BUSINESS and sponsored a range of Everyone should feel comfortable in the workplace, regardless of their sexual orientation RESOURCE or gender identity and expression. We are committed to creating and maintaining an open GROUP initiatives designed to further our and supportive working environment. This includes equal opportunity for advancement and global commitments to diversity development within the Firm regardless of sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, and and inclusion while enhancing the equal provision of benefits to same and opposite sex partners or spouses. support for all our LGBT+ people, wherever they are located, and As part of our commitment to our LGBT+ people and communities, we maintain a zero-tolerance promoting LGBT+ advocacy. approach to any form of discrimination, victimization or harassment by or against any of our people, based on their actual or perceived sexual orientation or gender identity and expression. LGBT+ inclusion is an increasingly important issue for We provide appropriate training and education to our people to allow them to contribute to our clients, many of whom are public advocates for creating an environment free of discrimination, unconscious or otherwise. Our Firm supports change. In response, the Firm developed an LGBT+ Client opportunities for engagement with our clients on LGBT+ issues, including communicating and Program which aims to support the Firm and our clients sharing best practice. Finally, we maintain policies and practices which ensure that LGBT+ people in building an LGBT+ inclusive community. The program and their significant others are treated with welcoming acceptance and with the same dignity will promote strategic and sustainable engagement with and respect that we show all others. LGBT+ inclusive clients through knowledge sharing, pro bono, networking and much more, and ensure that the Firm is in the best place to effectively respond to clients’ Kick-off event for the Gay Games 2022 in Hong Kong needs and opportunities. We have developed a statement in support of our transgender community: Interactions with our suppliers provide a unique opportunity for the Firm to communicate our “At Baker McKenzie, we are not neutral. Our goal is to ensure the safety, comfort commitments to diversity and inclusion, including in respect of LGBT+ equality, while also ensuring that and respect of all our people, while maximizing workplace integration and suppliers are aware of our values and, where necessary, minimizing stigmatization. We do not permit or tolerate discrimination. We want act in accordance. The BRG has worked with Global Procurement to update policies and practices, in line to publically demonstrate our support for all transgender individuals within our with our Code of Business Conduct which ensures non-discrimination in respect of race, color, religion, Firm and their partners. We are proud to have recently launched a policy in North citizenship, national origin, ethnicity and cultural America, and in London, which addresses the needs of transgender, gender nonbackground, age, sex, gender, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, marital status, pregnancy, conforming and non-binary employees. These guidelines clarify how we protect and disability. the legal rights and safety of all trans employees and support our wider Global In July 2018, Baker McKenzie joined over 65 of the Code of Business Conduct.” world’s leading global organizations as a member of Out Leadership, the global LGBT+ business network. Out Leadership offers access to cross-industry talent Celebrating Pride in Amsterdam Pride parade in Belfast Pride parade in Mexico City development programs designed to support and cultivate the next generation of LGBT+ business leaders. It also provides networking opportunities to connect with member-clients. 30 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 THE YEAR IN D&I More than 80 women lawyers and business professionals gathered in Mexico City to discuss gender equality in their first BakerWomen retreat. Speakers explored We sponsored the 22nd Annual women’s empowerment, role models and Human Rights Campaign National inclusive leadership, among other topics. We were named a Best Place to Dinner in Washington, DC. The They reaffirmed their support for HeForShe, Work for the LGBT Community HRC is the leading advocacy highlighting the importance of men’s in Mexico by the Human Rights organization in the US working for involvement in advancing gender equality. the equal rights of lesbian, gay, Campaign. bisexual, transgender and queer Americans through education, research and political activities. The Manila Center’s Global Director of Global Diversity & We received a record nine awards at Women (GloW) hosted a forum Inclusion Anna Brown spoke Euromoney’s European Women in Business where members of our Global about D&I and the benefits for Claudia Prado, immediate Law Awards, including Best International Intellectual Property, Technology business at the annual Forbes’ past chair of our Latin Firm for Women in Business Law for the & Communications Practice event, “Mujeres Poderosas” America Regional Council and second year running. We also won Most Group steering committee — Say (Powerful Women), in Mexico Innovative International Firm, Best in Sujintaya, Pamela Church and Flavia City. This event gathers leaders the first woman to lead it, the UK, Best in the Netherlands, Best Rebello — and Manila Center’s from different industries, received the “Inspiring Role International Firm for Talent Management, Model for Furthering Women Knowledge head Marian Regidor politicians, activists and Best in Corporate Governance (Beatriz Lawyers” accolade at the shared their experiences on being a journalists to talk about the Araujo), Best in Tax (Véronique Millischer), Chambers Women in Law Best in Transfer Pricing (Caroline Silberztein) woman in a male-dominated field, importance of gender equity Awards Latin America. and Rising Star: IP (Mine Güner). achieving work-life balance and and women empowerment. staying true to yourself. Wong & Partners, our member firm in Malaysia, hosted panel discussions around “How women leaders unleash their strength.” Inspired by the Quest research report, the discussions featured women HHP Law Firm, our member The Global Diversity & Inclusion leaders from different organizations who Our Global Chair Paul Rawlinson Committee met with Baker firm in Jakarta, celebrated spoke about their career journeys, how to signs the Colour Brave pledge Women and many male allies in build and maintain support systems for World Mental Health Day by in London. the Hong Kong office women in the early stages of their careers, hosting a special function and how to inspire families, communities managed by the newly and the workplace to press for progress in formed Diversity & Inclusion gender diversity and equality. Committee. 32 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 33 THE YEAR IN D&I Our Hong Kong office hosted the Our Belfast Center was named a BakerPride DC, friends and allies wore A number of our offices celebrated Community Business’s working Right Place to Work in the Irish News purple in support of GLAAD’s Spirit Black History Month with viewings session on mental health. Workplace Awards. Day 2018. of Black Panther. Colleagues in our Chicago office We were honored to be a lead In Spain, we were named Best Our Manila Center is now a at the Black Panther screening. sponsor of Hong Kong’s 10th Office for Diversity at the member of the Philippine Annual Pride Parade. Forbes Abogados 2018 awards. Financial Industry Pride. Our Bogota office was named Best Pro Bono Law Firm 2018 by the ProBono Colombia Foundation, an organization that helps to expand equal access to justice for At the World Economic Forum 2018 the country’s vulnerable populations. in Davos, we are proud to support Our Johannesburg office launched its D&I committee, featuring a the United Nations Human Rights Launching HeforShe presentation by Constitutional From left: Bogota office managing partner Standards for Conduct for Business to Court judge and HIV/AIDS and gay Tatiana Garces Carvajal, and associates tackle discrimination against rights activist Edwin Cameron. Alexandra Silveira and Ricardo Rincon. LGBT+ people. 34 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 35 OUR SPHERE OF INFLUENCE CULTURE AND ETHNICITY LGBT+ As a global Firm, we have the GENDER Building upon our Colour Brave campaign in London, we were one of 12 businesses that were invited to the launch of the Race opportunity to use our sphere of at Work Charter, spearheaded by the UK Prime Minister’s Office, CEO Champions for Change influence to advance human rights in order to discuss issues faced by ethnic minorities at work with a This year, we joined other leading global companies in committing to drive change by accelerating progress in the senior UK government minister. and fair labor practices through representation of women, including women of color, in executive/senior level positions over five years. We also committed pro bono legal services, including to maintain or accelerate the representation of women, including women of color, on the company’s Board of Directors In Australia, the Firm joined a group of leading organizations to direct representation and key (or equivalent) over five years, and to strengthen the pipeline of women through an annual review of internal diagnostics embark on the world’s first study into cultural diversity within the and by leveraging leading practices to address any identified issues. We aim to benchmark and track inclusion and improve legal profession. More than 6,500 lawyers at eight firms were asked client partnerships, as well as the culture of inclusion within the Firm. We will share key representation metrics with Catalyst for benchmarking and for to describe their own background and familial heritage. The survey supporting our local communities anonymized reporting of our collective aggregate progress. will be repeated annually and chart progress on broadening the and NGOs globally. cultural mix of the profession. HERoes In 2018, our Global Chair Paul Rawlinson was ranked as the leading lawyer in the Male Champion of Women in Business The Australia offices have also been increasing engagement report by The Financial Times and HERoes, a gender equality initiative. In his second year ranking, Paul was named in the with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders. We have significantly top 10 of Male Champions of Women in Business for helping to effect the greatest changes in women’s careers in the UK increased the amount of pro bono work our lawyers undertake for indigenous individuals and indigenous-owned or run organizations, Our Hong Kong office proudly hosted the fourth annual Asia OutNEXT Global and beyond. to about 800 hours. We also started preparing the Australian Salon as part of the constellation events of the Out Leadership Senior Summit. partnerships’ first Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP) in support The OutNEXT Salon brings together over 60 LGBT+ emerging leaders for a halfMake It Happen of the country’s national reconciliation movement. The RAP will day of leadership development content, a keynote conversation, and networking. We partnered with research agency Quest to publish “Make It launch next year. Our Global Diversity & Inclusion Committee member Tan Loke-Khoon gave the Happen: How Women Leaders Unleash Their Strengths.” The report opening remarks. provides visibility into the journeys of senior women executives, We have also created a new Diversity & Inclusion Group in including women from our Firm, who share their stories on how they Australia called Baker Indigenous Engagement. This group focuses Our Melbourne lawyers assisted the Human Rights Law Centre to prepare have developed careers and lives they can thrive in. on increasing the Firm’s engagement with Aboriginal and Torres a report about the nature, extent and impact of gay and trans conversion Strait Islanders. We have provided cultural awareness training to therapies in Australia. The report is designed to help government, support partners and staff in each of our Australia offices. In celebration services and faith communities to better respond to those experiencing conflict of Aboriginal and Torres Strait culture, we hosted a performance between their gender identify or sexual orientation and their beliefs. for partners, staff and families by a Torres Strait Islands music ensemble, and held events to mark NAIDOC Week and National Baker McKenzie assisted OutRight Action International to undertake legal Reconciliation Week. Finally, the offices hired two Aboriginal and research regarding the ability of NGOs to obtain registration status when they Torres Strait Islander interns for a 12-week period commencing in are focused on the LGBTI community. Our lawyers conducted the research in November. each country in which Baker McKenzie is located. The results of our work are published in the report, “The Global State of LGBTIQ Organizing – The Right to Register.” 36 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 37 DISABILITY SOCIAL MOBILITY 2018 BAKER MCKENZIE AND COLUMBIA LAW SCHOOL SCHOLARSHIP “Thank you for the wonderful week that Our Hong Kong office is an Employment We have a longstanding commitment to social I had at Baker McKenzie, it surpassed The 2018 Baker McKenzie Scholarship was awarded to Meher Dev, a human rights lawyer Sponsor of a community adult psychiatric mobility and increasing access to the legal dedicated to expanding women’s and minorities’ rights and clinical legal education in India. rehabilitation service center that provides worldclass rehabilitation services to people with profession. Each year, our London office commits to offering a number of work experience my expectations, which is interesting mental disorders. The organization’s transitional places through PRIME and the Social Mobility because I already had high hopes! It was The scholarship, established in June 2015, awards Committee. While there, Meher continued to work on employment opportunities program places Foundation. PRIME is an alliance of law firms people who have experienced mental illness in across the UK, committed to improving access enlightening, thought provoking and USD 50,000 to an LLM student who demonstrates complex cases concerning women’s rights to political temporary work contracts with sponsors such to the legal profession through work experience. academic success and financial need. Priority for the participation, work, and sexual and reproductive as Baker McKenzie, to help them regain skills The Social Mobility Foundation aims to provide provided me with knowledge and skills scholarship is given to international students who health. She also established a mentoring program for and confidence and gradually reintegrate into opportunities and networks of support to 16and have overcome barriers to achieve in the field of law, students interested in pursuing a career in human society. Since beginning our partnership with 17-year-olds from low-income families. Our work that I wouldn’t have gained anywhere particularly those raised or educated in emerging rights law. Before attending Columbia Law School, she nations. Meher’s passion for human rights came from was a research and teaching assistant at the National the organization, our Firm has placed 73 people in temporary contracts at various departments, placement program is designed to encourage and develop key personal and business skills, else. It also gave me an opportunity to her experiences growing up as a member of the Sikh Law University in Delhi, India. She worked closely including Business Development & Marketing, such as team work, communication, presentation, have an in depth view into the lives of community in India. From a young age, she recognized the marginalization she faced as a girl who belonged with the Centre for Reproductive Rights and the Centre for Constitutional, Law, Policy and Governance Learning & Development, Central Filing and negotiation, making an impact and networking, Accounts. Two of these contracts have been made which are fundamental to a career in law and Solicitors at Baker McKenzie.” to a religious minority. She pledged to help women at National Law University to create a reference Meher Dev visited our New York office to meet fellow Columbia Law School alumni and our New York Pro Bono Committee. permanent. the wider business world. Interns joined our and minority communities lacking access to law by book for reproductive rights case laws in India that Marketing, HR and Practice Group teams, working PRIME student 2018 becoming a human rights lawyer and representing would also serve as a text for the first course on closely with colleagues before delivering their voices of women and minorities. reproductive justice in an Indian law school. While at WELLBEING end of internship presentation. Columbia, Meher provided research assistance for the While studying at Jindal Global Law School in 124th Session of the UN Human Rights Committee On World Mental Health Day 2018, we became We continue to support the Life Project for Youth Association (LP4Y), an organization dedicated to the Sonepat, India, Meher co-founded an organization called Women and Law Society that provided pro and attended the Committee proceedings in Geneva. “Receiving recognition from one of the first law firms to sign the Mindful professional and social integration of young adults living in extreme poverty and exclusion in the Philippines, Business Charter, representing a collective Vietnam, India and Indonesia. The initiative offers 18 months of experience in a professional environment bono legal assistance to women who worked at the law school or lived in the surrounding rural area. We are honored to provide an opportunity to such a bright and dedicated candidate, who has Baker McKenzie reinforces my commitment to changing avoidable working practices that can cause of mental health and through placements at one of more than 120 businesses that provide financial support, microeconomic initiatives, academic support or professional integration. Micro-businesses run by participants are at the core After graduating in 2014, she continued her advocacy demonstrated an inspiring passion for advancing belief in the collaborative ways in efforts in the private sector and worked with a diversity and inclusion in the legal profession. wellbeing issues for employees. The charter represents the first time financial and legal of LP4Y’s one-year professional training. In teams of 15, the young adults work on the creation, development and management of a business to develop their skills and prepare for professional integration. corporate law firm to advise non-profit clients and to Meher’s consistent efforts to advocate for women which human rights lawyers and expand the firm’s pro bono practice. She then became and minorities, mentor students in human rights law, services providers have come together to reach Our Africa Team teamed up with local clients to provide a three day training course for 50 students from the an advocate for the chamber of Indira Jaising, a senior and advance these initiatives through the creation of corporate lawyers can support each a shared agenda for supporting mental health wellbeing. Nigerian Law Society on both technical legal and soft skills. advocate of the Supreme Court of India and a former member of the Convention on the Elimination of legal education clinics in her home country make her an exemplar of the very reasons for developing this other’s work.” Meher Dev all Forms of Discrimination Against Women Expert scholarship program. 38 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 39 EQUAL JUSTICE WORKS FELLOWS KEY PRO BONO INITIATIVES Together with Salesforce.org, we are coOur pro bono mission is to deliver first• In 2018, we expanded our partnership with the • Lawyers in our Brussels and Antwerp offices trafficking and forced labor risks, to create sponsoring Equal Justice Works Fellow Alexander Cyrus R. Vance Center for International Justice have been providing pro bono support to resources for companies who discover forced labor Chen, who is working with the National Center for class legal services to the underserved and — a recognized non-profit that advances global Cinemaximiliaan, a non-profit organization or poor working conditions in their supply chain, Lesbian Rights (NCLR) in San Francisco, California. disadvantaged by fostering an environment justice by engaging lawyers across borders to that started by showing movies to refugees in focusing on Vietnam, Thailand, Myanmar, China, Alexander’s work is focused on expanding the that encourages and promotes service, support civil society — to develop joint efforts Maximiliaan Park in Brussels. The organization Malaysia and Hong Kong. rights of transgender people through litigation to broaden pro bono initiatives in Latin America now provides integration support to refugees and policy advocacy in education, employment, and to promote and sponsor activities that by incorporating all of our Latin America offices in the form of art classes and professional • Lawyers in our Johannesburg offices have healthcare, housing, prisons, and juvenile justice provide opportunities for all Firm personnel, as signatories of the Pro Bono Declaration of the development. We support the organization in the assisted Penal Reform International to collect and child welfare settings. He is a member of the Americas. The declaration had previously been areas of real estate, corporate, tax and regulatory detailed data on the rights of prisoners to independently and in partnership with our vote in South Africa, Namibia, Botswana and legal team litigating the transgender military cases signed by the Firm’s offices in Colombia, Mexico assistance and structuring. Doe v. Trump and Stockman v. Trump. He also coclients, to contribute to the well-being of the and Peru. Jaime Trujillo, our Latin America Zimbabwe. As part of this project, our team • Several lawyers in Baker McKenzie Wong & considered the extent of disenfranchisement drafted AB 2119, a bill making California the first communities in which we practice and live. regional chair, has also joined the organization’s state to guarantee access to transition-related board. Leow in Singapore have been appointed to the of offenders and prisoners. Our work included healthcare for trans youth in foster care. Alexander panel of the Legal Assistance Scheme for Capital an analysis of areas where voting rights are was named one of Forbes’ “30 Under 30” in Law • Our North America Pro Bono Practice recently Offences (LASCO). Where an accused person restricted, and the circumstances for such and Policy for 2018. partnered with Facebook and the National faces a capital offense (an offense where the restrictions. Institute for Trial Advocacy (NITA) to host a punishment is death), the state will assign at RACS is so grateful for the tremendous three-day training session in San Francisco for 40 least two counsel to defend the accused person. • A team of our lawyers in offices across Asia Pacific collaborated with Host International lawyers, including in-house counsel from 10 of Counsel who wish to defend such accused In partnership with Apple Inc., we are cosupport of Baker McKenzie. It would our Firm’s clients, who are interested in helping persons have to apply to join the LASCO panel of and Asylum Access, Malaysia, to launch a report vulnerable youth navigate the legal system. lawyers. examining the rights of refugees to gain lawful sponsoring Equal Justice Works Fellow Lilliana Paratore, who is working with UnCommon Law not be possible for us to provide The first-of-its-kind trial advocacy program and safe access to employment in eight select leveraged NITA’s learn-by-doing methodology • Lawyers in our Sydney office successfully applied Asian countries: Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia, in Oakland, California. Her fellowship explores how the California parole board considers genderrepresentation to these clients at to teach advocacy skills for system-involved to the Federal Court for the transfer of a 13-yearthe Philippines, India, Bangladesh, South Korea old Iranian refugee, together with his family, and Japan. Launched at Global Compact for based violence and trauma in parole consideration interview without your support, and we children. The training covered direct and cross examination, motion argument, interviewing from Nauru to Australia for urgent medical Refugees in September 2018, the report will hearings. During her time in law school, in addition to working with the Post-Conviction Advocacy are so grateful to the individual lawyers child clients, use of expert witnesses, and attention. The family had arrived in Australia by boat without visas in 2013 and had been be used to support efforts to promote refugee work rights with influential stakeholders in the Project, Lilliana participated in the Death Penalty professional responsibility. Clinic and the East Bay Community Law Center’s who dedicate valuable hours to assisting transferred to Nauru for regional processing research countries. The report provides examples • Globally, our lawyers continue to provide pro bono more than five years ago. The boy had been of feasible work rights schemes from around the Clean Slate Practice, and worked at the Prison Law Office and Orleans Public Defenders. Lilliana also our clients at interviews. You are all support for the World Congress on Justice for diagnosed with Passive Refusal Syndrome or region to support the adoption of better law and Children in the form of research papers, and on Resignation Syndrome, a condition which can policy on this issue. served as the symposium editor for the Berkeley Journal of Criminal Law, in which her writing on making an enormous difference in the the ground support during the Congress Session in occur in reaction to extreme trauma. At the time Paris in June. of transfer, the boy had not eaten for three the California parole process was published. The lives of people seeking safety. weeks, was no longer talking and had suicidal Firm is further supporting her work by providing • We continue to represent International Justice tendencies. Appropriate medical treatment is not pro bono research and analysis on how parole Refugee Advice & Casework Service (RACS) Mission, an international, non-governmental available in Nauru. boards treat intimate partner battering. organization focused on human rights, law and law enforcement, in several cases involving child • We continue to assist the Mekong Club, a leading trafficking. anti-slavery organization that fights human 40 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 41 THE REFUGEE INTEGRATION PROGRAM END VIOLENCE Lawyers in our Milan office launched the Refugee AGAINST CHILDREN Integration Program in January 2018. Developed in partnership with the University of Milan and UNHCR, the program aims to bridge the gap between businesses, institutions and beneficiaries of international protection to provide the first step towards integration into the labor market. Since its launch, the program has placed over 30 refugees in temporary and permanent employment contracts. The Refugee Integration Program was named Initiative of the Year – Pro Bono Award at the TopLegal Awards 2018. From left: Associate Davide Coppola, partner Andrea Cicala, and associate Fiammetta Rivolta. The program is built on the belief that access to gainful employment for refugees is a key element Lawyers from our offices in Australia, Hong Kong, Japan, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam, as of integration into their new society, and a well as member firms in Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines and Singapore, are teaming “World Vision and Baker McKenzie decided to join forces to end violence fundamental human right. The project has received “I felt we had to take concrete action to help even one person to change their life. Helping migrants to build a profession means with corporate clients to support World Vision’s End Violence Against Children Program. against children across Asia Pacific, signing a partnership agreement on 30 vital support from our contacts and clients in helping them but also helping the society. Finding work is their first step to regaining dignity and self esteem, thus the first step to The five-year global campaign is aimed at ensuring the safety and protection of children July 2018. This partnership is based on trust, common values, and mutual the region, including Cavalli Fashion Group and affected by human trafficking, abuse, neglect, exploitation and all other forms of violence. real social integration. The Refugee Integration Program aims to be the first concrete step towards the effective integration of the concern for the well-being of children. World Vision believes, with the Phoenix Group, among others. Together, we are developing a series of six easy-to-use legal guides which will simplify the beneficiaries of international protection. Many of these people have extraordinary skills and potential, but due to their past and support from the private sector, especially partners like Baker McKenzie, the difficulties in their country of origin, they are not able to use their skills. Our project aims to help the refugees to acquire new complexity involved and provide enhanced insight for local communities and first responders Our Milan office welcomed three trainees from other like-minded agencies and with government support, it will be possible to reference when assisting victims of violence. the program, helping them develop skills in IT and skills and develop the necessary qualifications, raising their confidence and facilitating their steady entry into the labor market. to eliminate many challenges facing children across Asia Pacific, especially administrative services. This inspiring project is a Moreover, their positive example will contribute to developing a more inclusive work environment that is much more sensitive to violence. Baker McKenzie brings specialised skills and vast experience that is The “Child Trafficking FAQ” is the first of six planned legal guides, following up on the heels of mutually beneficial experience for participants and migration and reception issues. “End Trafficking in Persons” that was launched in 2016 by World Vision and Baker McKenzie. As crucial to address violence against children. World Vision is implementing a businesses, who have the opportunity to develop the title suggests, the “Child Trafficking FAQ” will address human trafficking abuses committed global flagship campaign; “It Takes a World to end violence against children,” As a law firm, the most relevant value we have is the human capital represented by our professionals and our staff. Refugees a culture of inclusion and diversity at work and against children and aims to answer around 20 questions related to available legal structures and believes the role of Baker McKenzie to achieve the campaign objectives discover new talent, while positively impacting represent an incredible capital that we, and the society, have simply to know and to value with no fear. The success of all the job and special services. The other five legal guides will tackle similar themes that include physical will be a key contributor to the success of the campaign. World Vision is the lives of those forced to flee their home integrations (more than 30) we made with our business partners in the first year of our project proves this. This project reflects violence, sexual violence, child marriage, child neglect, and psychological abuse. Taipei Partner proud to partner with Baker McKenzie.” Daniel Selvanayagam, Senior countries due to conflict or threat of persecution. who we are as a Firm and our commitment to pro bono service. Helping the communities where we operate is foundational to our Tiffany Huang serves as chair for World Vision Taiwan. In 2018, she hosted the End Violence Director Operations, World Vision International, Asia Pacific Region The program was named Pro Bono Initiative of the strategy and to the future of our Firm.” – Andrea Cicala, Partner, Milan Against Children Workshop to promote social awareness in Taiwan about children under violent Year at the TopLegal Awards 2018. threats and how to protect them. 42 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 43 HOMELESS YOUTH HANDBOOK CONSORTIUM FOR STREET CHILDREN One of the big obstacles homeless youth face is a lack of understanding of the law and the Over the past eight years, we have been working options available to them. There are few available resources that speak plainly about their rights. with the Consortium for Street Children (CSC) to These knowledge gaps are wide and deep. In addition, many non-legal professionals who are protect the rights of street children across the globe. committed to helping homeless youth also lack information about their legal rights. Eager to In 2017, we witnessed the publication of the UN’s do our part to address the legal needs of youth when and where they need answers, our Firm General Comment on Children in Street Situations — a joined up with our similarly committed friends including clients and homeless charities across the document which we helped to design. But we didn’t country, to address this need. Together, we crafted a resource for not only youth but also social do it alone. In-house legal teams from a range of workers, shelter staff, school personnel, medical personnel, law enforcement and anyone else clients including Cargill, Salesforce and Merck helped willing to help them access the information they need. us to host consultations with 1,000 street children in countries including India and South Africa. Beginning in 2013, we worked with a team to create a much-needed and previously non-existent legal resource to better serve homeless youth in several US states — the Homeless Youth After the publication of the General Comment, we recognized that while the UN human rights systems Handbook. The handbook has become an invaluable resource for homeless youth, communities, and agencies across the country. Creating a resource to answer the wide range of legal questions aim for successful enforcement and implementation “Having teams on the ground, listening to children around the world, only a few countries are examined faced by homeless youth demanded the best thinking, study, creativity and advocacy the legal community could provide — all packaged together in an easy-to-use format. Each handbook per year, and when they are, often street children are first-hand, meant that the General Comment was was created based on state specific laws and covers critical topics such as education, healthcare, housing, parenting and consumer credit issues and is available in print form in schools, libraries, not the focus. We wanted to develop an atlas tool to help local governments access legal information, more direct, more in line with what the children shelters and public agencies. In 2018, we added handbooks for three new states. The handbooks measure ongoing efforts and adapt more efficient ways to help advocate for and meet the expectations needed and has the potential to have more also inspired the creation of the Baker McKenzie Virtual Legal Clinic, a service offering free legal representation to youth requiring legal advice in areas such as housing, money and emergency outlined by the UN. impact. And that’s down to Baker McKenzie.” benefits, via a hotline or a video chat at a drop-in center. Over 650 lawyers and other professionals from within Caroline Ford, Chief Executive of the Consortium and outside our Firm have been involved in this project • Florida, working with The Walt Disney Company and Florida Children’s First • Texas, working with Weatherford and Appleseed to date, mapping and researching the substantive laws for Street Children and policies in almost every country in the world. We • Illinois, working with United Airlines and • Washington, working with Starbucks and couldn’t deliver a project on this scale without our Chicago Coalition for the Homeless Columbia Legal Services clients. By collaborating with them, we gathered a • Minnesota, working with Ecolab and • Washington DC, working with The Walt wealth of different perspectives, and built friendships Southern Minnesota Regional Legal Services Disney Company and National Law Center along the way. on Homelessness and Poverty • New York, working with Mondelez and The Through this project, and by allowing ordinary citizens Door to access information, we hope that our legal atlas will create a change in attitudes and in the way street We also have plans to launch Homeless Youth Handbooks in California, Indiana, New Jersey children are treated across the world. and Ontario in 2019. We will continue to develop this resource across the country where children’s advocates say it is needed and where caring and committed corporate partners want to join us to make it happen. Image credit to Consortium for Street Children. 44 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 45 COMMUNITY Think globally, act locally. As a global law firm, Baker McKenzie sees corporate social responsibility as everyone’s responsibility. And while CSR is driven globally by the Firm’s leadership and integrated into our business strategy and operations, it is brought to life by local committees in our 78 offices Five brave colleagues from our London office abseiled down Broadgate Tower in the City of London to raise funds for Richard House Children’s Hospice. around the world, working with local organizations to address the issues that are important to the communities in which we are based. We encourage our Our Manila Center partnered, for a third time, with the Haribon Foundation in a coastal cleanup of Metro Manila’s last remaining beach and Our Hong Kong office organized a beach cleanup at Sok Kwu Wan. With the help of Hong Kong offices and personnel to support the mangrove area, the Las Piñas–Parañaque Critical Habitat and Ecotourism Area. Supporting the #seaofchange initiative, close to 60 people picked Cleanup, volunteers collected 435 kg of trash and plastic debris. up and bagged almost six US tons of rubbish, comprising Styrofoam, rubber and clothing, PET bottles and plastic residual, among others. communities where we live and work through volunteerism and charitable activities. Every employee has a part to play, and we are proud of the passion and dedication our people show Our Bangkok office donated 150 sets of computers and notebooks to disadvantaged schools in rural areas in Thailand. towards their local communities. Our London office hosted pupils from Five Elms Primary School and The Information Technology & Business Process Association of the Philippines Teams from our North America Corporate & Enabling Enterprise for a Tricky Trials Challenge to learn problem recognized our colleagues in Manila for continuing their work in advancing quality Securities practice served nine communities solving and presenting skills. A Y4 student shared, “It’s hard work education in the community, particularly their involvement in the Philippine The Houston office volunteered with Harrison’s and volunteered with their chosen local government’s Brigada Eskwela and Adopt-A-School programs being a lawyer but fun, too. I think I’m going to work here one day.” Heroes at MD Anderson Hospital’s Camp For charities in the US, Canada and Mexico in our All 2U. 2018 Community Service Day. Our Belfast Center raised GBP 22,900 for Cancer Focus Northern Ireland through their “Baker Come Dancing” event. 46 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 47 GOVERNANCE Good governance is a cornerstone of good business. We are committed to promoting transparency, ethical behavior, and accountability both within our operations, and externally through our influence and counsel. We consider the rule of law to be fundamental. We also believe that business can play a vital role in advancing peaceful, inclusive societies and effective and accountable institutions at all levels. Our commitment to the rule of law is also supported extensively by our pro bono efforts and our partnerships, such as our patronage of the United Nations Global Compact’s new Action Platform on Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including 48 extortion and bribery. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 49 OUR OPERATIONS OUR SPHERE OF INFLUENCE Baker McKenzie is committed to making the right choices and doing the right • We are members of the World Economic Forum’s Partnering Against things, within the law and according to the highest standards of legal, ethical Corruption Initiative, which works with business leaders, international and professional behavior. We have articulated these commitments in our organizations and governments to address corruption, transparency and Code of Business Conduct, which is publicly available and which everyone in emerging-market risks. the Firm is required to read and comply with. The Code sets out the behavior • We continue to work as a member of the International Bar Association (IBA) we expect from our employees in relation to issues such as compliance with Sextortion Working Group, assisting in compiling reports on sextortion in anti-corruption laws, dealing with sanctions, money laundering prevention, South Africa, and beginning in other jurisdictions. “Sextortion” is a form of and avoiding conflicts of interest, among other topics. Our Code spells sexual exploitation and corruption that occurs when people in positions out our expectations in specific areas and provides principles to guide our of authority — whether government officials, judges, educators, law behavior when the rules are not clear or there are no rules. It also reflects our enforcement, or employers — seek to extort sexual favors in exchange for commitment as a signatory to the UN Global Compact to align our policies and something within their power to grant or withhold. While there is growing operations with the Compact’s Ten Principles in the areas of human rights, fair international recognition of sextortion, significant legal reform is required labor, the environment and anti-corruption. to address the full scope of the conduct. Our lawyers have been conducting All of our personnel undergo mandatory and regular training with respect to research to establish whether existing anti-corruption frameworks are the our Code of Business Conduct, including training on anti-corruption law. most effective avenue through which to pursue sextortion claims, and We’re proud to have partnered with The B Team on the production of Eradicating Modern Slavery formulating recommendations on how to address sextortion. Our Code of Business Conduct Hotline provides an additional tool to help A Guide for CEOs, a tactical guidance to help CEOs end modern slavery. ensure that everyone complies with the Code. The Hotline allows anyone in • We contributed to the United Nations Global Compact report, “Human Rights: the Firm to ask questions, seek guidance or report concerns confidentially The Foundation of Sustainable Business.” The report celebrates the 70th and, where permissible, anonymously, by phone or through a dedicated web anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) and builds • We partnered with the Anti Terrorism Executive Directorate of the UN and portal, EthicsPoint. upon the “UN Global Compact Progress Report” by highlighting snapshots of the Global Forum for Peace and Justice to create the South Asia Regional good practice from companies participating in the UN Global Compact and We recognize that fulfilling our commitments and safeguarding our reputation Toolkit for Judges. The toolkit provides practice-oriented guidance to advancing the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. We were requires the participation of everyone in every role across the Firm. Our clients judges and judicial training academies of South Asian Association for featured for the many ways in which we support our LGBTI+ people. have a right to know what we stand for and how we ensure compliance in a Regional Cooperation member states on the adjudication of terrorism and complex and changing world. • This year, we held our 5th Annual Children’s Rights Summit. Focused on related cases in line with customary international and human rights law the legal challenges facing vulnerable children, the summit gathers child and norms. advocates, academics, lawyers, in-house counsel and other experts to examine • We have partnered with Global Rights for Women, an NGO working critical questions about how children can overcome challenges in the law. internationally to promote the human rights of women and girls, The agenda examines barriers to children’s rights and brainstorms ways new particularly the right to be free from violence. The organization is invited technologies and innovations should be applied to address them. by governments, law enforcement or civil society addressing domestic • We partnered with The B-Team to produce and launch “Eradicating Modern violence, to assist in drafting, passing and sharing best practice and solutions Slavery: A Guide for CEOs.” The guide seeks to help the private sector in enforcing laws on violence against women in countries all over the world. understand its responsibility and power in making a real impact on this issue Our lawyers are supporting this by analyzing existing domestic violence and bringing freedom to those who need it most. frameworks in these countries and comparing them with model systems. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 51 BAKER MCKENZIE LAW FOR DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVE • In partnership with the World Congress on Justice We are proud patrons of the United Nations Global for Children and volunteers from client partners’ Compact Action Platform for Peace, Justice and Baker McKenzie is a recognized world leader in the delivery of legal In Australia, Traditional Fire Management (TFM) — the indigenous approach in-house legal teams, our lawyers are preparing and coordinating multijurisdictional research on the use UNGC ACTION PLATFORM Strong Institutions. The Action Platform is a two-year program that brings together business, governments, assistance to governments, multilaterals, donors and foundations who are seeking to support the rule of law within their wider development to managing wildfires in savannas through managed burning (i.e., savanna burning) — has been re-established as a key method to address climate of neuroscience by juvenile criminal justice systems. FOR PEACE, JUSTICE AND civil society and UN agencies to combine efforts efforts. This year, we established the Law for Development Initiative change and manage landscapes. Over the last 10 to 15 years, substantial work • In partnership with the World Economic Forum, UNICEF and the Center for the Fourth Industrial STRONG INSTITUTIONS towards achieving a peaceful and inclusive society for sustainable development, the provision of justice for all, (LDI), a not for profit entity that facilitates and manages high quality, detailed, practical and expert multidisciplinary assistance to governments, has been undertaken to develop methodologies, set up monitoring, reporting and verification (MRV) frameworks, build capacity, engage communities and Revolution, our lawyers are assisting in the and effective and accountable institutions at all levels. multilaterals, donors and foundations who are seeking to support the rule establish legal and governance frameworks. Reinvigorating TFM practices development of a legal framework to evaluate the During the concept phase of the Action Platform it was of law within their wider development efforts. LDI’s innovative structure represents the only viable adaptation mechanism to increasing wildfire that is current state of the law and share best practice identified that — while the targets under Goal 16 are inherently the duty of governments to allows developing country governments — for the first time — to access the predicted to occur as a result of climate change. TFM could lead to reductions for the protection of children’s rights as artificial achieve — there is a strong case for responsible businesses to assist in this effort. The new UN highest quality, international standard multidisciplinary services. It works of wildfire emissions by as much as half, with significant further emissions intelligence is increasingly embedded in children’s Global Compact Progress Report identifies SDG 16 as one of the furthest behind, with only 22% with Baker McKenzie and other technical experts to deliver the necessary mitigation through carbon sequestration over the long term. TFM also offers toys, tools and classrooms. These guidelines will of companies reporting to have taken action on it. specialist advice required. a number of co-benefits including creating jobs, promoting biodiversity, encourage the use of AI technology for the benefit restoring degraded land, preventing and reversing soil erosion, supporting “Peace, justice and strong institutions are the foundation for businesses and societies to succeed Funded by the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade over tourism through retention of biodiverse landscapes, reinvigorating culture of children while also protecting their privacy and and to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals,” said Lise Kingo, CEO and executive the next four years, LDI’s first project is to deploy Australia’s indigenous and improving food security and health. As the suitability of TFM to African their lives from the use of AI across that data. director of the UN Global Compact, upon launching the platform. “That said, as the Progress approach to savanna burning known as traditional fire management into landscapes is developed, it can encourage countries to generate revenues • As chair for the Committee of Public Affairs Report findings show, it can sometimes be difficult to understand concretely how these similar landscapes across the world, with the first pilot being in Botswana. through international carbon markets. under the National Taiwan University Law Alumni concepts directly relate to the private sector and their corporate strategies, operations and LDI will manage the project and work with Baker McKenzie, the Kimberley (NTULA) organization, Taipei Partner Lindy Chen relationships. Our new Action Platform seeks to address this challenge.” Land Council and Charles Darwin University, as well as partners in Botswana, This project seeks to build the foundations to pilot Australia’s TFM in participates in various issues related to the ongoing namely the government of Botswana and the University of Botswana. Botswana, where savannas are key ecosystems both in terms of being home judicial reform in Taiwan. In her article, “Analysis The Action Platform has already garnered support from several businesses in sectors ranging to communities living on them and in making important contributions to on Problems in Taiwan Judicial System from the from law to energy to consumer goods. From now until 2020, the Action Platform will provide Savanna fires release methane and nitrous oxide, which are strong agriculture, wildlife tourism and biodiversity. Botswana has been chosen Perspective of Ordinary People,” published by a forum for dialogue that results in action towards improving accountability, integrity and greenhouse gases. The current fire regime across much of the world’s because it is among the countries most affected by savanna fires, and it has a Storm Media, Lindy presented a three-dimensional transparency within businesses and the countries in which they operate. The Action Platform tropical savanna is dominated by late dry season wildfires. These hot, high level of suitability for the application of fire management methodologies solution for the problems in Taiwan’s judicial will provide global standards for understanding, implementing and reporting on business intense fires tend to burn most of the fuel available, including the canopies akin to those used in Australia. Nearly one-quarter of the country was burned system, namely, attitude, quality, and efficiency engagement in advancing peace, justice and strong institutions. It will explore global trends of trees, and can burn for many days. They decimate biodiversity and lead in 2010. The region has suitable climactic conditions (one wet season and one when handling a case. related to Goal 16 that require responsible advocacy, agenda setting and commitment to action to forest degradation and land erosion. Emissions from savanna fires can be dry season annually) to be an optimal pilot site. Furthermore, Botswanan by businesses, governments and civil society alike. reduced by shifting burning from the late dry season towards the early dry communities have experience in community-based natural resource season and reducing the area that is burnt each year. This approach reduces management projects which suggests an in-built domestic capacity that could emissions because the fires are less intense and burn less country each year. help accelerate successful implementation. Agriculture and tourism are two It also protects biodiversity, wildlife and infrastructure from wildfires. of three major economic activities in Botswana. Both are affected by savanna fires, with fires in agricultural areas tending to disproportionately affect women, who head the majority of poor rural households. 52 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 53 AWARDS AND ACCOLADES ENVIRONMENT DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION PRO BONO • Awarded Best Law Firm in Voluntary Carbon Markets for 11 • Stonewall • Incluir Direito initiative supported by Trench Rossi • Recognized by Stonewall and Human Rights years in a row by the Environmental Finance Annual Market Watanabe and other firms in Brazil recognized by Campaign, for evident support to the UN Standards Ranked in 10th place in the Top 100 Employers 2019 Rankings LatinLawyer of Conduct Top Trans Employer • Ranked Band 1 for Climate Change by Chambers Global for 11 • Sue Wan Wong named Woman Lawyer of the Year at the • Listed in Expansion’s “Las 109 Empresas consecutive years Highly Commended for our LGBT network group Asian Legal Business (ALB) Malaysia Law Awards 2018 Responsables en México, 2018” (109 Responsible Companies in Mexico, 2018) • Sydney Partner Martijn Wilder named overall winner of • Named one of the Best Law Firms for Women by • Human Rights Campaign the Financial Times Asia-Pacific Innovative Lawyers Awards Working Mother magazine for eight consecutive years • Awarded the Pro Bono Initiative of the Year at the 2018 for his pioneering work in new areas of law to tackle 100% Perfect Score on the Corporate Equality Index TopLegal Awards 2018 for the Refugee Integration • Listed in the top five best law firms for women the world’s most pressing environmental issues, particularly Best Places to Work for LGBT Equality for 8th consecutive Program attorneys in Law360’s 2018 Glass Ceiling Report through the use of innovative financial models year • Listed in Financial Times Top 15 Most Innovative Law • Julie Alexander named one of IFLR’s 2018 Women • Recognized as Best Law Firm in eight categories by the Annual No. 6 in Workplace Equality Index Firms — Social Responsibility (Regional) Leaders — the only Woman Leader in Bahrain and Saudi Market Rankings by Environmental Finance 2018: Arabia • Named Best Pro Bono Law Firm 2018 by the ProBono Carbon markets China • Euromoney’s European Women in Business Law Awards: Colombia Foundation Best International Firm for Women in Business Law, Most • Belfast Center won in the Right Place to Work and EU Emission trading system Innovative International Firm, and seven other awards Workplace Wellbeing categories at the Irish News • Angela Vigil named FT Top 10 legal innovators for Workplace & Employment Awards North America North American markets (California) • Paul Rawlinson named Male Champion of Women in Business for the second year, while partners Joanna (Jo) Ludlam and Sue • Named a Silver Employer at the LGBTI Inclusion Awards Renewable energy certificates North America by Australian Workplace Equality Index (AWEI) McLean named Female Champions by the Financial Times and North American Markets (All) HERoes, a gender-equality initiative • Named Best International Firm for Women in Business Renewable energy certificates Europe • Listed in Business in the Community’s Best Employers for Race Law by 2018 Euromoney Asia Women in Business Law 2018 Awards for the eighth year running Renewable energy certificates Australia • Top 10 in Government’s Top 50 UK employers for social • Paul Rawlinson named a CEO Champion for Change by Kyoto project credits (JI and CDM) mobility Catalyst for the second consecutive year • Pro Bono Finalists for work on Transgender Rights at The Lawyer (UK) Awards 2018 54 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 55 www.bakermckenzie.com Baker McKenzie helps clients overcome the challenges of competing in the global economy. We solve complex legal problems across borders and practice areas. Our unique culture, developed over 65 years, enables our 13,000 people to understand local markets and navigate multiple jurisdictions, working together as trusted colleagues and friends to instil confidence in our clients. Baker & McKenzie International is a global law firm with member law firms around the world. In accordance with the common terminology used in professional service organizations, reference to a “partner” means a person who is a partner or equivalent in such a law firm. Similarly, reference to an “office” means an office of any such law firm. This may qualify as “Attorney Advertising” requiring notice in some jurisdictions. Prior results do not guarantee a similar outcome. © 2019 Baker McKenzie. All rights reserved.
