OUR RESPONSIBILITY – OUR COMMITMENT Sustainability Report of the tesa Group 2018 2 Contents Sustainability Report 2018 CONTENTS p. 3 FOREWORD p. 4 ABOUT THIS REPORT p. 5 THE tesa BUSINESS MODEL p. 7 OUR RESPONSIBILITY p. 12 COMPLIANCE p. 12 tesa Code of Conduct p. 13 Compliance Management System p. 13 Prevention of Anticompetitive Practices p. 14 Corruption Prevention p. 14 Data Protection p. 15 EMPLOYEES p. 16 Internal Succession p. 17 Occupational Safety p. 20 Good Leadership p. 22 Training, Development and Support p. 24 Feedback and Dialogue p. 25 Occupational Health Management p. 26 ENVIRONMENT p. 27 Climate Protection and CO2 Emissions p. 30 Efficient Use of Resources p. 32 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY p. 33 Responsibility in the Supply Chain p. 34 Product Safety p. 35 Sustainable Product Solutions p. 38 SOCIAL COMMITMENT AND INVOLVEMENT p. 39 tesa helps: Being there for Others as a Good Neighbor Cover picture: tesa offers p. 40 tesa donates: Uncomplicated Help for Social Projects numerous applications for the solar industry, such as p. 40 tesa supports: Recruiting the Next Generation of Employees mounting adhesives. p. 41 tesa protects: Working to Protect the Environment 3 FOREWORD “Sustainability is an integral component of not a project, but rather a key future topic – worldwide. our business processes – indeed along our Global challenges such as climate change and profound entire value chain. Even so, we are not consocial transformations such as demographic change tent to rest on our laurels in terms of what demonstrate this. In order to address them, we must we have achieved. After all, sustainability is harmonize social, ecological and economic concerns. not a project, but rather a key future topic.” Particularly as a company that operates internationally, we are required to assume responsibility and to align our business processes with a sustainable economy. Dear readers, As an expression of this understanding, we have been As one of the world’s leading adhesive technology a member of the UN Global Compact since 2006 and companies, we have been a pillar of innovation and high commit ourselves explicitly to the ten principles in the product quality for many years. But we have another areas of environmental protection, human rights and tradition: ecological and social responsibility. It is an labor standards and the fight against corruption. With its integral component of our business processes – and commitment, tesa has also joined in the pursuit of one of along our entire value chain. After all, what we produce the primary goals of the Global Compact: the implemenis not all that matters; how we produce it is also tation of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). These extremely important. 17 sustainability goals of the United Nations constitute the core of Agenda 2030, a global action plan for sustainable Therefore, as part of our corporate responsibility we development. focus on four strategic areas of activity: the environment, employees, products and society. In these areas, we This year we have decided to incorporate the SDGs into want to continuously improve with the help of targetour sustainability report for the first time and to make our ed projects and strategic measures. We have already contribution to them transparent. By doing so, we are achieved a great deal. For example, we have been able underscoring our conviction that, along with politics and to make a wide range of products more environmentally civil society, companies also play a decisive role in the friendly with the help of energy-efficient, solvent-free achievement of ambitious goals. manufacturing processes. We have already significantly reduced specific emissions of CO2 per metric ton of end You can learn more about our sustainability work and the product. Our very low accident figures in comparison to progress that we have made in the last fiscal year in this the industry demonstrate that our occupational safety report. We hope you enjoy reading this report and find it measures are working. In order to promote the internal both interesting and informative. filling of positions and to boost our attractiveness as an employer, we continuously invest in professional development measures for employees and managers. And numerous tesa employees worldwide voluntarily support social projects as part of the “tesa connects” initiative. But we are not content to rest on our laurels in terms Dr. Robert Gereke of what we have achieved. After all, sustainability is Chief Executive Officer of tesa SE 4 About This Report Sustainability Report 2018 ABOUT THIS REPORT With this sustainability report we provide our stake­ holders and the public with insight into our worldwide UN Global Compact commitment and the economic, ecological and social and CSR Directive impact of corporate operations in 2018. On the following pages we summarize our management approaches, Implementation Act significant measures, results and key figures, divided into With this report we meet our annual obligation to inform the five fields of: the Global Compact of the United Nations about our progress. As a participant in the Global Compact, tesa • Compliance commits itself to observe ten universal principles in the • Employees areas of human rights, labor standards, environmental • Environment protection and anti-corruption. • Product responsibility • Social commitment and involvement In accordance with the German CSR Directive Implementation Act, our parent company, Beiersdorf, is obligated This report is limited to an exemplary, but repreto supplement the existing financial reporting with sentative selection of current initiatives that we are information on key non-financial aspects of business implementing at our affiliates worldwide. It focuses activities. We have integrated the non-financial infor­ both on the topics and areas that are of material immation on tesa, which is part of the non-financial group portance to our business and those that have a major declaration of Beiersdorf, into this sustainability report. impact on our business activities. To identify these This data is shown in this sustainability report in brackets topics, we performed a materiality analysis in 2017. indicating the page or paragraph. We identified as material the topics “prevention of anticompetitive practices,” “human rights in the supply chain,” “internal succession,” “occupational safety,” “climate Editorial Notes and protection and CO2 emissions” as well as “product safety.” Further Information This report is available in German and English. Like all of the versions published in previous years, it is available online at www.tesa.de and www.tesa.com. Authoritative is always the German version. For further information on the subjects of products, the environment, employees and society, please also visit the “Responsibility” section of our website at www.tesa.com/en/about-tesa/responsibility. in over 100 countries . .. ...... .... . . . . ... . ... over ... . . .. . ... 2500 . employees . .. . . in Germany . operating with 64 affiliates R&D centers in Germany, . . the U.S., and Asia ~ 4900 employees . worldwide THE tesa BUSINESS MODEL tesa is one of the world’s leading manufacturers of technical adhesive tapes and adhesive The Group and Its system solutions for industrial and profesAffiliates Worldwide sional customers as well as consumers. Our more than 7000 products find applications The tesa Group is a wholly owned affiliate of in various industrial areas, such as the autoBeiersdorf AG. tesa SE employs approximately 4900 motive industry, the electronics industry, the people (December 31, 2018) and operates in more than construction supply industry and the print 100 countries with 64 affiliates. The corporate head­ and paper industry. In the consumer and quarters have been located in Norderstedt, near craftsmen market, our products make life Hamburg, Germany, since 2015. easier – both at home and at work. In addition, tesa works with the pharmaceutical indusThe geographic focus of our business activities is Europe, try to develop medical patches and films. followed by the regions of Asia, America, Australia and Africa. In addition to tesa SE, the affiliates in China, the 6 The tesa Business Model Sustainability Report 2018 United States, Italy, and Singapore are among the largest division accounts for slightly more than half of sales. single companies in the tesa Group. We have production The Trade Markets division deals with the markets in facilities in Germany, Italy, the United States, and in China. which customers obtain their products not directly from tesa, but via retail partners or similar channels. In addition to product ranges for private consumers Strategic Alignment and craftsmen, they also include adhesive tapes that are intended for industrial and commercial customers We are pursuing a long-term increase in the value of the and are marketed primarily via technical retailers. tesa Group in the interests of our employees, customers and shareholders by offering useful products and selling them at a profit all over the world. Our highly qualified employees and continuously optimized business processProcurement Markets and es allow us to respond quickly and flexibly to changes in the market and develop a broad range of high-quality, Overall External Conditions demand-driven products. In addition, the knowledge of An efficient value chain is highly significant for the quality production processes and the ongoing analysis of current of our products – and thereby our business success. The trends and developments in the industry give our comtesa value chain is aligned globally, with Europe and Asia pany a competitive edge and ensure its lasting success. as the largest procurement markets and China as the main country of origin. We have understood the assumption of corporate responsibility to be a key element of our business The value chain must be designed in such a way that it processes at tesa for many years. For us, socially and can anticipate future developments and respond to them. ecologically responsible conduct along the entire value To meet this requirement, we qualify our suppliers on a chain is essential to our corporate culture and is part of systematic basis and work to streamline our supply chains our core business principles. With an eye to ensuring through regional procurement in the vicinity of our progood, responsible corporate management, we have duction sites and local purchasing teams. They know and developed internal standards, such as the tesa Code of observe the local market in detail and are able to make Conduct (see p. 12) and our environmental guidelines, a realistic assessment of the possible risks arising from and we emphasize compliance with these rules across issues such as political instability and changes in local the entire Group. With the Code of Conduct for Supplilegislation. We also minimize risks by building a network ers (see p. 33 – 34), we also obligate our key business of alternative suppliers. In order to accommodate general partners to conform to our sustainability standards. developments in procurement, such as rising raw material prices, changes in sales and distribution channels, and shifts in the competition situation, tesa has created Solutions and Products a central function called the tesa Purchasing Network (tPN), which brings together cross-sector activities and for Industry, Trade, resources, and manages all processes across the Group. and Consumers Our brand philosophy and strategy center on dependably high quality, high capacity for innovation, and the use of state-of-the-art technology. We offer our customers effective solutions, high-quality products and excellent service – especially for the areas of application of automotive, electronics, construction, health, transportation and print and paper industries, as well as in the area of renewable energies and in the household appliances sector. In addition, we offer professional craftsmen and private consumers adhesive solutions that are tailored to their needs. Our business is divided into two segments: In the Direct Industries division, tesa supplies specialized system solutions directly to industrial customers. This tesa’s success is not just down to innovative ideas, product quality or technological advances; environmental and social responsibility also play a key role. OUR RESPONSIBILITY Assuming corporate responsibility is key to (SDGs) of the United Nations. We make our generating sustainable value at tesa. Sustaincontribution to achieving these goals through ability and the responsible use of resources our activities and products. are an integral part of our corporate culture and are firmly anchored in all of our business processes. These principles are grounded in the tesa Corporate Values and tesa Code of Conduct (see p. 12), which provide clear guidance for our daily conduct. In addition, as a long-standing member of the United Nations Global Compact we expressly commit to the 17 Sustainable Development Goals 8 Our Responsibility Sustainability Report 2018 Our Corporate Values As one of the world’s leading adhesive technology tesa Corporate Values companies, we see it as our duty to align our business • All  of tesa’s activities are focused on our customactivities with the core principles of sustainability. ers being satisfied with the high quality of our products and services. From the procurement of raw materials to recycling, we assume responsibility at all stages of our value chain. We • We  take a proactive role in shaping our future also expect our suppliers to manage their businesses and view every change as an opportunity. responsibly. In order to make this attitude clear and Innovation in technology, processes, and understandable for all employees across the Group, we products is the basis of future growth. have established a set of corporate values. They are regularly checked for their relevance and were most recently • The  motivation, competence and effectiveness of revised in 2017. The corporate values are accessible to all all our staff ensures our long-term success. employees on the intranet and create a common vision of how we understand sustainability. In addition, they may • We  ensure the satisfaction of tesa’s shareholders be accessed on our corporate website at www.tesa.com. by continuously adding value to our company, so that shareholders continue to invest in our company and, in turn, our job security. Guidelines for our • We  are committed to putting the principles of the Global Compact into practice: adhering to human Actions: Global Compact rights, fair labor practices, environmental Principles and SDGs protection and the fight against corruption. We have been a member of the Global Compact of the • We  assume social responsibility. We focus on the United Nations since 2006. Our membership underadvancement of young people in the fields of scores our commitment to upholding internationally science and technology, on the protection of the recognized social and environmental standards in our environment, as well as on local social projects. business activities. The ten Global Compact principles in the areas of human rights, labor standards, environmental protection and anti-corruption form the overarching guidelines for our actions. In the 2018 reporting year, we also reaffirmed our goal to make our contribution to the 17 Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations. The SDGs constitute the core of the 2030 Agenda, a global action plan for sustainable development. For the first time they balance the three dimensions of sustainable development: the economic, social and environmental. Along with politics and civil society, companies are also urged to make a contribution to the achievement of these ambitious goals. In 2018, we therefore determined which of the 17 SDGs we can make a particularly effective contribution to with our activities and products. In order to define our contribution as precisely as possible, we carried out a comparison with the detailed 169 targets. The respective targets and our contribution to them are set out in the index on pp. 9 – 10. We also include symbols at the start of every chapter to indicate which SDGs we are contributing to with the activities described. In the future, the SDGs will establish an important framework for action for our sustainability work. Sustainability Report 2018 Our Responsibility 9 We contribute to the following SDGs and their corresponding targets: SDG No. SDG targets Our contribution Information in tesa sustainability report 5.5: Ensure women’s full and tesa has been a member of the UN Global Compact effective participation and equal Global Compact since 2006. The ten Principles and SDGs, opportunities for leadership at all principles in the areas of human rights, p. 8 levels of decision-making in labor standards, environmental protecpolitical, economic and public life tion and anti-corruption also represent Training, development the overarching guidelines for all actions and support, at tesa. With our membership, we have pp. 22 – 24 committed ourselves to Principle 6 “The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation” and reject any form of discrimination in the workplace or in the filling of positions. 7.3: By 2030, double the global tesa’s headquarters and sites with the Climate protection and rate of improvement in energy highest CO2 emissions have an environCO2 emissions, efficiency mental management system as well as an pp. 27 – 30 energy management system certified in accordance with ISO 14001 respectively ISO 50001. The introduction of the energy management systems paved the way for further increasing the energy efficiency of our facilities. Another strategic approach for tesa is the use of energy and resource-saving technologies, such as efficient generation of our own energy through cogeneration (combined heat and power, CHP) and obtaining electricity from renewable sources. 8.4: Improve progressively, Our products should be as harmless as Efficient use of through 2030, global resource possible to the environment over their resources, pp. 30 – 31 efficiency in consumption and entire lifecycle. During development and production and endeavor to manufacturing we take care to ensure decouple economic growth from resource efficiency and to avoid producenvironmental degradation, in tion waste. Measures to this end are an accordance with the 10-year integral part of our environmental framework of programs on protection activities as a company. sustainable consumption and Wherever possible and sensible we use production, with developed renewable and recycled raw materials. countries taking the lead 8.8: Protect labor rights and As a responsible employer, we see it as Occupational safety, promote safe and secure working our duty to protect our employees from occupational health environments for all workers, risks and hazards in the exercise of their management, including migrant workers, in activities. With a wide range of meapp. 17 – 19, 25 particular women migrants, and sures, we contribute to preventing or those in precarious employment minimizing accidents and occupational illnesses. 10 Our Responsibility Sustainability Report 2018 SDG No. SDG targets Our contribution Information in tesa sustainability report 12.2: By 2030, achieve the tesa develops ecofriendly, solvent-free Efficient use of sustainable management and effiproduction methods, and uses renewresources, pp. 30 – 31 cient use of natural resources able and recycled raw materials wherever possible and sensible. We take care to ensure resource efficiency from the early stages of developing our products and the methods used to produce them. Measures to this end are an integral part of our environmental protection activities as a company. 12.4: By 2020, achieve the There is no way to eliminate all waste environmentally sound managewhen producing goods. Our waste and ment of chemicals and all wastes raw materials management activities are throughout their life cycle, in geared toward using materials efficientaccordance with agreed internaly and recycling wherever possible. tional frameworks, and signifiTherefore, we constantly work on cantly reduce their release to air, minimizing production-related losses in water and soil in order to minithe raw materials we use. tesa recycles mize their adverse impacts on almost all non-hazardous waste and human health and the environhazardous waste containing solvents. ment 12.5: By 2030, substantially We have set ourselves the goal of reduce waste generation through reducing specific waste volume per prevention, reduction, recycling metric ton of end product by the year and reuse 2020 by another two percentage points from the 2015 reference year. 16.5: Substantially reduce We reject any form of corruption, bribery Compliance, pp. 12 – 14 corruption and bribery in all their or other forms of unlawful conduct. forms Anti-corruption is one of tesa’s Core Compliance Fields and plays a central role in the Compliance Management System. The main goal is to avoid possible cases of corruption before they arise. Our Group-wide Anti-Corruption Guideline instructs our employees on proper conduct and explains how employees should conduct themselves in corresponding situations. Sustainability Report 2018 Our Responsibility 11 Strategic Organizational Action Fields Structure Our approach to corporate responsibility focuses on four The tesa Executive Board has articulated an express strategic action fields: employees, products, the environcommitment to our corporate responsibility. At its instigament and society. We regularly review our areas of focus tion, responsibility was established as a task that cuts within these action fields. With an eye to the German across all areas within the Group. All of the relevant units CSR Directive Implementation Act, we reevaluated our are involved, which ensures there is a direct link between material topics in 2017 with representatives of the units these efforts and our business activities and key business at tesa, the Group parent company, Beiersdorf, and other processes. The following units are involved in steering relevant stakeholders. During the materiality analysis, these activities and are responsible for operational the subjects of “climate protection and CO2 emissions,” implementation: “internal succession,” “occupational safety,” “prevention of anticompetitive practices,” “human rights in our supply • Legal & Compliance chain” and “product safety” were identified as being • Purchasing Network material. We carry out a materiality analysis every two • Human Resources to three years alongside the materiality process of the • Quality, Environmental, Health & Safety Management parent company, Beiersdorf. The next analysis is planned • Corporate Communications for 2020. A central corporate responsibility steering group that includes representatives of these units meets quarterly, under the leadership of the member of the Management Board responsible for human resources. The group coordinates the dialogue between the units and reporting on non-financial topics. In addition, we engage in regular dialogue with our parent company, Beiersdorf, and coordinate our activities with each other. Risk Management We believe success-oriented and responsible activities include the Group-wide, integrated management of risks and opportunities. Risks are identified and managed in a structured process. In the course of these activities, we assess operational, functional, and strategic risks with an eye to their possible financial impact and effects on our reputation as well as their probability of occurrence. Our compliance management team uses the same criteria in a separate process (compliance risk assessment) to identify and assess the relevant risks we may face as a result of non-compliance with external regulations and internal standards. 4 In addition, during the reporting year we introduced a standardized process for risks that can arise in connection with our material non-financial topics. We considered all non-financial topics that are material for tesa and strategic action fields interviewed all relevant units about their risk assessment. › help us focus our The result was reviewed following the risk management process. In the process, no risks were identified that need to be reported in accordance with the guidelines of the sustainability activities. CSR Directive Implementation Act. Five avatars guide participants through the compliance e-learning program. COMPLIANCE specifications is monitored and verified regularly through audits and supported by activities such as advising, training sessions, measures and programs. The goal is to We will continue to be a trustworthy partner raise awareness among our employees about relevant to our customers, shareholders, business issues and to teach them how to act appropriately. partners and employees and to government agencies, institutions and the public. Compliance with all of the laws and regulations that apply to tesa is therefore particularly tesa Code of Conduct important. The tesa Code of Conduct is derived from the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and serves as an Compliance violations can be not only expensive, but overarching, binding code of conduct for all employees. also damaging, particularly to the company’s reputation. We use this to support our employees, managers and As a result, all employees, managers and corporate corporate bodies in observing the key principles and bodies are required to abide by clear specifications that values of our company in their day-to-day work, gearing have been set down in writing. Compliance with these their conduct toward them and sharing them with others. Sustainability Report 2018 Compliance Management System / Compliance 13 Prevention of Anticompetitive Practices Compliance In addition, we developed and introduced a new “compliance learning world” in 2018. In the process, Management System we completely revamped e-learning courses in all Core Compliance Fields. Through our Compliance Management System (CMS) we want to ensure that all tesa Audits The Internal Audit department (Beiersdorf AG) employees, managers and bodies comply with conducts routine audits during which compliance3 applicable legal provisions and internal rules. related topics are reviewed. In order to achieve this goal, we follow an orderly management process. It encompasses the four steps of prevent, detect, react and improve. In 2018, we revised and updated the tesa CMS. In the process, we reviewed our mandatory governance and compliance guidelines with respect to their practicality and acceptance and adjusted them where necessary. E-Learning We are taking dynamic changes in the legal and economic environment into account in this update. › about the Core Compliance The focus of our compliance program is currently on the Fields will be available on Core Compliance Fields of Antitrust, Anti-Corruption and the intranet starting in 2019. Data Privacy. The tesa Corporate Compliance Officer is responsible for ensuring legal conformity in the Core Compliance Fields as well as possible and enhancing the entire system. In the tesa affiliates, we have designated the managing directors responsible for the respective Prevention of affiliates as compliance officers. They are supported by Anticompetitive Practices specially designated local compliance officers. The local and (corporate) compliance managers are responsible for Also in 2018 we analyzed and evaluated the the operational implementation and refinement of the existing and future compliance risks of our tesa compliance standards. Our reporting system is business models. The resulting materiality another important component of tesa CMS. tesa has analysis has confirmed our classification of the implemented both internal and external reporting topic of Antitrust as a Core Compliance Field. channels through ombudsmen to take reports of compliance violations. We use this system to pursue all tips, clarify the relevant issues and take appropriate measures Management Approach after carefully weighing and considering the principle of Several years ago, we successfully introduced the proportionality. tesa Antitrust Compliance Program throughout the Group. It is an important element of our overall program and has been refined continuously since then. It Measures and Results provides information on relevant content in antitrust Communication and training activities We law and raises awareness to potential risks. It also anchor the compliance principles within the company encompasses the regular review and updating of guidethrough routine communication and training activilines as well as control over their implementation. ties. For example, our employees find tips, guidelines, processes and capable points of contact for their day-to-day business dealings on a compliance platMeasures and Results form on the intranet. We also use this platform to Internal guidelines In 2018, we created and provide information on relevant legal developments. introduced a new overarching Antitrust Compliance In order to leave no room for uncertainty regarding Guideline to the company. This guideline summarizes compliance, we also published a glossary that defines already existing regulations, establishes general condiand explains compliance-related terms and acrotions and minimum standards in the Antitrust Core nyms on the intranet during the reporting period. Compliance Field and describes them. 14 Compliance Corruption Prevention / Data Protection Sustainability Report 2018 Training courses All relevant employees and managers1 receive training every two years. Our training scheme Data Protection includes a mandatory e-learning course that communiThe confidential, honest, safe and appropriate cates key concepts in antitrust law. In 2018, we developed handling of the information entrusted to us is a a new e-learning module on the topic of antitrust. It will high priority for tesa. Given the heightened be available on the intranet starting in 2019. During the requirements set down in the EU General Data 2017/2018 training cycle, we invited 1,621 employees in 41 Protection Regulation (GDPR), the topic of data countries and 48 affiliates to participate in an e-learning protection represents a Core Compliance Field course in the Antitrust Core Compliance Field. The rate again in 2018. of successful participation was 96.4 percent (global2). We also hold on-site training sessions in regions Management Approach where there is particular risk and in selected business Prevention by raising awareness and through education units. This is augmented by individualized advice on is a key focus for us in the area of data protection. We issues of antitrust law during ongoing operations. therefore inform employees about the measures we are taking to comply with the GDPR, who the points of contact are and what employees should keep in mind in Corruption Prevention their day-to-day work. In addition, we published the Data Protection Compliance Guideline in the reporting year. It Anti-Corruption is one of tesa’s Core Comsummarizes all valid organizational rules on the topic of pliance Fields and, after antitrust, plays a data protection and gives employees assistance and central role in the Compliance Management instructions for handling data. System. The main goal is to avoid possible cases of corruption before they arise. Measures and Results Information and training courses Along with Our Management Approach events on the topic of data protection, we also use the Our focus is on ongoing efforts to inform and raise the intranet to keep our employees informed. There is a data awareness of employees for corruption-related risks as protection series that teaches people about the most well as dangerous activities and situations in day-to-day important contents of the GDPR, for example. In order business dealings. The Group-wide Anti-Corruption to explain the requirements of the regulation and its Guideline makes an important contribution to these implementation as understandably and true to real-world efforts. It offers guidance to our employees on what to practice as possible, we address issues that arise from do in case of conflicts of interest, invitations and personal the day-to-day activities of employees and provide inforgifts from and to representatives, agents and employees mation about proper and legally compliant conduct. We of other companies or public officials and explains how have also developed a number of training activities. Beemployees should conduct themselves in corresponding ginning in 2019, there will be a new e-learning course on situations. the topic of data protection, which all employees, managers and corporate bodies must complete every two years. Measures and Results The e-learning course, which was redesigned in 2018, covers the topic of anti-corruption as a Core Compliance Field. It is mandatory for all relevant employees, managers and corporate bodies to complete the course every two years. The course will also be available on our intranet starting in 2019. On-site training on the topic of corruption prevention is held as needed and is conducted by speakers or experts on the issue in question. 1, 2 The participation rate refers to the target and risk group that was defined in advance for this Core Compliance Field. This group includes all employees and managers who may come into contact with antitrust-related topics and requirements. This figure corresponds to the situation as of December 31, 2017. A new evaluation was not carried out in 2018. The dedication of skilled experts and motivated young employees helps to shape the company and builds the foundation for our success. EMPLOYEES tations of our customers – and to exceed them again and again. At the same time, the demands of employees are We would like to provide our customers with constantly evolving and the attractiveness of an emthe best possible service and expand our ployer plays a more important role today than in the position as one of the leading adhesive techpast. Aspects such as development opportunities in nology companies. The skills of our employees the company, the topics of occupational safety and and their willingness to continue to develop health promotion, a thriving culture of feedback and them are paramount for this. dialogue, and models for reconciling professional and private life are all increasing in significance. Qualified employees who actively participate in shaping the continued development of the company Important goals of our human resources strategy are and promote innovations in the area of products and therefore to employ appropriate measures to attract processes are the key to the successful implementation well-qualified, committed employees to our company, of our corporate strategy. They help us meet the expec­ to win their loyalty and to maintain our attractiveness as 16 Employees Internal Succession Sustainability Report 2018 an employer. In addition, our express goal is to promote a across different units and regions. By doing so, the HR corporate culture that strengthens performance, teamdepartment plays a key role when it comes to making work, cross-functional collaboration and internationalizait easier for future executives to rise within the organition. The tesa Key Competencies establish the basis for zation and to win their lasting loyalty to the company. In this. They describe nine core competencies that deterthe period under review, we filled most top managemine the actions of employees and represent fundamenment positions with internal candidates in this way. tal values at tesa: “Set the pace,” “Focus on your customer,” “Team up,” “Achieve & improve,” “Challenge yourself,” “Lead to success,” “Grow talent,” “See the Measures and Results bigger picture” and “Get buy-in.” Competencies review In Europe, North America, Greater China and Asia/Pacific, talented employees were given the opportunity to participate in professionally relInternal Succession evant role playing and exercises – comparable to those of an assessment center. They then received feedback With its products, tesa is represented in on their strengths and areas for development with regard several different markets and industries that to the tesa Key Competencies. Intensive discussions each have different requirements, issues and with experienced managers and HR employees gave needs. Managing this complexity is no easy these up-and-coming employees further impetus for task. The skills, knowledge and experience of their future careers at tesa. The competencies reviews our employees give us a distinct competitive enable us to develop talented workers’ skills in a targeted advantage. manner, making them candidates for internal succession. One core element of our personnel strategy is to fill tesa X-perience Career Model In 2018, we dekey positions from within wherever possible in orvised the tesa X-perience career model. The aim is to der to retain their valuable experience and market develop a uniform understanding of sensible developknowledge, enhance their expertise and skills, and ment and career progression throughout the company. leverage these capabilities for our long-term success Furthermore, employees should be motivated to seek as a company. This approach is also beneficial to job rotation opportunities not only internationally or our employees. Without changing companies, they functionally, but to actively make cross-functional moves. can gain broad knowledge from different areas and This contributes to building up broader expertise and obtain attractive promotion and development opporestablishes the basis for promotion within the company. tunities. Accordingly, our goal is to fill as many open The model will be introduced in Germany starting in positions as possible with internal employees. 2019 and will then gradually be rolled out elsewhere. Management Approach The topic of internal succession is firmly established at the highest level at tesa. Several times a year, the Executive Board holds meetings where the members discuss succession planning and talent management. The topic is centrally managed by the Human Resources (HR) department. The Succession Planning and Talent Management team, which was established specifically to handle internal succession, employs structured management processes in its work and carries out a series of different activities. This includes development interviews and advisory sessions with employees as X-perience well as talent management workshops. Furthermore, HR ensures that employees receive regular feedback › The new career model on their performance from their supervisors. HR’s offers employees tasks also include ensuring that information is shared between the regions and the company headquarters international or functional and making suggestions for filling open positions job rotation opportunities. Sustainability Report 2018 Occupational Safety Employees 17 Management Development Program Also in Our occupational safety management activities focus on 2018, a group of international executives set up the production sites, where the risks of accidents and adverse Management Development Program (MDP). As part of health effects are greater than at our office headquarters. this program, participants take a close look at the corporate strategy and the positioning of different We employ our own safety specialists at all ISO 14001 cerfunctions in the company. In order to keep the program tified sites. They are familiar both with tesa’s global health up to date and to begin with management training even and occupational safety guidelines and with local conditions. earlier, we launched a project to revamp the MDP in We also take deliberate steps to promote international 2018. Initial adjustments should be implemented in dialogue among these experts. The safety specialists meet 2019. annually to discuss key occupational health and safety risks. They also initiate joint projects, define standards, and share information on successes and experiences as part of these events. This approach contributes toward the continuous optimization of prevention measures at tesa. Occupational Safety At tesa comprehensive risk assessments establish the basis As a responsible employer, we see it as our for selecting and managing work resources, work proceduty to protect our employees from risks and dures, workplaces and work processes in such a way that hazards in the exercise of their activities. technical and organizational flaws are avoided and emA safe working environment is essential to ployees observe safe practices. But changes in machinery, ensure staff remain motivated and engaged. systems, or working premises, new purchases, and process It contributes immensely to our employees’ adjustments can all affect our employees’ safety and health. ability to provide ideal solutions and actively Therefore, for example, safety-related testing and accepplay a part in the development of the company tance as well as systematic hazard identification and risk and customer satisfaction. assessment are carried out at the time of the procurement and commissioning of equipment. If we recognize a risk to In addition, a high level of occupational safety promotes employees during this testing, we take appropriate countera good corporate reputation and increases the compameasures. Material results of the evaluations are discussed ny’s attractiveness as an employer. It helps to reduce by the occupational safety committees with management sick leave and absences and to limit staff turnover. In turn, and the employee representatives, and satisfactory this has a positive effect on costs. We have therefore measures are defined. The responsible and proactive implemented a wide range of measures that serve to actions of employees play a major role in risk avoidance. prevent and minimize accidents and illness. Our strateThis includes, for example, wearing personal protective gic aim is to reduce the number of accidents to zero. equipment and appropriate work clothing at all times. However, should a workplace accident occur despite Management Approach all preventive measures, we will conduct an accident We want to prevent workplace accidents and eliminate investigation. The investigation will identify the techniwork-related health risks and the occupational illnesses cal, organizational and personal causes of the accident. they cause before they can arise. Therefore, we prioritize Appropriate accident preventive measures will help to prevention and raising awareness among staff about avoid a similar incident from occurring in the future. potential hazards – for their own protection and also for the protection of their colleagues. Our Occupational Safety Guidelines, which apply throughout the group of companies, form the basis for our internal management system in the area of occupational safety. As part of an annual management review, the company management works with the occupational safety unit to evaluate the accidents that have occurred that year. Based on this information, it then takes new steps to further improve our employees’ safety and reduce work-related health risks. 18 Employees Occupational Safety Sustainability Report 2018 7 Measures and Results th Training courses At the tesa SE site, we developed training videos in 2017 covering a wide range of topics in occupational safety and emergency prevention and made them accessible to all employees. The films For the time, › a “Safety Week” show in compact form how employees at the company headquarters and the research and technology center should behave in order to best prevent risks to their own safety. In 2018, the videos were also integrated was held in the Suzhou into an e-learning course that all employees at the tesa plant in 2018. company headquarters site had to complete. Both the e-learning course and the films are available in German and English. Alongside improved training schemes for employees and external companies, risk assessment for machines was also optimized in this reporting year. Campaigns As in previous years, employee awareness campaigns were held in 2018. Major areas of focus again included preventing accidents in traffic within the plant and training on how to use respiratory protection equipment. In the Hamburg tesa plant, employees from the areas of coating and adhesive manufacturing are qualified to use respiratory protection equipment in accordance with the requirements for volunteer firefighters. In the event of a gas extinguisher system deployment, these employees are an essential safety component as they can rescue anyone who may become trapped before the fire department has arrived. One cause of work accidents is not using personal protective equipment. As a remedial action, with the participation of all safety specialists we developed the worldwide “It’s in your hands! Always wear your safety gear.” campaign in the reporting year. It should raise the awareness of employees both in production and in the laboratories about how important it is to wear the proper protective equipment at work. Fire Safety As part of our fire prevention scheme for 2020, we implemented measures in the area of technical fire prevention and protection at the tesa plant in Offenburg this reporting year. The focus here was also on prevention. We held a daylong event for all employees that highlighted the subject of fire prevention, for example. The introduction of the 2020 fire prevention scheme is already showing initial signs of success. For example, we have improved the early detection of fires through organizational and technical measures. At the tesa plant in Suzhou, China, this reporting year marked the seventh time that a “Safety Week” event was held. It encompassed a range of educational and training courses on topics such as proper conduct for safety and health, explosion and fire prevention, and fire extinguisher usage. Sustainability Report 2018 Occupational Safety Employees 19 Certifications The Concagno plant in Italy, one of the largest tesa production sites, was certified in accordance with ISO 45001, the successor to OHSAS 18001. The standard is one of the best-known and most important standards for management systems in the area of occupational safety. The certification of other sites is currently not planned. ISO certification › In 2018, the Concagno Safety goggles are an essential part of personal protective plant was certified equipment in all tesa laboratories. according to ISO 45001 for the first time. Performance Indicator Our aim is to continuously reduce the number of accidents with one or more days of absence. This particularly involves accidents resulting in longer incapacity to work, when the employee is absent for more than three days. In addition, tesa monitors the lost day rate, measured in calendar days per million hours worked, for specific locations. The frequency of accidents > 3 days at tesa in 2018 was 1.9 per million hours worked globally. This was slightly above the previous year’s figure (1.3 in 2017), but well below the German industry average (BG RCI) of 11.6. We view this as proof of the quality of our management system in the area of occupational safety. Occupational safety key figures Full year Full year Full year unit 2016 2017 2018 Work accidents ≥ 1 day number 22 14 21 Accident frequency rate ≥ 1 day number/million hours worked 4.9 2.9 4.1 Lost days ≥ 1 day number 539 261* 326 Lost day rate ≥ 1 day number/million hours worked 118.9 54.6* 63.2 Work accidents > 3 days number 14 6 10 Accident frequency rate > 3 days number/million hours worked 3.1 1.3 1.9 *Adjustment compared to previous year 20 Employees Good Leadership Sustainability Report 2018 Good Leadership Management Approach For a technology company like tesa it is imExecutive development at tesa is anchored in the area of portant that the corporate culture and the training and learning in the Human Resources (HR) unit working environment are structured in such and is managed from there. The understanding of mana way that they motivate employees to be agement at tesa is based on the Flow Leadership Model, creative and innovative and to support the which makes use of positive psychology. It calls for a implementation of new ideas. Good leader­ work atmosphere in which employees enjoy what they ship is crucial for this. It helps to create a are doing and reach a “flow” state, a sense of energized positive workplace environment and working focus, of complete involvement and success. According conditions that encourage performance, an ento the model, this type of work atmosphere leads to vironment in which employees can realize their feelings of happiness and heightens the motivation, compotential, gain recognition and be promoted. mitment and performance of the employees. The model In addition, we are convinced that leadership therefore helps to increase employees’ satisfaction and makes a significant contribution to winning the makes them feel more connected to the company. loyalty of engaged and well-trained employees to the company and reducing turnover. Globally uniform two-stage leadership training lies at the heart of executive development at tesa. It consists A common vision, clear-cut values and uniform manof the Essential and Advanced Leadership modules. The agement guidelines are essential to achieving this. Essential Leadership module can be taken by executives This means that executives can lead and support at tesa who have assumed responsibility over personnel their employees in such a way that the company as a for the first time. Above all this module should sharpen whole continues to develop and corporate goals can the understanding of one’s role as a manager. Topics be achieved. This ambition is reflected in the tesa Key such as communication and feedback and approaches Competencies. Four of the nine key competencies for situational leadership and team development play relate to the topics of leadership and management. an important role in this. The Advanced Leadership Program is designed for employees who have already held leadership responsibility for a while. It includes topics such as dealing with difficult management situations, employee development and coaching as a leadership tool. The program gives participants the opportunity to discuss situations they have experienced as part of their daily management duties and to obtain valuable input from other executives and trainers. In order to take tesa’s matrix organizational structure into account, a Matrix Leadership Program, consisting of three training modules (Leading without authority, Get buy-in, Virtual teams), was also developed. It is open to all employees who do not have the authority to issue orders, but have project responsibility. The international introduction of the Matrix Leadership Program, for example, in the regions of Asia Pacific, Greater China and Eastern Europe, is currently being planned. By 4 of 9 2020, the Leadership Program should be rounded out by Strategic Leadership for the upper management level and a revamped Management Development Program. Measures and Results › tesa Key Competencies Essential Leadership: tesa executives in the regions relate to the topics of of Germany, Europe, Asia/Pacific, Greater China, North America and Latin America underwent a modularly leadership and management. structured training program on employee leadership Sustainability Report 2018 Good Leadership Employees 21 Strategic personnel development plays an important role at tesa in preparing up-and-coming talent for key positions on an international level. lasting up to six days as part of a globally uniform Advanced Leadership We would like to give leadership training scheme. With a total of four training experienced executives the opportunity to deal with cycles, the Essential Leadership Program was also challenging leadership situations under professional guidrolled out very successfully in Germany. The internaance. Following the successful testing of the Advanced tional introduction of this portion of the Leadership Leadership training in 2017, it has been offered internaProgram has therefore now been completed. Wherever tionally since spring 2018, for example, in the regions of necessary, this training will be augmented in some North America and Greater China. In 2018, three training regions with short leadership tool training units. courses were offered at the company headquarters. One 22 Employees Training, Development and Support Sustainability Report 2018 of them was held in English and was aimed at executives from other regions. Training, Development Team room In 2018, the HR department created a and Support shared digital information platform for executives in the The competition for employees from the intranet. In the team room, executives quickly and clearly natural sciences and engineering is constantly find all the tools and information they need for day-to-day increasing within our industry. In addition, management work. advancing digitalization and internationalization are leading to changes in working Feedback tool How do employees view their superrequirements and methods. We want to visors, and what are their perceptions of the supervisors’ offer our customers outstanding products, leadership? To answer these questions, we developed innovative solutions and the best service at a digital feedback tool based on the tesa Key Comthe same time. petencies in 2017. The tool has been in use since the beginning of 2018 and is available globally. Employees We are adjusting to these challenges with our compreare surveyed on various aspects relating to leadership, hensive initial and advanced training programs that are and afterward, supervisors receive an anonymized specially tailored to our requirements. After all, highly analysis they can use as a basis to discuss the next steps qualified, engaged and performance-oriented employwith their employees. In addition, the managers have ees are a decisive competitive advantage for us. In the opportunity to conduct a team workshop with their addition, having a wide range of initial and advanced employees based on the results. The workshop should training opportunities increases our attractiveness offer them a suitable space for discussing potential areas as an employer and contributes to the willingness of of development in the team. Since its introduction, 15 high-potential employees to work for us for a long time. executives worldwide have used the feedback tool. Management Approach In order to respond suitably to the challenges of the labor market and the competitive environment, we have developed tesa-specific training. It helps young people gain entry into the working world and gives us the opportunity to offer targeted training for employees in the areas relevant to us. Along with technical training content, there is an increasing focus on soft skills that have a positive impact on our interactions with each other and promote cooperation. For example, from the beginning we convey to trainees our understanding of quality and service as well as key competencies that are meaningful to tesa. In order to be successful over the long term, we must also offer our employees attractive development opportunities – both professionally and personally, at all levels and in all areas. In order to identify and fully realize the potential of our employees, we have established target 100 % group and expertise-oriented training programs. In addition, we enable our employees to gain new experience in other units or regions. The tesa training portfolio includes programs that are specially tailored to the areas of Sales & Marketing, Research & Development, Purchasing and the tesa Supply Network. A series of “open” › was the trainee retention course programs is also available. This includes, for example, methodological training courses, such as time rate in the tesa Offenburg and project management, or communication training courses, such as conflict management, language courses, plant in 2018. moderation or presentation skills. In addition, certain Sustainability Report 2018 Training, Development, and Support Employees 23 leadership and management programs are available to technical training and sales skills for sales employees. selected employees. This reporting year, it was adjusted to account for the latest developments on the market and the changing needs of the sales team. For the sales training courses, Measures and Results this includes the introduction of a blended learning Training In the technical area we have introduced approach, which combines in-person classroom prefive different apprenticeships in the last six years for sentations and e-learning. This approach was applied chemical technicians, electronics technicians for opersuccessfully for the first time in 2018 and has significantly ating technology, industrial mechanics, machine and reduced the number of days requiring attendance. A system operators and mechatronics technicians. As total of 275 participants have taken part in 44 training of the end of 2018, the Hamburg-Harburg tesa plant days for the Sales & Marketing qualification program. had 43 apprentices. The machine operators represent The training and qualification program for tesa R&D the largest group (16). The Offenburg tesa plant had employees includes topics such as patents and quality 42 apprentices, four of whom completed a coopermanagement. A total of 179 people participated in this ative university education and vocational training program in 17 training days during the reporting period. program. The high retention rate demonstrates that we intend to employ the apprentices over the long During the year under review, 454 employees partici­ term. In Hamburg, eight out of nine apprentices were pated in a total of 61 days of training as part of our retained in 2018, corresponding to 87.5 percent. In qualification programs. Offenburg, the retention rate in 2018 was 100 percent. E-learning Along with classroom training courses Qualification programs The qualification programs and programs, tesa offers its employees a broad contain basic qualifications for new employees and range of e-learning courses, for example, from areas special formats tailored to the requirements of individual such as compliance, research and development or the business units. The Sales and Marketing Qualification tesa Supply Network. In 2018, the e-learning course Program, for example, encompasses a combination of offerings were expanded again. Additional courses included e-onboarding, which all new employees must go through. In addition, the units are now getting more support to create their own e-learning courses. 1,056 employees completed an e-learning course in 2018. Open course program These classes are open to all employees by arrangement with their managers and include subjects such as language classes and IT training sessions. These sessions comprised 74 days of training in 2018, with 243 employees participating. Learning management system (LMS) The LMS provides employees with information on all the continuing education options on offer at tesa and lets them register for courses. The platform helps the HR department document the complete range of training courses. The system will be expanded in the future. The goal is to automate and standardize training administration and organization in the area of classroom training courses, e-learning programs and blended learning across 454 participants countries, while enabling each region to manage itself. In › took part in 61 days 2018, we began to roll out the LMS internationally. As a first step, the training records of the staff were collected and made uniform. The introduction will continue in 2019. of training offered through our qualification HR Marketplace In September 2018, the second HR Marketplace was held at our headquarters in Norderprograms. stedt. This gave us the opportunity to demonstrate the 24 Employees Feedback and Dialogue Sustainability Report 2018 progress we had made in the areas of professional and and competencies reviews. These forms of dialogue personal development since the 2016 employee survey. are based on the tesa Key Competencies, which are This also enabled us to fulfill our employees wishes to also used in the area of succession planning and talent be more fully informed about continuing education and management. There are guidelines for conducting career opportunities. During the event employees and performance appraisals. In addition, managers are managers had the opportunity to speak to HR representrained in conducting these reviews. These reviews tatives, ask questions and provide feedback. Among the are usually conducted once a year, twice in some key topics of the HR Marketplace were compensation regions. The participation rate is 90 to 100 percent. and benefits, and occupational health management. Measures and Results Feedback and Dialogue Competency-based employee performance appraisals We also conducted competency-based Regular feedback and open dialogue between employee performance appraisals in the tesa regions in supervisors and employees are important 2018. This standardized international format is modeled components of a modern corporate and on the tesa Key Competencies, which determine the management culture. Being able to discuss actions of people at tesa. This is another way we ensure questions, ideas, expectations, goals and also dialogue between employees and managers. Besides problems creates a relationship based on trust facilitating feedback to employees, it also enables between employees and managers and employees to provide voluntary feedback to supervisors. strengthens team spirit. Employee survey After conducting employee In addition, it promotes mutual development. Given the surveys in 2017 in the regions of Eastern Europe, challenging labor market situation, a strong feedback Asia-Pacific and Latin America, there was no survey in culture is a decisive factor in gaining the loyalty of 2018. The companies in the specified regions are in the employees to the company and increasing employer process of implementing the measures derived from attractiveness. the survey results. The next surveys will be conducted in 2019 at tesa’s headquarters and in Western Europe. Management Approach In recent years tesa has continuously improved its feedback culture, through employee surveys, for example. We conduct them at regular intervals both at tesa’s headquarters and in the regions. Surveys are conducted annually worldwide. At the individual site level, employees in different regions are surveyed every two to three years. This helps us ensure that the implementation of corresponding measures is properly tracked. The employee surveys serve to measure the engagement of our employees, their motivation and their loyalty to the company as well as to identify any elements that signifi>› 90 % cantly affect these aspects. The individual regions can also add questions to cover locally relevant topics. To foster dialogue between employees and supervisors, joint workshops are held following the anonymized surveys, with participants discussing the results and mapping out specific actions to take. We then conduct subsequent employee surveys to review how effective and how widely accepted these measures have been. In general, the results of these surveys have affirmed that our employees are highly committed and have strong ties to tesa. was the participation rate Dialogue about continued development takes the form in annual performance of performance appraisals, 360°and 180° feedback appraisals in 2018. Sustainability Report 2018 Occupational Health Management Employees 25 Occupational Health The range of occupational health management options is constantly reviewed for its acceptance and effectiveness. Management Maintaining and promoting the health and Measures and Results productivity of employees are important “tesa sport club” This reporting year, we once again concerns at tesa. We wish to meet our extended the club’s hours in order to meet the high responsibility as an employer beyond prodemand for its services. After a successful start in 2017, viding a good workplace environment and we also expanded the range of in-house physiotherapeuopportunities for promotion and continuing tic treatments. education. Moreover, health promotion to us is an expression of our respect for our emPsychological risk assessments In 2018, we ployees. They rightfully regard offerings in performed psychological risk assessments in three this area as the defining feature of a modern other areas based on the German Occupational Safety employer and attach increasing importance and Health Act. The cycle of psychological risk assessto occupational health management. ments is now up to 90 percent complete, with surveys to be conducted every three to five years in all areas. Management Approach To proactively promote and preserve employees’ health, tesa also has a broad-based occupational health management program. Under the “It’s for you” umbrella brand, an interdisciplinary team works to develop a wide range of measures. The team includes representatives from HR as the coordinating body, the works council, the health promotion team, the tesa sport club, the social advising service, the body representing employees with disabilities, the occupational health service and the occupational safety team. The goal is to minimize strain and to strengthen the resources available to people. The tesa sport club offers tesa employees in Norderstedt a wide range of fitness and relaxation options, including endurance and strength training equipment and a variety of courses like spinning, yoga and back strength building, along with individual fitness checks. Employees of the sites in Hamburg can use the options offered by our in-house occupational health management service and those offered by our parent company, Beiersdorf, which include autogenic training, progressive muscle relaxation, and workshops on back health and relaxation techniques. Another key aspect of the company’s efforts to promote health is its extensive array of preventive health checks. These include vein screenings, skin cancer prevention and colorectal cancer screening. Further measures include equipping all office workstations with height-adjustable desks to minimize back strain, in-house advising on ergonomics, which provides support on the proper height adjustment of desks and office chairs, and information on exercises people can do at their desks. This also includes the promotion of healthy eating by offering healthy choices at the company’s restaurant. The “Einfälle statt Abfälle” campaign launched by tesa’s Offenburg plant in 2018 aims to continuously reduce energy and resource use. ENVIRONMENT Environmental protection has been a key element of our corporate responsibility activities for years, and our environmental guidelines firmly establish it throughout the Group. The guidelines provide all employees As a chemical and manufacturing with a standard for our actions and are designed to company, tesa bears tremendous responincrease environmental awareness in the company. sibility for environmental issues. Treating the environment, natural resources and tesa’s primary environmental impact is the energy raw materials with great care is one of our consumption at its production sites. We therefore put corporate goals. This strengthens peoparticular emphasis on protecting the climate and ple’s trust in the brand and safeguards reducing CO2 emissions. However, resource efficiency the foundation of our business success. is also a top priority for us. Applicable legislative provisions, which we implement at all our sites, form the basis of our work in the area of climate protection. In addition, we use environmental management systems Sustainability Report 2018 Climate Protection and CO2 Emissions Environment 27 to control environmental performance effectively. They the climate, efficiency targets and the further are used at all sites with a significant environmental expansion of renewable energies may affect impact. Seven production sites and tesa’s headquarters tesa’s business activities. Threshold limits, now have an ISO 14001 certified environmental mantechnical standards, and approval processes agement system. There are environmental experts at all for energy generation and production facilities sites. They are familiar with tesa’s global environmental are also in flux, which calls for a forward-lookguidelines as well as local legislation and the status ing approach. Besides that, climate protection of on-site technology. The experts compile comparais garnering growing public attention. tive figures, initiate projects and work on the ongoing improvement of our environmental performance. We would like to take these developments into account, while living up to our own ambition to provide effecAnother important element of our environmental mantive climate protection. After all, this can also result in agement is dealing with risks proactively. This approach opportunities and competitive advantages for us. By helps us to respond to changes promptly, to avert costs proactively communicating our commitment to climate and damage to our reputation as well as to take advanprotection and emphasizing how our products contribute tage of the opportunities that present themselves. As to more sustainability for customers, we can increase part of our environmental management activities, we interest in our products. Our innovative capacity also identify and evaluate opportunities and risks in relation benefits us here as it helps us to continuously improve to environmental aspects both at the level of individual our products and production processes. For example, production sites and across the board. This makes it we are manufacturing more and more products using easier for us to select suitable measures to protect the energy-efficient, solvent-free production processes. environment and helps exert a positive impact on tesa’s risk situation. Therefore, environmental risk management We have set ourselves the goal of reducing specific is an important factor for our sustained economic success. CO2 emissions per metric ton of end product (location based) by 2020 by another ten percent compared to the Our environmental program sets ambitious Group-wide 2015 reference year. As of the reporting date, we were targets and enables us to solidify our environmental at -8.3 percent. commitment. The previous environmental program ran through the end of 2015, by which point we had reduced many of our environmental impacts. For example, from Management Approach the 2001 reference year we were able to reduce our Climate protection is an integral component of environspecific energy consumption per metric ton of end mental management at tesa. We now use ISO 14001 product by 24 percent and specific CO2 emissions per certified environmental management systems at eight metric ton of end product by 19 percent. Furthermore, sites for the continuous management of our internal we were able to reduce the specific use of solvents environmental protection. Certified sites include all (-41 percent) and the volume of non-recyclable waste production sites with related coating and/or adhesive (-77 percent). The specific emission of volatile organic production; this does not include the production sites of compounds (-91 percent) also dropped significantly. the companies acquired in 2017 and 2018. They have relatively high energy consumption, due, for example, to drying or waste air purification processes, causing them to have higher CO2 emission levels. tesa’s headquarters, the tesa Converting Center and tesa scribos GmbH are Climate Protection also certified. According to our calculations, 95 percent of and CO2 Emissions our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions accrue to sites with certified environmental management systems. In order to live up to our responsibility toward the environment, we systematically analyze all We take into account the results of environmental audits developments and challenges that can arise to steadily improve our environmental performance. By for our business from climate change and caldoing so, we identify additional potential savings, optiibrate our measures accordingly. In tesa’s role mize energy-intensive processes and reduce costs and as an industrial supplier, it is especially importCO2 emissions. tesa management conducts a manageant in this context for the company to prepare ment review every year as part of this process. The for future developments in overall regulatory environmental experts working at all locations bear operconditions. Policy measures enacted to protect ational responsibility. They are familiar with tesa’s global 28 Environment Climate Protection and CO2 Emissions Sustainability Report 2018 3 environmental guidelines as well as local legislation and the status of on-site technology. The experts compile comparative figures and initiate projects, ensuring the ongoing improvement of our environmental performance. tesa’s headquarters and sites with the highest CO2 emissions (Hamburg and Offenburg) have an energy sites › have an ISO 50001management system certified in accordance with ISO 50001 in addition to the environmental management system. They account for about 60 percent of the CO2 emissions of all tesa sites with environmental managecertified energy ment systems. This can be explained by the fact that tesa’s headquarters have the most employees and the management system. largest research and development unit; Hamburg and Offenburg are the largest production sites. The introduction of the energy management systems has set the stage for further increasing energy efficiency at With our tesa environmental program, which was put in the sites. Advanced monitoring processes are an element place in 2001, we are setting Group-wide targets for us to of the energy management systems. These processes are continuously reduce our environmental impact. The curexpanded and improved on an ongoing basis. Employees rent program is running from 2016 to 2020. In this period, and external associates who have an influence over the we aim to reduce specific CO2 emissions per metric ton of company’s energy performance have been sensitized to end product (location based) by ten percent. Energy conthis topic and have received training on keeping energy sumption is the most important control parameter here, management in mind in their actions. Another strategic and is constantly being reduced through our environmenapproach for tesa is the use of energy and resource-savtal program and our continuous improvement process. ing technologies, such as efficient generation of our own The targets that we set for ourselves in a given period energy through cogeneration (combined heat and power, are regularly reviewed and revised. Through our internal CHP) and obtaining electricity from renewable sources. planning and reporting activities, we identify, assess and monitor risks and measures associated with reducing CO2 emissions at the level of the headquarters and the individual sites certified according to ISO 14001. The Environmental Management Team prepares and updates the assessment for climate-related risks on a yearly basis. We review the effectiveness of our activities by keeping track of monthly site-specific energy consumption. We determine Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO2 emissions based on the guidelines of the Greenhouse Gas Protocols. 8 However, environmental impacts do not arise only from our own production, but also in our supply chain and within our business partners’ operations. Therefore, the tesa Code of Conduct for Suppliers (reference, pp. 33 – 34) obligates our suppliers to uphold the principles of the UN Global Compact, and thus also fundamental standards in environmental protection. sites All emissions along the entire value chain that do not fall under Scope 1 and Scope 2 are assigned to Scope 3 › have an ISO 14001emissions. In 2018, we began to collect data for material emissions throughout the value chain. In the process, we certified environmental identified the areas of packaging, raw materials, finished good suppliers and product transport as material Scope 3 management system. categories. Sustainability Report 2018 Climate Protection and CO2 Emissions Environment 29 Climate protection measures We began operating Measures and Results a CCHP (combined cooling, heat and power) system Environmental management systems During for climate-friendly in-house power generation at the the reporting period, the environmental management Offenburg plant in 2014, and the Hamburg plant followed systems at all sites that were certified in accordance suit with a CHP (combined heat and power) plant in with ISO 14001 were converted to the revised stan2016. In these systems, we use not only the electricity dard ISO 14001:2015 and successfully certified. generated, but also the heat that is produced, which is used for purposes such as heating and in production Energy management systems During the reporting processes. These two plants together supplied about period, Hamburg and Offenburg refined their energy 41 percent of our worldwide electricity demand at ISO management systems and were certified for the fourth 14001 certified sites. At the Offenburg site, a new boiler time in accordance with ISO 50001. The new tesa has been used to supply steam to the production plant headquarters in Norderstedt were awarded ISO 50001 since 2018. It is more efficient and reduces the concertification in 2018 for the third time. sumption of natural gas and the related CO2 and NOx emissions. During the reporting year, feasibility studies Environmental audits External environmental audits were completed for CHP systems at the Concagno tesa are conducted annually as part of matrix certification of plant and the tesa SE plant in Norderstedt, resulting in the ISO 14001 sites. In addition, internal system audits are the affirmative decision to go ahead with investments. conducted at all ISO 14001 sites. Due to the revision of the environmental management standard, the focus was In 2018, along with our own generation, we purchased in part on performance management, risks and opportuoutside electricity from renewable sources at five Europenities as well as determining the expectations of an sites, covering about 30 percent of our global demand interested stakeholders. for the ISO 14001 certified sites. During the reporting period, we also completed additional energy projects with investments in LED lighting at the headquarters as well as at the sites in Hamburg, Sparta and Suzhou. Performance Indicator During the reporting period, we were able to reduce the specific CO2 emissions per metric ton of end product according to the market-based method, taking into account electricity from renewable sources by 0.5 percentage points compared to the previous year. Compared to the 2015 reference year, overall we are at -8.3 percent according to the location-based method in 2018, and are within the target range of the 10 percent reduction we are pursuing for 2020. Specific CO2 emissions per metric ton of end product › were reduced by 8.3 percent in 2018 compared with 2015 (location-based method). 30 Environment Efficient Use of Resources Sustainability Report 2018 Key figures climate protection and CO2 emissions Energy use 2015 2, 6 2017 2018 Natural gas GWh 204 262 275 Crude oil 0 0 0 District heat 0 0 0 Electricity from renewable sources GWh 0 24 26 Conventionally generated electricity GWh 60 26 26 Total energy use GWh 265 311 327 Greenhouse gas emissions, location-based 3, 7 2015 2 2017 2018 2020 target CO2 direct (Scope 1) 1000 t 41 53 56 CO2 indirect (Scope 2) 1000 t 28 23 24 CO2 total 1000 t 69 76 79 Change 2018 vs. 20155 % -8.3 -10.0 Greenhouse gas emissions, market based 4, 7 2015 2 2017 2018 CO2 direct (Scope 1) 1000 t 41 53 56 CO2 indirect (Scope 2) 1000 t 41 14 14 CO2 total 1000 t 83 67 70 Change 2018 vs. 20155 % -32.7 1 CO2 conversion factors before 2015: 0.47 t CO2 / MWh electricity and 0.18 t CO2 / MWh gas; Reference year; Definitions according to the GHG Protocol Scope 2 3 2 Standard; source, CO2e factors: GHG Protocol / IEA; 4Definitions according to the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Standard; source, CO2e factors: electricity providers and/or residual mix: RE-DISS (07/2017); emission factor for electricity from renewable sources is set as equal to zero; 5With reference to production volume; 6 Assumption of gas/electricity consumption at the Hamburg tesa plant replaced by real values in the reporting year 2018; 7Changeover from CO2 to CO2e in the reporting year 2018 Efficient Use of Resources management systems on an ongoing basis, and to this end, engage in dialogue with external experts as well. The production of goods always results in We also provide our stakeholders with candid, transwaste. We are committed to reducing waste parent information on our goals and successes in this efficiently and preserving natural resources. area. With these measures we have already significantly We therefore constantly work on raising reduced our environmental impact in the area of resource awareness among all stakeholders about efficiency. We have set ourselves the goal of reducing avoiding unnecessary waste and professional specific waste volume per metric ton of end product by recycling. 2020 by another two percentage points from the 2015 reference year. Material losses during the production Our binding environmental guidelines offer guidance in process are an important control parameter here. this area. They state that we produce, use and dispose of products in such a way as to minimize harmful impact on the environment. In addition to our consistent compliance Management Approach with legal requirements, we also proactively assume We aim to offer our customers products that have responsibility in this area. We refine our environmental as little environmental impact as possible over their Sustainability Report 2018 Efficient Use of Resources Environment 31 entire lifecycle. To accomplish this, we develop eco­ mentation of potential improvements. The project also friendly, solvent-free production methods, and use includes communication measures that are designed renewable and recycled raw materials where possible. to create awareness of the issue among employees. We take care to ensure resource efficiency from the early Expansion of ACX technology In 2018, we constages of developing our products and the methods used verted other products to this technology, which led to produce them. Measures to this end are an integral to additional energy, material and solvent savings. part of our environmental protection activities as a company. We also regularly raise awareness among our Optimization of plant operations During the employees regarding the subjects of reducing and reporting year, we optimized the new production unit put sorting waste. into operation in Sparta, Michigan, USA, in 2017, in part with respect to the resulting production waste. The unit There is no way to eliminate all waste when producing allows us to replace solvent-based adhesives with goods. Our waste and raw materials management water-based ones, thereby improving our overall use activities are geared toward using materials efficiently of solvents. and recycling wherever possible. We are thus constantly at work on minimizing production-related losses of the raw materials we use when producing adhesives, coating Performance Indicators tapes and cutting rolls. The waste generated during the Compared to the base year, the volume of waste per production process is determined on a site-specific basis metric ton of end product was adjusted for mix effects according to various waste fractions. For reporting that resulted from the weighting of the various sites and purposes, it is summarized in categories based on could be reduced by -2.5 percent (by deducting mix whether it is non-hazardous or hazardous and whether effects, we can represent the performance of our sites it is for disposal or recycling. tesa recycles almost all and our progress more transparently). We are thus on non-hazardous waste and hazardous waste containing target Group-wide. All German production sites have solvents. Ongoing improvements in machinery and already reached their individual goals compared with production processes – including some at our employees’ the reference year of 2015. Aside from mix effects, instigation – have allowed us to reduce our waste one-off effects from the ramp-up of a new production volumes on a continuous basis. line in the USA negatively affected the amount of waste in the reporting year. We have used our unique, patented ACX technology to produce double-sided acrylic adhesive tapes for highly durable adhesive bonds for years now. The ACX method removes the solvents used from the adhesive, eliminating the need for energy-intensive drying. The same is true of NRE technology, which is used to manufacture and coat natural rubber adhesives. This method substitutes solvent-free extruded rubber systems for solvent-based adhesives. Waste volumes by type and Measures and Results disposal method [1000 t] 2018: Employee involvement To harness our emDisposal Disposal ployees’ expertise for waste-reducing measures like (hazardous waste) (non-hazardous waste) these, we continued the successful “Einfälle statt 1.8 1.3 Abfälle (“Big Ideas Instead of Waste”) campaign at the tesa plant in Offenburg in 2018 that highlighted the need for creative solutions. Behind this campaign is a long-term project through which we intend to continuously reduce energy and resource use. Employees from production, process development and technology are participating in the project. The project involves 11.3 5.5 regular intra-departmental and inter-departmental Recycling Recycling (nondiscussions, which assist in coordinating the imple(hazardous waste) hazardous waste) Under the tesa ecoLogo® sub-brand, tesa offers products manufactured from primarily recycled or natural materials. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY materials used. In addition, we take care to comply with environmental, social and labor standards in our supply chain. We manage the use and consumption of raw We view it as part of our corporate responsi­ materials as efficiently as possible in order to preserve bility to offer our customers safe, durable and natural resources. Our product responsibility includes harmless products. offering our customers innovative services and ensuring the safety of our products. In addition, we design our Our product responsibility begins right from the proproducts to be as environmentally friendly as possicurement of our raw materials. We purchase them, to ble. Specifically, this means that we are continuously the extent possible, regionally and are working on working on improving our product design in order to further increasing transparency about the origin of the minimize the environmental impacts of our products. Sustainability Report 2018 Responsibility in the Supply Chain Product Responsibility 33 Applicable laws and regulations establish the foundation for our product responsibility. However, our commitment goes even deeper. Our environmental and product safety policies include strict internal guidelines that are designed to ensure the safety and environmental com­ patibility of our products. With these policies, we provide all employees with a clear framework for action for the development, production and market observation of products. Our aim is to offer our customers products that harm the environment as little as possible over their entire lifecycle and are safe to use. Responsibility in the Supply Chain For our production we need raw materials and Rubber is one of the most important raw materials chemicals that we purchase from numerous in adhesive manufacturing. suppliers worldwide and transport to our sites. Because of the international nature of our value chain, of the UN Global Compact also serve as a basis here. If a we are exposed to a certain level of risk with regard to supplier violates our rules, we call upon it to remedy the human rights violations. We aim to know the origin of the shortcomings. If the supplier does not comply with this raw and intermediate products we purchase and provide demand, we seek to terminate the business relationship. traceability. With this in mind, our procurement strategy focuses on physical proximity. We are ramping up our efforts to procure the raw materials needed at the plants Measures and Results in close geographic proximity to the sites. Creation of a plan for the integration of human rights aspects into supplier audits In both new and ongoing business relationships, tesa conducts reguManagement Approach lar audits of the main suppliers along with supplier visits. The Head of the tesa Supply Network, which is part of The selection of the suppliers to be reviewed is made tesa management, bears responsibility for our supply according to different criteria, for example, their strategic chain activities, and is supported by the regional supply significance, or in case of defective quality. The objective chain organizations. Our purchasing organization has of these audits is to assess a specific supplier’s perforoffices in Germany, China, Korea, Malaysia and the USA. mance capacity. Irregularities are noted in visit or audit Our global purchasing processes are defined and reports. In the course of these activities, we regularly described in the Purchasing Compliance Guideline. This check whether environmental standards and occupationguideline includes binding rules of conduct for tesa as the al health and safety measures are being complied with; purchaser. For example, it states that tesa employees these are also elements of the CoCfS. In 2018, tesa bewho engage in purchasing activity must require the main gan to develop a plan for the integration of human rights suppliers to sign the Code of Conduct for Suppliers aspects into supplier audits. The focus here is on review(CoCfS). ing irregularities or violations of the CoCfS. In 2019, we plan to carry out pilot projects to establish whether exThe CoCfS establishes the foundation for the responsiternal audits of the Business Social Compliance Initiative ble management of our global procurement processes (BSCI) or the Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) and is mandatory for all main suppliers that supply tesa would be a meaningful addition to tesa’s own audits. directly. It describes fundamental rules and obligations in the area of human rights, labor standards, environmental Within the tesa Group, the Group internal audit departprotection and corruption prevention. The ten principles ment monitors the purchasing standards that apply 34 Product Responsibility Product Safety Sustainability Report 2018 worldwide and the associated processes at the affiliates by conducting regular “Purchase to Pay” audits, which review all processes from procurement through to invoicing. In the process, Group internal audit department also checks whether the main suppliers are subject to any corresponding obligations under CoCfS. If necesThe tesa CoCfS › is binding for all sary, the department calls for corrective measures. Training courses In 2017, we began training all process owners in the application of the Purchasing main suppliers that Compliance Guideline. The online training developed specifically for this purpose also explains the role played supply tesa directly. by the CoCfS as an element of our procurement processes at tesa. Since then, more than 300 employees have been trained. These training courses will also continue in 2019. specify the roles and responsibilities of the product safety officers. The tesa Product Safety Guideline is available on Product Safety the intranet. The safety of our products is decisive for Product safety management at tesa is an essential the satisfaction of our customers and therecomponent of quality management, for which control is by for our economic success. It makes a shared by the organizational structure and management. major contribution to creating and mainThe Product Safety and Product Development departtaining people’s trust in our products. ments are responsible for assessing materials and substances. In the process, they evaluate the latest If the products display safety defects, this can have research findings and consider information on safety-rea negative impact – on the people who deal with lated substance properties and safe handling of them as well as on the natural environment. But our substances and mixtures. In order to avoid product errors, company can also suffer serious harm from product the Product Development and Production departments incidents. Actions such as recalling products can result conduct failure mode and effects analyses (FMEA), in financial losses or damage our reputation. On the among other measures. This helps them to identify other hand, companies that ensure a high degree of potential errors in design, production or directions, such product safety and quality benefit from competitive as inaccurate instruction manuals, during the developadvantages – for example, by sharpening their brand ment process. profile or penetrating new markets more quickly. Once products are already on the market, our business We aim to make products that satisfy the highest quality units continue to monitor them. If the units recognize and safety requirements. that a renewed risk analysis and evaluation as well as corresponding measures are required, they initiate the necessary steps to ensure the health and safety of Management Approach our customers and employees. There were no recall We want to design products and processes in such a way actions from end customers during the reporting year. that they fulfill the diverse expectations of our stakeholders and no one is harmed during their production or use. The product safety officer (PSO) is important for our work in this area. Every major plant worldwide has a local PSO In order to offer our customers safe and high-quality who reports to the centrally responsible Corporate PSO. products, we comply with applicable laws and guidelines. All product safety officers have completed an external Our internal product safety guidelines, which expand training course that is recognized by the automotive upon the strict legal provisions, play a key role here. They industry. They are usually also the quality officers at the describe mandatory measures enabling us to further plants. For 2019, there are plans to establish a global PSO increase the safety of our products. In addition, they reporting system. Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainable Product Solutions Product Responsibility 35 Measures and Results Sustainable Product Training courses During the reporting year, we have Solutions again trained employees in chemicals legislation, in the area of product liability and product issues management. tesa products represent the highest level of They include employees from the areas of research & quality, safety and the responsible use of development, process development, marketing and resources. In the process, we support indus­ controlling as well as the product safety officers. For the trial partners in optimizing their processes and worldwide training measures, in the future we will use improving their products. We help professional e-learning courses developed in 2018 in addition to craftsmen to achieve optimal results efficiently. classroom training. In the event of legislative changes, We enable private users to perform their daily the Corporate PSO, the central product safety officer, tasks and projects at home or in the office revises the training courses. We plan to update the simply. e-learning courses with new content and expand the target group in 2019. Regardless of the area of application, our focus is on the resource efficiency, durability and environmental compatAudits In order to check the safety of our products and ibility of our products. In addition, with our products and processes, we also conducted internal audits during the in their application we want to contribute to climate and reporting year. The Quality Management department and environmental protection at our customers’ facilities by the product safety officers are responsible for these making their products more durable, efficient, energy-­ audits. Both event-driven and annually planned audits saving and low-emission. are carried out. In addition to the areas of research and development, and production, marketing is also re­viewed if necessary. Management Approach We would like our products to be as harmless as possible to human beings and the environment over their entire lifecycle. Therefore, an element of our corporate strategy is to increase energy efficiency, to reduce the use of solvents in the production of adhesives and to use as large a proportion as possible of renewable or recyclable raw materials. For this purpose, we are developing environmentally friendly, solvent-free manufacturing processes, for example. In addition, we analyze the ecological balance of selected products using a holistic lifecycle approach. The approach is an integral part of our environmental management system. It helps us to find out what environmental impact our products have and how this impact can be reduced. 50 % › fewer solvents and less energy are used for the manufacture of tesa® ACXplus adhesive tapes compared to conventional production processes. 36 Product Responsibility Sustainable Product Solutions Sustainability Report 2018 With its solutions, tesa enables automotive manufacturers to produce lighter and thereby more energy-efficient vehicles. By using the biomass balance approach, the proportion Measures and Results of sustainable raw materials in the value chain of our Solutions for industrial customers The tesa® customers can be increased. In the process, the use of ACXplus products for very secure permanent adhesives renewable raw materials can be assigned to existing are used in the automotive, electronics, wind and solar, products in the supply chain. In addition, with this construction and other industries. They stand out for their approach fossil resources can be conserved and greenhigh adhesive strength and environmentally compatihouse gas emissions reduced. Product quality and ble production. Compared to conventional production product properties remain unchanged in the process. processes, 50 percent less solvents and energy are In 2018, we made a commitment to use this approach used. tesa uses internally developed, state-of-the-art starting in 2019, with two products to start with. technology that was supported by the German Federal Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conservation and We offer the automotive industry solutions for fastenNuclear Safety. The electronics industry uses adhesive ing and insulating the lithium-ion battery elements of tapes as one of the most important key components in climate-friendly hybrid and electric vehicles. In addition, electronic equipment. They help to make them more we enable manufacturers to produce lighter and theredurable and to avoid resource-intensive new purchases. by more energy-efficient vehicles by replacing rivets or screws with lightweight and very secure adhesive At customer request, we now offer alternative raw bondings from tesa or by using our products to cover materials for the manufacturing of individual products. holes with water, air and dust-tight seals. In addition, we Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainable Product Solutions Product Responsibility 37 offer our customers two environment and health-friendly go® complies with the demanding ISO 1402 standard options for adhesives in the vehicle interior. In order to for ecological products since solvents are completely improve the air quality in vehicles, global demand is dispensed with in their production and primarily bioincreasing for solutions featuring the low emission of based materials and recycled packages are used. volatile organic compounds (VOCs). VOCs are released tesamoll® products for sealing window and door gaps through certain plasticizers and adhesives at room as well as the tesa® ISO SYSTEM for uncomplicated temperature and contribute, for example, to the typical interior roof insulation help users to conserve energy “new car smell.” Since some VOCs have been linked and reduce the emission of CO2. They also prevent the in the past to health problems, the emission limits in penetration of moisture and improve the indoor climate. vehicle interiors are strictly regulated worldwide, albeit not uniformly. Therefore, along with adhesive tapes with low VOC values, we offer the Ultra Low VOC option. Our adhesive tapes are designed in such a way that they comply with the limits – in every country and in every automotive market. In 2018, we were able to further expand our range of offerings in the area of hole taping as well as Ultra Low VOC adhesive tapes. Our products also contribute to more sustainability in paper production and the printing industry. For example, we offer our customers an assortment of repulpable splicing tapes for resource-efficient processes in paper production. Our portfolio also includes tesa EasySplice® adhesive tapes for paper printing. They facilitate deinking and recycling. During deinking, the ink and other foreign substances in paper are removed before the scrap paper can be successfully recycled. Our tesa EasySplice® adhesive tapes are certified for the deinking process by the International Association of the Deinking Industry. We also offer a broad range of solutions to the operators of solar and wind energy systems. As a member of the German Solar Energy Association, we develop UV and moisture-resistant product solutions, among other items, for our customers in the solar industry. We work with TÜV Rheinland to check weather resistance in accordance with the IEC 61215 international standard. tesa® solutions are used, for example, with frame and box mounting or cell and cable fastening. Various adhesive tape solutions, among other items, are used with wind power systems to manufacture rotor blades – for example, for the durable protection of the front edges with a particularly weather-resistant film. In addition, tesa® products with a UV and salt water-resistant anti-slip coating on or in the nacelle make an important contribution to the safety of the maintenance personnel. In 2018, › we further expanded Solutions for consumers In the paper, office and stationary area, we are continuously expanding our product range for environmentally conscious consumers. Under the tesa ecoLogo® sub-brand, we offer adheour range of offerings sive rollers, adhesive films, packing tape, glue sticks and correction rollers, which are manufactured from in the area of Ultra Low primarily recycled or natural materials. The tesa ecoLoVOC adhesive tapes. As a technology company, tesa supports young people in STEM subjects and invites them to project days to give them insights into different occupational fields. SOCIAL COMMITMENT AND INVOLVEMENT of the company – imagination and an inventive spirit, solution orientation, practical support and team spirit. Voluntarily assuming social responsibility is We are convinced that all sides gain from social enpart of tesa’s corporate philosophy and firmly gagement – the supported organizations and projects anchored in our corporate values through our as well as tesa itself. Therefore, we are active globally, corporate citizenship strategy. We have a clear giving donations and sponsoring memberships as well vision for our civic engagement as a company – as through the voluntary commitment of employees. called international corporate citizenship. As a company, we want to look beyond our core business in making a positive contribution Management Approach to society. With our social commitment we would like to create sustainable connections – much as with our products – to With our social engagement, we are also building a our environment, but also through our interactions as a bridge to the tesa core competencies and the strengths team. This is why we have launched the “tesa connects” Sustainability Report 2018 tesa helps Social Commitment and Involvement 39 initiative as part of our corporate citizenship strategy. This and would like to become involved in social causes in strategy is complemented by a corporate giving policy as their area. On all continents, on-site tesa teams take well as guidelines for brand and product sponsorships. on projects and get involved in the local community. In order to implement the strategy, we have defined Commitment and involvement in Germany Emthree strategic core areas, to which all projects that we ployees of tesa SE and the Hamburg tesa plant can support can be assigned: social commitment, supporting voluntarily participate in various projects in the region. education and environmental protection. At the project The projects are offered by the Corporate Citizenship level, these are divided into the four pillars “tesa helps,” department in cooperation with the association “tat“tesa donates” (social), “tesa supports” (education) and kräftig – Hände für Hamburg.” With “1 day, 1 team, 1 “tesa protects” (environment). All projects also fit the goal” as its motto, the organization connects volunteer identity of the brand, the entire company and our regions. helpers with over 150 institutions in the Hamburg area. As an alternative, employees can choose their own The Corporate Citizenship department, which is a unit of initiatives to support in the neighborhood following Corporate Communications, bears overall responsibility consultation. For trainees from the Hamburg tesa plant, for the topic of social commitment and involvement. It participation in a “tesa helps” project with “tatkräftig” has decides on all support activities of headquarters and now become an integral part of the first apprenticeship coordinates them. Once a year, employees can take a day year. In the year under review, 58 employees supported off from work to work together with colleagues for a social five projects in all, including play and craft activities or cause. The Corporate Citizenship unit and cooperation gardening, handicraft, and renovation work at social partners such as tatkräftig e.V., a nonprofit initiative for and charitable institutions, such as children’s and youth volunteer activities, help employees to select the projects. facilities, day care centers, and refugee centers. The Executive Board explicitly supports and welcomes Worldwide commitment and involvement The civic involvement – not only at the headquarters, but affiliates worldwide also provided active assistance in also in the individual regions. For example, the Executive their areas in 2018. This includes the charitable particBoard encourages affiliates to donate a portion of local ipation of employees in games and crafts afternoons sales to social projects and to demonstrate social commitor excursions with at times seriously ill children, but ment through volunteer work and team building activities. also renovation work in schools and kindergartens. For In keeping with the “global strategy, local implementation” example, since 2010 tesa staff in Slovakia have been approach, the regional companies perform the planned supporting the “Deti Slovenska” (Children of Slovakia) activities independently. The Corporate Citizenship defoundation, which cares for children with hemophilia. partment provides advice as needed on suitable support Every year, a group of tesa employees organize an projects based on the Corporate Citizenship strategy afternoon of games for the children. In 2018, the employand the corporate giving policy. Our affiliates manage ees set up a series of games areas where the children their volunteer work individually and differently based could prove their skills, patience, logic and memory. on the number of employees. For example, affiliates that have already been associated with an initiative for many years organize regular annual action days, such as summer festivals, renovation days or crafts afternoons during the Christmas season. They are most familiar with local conditions and so can ensure that the respective measures effectively address the social challenges. Once a year, the regional companies report to the department on what progress has been achieved in the local projects. In cooperation tesa helps: Being there for Others as a Good Neighbor › with the “tatkräftig” organization 58 employees The core idea of “tesa helps” is to offer neighborly assistance that is needed in the immediate vicinity of participated in “tesa our sites. Many of our employees live near our sites helps” projects in 2018. 40 Social Commitment and Involvement tesa donates / tesa supports Sustainability Report 2018 tesa donates: Christmas gift campaign tesa organized a Christmas gift campaign again in the reporting year. tesa staff Uncomplicated Help placed a total of 185 gifts under the Christmas tree at the for Social Projects company headquarters for children who would not other receive a gift. Employees of ToysCompany, a nonprofit As part of “tesa donates,” we make targeted monetary partner organization, then distributed the presents to and product donations to support people and the socially disadvantaged families in time for the holiday. In day-to-day work of selected institutions. We provide addition, we supported the Hamburg-based non-profit tesa products for various purposes and groups, from Chancen für Kinder e. V. and KinderHelden gGmbH schools and childcare centers to campaigns to provide with donations of 10,000 euros each. Some of our sites aid to victims of natural disasters and other emergencies, worldwide also supported organizations caring for disadwhen items like fly screens and packing tape can be vantaged children with financial and in-kind donations. useful. The financial support primarily benefits organizations that care for disadvantaged or ill children. Donation to the Norderstedt food bank In tesa supports: Recruiting 2018, the annual leftover change donation went to the Next Generation the Norderstedter Tafel e.V. This is based on a simple principle. On a monthly basis, employees on the of Employees Norderstedt, Hamburg, and Langenfeld sites donate From digitization to climate change and energy issues, the cent amount from their net salary (0.01 to 0.99 STEM skills (science, technology, engineering, mathe­ euros), therefore a maximum of 11.88 euros per emmatics) help to solve present-day challenges and are ployee per year, to nonprofit organizations in their important for preserving livelihoods and for social communities. Donations totaling 3784.35 euros were progress. As a technology company, tesa would like to collected in 2018. The amount was matched by the support young people in these subjects and in the executive management, for a total of 7568.90 euros. process recruit qualified up-and-coming talent. Therefore, together with various initiatives we support educational projects that open up future prospects for young people in these areas. Specific projects and cooperative agreements in Germany and in numerous international affiliates are associated with this. Initiative Naturwissenschaft & Technik tesa SE in Germany has been partnering with Initiative Natur­ wissenschaft & Technik (Science & Technology Initiative – abbreviated NAT) since 2014. In Hamburg and the surrounding metropolitan area, NAT connects schools with universities, colleges and technology-driven companies. The objective is to give young people a variety of insights into various occupational fields. tesa is a supporting member, providing donations and encouraging volunteer efforts by employees. We provide particular support for two NAT initiatives: “mint:pink,” a support program to promote girls’ participation in STEM, and “90 Minutes of STEM,” a course that offers a view into 7568.90 scientists’ working lives. In 2018, three STEM days were held at tesa. In addition, tesa has supported both programs again in the form of a major annual donation. euros Educational projects worldwide Support for › in leftover change education also plays an important role at international sites. For example, the tesa plant in Suzhou, China, has been involved in the “tesa Sunshine Education were donated in 2018. Assistance” program for ten years. This aims to imSustainability Report 2018 tesa supports Social Commitment and Involvement 41 “tesa helps”: tesa employees from the Netherlands helped children with physical and mental disabilities enjoy a very special day at the Rucphen indoor winter sports center Skidôme. prove the elementary school education of the children can be combined with environmental education and food of migrant workers. A total of about 700 children for thought for a more sustainable lifestyle. In spring 2019 have already received a scholarship (“tesa Sunshine we will conduct a pilot project to find out how this collabScholarship”). In India, tesa supports the “Nanhi Kali” oration resonates with tesa employees. If we receive a organization, which enables disadvantaged young positive response, we will firmly integrate projects with girls to obtain an elementary school education. the environmental center into the Corporate Citizenship’s range of offerings if we decide this is beneficial. “The Million Tree Project” tesa staff in China tesa protects: Working to have been working to protect the environment since Protect the Environment 2015 by supporting the “Million Tree Project” – a tree-planting campaign in Inner Mongolia. In 2018, Environmental protection is part of tesa’s corporate six tesa employees participated in the project. They philosophy. We augment our activities at the production trimmed older trees and planted new ones. and product level with specific projects to preserve nature and to improve the quality of life in our regions. Cooperation with the environmental center In 2018, we began to look into potential cooperation with the Hamburg environmental center Gut Karlshöhe. The center has been operated by the Hamburg Climate Foundation since 2008 and is a place for learning about and experiencing nature. People from the Hamburg metropolitan area can learn here in conferences, workshops, exhibitions or markets how life can succeed in terms of natural resources. The grounds are located near tesa’s company headquarters in Norderstedt and offer various uncultivated areas that must be cared for and maintained. This offers the opportunity for charitable activities that Publisher tesa SE Hugo-Kirchberg-Strasse 1 22848 Norderstedt, Germany Contact tesa SE Corporate Communications & Responsibility Tel.: +49(0) 40 88899-7480 responsibility@tesa.com https://www.tesa.com/en/about-tesa/responsibility https://www.tesa.com/en Collaboration Text tesa SE Stakeholder Reporting, Hamburg Translation EnglishBusiness AG, Hamburg Design Grafik Design Kloth, Hamburg
