OPPORTY UN Global Communication on Progress (COP) Statement of Continued Support The Opporty project has aligned its operations and strategies with the United Nations’ 10 principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption, and with the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals in mind. We believe that entrepreneurs and business startups from both developed and developing countries should have full and equal access to participation in global markets. The Opporty team works diligently to provide unprecedented free and open access to emergent technologies that promise to transform the future of business in terms of privacy, security and eﬃciency. Practical Actions To date, the Opporty project has taken the following actions to implement the Global Compact principles in each of the following four areas: • Human rights: The Opporty project believes that enterprise is key to human quality of life, and that small and medium enterprises (SMEs) are the backbone of local and national economies. Our platform provides opportunities for aspiring enterprises to learn, grow and conduct business in a safe and inclusive environment that ensures privacy and security. We know that when small businesses prosper, their families and communities benefit. • Labor: Being able to work and participate in a business entity brings dignity and purpose to diverse groups of individuals. At Opporty, we support employment and entrepreneurship of disabled workers through research and scholarships. Our platform helps SMEs to grow and succeed, providing new employment opportunities to thousands across the globe. • Environment: The technologies developed and embraced by the Opporty project reduce waste and excess energy consumption by promoting eﬃciency, transparency and security. The use of blockchain technology and smart contracts eliminates paperwork and reduces recordkeeping, leaving a much smaller footprint on the global environment. • Anti-corruption: Oppoty does not directly confront corruption, although our use of blockchain technology and smart contracts radically reduces the vulnerability of small companies to corruption. Measured Outcomes Over the past year, the Opporty project has been released in the US, China, Australia, UK, and Canada, with working versions in both English and Chinese. We are currently in process of developing an eﬃcient language processing bridge for the platform, to further its reach in developing countries. We have achieved our goals of developing and releasing open source technologies, making them available to businesses in developed and developing countries.
