Annual Integrated Report 2018 Creating a world for the next generation Annual Integrated Report 2018 Creating a world for the next generation “We are building a more resilient, sustainable, digitally enabled company which provides an attractive and stimulating place for our people to thrive. Our strategy is focused for long-term success. We have identified ten global strategic priorities that will set us up for the future, so we can continue to work with confidence on creating a world for the next generation.” Peter Oosterveer, CEO 167 Financial statements 25 Executive Board report 169 Consolidated financial statements 26 Our strategy 2018 2020 88 Europe & Middle East 235 Company financial statements 31 Strategic context 98 Americas 32 Mega trends 106 Asia Pacific 248 Other 33 Stakeholder dialogue 112 CallisonRTKL information 36 Sustainable Development 118 Performance associate Goals 249 Other information 39 Competitive landscape 122 Governance & Compliance 250 Independent auditor’s report 40 Connectivity matrix 122 Composition of the 259 Assurance report of 4 Introduction Executive Board the independent auditor 42 Performance & 261 Other financial data 123 Composition of the 149 Supervisory 4 2018 at a glance developments Executive Leadership Team 262 Five-year summary Board report 6 Message from the CEO 42 People & Culture 124 Composition of the 264 Segment information 11 Message from the Chairman 62 Innovation & Growth Supervisory Board 150 Report by the 265 Company addresses 12 Our business and passion 78 Focus & Performance 126 Corporate Governance report Supervisory Board 267 Glossary financial & 20 The Arcadis journey 88 Performance by Segment 134 Enterprise Risk Management 159 Remuneration report non-financial indicators Table of contents New York City Department of Sanitation (DSNY) Arcadis helped the City of New York develop a plan to reduce trash truck traffic by 63%. Read more on page 24. Cleaner and better living in New York City ﻿ Trash traffic reduction 63% Servicing approximately 130,000 citizens Introduction | 2018 at a glance 2018 at a glance People & Culture Innovation & Growth Number Employee Organic Book-to-bill of employees engagement score1 revenue growth ratio headcount as at 31 December on a scale of 0 4 net revenues net revenues 27,354 3.10 3% 0.97 2017: 27,327 2017: 3.03 2017: 1% 2017: 1.02 Voluntary Females in total Organic revenue growth Arcadis Way turnover rate workforce Global Key Clients implementation progress as % of total staff as % of total staff net revenues as % of net revenues 15.6% 37% 10% 33% 2017: 14.6% 2017: 37% 2017: 17% 2017: 31% Total Recordable Employees passing Arcadis’ % of revenues Case Frequency (TRCF) Code of Conduct training carbon footprint that relate to per 200,000 work hours of all employees in 2018 MT CO2 per FTE relevant SDGs 0.18 98% 2.98 80% 2017: 0.26 2017: 97% 2017: 3.34 2017: n/a 4 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 2018 at a glance | Introduction Focus & Performance Gross revenues Net Income from Dividend per share in € millions Operations per share proposed, in € in € 3,256 1.01 0.47 2017: 3,219 2017: 1.18 2017: 0.47 Operating EBITA Net Working Days Sales margin Capital Outstanding as % of net revenues as % of gross revenues (DSO) 7.3% 15.1% 80 Improvement Unchanged Deterioration 2017: 7.6% 2017: 16.9% 2017: 88 Return Net debton to Net debt to Free Cash Flow For definitions and methods of measure for the EBITDA Invested ratio Capital EBITDA ratio in € millions indicators included on this spread, please refer to page 267. The indicators that fall within the scope of (ROIC) average average limited assurance of our external auditor are marked 4.7% 2.0 149 with the symbol. See page 259 for the Assurance report of the independent auditor, which includes details on scoping and outcomes. 1  mployees of CallisonRTKL are not included E 2017: 7.3% 2017: 2.3 2017: 98 in the engagement scan of 2018 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 5 Introduction | Message from the CEO “ A year on from introducing a new strategy, we have realigned our management and honed in on priorities that put us on a trajectory towards successful results .” Peter Oosterveer, CEO Message from the CEO | Introduction Message from the CEO Creating a world for the next generation Dear stakeholders, Welcome to our 2018 Annual Integrated Report. Innovation & Growth – In 2018, we made significant progress on our digital agenda. We helped our clients succeed in a data driven world “Growth has Our focus is on laying the groundwork for future success. The investments we are making are centered on Improving Quality of Life for our people, by offering more data analytics solutions, which were strengthened by the acquisition of SEAMS. Our 2017 acquisition of E2 Managetech returned clients, shareholders and society. We are investing in our digital capability through programs like Expedition DNA, 100% BIM and Deep Orange formed the foundation for Arcadis to be recognized by Verdantix as a market leader in delivering Digital EHS services. To accelerate the in major to support our employees and customers with digital transformation. We are leading by embracing the change. Not forgetting our strong digital capabilities of our people we have developed ‘Expedition DNA’, our online learning platform, which to date has seen the voluntary parts of our heritage, we continue to invest in sustainability, an area growing more relevant each day amid factors such as climate change and participation of over 26% of our global workforce. The majority of our business created organic growth in line with our targets and the growth business, rapid urbanization. We remain committed to the UN Global Compact for our key clients exceeded our goals. We have sharpened our focus and we can and its ten principles further by streamlining our client portfolio resulting in the identification of 250 key global and local clients. now focus Driving forward our focused strategy Our 'Creating a Sustainable Future' strategy sets clear focus on Focus & Performance – In 2018, we initiated our program of ‘Make even more long-term value creation. Our strategy is based on three pillars: People & Culture, Innovation & Growth, and Focus & Performance. Every Project Count’ (MEPC), aimed at improving project performance by aligning behaviors, processes and systems to the ‘Arcadis Way’. on margins Global trends like climate change, sustainable industries and expanding cities are creating opportunities for Arcadis. As a result of the program we see a higher focus on project selectivity and financial performance, including cash collection. We optimized and cash.” the operating model of our Global Excellence Centers (GECs) and expect Advances we made in each of our three strategic pillars include: to further grow this capability with approximately 15% in 2019. People & Culture – Our voluntary staff turnover slightly increased, Throughout 2018, we furthermore completed our portfolio analysis with small increases in Asia, Australia Pacific and CallisonRTKL, for both the Middle East as well as for Asia in order to focus where we can compensated by an improvement in North America. The overall lead, and de-prioritize business that fail to meet our criteria. Changes we engagement score for Arcadis improved compared to 2017, slightly had made in 2017 in North America have formed the cornerstone for our above our target for the year. Our focus on creating a stronger, unique very robust performance throughout 2018 with the operating EBITA culture with a growth mindset and a disciplined focus on pursuing the already in the 2020 target range, just as has been the case in Europe, right clients while creating better financial performance is starting to Australia Pacific and the UK. The backlog growth in 2018 for these bear fruit, in particular in North America, Continental Europe and the UK. regions was 6%. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 7 Introduction | Message from the CEO As a result of this increased focus, we delivered strong cash flow Financial performance and significantly improved our balance sheet. The accomplishments We made significant steps in 2018 towards our 2020 targets in our key to date combined with our continued focus on the implementation markets North America, the UK, Continental Europe and Australia Pacific, of the three strategic pillars will enable Arcadis to achieve its targeted which combined with CallisonRTKL, represent approximately 85% of our operating EBITA margin in the range of 8.5-9.5% in 2020 as well business. The set-backs we faced in the Middle East and Asia negatively as to satisfy other Key Performance Indicators. impacted our results, especially in Q4. Overall, we generated strong cash flow from disciplined working capital management throughout the Aligning our leadership with our strategy organization. As a result, our leverage ratio at year-end improved to 1.7, An important step in accelerating the implementation of our strategy, well within our 2020 strategic target range of between 1.0 and 2.0. 'Creating a Sustainable Future,' has been the creation of a new Executive Leadership Team (ELT). The newly shaped team consisting We are taking decisive actions to turnaround the underperforming of the CEO, CFO and seven other executives are accountable for the businesses. Earlier headwinds in the Middle East caused us to be more “We are delivery of all strategy components with a strong focus on improving execution on our projects. At the same time, the Executive Board selective, in order to de-risk our portfolio. This resulted in lower revenues and, as a consequence, we impaired goodwill. In Asia, we appointed progressing became a two-member board consisting of myself and newly appointed new leadership and are executing the plan to focus on profitable quickly with Sarah Kuijlaars as CFO. Substantial attention has been given core businesses, to exit certain countries and phase-out activities to key focus areas such as people, innovation & transformation, that underperform. In Latin America, we expect to improve our results our digital sales & business development, and project performance. in Brazil in a more stable post-election business environment. We are making progress with our non-core clean energy assets; ensuring new agenda Ten strategic priorities As a team, the ELT quickly identified ten transformative strategic gas offtake contracts and bringing the largest gas-to-power plant to the operational status. connecting priorities across Arcadis. Intrinsic to our core values, is our belief that people come first and so our aim is to ensure Arcadis remains Architecture remains a key staple in our portfolio data capability an employer of choice. Continuing the implementation of our global change program ‘The Arcadis Way’, and further enhancing the Arcadis In July, we completed the strategic review and market consultation for CallisonRTKL. We concluded that to provide the best prospects for both with our brand provides the foundation in the way we work. We are ambitious CallisonRTKL and Arcadis stakeholders, including customers, the most deep asset and aim to improve project level performance, whilst increasing the use attractive option is to continue to operate the business as a separate of our Global Excellence Centers to create more value for clients which division within our company. The strategic review has resulted in a clear knowledge increases our competitiveness and profitability. Refocusing our client portfolio emphasizes the selectivity we apply in building long-term, business plan for CallisonRTKL along with a specific assessment of opportunities and risks. to deliver meaningful and sizable client relationships. This is underpinned by our approach to sales excellence making sure we win the right and most The market consultation process has not led to a satisfactory alternative improved client profitable projects. Cost and cash management will center on balancing our spend and timely collecting what is due to us. Making Building value proposition relative to CallisonRTKL's business plan, including current earnings and cash flow contribution to Arcadis as well as the outcomes.” Information Modelling (BIM) integral to each project and monetizing the benefits, while also driving digitization of our global solutions will prospects of CallisonRTKL. CallisonRTKL will continue to operate with a distinct position as a separate global organization, an independent brand ensure we are front runners in our industry. identity, a well-diversified client base, strong leadership and an exciting culture of creativity, design and innovation. We believe the review process provides a clear path forward for CallisonRTKL within Arcadis. 8 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Message from the CEO | Introduction Health & Safety Based on these insights Arcadis took a value adjustment of €53 million The health, safety, and well-being of employees and stakeholders is central on the ALEN business case. to everything we do at Arcadis. The Health and Safety (H&S) Global Vision Top 10 priorities and Policy focuses on a culture that strives for zero incidents. On the balance sheet of 31 December 2018 is a provision of €28 million for expected credit loss. The net investment, including the shareholder To implement our strategy, we have For the seventh year in a row, Arcadis’ Total Recordable Case Frequency loans, is valued at nil. The off-balance sheet financial guarantees for ALEN identified in 2018 ten group-wide priorities, linking directly to our (TRCF) for 2018 (0.18, a 31% decrease from 2017 when it was 0.26), are €87 million. The operating loss in the fourth quarter was €3 million. strategic pillars: is at the lowest level since Arcadis began collecting global H&S data in As the assets start generating cash, we expect the loss to decline over 2004, when it was 1.13. Similarly, our Lost Time Case Frequency (LTCF) time in 2019 and anticipate to be break-even in the second half of the year. yy Become an employer of choice for 2018 (0.06) decreased 45% when compared to 2017 (0.11) and stands at an all-time low. Arcadis’ injury rates continue to remain well Itaú bank has been appointed as financial advisor for the divestment yy Sales excellence below the average injury rates of the publicly available US benchmarks process. Itaú, the largest investment bank in Brazil has a strong track for the architecture and engineering industry, which were 0.70 (TRCF) record in the energy sector in Brazil. The objective is to divest the energy yy Building Information and 0.20 (LTCF) for the most recent reporting period (2017). Near miss assets in 2019. Modelling (BIM) reporting, a key process in helping to prevent incidents, continues yy Digitization of Global Solutions to increase (up 10% since 2017, and up 69% over the past five years), Getting ready for a successful future which is indicative of a continued improvement in hazard recognition There is no denying that 2018 has been a challenging year for Arcadis, yy Cost & cash management and greater stewardship for sharing experiences to help prevent future but we are pleased with the growth in the majority of our business, injuries. No work-related fatalities occurred in the five-year period. the strengthening of our balance sheet, as well as with the actions yy Refocus client portfolio taken to improve our performance. Our strategy towards 2020 is clear yy GEC operating model Addressing legacy issues in Brazil and we have confidence that our efforts in 2018 will further pay off In 2018, Arcadis was confronted with several significant setbacks in in 2019. This confidence and our cash generation in 2018 enables us yy Make Every Project Count relation to the ALEN associate. Overall, the project was delayed for to propose to maintain our dividend at €0.47 per share. more than six months and the investments increased significantly. yy The Arcadis Way I would like to thank all our people for their continued commitment yy One Arcadis brand Progress continued to be made by the ALEN associate in the under sometimes challenging conditions. Your passion, creativity completion of the energy assets. The gas-to-gas plant is operational, and drive for success never ceased to amaze me, and I am proud to and a contract is now signed for 35% of the capacity with an industrial lead an organization with such great people. buyer. An additional 35% of capacity is currently under negotiation with another industrial buyer. The delivery of the gas will start at the end of I thank our shareholders for their patience and belief in our way forward. the first quarter. Discussions are ongoing with two other industrial gas I thank our clients for creating opportunities and for challenging us consumers for the remaining capacity. The largest gas-to-power plant with their most difficult projects. We see those as moments to shine. is in operation since the end of January and delivers 60% of the total capacity which will increase to 100% within two months. The third We are setting ourselves up to be successful going forward and and last plant is on track to become operational in the course of 2019. I anticipate reaping the benefits as we work with confidence on creating a world for the next generation. Considering delays in the construction process and sales contracts, increasing costs and assumed lower contract prices we performed a On behalf of the Executive Board re-assessment of the business case in the third quarter. Peter Oosterveer Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 9 Introduction | Message from the CEO The Executive Board 10 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Sarah Kuijlaars and Peter Oosterveer Message from the Chairman | Introduction Message from the Chairman We are creating a solid base for profitable growth 2018 was the first year of the implementation of our new strategy, ‘Creating a Sustainable Future’. In the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders end of April 2018, In summary the majority of the business delivered solid results and Sarah Kuijlaars was appointed member of the Executive Board and CFO. firm measures are taken by the Executive Board to address the A month prior to that, we adjusted the top structure of the organization, underperforming parts. The focus on cash resulted in a stronger balance reducing the Executive Board to two members, the CEO and CFO. sheet and a lower risk profile. We are pleased with the steps taken by In addition, the Senior Management Committee was replaced by the Executive Board in 2018 and firmly believe that they are the an Executive Leadership Team which represents our three segments, foundation for success in the years ahead. as well as the key corporate programs and functions. With this our management team is better aligned to our strategy. The new On behalf of the Supervisory Board team selected ten key priorities for improvement in support of our Niek W. Hoek strategic ambitions. Focus areas for the Supervisory Board in 2018 After a careful management review and market consultation process, The Supervisory Board believes that focus is key to achieving the Niek W. Hoek it was decided mid-year not to divest our architecture business of Company strategy, and to creating long-term value for all stakeholders. Chairman of the CallisonRTKL, as we assessed more value can be created by retaining it. In exercising its task in 2018, the Supervisory Board, in coordination Supervisory Board In Brazil we still face the consequences of the past since the finalization with the Executive Board, focused on the following topics: of renewable energy assets is still ongoing, taking longer to complete than preferable. As a result of this, we have had to take a €53 million 1 Creating a more effective management structure value adjustment in the third quarter. For the full year our results were strong in our key markets but under par in the Middle East and 2 Further developing the digital strategy Asia. As a consequence of our portfolio review in the Middle East we Putting our new strategy into practice and ascertain impaired goodwill. 3 profitable projects Further rebuild confidence with our investors. Bring down 4 working capital. Progress strategic review CallisonRTKL 5 Health & Safety Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 11 Introduction | Our business and passion Our business and passion Bringing the best to our clients Arcadis’ position in both global and local markets is strong, and our new strategy is directed at further enhancing that position of strength 25 to deliver the best solutions to our clients. We provide a broad range 41 Infrastructure Water of expertise, work for a diverse range of clients, provide services Expertise in % Environment that span the entire lifecycle of assets, and have a broad regional 12 Buildings representation through an office network that spans the globe. 22 Expertise 28 Our expertise in infrastructure, water, environment, and buildings is global but with a local reach. Public Combined with our deep market sector insights, our global solutions and collaborative teams help clients Clients Regulated 52 overcome the most complex challenges, wherever they exist. in % Private industrial 20 Clients Our clients require partners capable of delivering first-class solutions to their doorstep regardless of where they are sourced. We leverage our vast expertise, share knowledge, and create best value-added solutions and technology to serve our public, regulated, and private clients to the highest standard. 25 Consultancy 32 Services Architectural design In most major markets we offer our clients full lifecycle solutions comprising business advisory services, Services Design & engineering in % 9 consulting, program, project & cost management, and design & engineering. We often develop client Program, project & relationships that span the entire lifecycle of their assets. cost management 34 Segments Our diversified portfolio is based on a global presence, with leading positions in Europe & Middle East, 9 the Americas, Asia Pacific, and through CallisonRTKL. In every location, we pair our deep global market sector knowledge with a strong understanding of local market conditions. 14 Europe & Middle East Segments 46 Americas in % Asia Pacific CallisonRTKL 31 All percentages based on FY’18 net revenues 12 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Our business and passion | Introduction Our position in the industry value chain We are a full-service design and consultancy, and our solutions span the entire asset lifecycle. This means we can consult for the full length of projects, or where needed, assist clients with their broad investment programs, rather than just individual projects. These integrated solutions provide inherent advantages, such as a lack of friction losses and an enhanced control regarding the performance of the asset from conception through to decommissioning and back into redevelopment. Our in-depth sector knowledge and ability to share knowledge globally enable us to provide best-in-class sustainable solutions to our clients, wherever they are located. In addition to covering the entire lifecycle, we can also add value to clients in each individual phase of projects, working Consultancy with other partners and (sub)contractors to successfully deliver often Circular complex projects. economy Because we approach our clients’ complex challenges with the right Remediation combination of deep technical insights, solid business consulting skills, Repurposing/ Planning and strong management capabilities, we can provide sustainable outcomes Retrofit and for them at every stage. We translate clients’ sustainability policy in development concrete measures in our projects; we make every project as sustainable as possible. Increasingly, we pair this with digital capabilities, providing 6 1 our clients more creativity during the conceptional phase of projects, enhanced control during a project’s realization, and better insights into an asset’s economic performance during its lifespan. Facility 5 Asset lifecycle 2 Design Architectural design management We understand that for many clients sustainability is a key driver as it can provide pricing power, cost reductions, a more competitive labor market position, business opportunities for new products and services as well as Project 4 3 a reduction in risks and better access to capital. Sustainability is therefore management a design principle when we develop our solutions for clients. That translates Program, Construction in our strategy: Sustainability by Design; help clients implementing their project and cost Design and sustainability policies in concrete measures in every project. management engineering Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 13 Introduction | Our business and passion Value creation How we create and share value Arcadis’ value creation process is geared towards maximizing the outcome of our business processes for all of our stakeholders through the efficient use of the capitals which are at our disposal. While our overall focus is on long-term value creation, our three-year strategy cycle allows us to update our market relevance regularly to keep in tune with stakeholder interests. Inputs using all resources wisely Value creation process Human and intellectual capital We deliver sustainable solutions through Our 27,354 talented and professional employees provide four categories of services in four project/expertise areas their expertise and competencies to make a difference for our clients at every stage of the lifecycle of natural and built assets. Social and relationship capital 25% 25% Exceptional and sustainable results are achieved by collaboration with our clients. Our success is dependent on good relationships 32% with key stakeholders, such as our employees and clients. Net Net 41% revenue revenue breakdown breakdown by expertise by service 9% Financial capital 12% Equity and loans help us to invest in the growth of our business and global footprint, which enables us to service our local and global clients. 22% 34% Natural capital Infrastructure Consultancy To maintain our offices around the world, and travel to client sites Water Architectural design as required, we consume energy and water. Environment Design & engineering Buildings Program, project & cost management Underpinned by Shared values | The Arcadis Way | Global footprint and expertise | Technological capabilities 14 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Our business and passion | Introduction Output created per capital Outcomes for our stakeholders Employees Human and intellectual capital Pride, satisfaction and a great place to work: High levels of employee engagement. Improvement in human and intellectual capital • Employee engagement score of 3.10 (on a scale of 0 4) demonstrated by: • Voluntary turnover rate, now 15.6% • Improved rates of the Your Voice Survey (from 3.03 to 3.10) • Identified leadership potential retention rate of 69% • Successfully on-boarding over 5,000 talents in 2018 • Stable female percentage in total workforce (37%), • Continued investment in training & development for our employees with 19% female executives • Continuous commitment to Diversity & Inclusion • Health & Safety indicators once more at lowest level since Arcadis • Continued investments in Health & Safety, resulting in improved H&S indicators began collecting H&S data Social and relationship capital •H igh level of client satisfaction demonstrated by repeat business. ~70% of 2018 projects Clients involved work with clients who had worked with Arcadis before. • Continuous focus on a top-quartile performance for Client Experience •B uilding on brand awareness in every region, e.g. Arcadis was mentioned in over 500 articles • Scaled existing technologies, and exploration of new technologies in the Netherlands through co-creation • Client experience score of 45 (Net Promoter Score) • Client approach via sector programs, core solutions and Global Cities • Leverage global experience for best-in-class solutions Financial capital Returning to organic growth, improving balance sheet, with improving indicators. • Organic net revenue growth positive at 3.4% (year-on-year) Investors • Operating EBITA margin of 7.3% Competitive and sustainable returns: • Net Working Capital improvement to 15.1% • Stable (proposed) dividend of €0.47 per share • Net debt to EBITDA ratio (average, for bank covenant purposes) improvement to 2.0 • Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) now 4.7% Natural capital Through our projects we assist clients in building a Sustainable Future by providing Civil society integrated and sustainable solutions. For example, many existing projects revolve around • Assisting clients in dealing with the effects of climate change improving quality and supply of water. In others, we re-mediated in soil and water spills. • Good health and well-being in our own operations, and in contribution • Arcadis’ carbon footprint (MT CO2 per FTE) improved (from 3.34 to 2.98) to the realization of health & safety targets of our clients • No of identified non-environmental compliances (equal to 2017) • Continued contribution to five relevant SDGs through our client solutions • 80% of revenues related to relevant Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and community engagement initiatives Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 15 Introduction | Our business and passion Digitalizing global solutions 2018 has seen the role of Global Solutions evolve and grow to incorporate Digital Transformation. This has included ownership of a top ten business wide priority, digitalizing solutions, which will see us improve efficiency and create additional value for our clients. Our clients are at the center of our organization. Everything we do is ultimately Our solutions are delivered within four sectors, with expertise and technical excellence about delivering the best of Arcadis to our clients. We achieve this through working running cross sector. Building on the work completed in 2017, we have focused in 2018 on collaboratively with Sales & Business Development, segments and our Digital colleagues developing cross solution services, merging skill sets to provide greater value for our clients to leverage local expertise and knowledge globally. through focusing on client need. Our journey to digitalizing our solutions has begun in 2018 and will see further Infrastructure development and implementation in 2019, working together with the three segments Infrastructure focuses on sustainable infrastructure solutions for efficient transportation to achieve improved client outcomes and internal efficiency. by road, rail, air, and over water, and creating reliable energy supply systems. By assisting in smart planning and finding the right balance between ecology and economy, Arcadis’ Organizationally Global Solutions is structured around fourteen asset and service specialists enable great cities to not only be livable but also to be connected and allow solutions, led by solution leads responsible for working collaboratively across solution mobility across cities. and sector to deliver four main activities: Water 1. Global knowledge and capabilities: provide market insights and knowledge-sharing Water focuses on the entire water cycle; from source to tap and then back to nature. to our regions using communities of practice (CoP). Be the thought leader to leverage Through our wealth of experience in the water sector, Arcadis specialist teams of engineers, and differentiate our position as market leaders. scientists, and consultants are uniquely positioned to provide safe and secure water technology and innovations that are built to withstand the demand of a rapidly changing 2. Strategic pursuits: support our regions with strategic pursuits that drive value world. In addition, our water management capabilities, originating from our Dutch heritage to our business. We bring our global knowledge and market insights to secure of living with the sea, are world-renowned and are now applied in many coastal areas around strategic projects and drive the development of marketing collateral. the world to increase urban resilience. Arcadis is a global top-five player in water services. 3. Collaboration and strategy: work with regions to build global capability and project Environment teams, according to the collaboration guidelines. Environment focuses on improving the sustainability of natural and built assets. Arcadis combines environmental innovation, engineering, consulting, and construction services, and 4. Joint development of (new) propositions: support regions to align solutions to market develops successful and sustainable solutions for our clients. We are proud to be the leading opportunities. Develop joint propositions (together with Sales & Business Development) global environmental solutions provider to private industry and deliver projects that protect to add value and drive growth. the Earth’s resources while meeting our clients’ economic objectives. Buildings Buildings focuses on delivering world-class master-planning, architectural design, engineering design, consultancy, project, program and cost management for all types of buildings and cities. We are partnering with our clients to plan, create, operate, and regenerate their built assets. We create a balance of form, functionality, and environmental stewardship. 16 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Our business and passion | Introduction Solutions are delivered cross sector, but can predominately be found in: Infrastructure (25% of net revenues) Water (12% of net revenues) Integrated airport solutions Intelligent transportation solutions Water management solutions Intelligent water networks Rail and urban transport solutions Port solutions Environment (22% of net revenues) Buildings (41% of net revenues) Environmental restoration Performance driven Program management architecture Performance driven engineering Cost management Strategic environmental Business consulting advisory Operations and maintenance Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 17 Introduction | Our business and passion Our passion Improving quality of life At Arcadis, we rely on our core values to guide us in everything we do, while we base business decisions on our vision and strategy. Our primary aim is long-term development and value creation, and our focus is to deliver exceptional and sustainable solutions to our clients, while pursuing new opportunities that fit our capabilities. In doing so, we contribute by sustainably solving the challenges that clients and communities face around the world. Our values We differentiate ourselves through our talented and passionate people, our unique combination of capabilities covering the whole asset lifecycle, our deep market sector insights, and our ability to seamlessly integrate health and safety and sustainability into the design of our solutions around the globe. People first Client Success Integrity Sustainability Collaboration We care for each other and We are passionate about We always work to the highest We base our actions for We value the power of diversity create a safe and respectful our clients’ success and bring professional and ethical clients and communities on and our global capabilities and working environment where insights, agility, and innovation standards and establish trust environmental responsibility deliver excellence by working our people can grow, perform, to co-create value by being open, honest and and social and economic as One Arcadis and succeed responsible advancement Our behaviors yy We value each other yy We work as One Team yy We deliver on our promises yy We dare to shape the future yy We always bring our best 18 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Our business and passion | Introduction Arcadis in perspective Number of employees Employees worldwide Number of projects Continental Europe 6,149 27,354 35,000 North America 5,589 + United Kingdom 4,792 2017: 27,327 Asia 4,133 CallisonRTKL 1,753 70 Countries where Arcadis Middle East 1,666 + has completed projects Latin America 1,413 Australia Pacific 1,244 Global Excellence Centers Romania Number of employees 2,475 40 Countries with offices + India Philippines Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 19 Introduction | The Arcadis journey The Arcadis journey Creating a sustainable future since 1888 Start of European expansion strategy Association (KNHM) and Company (Heidemij) are separated Ventures into rural development 1739 1888 1925 1959 1960 1972 1990 1993 1997 Merger with Geraghty & Miller Arcadis founded in the Netherlands brings US expansion and listing as the association for wasteland on NASDAQ redevelopment, promoting Branched into urban agricultural productivity of Dutch development heather lands Introduction of Arcadis brand name and logo The fire salamander Hyder Consulting can trace Start of export of water and infrastructure represents lasting its roots back to this date services to developing countries environmental quality and ecological balance 20 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 The Arcadis journey | Introduction Acquisition of Langdon & Seah creates leading position in cost and project management in Asia Introduction of one global brand Acquisition of EC Harris brings stronger position in UK, and growth in Middle East and Asia 2007 2009 2011 2012 2014 2015 2017 2018 2020 2030 Acquisition of Malcolm Pirnie creates leading Acquitions of E2 ManageTech and global position in water SEAMS to expand digital capabilities Acquisition of RTKL brings high-quality architectural design in US, UK, and Asia Acquisition of Hyder Consulting and Callison brings further strength to engineering and architecture Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 21 Digital data collection driving project efficiency Client: Highways England United Kingdom Arcadis is part of joint venture team on a ten-year contract to support technical aspects of the Lower Thames Crossing project execution. Challenge: The Lower Thames Crossing is a proposed new strategic road crossing under the river Thames. It will significantly help to reduce traffic and congestion in the Lower Thames area, potentially creating more than 6,000 jobs and boosting the economy by more than £8 billion. However, the sheer scale of the project and vast amount of data needing to be generated, managed, analyzed, and used to drive the design process is a massive undertaking. Solution: To meet the challenge of generating meaningful information for this large infrastructure project, part of the technical delivery work involves collecting survey data on tablets. This makes it accessible to any member of the team and means it can also be shared with relevant stakeholders quickly and easily, reducing double data entry and saving time. Impact: Arcadis’s digital data collection approach will drive project efficiency and collaborative multi-disciplinary design. It decreases data handling time and has the added bonus of reducing errors in data management, as well as lowering costs. The use of tablets also drives a positive and effective health and safety culture. Surveyors can record hazards onto the tablets documenting their significance, and this information then instantly informs anyone working on the project of the hazards present on site. 22 ﻿ | Introduction Monetization of natural and social capital benefits Client: Syngenta Global Supporting Syngenta’s understanding of natural and social capital valuation. Challenge: Syngenta wanted to monetize the value created through its Multifunctional Field Margins projects (MFFMs)1. Solution: Arcadis provided support by conducting interviews with selected MFFM projects’ key stakeholders, as well as an extensive literature review providing scientific evidence of the different types of biodiversity, natural and social capital benefits of MFFMs. Together with Bioversity International, we developed a paper examining how agricultural biodiversity can be enhanced by the use of MFFMs. It also recommends a few design principles and protocols to establish and manage field margins for biodiversity benefits, and makes a first attempt at ascribing a monetary value to the most important benefits. Impact: This work shows how enhancement of biodiversity features in agricultural landscapes can generate natural and social capital benefits for the farmer communities and society as a whole, thus improving quality of life. Arcadis has exemplified itself as a thought leader in the transition towards more environmentally and sustainable agriculture. 1 Enhancing biodiversity on marginal farmland along field boundaries and waterways that may have limited access for largescale farm machinery and are less suitable for crop production Arcadis annual integrated report 2018 23 Cleaner and better living in New York City Client: New York City Department of Sanitation (DSNY) New York USA Arcadis helped the City of New York develop a plan to reduce trash truck traffic by 63%. Challenge: New York City currently has an open market commercial waste collection system with over 90 waste haulers servicing ~130,000 customers, resulting in high overlap in truck traffic. In some parts of the city, more than 50 haulers service a single neighborhood, and an individual commercial block may see dozens of private waste collection trucks on a given night. Under the current system, there is also a safety hazard to workers often incentivized to do unsafe things to get the work done, as well as to pedestrians on the streets. Solution: Incorporating extensive data analysis and predictive analytics, Arcadis devised the Commercial Waste Zones plan that lays out a blueprint to divide the city into twenty geographic zones, each served by three to five waste haulers selected through a competitive bidding process. A waste collection company will work only within its zones, which will reduce truck traffic and strengthen service standards while still allowing for customer choice. Impact: The plan helps the City reduce trash traffic by 63%, creating an orderly modern commercial waste collection system. The process will ensure that only collection companies that meet minimum qualifications related to price, customer service, and safety will be able to serve New Yorkers. This will improve New Yorkers’ quality of life, promote a cleaner environment, and ensure the efficient and orderly collection of commercial waste. 24 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Executive Board report 26 31 32 Our strategy 2018 2020 Strategic context Mega trends 42 42 62 Performance & developments People & Culture Innovation & Growth 33 Stakeholder dialogue 78 Focus & Performance This Executive Board report describes how 36 Sustainable Development Goals 88 Performance by Segment 39 Competitive landscape 88 Europe & Middle East we have come to our strategy; how we took 40 Connectivity matrix 98 Americas into consideration our strategic context 106 Asia Pacific and operating environment, and how we 112 CallisonRTKL translated this into three strategic pillars 118 Performance associate with corresponding targets. It explains 122 Governance & Compliance our performance across the strategy 122 Composition of the Executive Board pillars, as well as our operating segments. 123 Composition of the Executive Leadership Team The Report includes information on 124 Composition of the Governance and Compliance. Supervisory Board 126 Corporate Governance report 134 Enterprise Risk Management Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 25 Our strategy | Our strategy 2018 2020 Our strategy For 2018-2020 Arcadis’ overall focus is on long-term value creation. Our three-year strategy cycle allows us to update our market relevance regularly to keep in tune with stakeholder interests. Creating a Sustainable Future was launched in November 2017. With this strategy, our goal is to grow our business profitably, invest more in digitization, improve delivery for clients and build a workforce, within Arcadis, fit for the future. Alongside the three pillars of the strategy, we have developed key goals Innovation & Growth Strengths to build on and targets for 2018-2020. These targets cover both financial and In 2018, we made significant progress on our digital agenda. • Global platforms non-financial performance. To implement our strategy, we have also We helped our clients succeed in a data driven world by offering more • One brand, recognized as identified ten group-wide priorities; these priorities link directly to our data analytics solutions, which were strengthened by the acquisition thought leader strategic pillars. To coordinate implementation, we have established of SEAMS. Our 2017 acquisition of E2 ManageTech formed the • Leadership positions in an Enterprise Program Management Office; this will help us remain foundation for Arcadis to be recognized by Verdantix as a leader key markets efficient and result-focused. in delivering Digital EHS services. • Global Cities program • Competitive delivery model Our strategic pillars, the ten priorities and our targets are summarized To accelerate the digital capabilities of our people we have developed • Committed and competent on page 28. ‘Expedition DNA’, our online learning platform, which to date has people seen a voluntary participation of over 26% of our global workforce. • Sustainability by design Progress in 2018 The majority of our businesses created organic growth in line with Key Performance Indicators were identified for all three pillars and our targets and the growth for our key clients exceeded our goals. we are pleased with the progress to date, which includes: We have sharpened our focus further by streamlining our client portfolio resulting in the identification of 250 key global and People & Culture local clients. Our focus on creating a stronger, unique culture with a growth mindset Improvement areas and a disciplined focus on pursuing the right clients while creating Focus & Performance • Operating EBITA margin better financial performance is starting to bear fruit, in particular in In 2018, we initiated our program of ‘Make Every Project Count’, focused • Focus on markets, solutions, North America, the UK, Continental Europe and Australia Pacific. on improving project performance by aligning behaviors, processes and and client sectors systems to the ‘Arcadis Way’. As a result of the program we see a higher • Commercial excellence Our voluntary staff turnover slightly increased, with small increases focus on project selectivity and financial performance, including cash • Project delivery in Asia, Australia Pacific and CallisonRTKL, partly compensated by collection. We optimized the operating model of our Global Excellence • Integrate sustainability an improvement in North America. The overall engagement score Centers (GECs) and expect to further grow this capability in every project for Arcadis improved compared to 2017, slightly above our target for by approximately 15% in 2019. • Middle East and Asia the year. 26 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Our strategy 2018 2020 | Our strategy Throughout 2018, we furthermore completed our portfolio analysis for Managing change both the Middle East as well as for Asia to allow us to focus where we To put our strategy into practice, we are using Enterprise Program can lead and de-prioritize businesses that fail to meet our criteria. Management (EPM). EPM provides a framework for change Changes we made in 2017 in North America formed the cornerstone management. It helps us manage our resources efficiently, track for our very robust performance throughout 2018 with operating EBITA possible risks, reduce complexity and ensure a strong link between already in the 2020 range, just as has been the case in the UK, our strategy, functions and local businesses. We have put in place an Continental Europe, Australia Pacific and CallisonRTKL. Enterprise Program Management Office (EPMO) to coordinate plans and progress; and a steering committee, which will work closely As a result of this increased focus, we delivered strong cash flow and with senior management, through the Executive Leadership Team. significantly improved our balance sheet. The accomplishments to date Work at the EPMO will be built around six core ‘accountabilities’; combined with our continued focus on the implementation of the three these will keep us focused on our targets and outcomes: strategic pillars will enable Arcadis to achieve its targeted operating EBITA margin in the range of 8.5-9.5% in 2020, as well as to satisfy other key performance indicators. Visibility and transparency SteerCo decision & preparation Lean, ‘activist’ governance Managing change EPM: Enterprise Program Management Focus on results (not activities) Alignment and accountability Enabling and standardizing Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 27 Our strategy | Our strategy 2018 2020 Our ten priorities 1. Become an employer of choice We will roll out a new Employee Value Proposition, based on the principle of: Grow > Perform > Succeed People & We will also make front-line management development and training a priority. Culture 2. Sales excellence We will put in place an effective opportunity ‘funnel’ to increase sales and conversion rates, while controlling 9. The and managing risk. Arcadis Way 3. Building Information Modelling (BIM) We will extend our BIM level 2 program to 100% of our business; this will be a first step to developing  e will extend W Innovation digital platforms for asset lifecycles. We will also rationalize and monetize all engineering applications. implementation & Growth 4. Digitization of Global Solutions to more of our We will standardize and digitize cost management; we will consider the same for other areas, businesses – beginning with design & engineering and environmental remediation. with a focus on achieving a return  . Cost & cash management 5 on investment. Where possible, costs will be reduced – both direct and indirect; we will also increase billability and create P&L steering dashboards to ensure we remain focused on profitable growth. 6. Refocus client portfolio We will review our business portfolio, so we can focus on priority clients to drive growth and better margins. Focus & 7. GEC operating model Performance We will continue to extend our Global Excellence Centers to reduce delivery costs, increase standardization and step up collaboration across our businesses. 8. Make Every Project Count We will develop and roll out tier I/II building blocks – for example, in risk management, project reviews and bleeder intervention. These are high priority for our regions – and drive operating earnings. EBITA – earnings before interest, tax and amortization; EBITDA – earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization 28 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Our strategy 2018 2020 | Our strategy Our strategic targets Voluntary staff turnover Brand • Voluntary staff turnover < market • Top-five brand awareness in markets we serve Staff engagement Clients • Engagement score improving annually • Top-quartile performance for client experience 10. One Organic revenue growth Sustainability Arcadis • Surpass GDP growth in our markets • Significantly contribute to brand • Organic revenue growth for Global Key Clients UN Sustainable Development Goals two times overall growth We will develop Innovation an action plan • Digital adoption by our people and our clients to improve brand positioning and awareness. Margin Dividend • Operating EBITA margin trending • 30%-40% of Net Income from Operations to 8.5%-9.5% of net revenues by 2020 Leverage Net Working Capital/DSO • Net debt to EBITDA ratio between • Net Working Capital <17% of gross revenues approximately 1.0 and 2.0 • DSO < 85 days Return • Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) > 10% Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 29 Our strategy | Our strategy 2018 2020 Comprehensive analysis Connectivity matrix The 2017 strategic review involved a comprehensive analysis of To bring all this information together, we have a ‘connectivity matrix’ factors in four broad areas, as summarized on the next pages: on pages 40 and 41. This shows our value creation process, from beginning to end. It also shows how Arcadis uses its strategic context 1. Mega trends – To adapt our business, we need to understand to update its corporate strategy, covering our three strategic pillars, the trends shaping our world. For Arcadis, the four key trends are: corresponding risks, material topics, key performance indicators and urbanization & mobility, sustainability & climate change, globalization targets (for selected indicators). and digitalization (see page 32). These trends form the basis of our strategy. 2. Stakeholder dialogue – Our aim is to create value for all stakeholders. To do so, we focus our strategy on issues that are most ‘material’ to both our business and our stakeholders. Based on our engagement with stakeholders, we have identified key messages and material topics. These provide constant input to our strategy (see pages 33, 34 and 35). 3. Sustainable Development Goals – The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were launched in 2015. Our business – and our passion to improve the quality of life for our stakeholders – fits well with the SDGs. We aim to contribute directly to these goals – we have integrated the most relevant into our strategy, operations and reporting (see pages 36, 37 and 38). 4. Competitive landscape – How we position ourselves depends, to a large degree, on developments within our industry. When implementing our strategy, we look at these developments in detail: changing client behavior, the shift to digital, the growing need for sustainable solutions, consolidation within the sector – and the increasing scarcity of skills and talent (see page 39). Where necessary, we adjust our strategy to take account of these developments. 30 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Strategic context | Our strategy Strategic context The world in which we operate Trends in our operating environment, messages from our stakeholders, the Sustainable Development Goals, and our competitive landscape all provided us input for our new strategy, which translates into three strategic pillars. Overview Our operating Mega trends Stakeholder dialogue SDGs relevant for Arcadis Competitive landscape environment Urbanization & mobility Employees Changing client patterns Clients Shift to digital Sustainability & climate change Suppliers Industry consolidation Civil society Scarcity of qualified people Globalization Investors Digitalization Strategic • Create an environment where all • Grow through providing integrated • Focus on where we can lead our people can be their best and sustainable solutions to our clients • Deliver client and project excellence messages • Attract, develop, and retain the workforce • Be a digital front runner of the future Strategic People Innovation Focus & Culture & Growth & Performance pillars Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 31 Our strategy | Strategic context Mega trends That create opportunities Understanding the world around us is the foundation for everything we do. We continuously develop our organization and value propositions to benefit from changing conditions in our external landscape, and use them to create greater value for our clients. To ensure our strategic direction remains aligned to the latest developments in our markets, we consider the following key trends shaping our operating environment; urbanization & mobility, sustainability & climate change, globalization and digitalization. Urbanization Sustainability & Globalization Digitalization & mobility climate change Global population growth and migration Demand for solutions that preserve Multinational companies require support Digital technologies open new have led to rapid urbanization and and protect natural resources has never wherever they operate and look for possibilities to serve our clients and increased congestion of transportation been greater. Rising sea levels and providers they can work with seamlessly are changing the way we work and infrastructure. scarcity of clean water are critical issues around the world. providing opportunities for different around the world. business models. Trend-driven Opportunities Leverage global expertise New services through Design sustainable Use of global network and partnerships to grow human-centered design and resilient cities and to support operations the business. supported by digital industries. around the world. technology. Sustainable and resilient cities Our positioning Leading Design and Consultancy for: Smart infrastructural solutions Future-proof industries 32 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Strategic context | Our strategy Stakeholder dialogue Acting on material matters At Arcadis, we strive to create value for all our stakeholders, and aspire to understand and act upon the most material matters for our business, stakeholders and society. Based on our stakeholder engagement and a materiality assessment, we identified key messages from our stakeholders that served as input for our new strategy. Stakeholder dialogue Stakeholders were asked on how important the topics are in relation to At Arcadis, we seek to engage in and create dialogues with stakeholders, how they impact them, their community and/or their business. All topics to deepen our insights into their needs and expectations, and to develop were scaled from one to ten, and open questions allowed stakeholders sustainable solutions which serve them better in the short, medium and to add missing topics. Equal weight was given to the output of each long-term. In addition, stakeholder engagement helps us to manage group of stakeholders. risks and opportunities in our operations. The most relevant material topics The materiality matrix can be found on the next page, and recognizes for our business are those of In 2017, Arcadis performed a global and in-depth stakeholder two axes/views. If a topic is ‘relevant for stakeholders’ it reflects the view greatest importance to our engagement process in cooperation with the Dutch Association for of employees, clients, suppliers, civil society and investors. If a topic is stakeholders and leadership team. Investors for Sustainable Development (VBDO) as input for our strategy significant in light of economic, social, environmental, and governance These twenty topics are visible in development process. Meanwhile our stakeholder dialogue continues impacts, it reflects the view of the Executive Board and Arcadis’ the materiality matrix on the next daily with clients, shareholders, and our employees in the course of Leadership Council. page. They are positioned in the regular engagements, update meetings and surveys. top right-hand section of the As the matrix shows, from the 37 potentially material topics, twenty matrix, and also listed in their Global materiality survey were considered material by both stakeholders and management. respective categories below Arcadis uses the concept of materiality as defined by the Global These twenty topics are listed and described on page 35. the matrix. Reporting Initiative, and considers economic, social, environmental and governance impacts that cross a threshold in affecting the ability The key step in our strategic process is to link each of our material topics to meet the needs of the present without compromising the needs of to corresponding key performance indicators and targets defined by future generations. our strategy. In doing so, we monitor our progress and make ourselves accountable to our stakeholders in a transparent way. The outcome of The global materiality survey was therefore based on four themes, this connectivity exercise is to be found on pages 40 and 41. and 37 potentially material topics, whereby these 37 topics were the result of an earlier internal materiality assessment on a longer list of recognized potential topics (ca. 60 to 70). Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 33 Our strategy | Strategic context Materiality matrix Arcadis' material topics 32 34 High impact 17 37 36 5 2 35 9 21 22 8 14 23 18 6 19 1 33 15 16 20 25 26 30 28 Relevance for stakeholders 12 4 29 27 31 13 3 7 11 10 24 Significance of economic, social, environmental, and governance impacts High impact Economic Social Environmental Governance 1 Direct economic value generated 17 Employee engagement 25 Use of materials 34 Business ethics 2 Direct economic value distributed 18 Talent management & learning  26 Energy and emissions –  35 Tax policies and compliance  3 Dividend policy and development carbon footprint (paying fair taxes) 4 Share price performance 19 Fair remuneration 27 Use of water 36 Privacy (and personal data protection) 5 Profit & Loss performance 20 Labor rights and relations 28 Treatment of waste 37 Risk management framework 6 Organic revenue growth 21 Diversity and inclusion 29 Circular economy 7 Inorganic revenue growth 22 Health and safety 30 Biodiversity impact 8 Balance sheet performance 23 Human rights 31 Habitats 9 Cash flow performance 24 Political contributions 32 Environmental non-compliance 10 Share buy-backs 33 Climate change 11 Share dilution 12 Portfolio management 13 Indirect economic impact 14 Innovation & digitalization 15 Brand awareness 16 Client experience 34 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Strategic context | Our strategy Arcadis’ material topics Material topic Description Most relevant for 1 Direct economic value generated The Company’s ability to generate revenues Management, employees 2 Direct economic value distributed The Company’s financial return to society (employee wages and benefits, dividends, taxes, etc.) Management, civil society 5 Profit & loss performance The Company’s ability to generate profits (Net Income) Investors, management 6 Organic revenue growth The Company’s ability to grow revenues organically from its existing business activities (excluding acquisitions) Investors, management 8 Balance sheet performance The Company’s ability to maintain its leverage covenants ratios below maximums set by Investors Investors, employees 9 Cash flow performance The Company’s ability to manage working capital and generate cash flows Investors, management 14 Innovation and digitalization The Company’s ability to provide innovative solutions, and its ability to develop and apply technological solutions Clients, employees 15 Brand awareness Refers to the extent to which customers are able to recall or recognize our brand Clients, management 16 Client experience The outcome of the interaction between Arcadis and its customers over the duration of their relationship Clients, management 17 Employee engagement The Company’s ability to engage and retain high-quality staff Employees, management 18 Talent management & The Company’s ability to attract and develop high-quality staff Employees, management learning and development 21 Diversity and inclusion The diversity of the Company’s governance bodies, employee base, and project teams Employees, management 22 Health and safety The actual performance of the Company in regard to health and safety of personnel Employees, management 26 Energy and emissions – The direct/indirect energy consumption in the Company’s own activities and direct/indirect emissions of greenhouse gases caused by the Civil society, employees carbon footprint Company’s own activities (scopes 1 and 2), and in the projects in which the Company is involved (scope 3) 32 Environmental non-compliance The extent to which the Company complies with environmental laws and regulations Civil society, employees 33 Climate change The extent to which the Company designs strategies and solutions to deal with the impact of climate change on businesses and projects Civil society, employees 34 Business ethics The way the Company approaches business ethics and acts with integrity, both internally and towards its stakeholders Employees, suppliers 35 Tax policies and compliance The Company’s approach to paying fair taxes across the globe, and adherence to local tax laws and regulations Employees, suppliers (paying fair taxes) 36 Privacy (and personal data The Company’s approach to safeguarding (stakeholder) data, and adherence to privacy laws and regulations Employees, management protection) 37 Risk management framework The quality of the Company’s control framework, designed to identify and manage risk exposure Suppliers, civil society Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 35 Our strategy | Strategic context Sustainable Development Goals As relevant for Arcadis In 2015, the United Nations launched the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), a set of seventeen goals and 169 associated targets directed at sustainable development around the world. The goals were developed and agreed upon by all governments in an inclusive process with non-governmental organizations and 1,500 companies from around the world. The size of our Sustainable Development Goals contribution Our focus on the Sustainable Development Goals stems from our ambition to improve to quality of life in everything that we do. Within Sustainable Development Goals to the UN the Arcadis project related activities, our contributions focus around % of net revenues that relate relevant SDGs 80% Sustainable five SDGs: Development Goals is considerable. Our contributions to these SDGs are delivered through our business activities on behalf of clients. This year’s selection of SDGs does not include two SDGs which were previously also in our selection: SDG 3. Good Health & Wellbeing, which primarily related to our Health & Safety program, as well as SDG 17. Partnership for the goals. While we believe we contribute to these SDGs, that contribution is less significant then the 24% 22% ones we make through our project activities and also harder to quantify. 12% 13% In 2018, we have performed a high level analysis of our contribution 9% to the SDGs through our project activities and found that around 80% of our projects in one way or another contribute to the SDGs in a positive way. Total We plan to create more detailed visibility on these contributions in the years to come. Given the fact that Arcadis performs approximately 35,000 projects per year, we will initially focus on the larger projects. 36 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Strategic context | Our strategy Clean water and sanitation – Through our wealth of experience in Sustainable cities and communities – Within Arcadis Global Cities the water sector, Arcadis’ specialist teams of engineers, scientists program, we have seen a strong increase in demand for resiliency, or, and consultants around the globe are uniquely positioned to provide the ability of cities to recover quickly after shocking events. Aging safe and secure water technology and innovations that are built to infrastructure, climate change, rapid population growth and other withstand the demands of a rapidly changing world. Our focus is on the developments are increasing the pressures on our urban centers. entire water cycle from source to tap and then back to nature. Arcadis’ To overcome these challenges cities face along their resilience journey, leading practices in water supply and treatment, conveyance, water Arcadis developed a five step resilience pathway. The approach helps resource management, and industrial water, including water reuse, cities make informed choices for their investments and helps them provide a strong contribution to this SDG goal. Arcadis was one of the focus on the priorities that best support a thriving urban development. advisors to assist the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) to compile the first-of-its-kind guide on circular Arcadis is a proud platform partner of 100 Resilient Cities, pioneered water management. The guide brings together decision-making tools, by the Rockefeller Foundation. The aim of the network is to ‘help cities case studies and best practice technologies to help companies seize around the world become more resilient to the physical, social, and the opportunities to close the water management practices. By 2030, economic challenges that are a growing part of the 21st century’. the world may face a 40 percent gap in water supply vs demand. At the The network consists of 101 (as Houston just joined as number 101) same time, 80 percent of wastewater currently goes back into the cities that are provided with the resources to develop their own environment untreated. Reducing, reusing and recycling water saves roadmap to resilience. Eventually, the goal is to not just help the costs and reduces business’ impact on the environment. However, individual cities to become more resilient, but also to facilitate a despite the clear-cut business case, circular water management global practice of urban resilience among governments, NGOs, practices have not yet gone mainstream. The Business Guide to the private sector, and citizens. Circular Water Management seeks to change this. It outlines the current barriers to circular water management, key success factors, Arcadis offered as part of our commitment to provide pro bono solutions and tools for implementation. services in the sectors of built environment, climate and weather, finance and insurance, infrastructure, and water management. Our RF100RC involvement has helped to position Arcadis worldwide Industry, innovation and infrastructure – Arcadis contributes to the as a thought leader in city resilience, in particular from the perspective delivery of major public transportation systems around the world. of urban climate change adaptation, flood resilience and financing In 2018, we were involved in the roll-out of the Grand Paris metro of resilience measures. project in the French capital, the development of metro systems in the Australian cities of Sydney and Melbourne, a new metro project in Brussels, while in Amsterdam the new metro line connecting the North and South of the city was opened. These solutions improve urban quality of life by reducing car traffic and improving urban accessibility. Through its consulting and design activities, Arcadis supports clients in developing innovative and sustainable infrastructure solutions for transportation, water, waste and energy. In many of our industrial projects we increasingly consider embedded carbon considerations in the choice of materials, as well as assisting our clients in reducing the carbon output and other waste streams of existing industrial activity. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 37 Our strategy | Strategic context Climate action – Arcadis has carbon reduction strategies in place Life on land – All businesses depend on and impact 'natural capital'. for its own operations, but the brunt comes from the consulting and The term ‘natural capital’ refers to the ‘stock’ or ‘inventory’ of physical design work it performs on behalf of our clients. We develop carbon attributes in the natural world such as air, land, water, flora and fauna, footprint reduction strategies for our clients and actively participate and the direct and indirect ‘services’ that these provide. Many and contribute to the WBCSD programs on climate change. We also organizations do not fully appreciate their relationship with natural assist clients in dealing with the effects of climate change through capital, and therefore are missing out on opportunities for improved supply chain resiliency solutions and in urban settings through our performance or failing to address potentially significant risks. Arcadis flood protection design work. In addition, Arcadis also commits to played an active role in the development of the Natural Capital international initiatives to reduce carbon. In 2018, Arcadis joined the Protocol and now advises clients to develop a solid understanding Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders. Through this alliance, we urge and of the dependencies and impacts that they and their value chain support world leaders to implement effective carbon pricing have on natural capital including the services it provides. We also mechanisms that drive a meaningful price on carbon across the globe, assist these clients in developing strategies to reduce their impact stimulate low-carbon finance and investments by offering coherent on natural capital and limit the risks caused by their dependencies. policies that shift financial flows from high-carbon investments to In its own operations Arcadis aims to limit its negative impact on the low-carbon economy, thereby encouraging innovation, as well as the natural environment to the extent possible whilst enabling adaptation investments and develop policy tools that help educate and developments in the most sustainable and resilient way. positively influence societal demand for low-carbon solutions. Arcadis already actively contributes to the development of these solutions. 38 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Strategic context | Our strategy Competitive landscape Developments in the industry and competitive landscape are relevant for how we want to position ourselves as Arcadis. Our view on changing client patterns, the shift to digital, the increased need for sustainable solutions, industry consolidation, and scarcity of qualified people have therefore been considered in preparing the new strategy. Arcadis operates in a global addressable market of over US$500 billion, In the market there are several global players and many local ones. growing in line with GDP. We are a global top-ten player with a top-three The global players mainly compete with each other based on brand, position in Design & Consultancy, and our business is well diversified knowledge, and cost efficiency. Arcadis is considered to be one of the between emerging and mature markets, public and private sector global players, with the advantage of a global network with local clients, and service areas. This balanced approach is the best guarantee presence. The combination of global presence, strong local positions, of our ability to benefit from the long-term growth drivers and key and our expertise of infrastructure, water, environment, and buildings client trends in our markets. (see page 16) give us the ability to provide the best value-added solutions and technology to both our global and local clients. Global players Global market In US$ billion of engineering revenues 9.8 20 8.3 100 100 7.4 6.7 30 180 4.8 4.1 4.0 3.6 3.3 3.0 2.8 2.6 2.6 2.5 2.2 10 2.1 2.1 2.0 2.0 1.9 Jacobs PCC China AECOM China Energy Corp. LTD. 1 CCC Group LTD. SNC-Lavalin Arcadis NV Fluor Corp. Tetra Tech Inc. CRCC LTD. KBR Inc. Worleyparsons LTD. Dar Group China Railway Group LTD. Mott Macdonald HDR Sweco Wood Plc Stantec Inc. WSP 30 40 Integrated E&C firms Pure play engineering firms Addressable market in US$ billion Souce: ENR The Top 225 International Design Firms 2018; based on 2017 Revenues 1 WSP has been adjusted for their recently annouced acquisition of Louis Berger Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 39 Our strategy | Connectivity matrix Connectivity matrix The strategic context Strategic messages Strategic pillars Principles Related risks Mega trends People first Urbanization & mobility • Be the employer of choice Create an environment • Create an environment to grow, perform, and succeed • People & Capacity risk Sustainability & climate change where all our people • Capability & Globalization can be at their best Living our values Innovation risk Digitalization • Foster a balanced culture that is driven by our core values Attract, develop, • Create business value through sustainable solutions • Health & Safety risk and retain the • Regulatory & Policy workforce People Attract, develop, and retain the workforce of the future Compliance risk of the future & Culture • Develop our people and recruit missing capabilities for future needs Stakeholder dialogue •E mbrace diversity of capabilities and people to facilitate our success Employees in the future Clients Suppliers Civil society • Market risk Investors Advise & deliver sustainable solutions • Client & Grow through • Build scale where we can both advise and deliver Opportunity risk providing • Apply integrated thinking to solve complexity for clients • Capability & integrated and Innovation risk sustainable Digital innovation SDGs relevant for Arcadis solutions • Scale existing technologies • Information to our clients Technology risk • Explore new technologies in co-creation with clients Innovation • Information Security risk Be a digital & Growth Local strength, global reach • Transformational front runner • Utilize local market knowledge and deep client relationships Programs risk • Leverage global experience for best-in-class solutions • Acquisition & Divestment risk Focus where we can lead • Corporate Financing risk •B uild leadership positions based on relevance for clients, • Client & Opportunity risk local presence, and global positions • Financial Reporting risk Competitive landscape • De-prioritize businesses that fail to meet our criteria Focus on where • Liquidity & Working Changing client patterns Client & project excellence Capital Management risk we can lead Shift to digital • Disciplined project and client selection and improved project delivery •Project & Contract Industry consolidation Deliver client • Create consistency through the Arcadis Way Execution risk Focus and project excellence & Performance • Third Party Scarcity of qualified people Competitive delivery models Management risk •O ptimize delivery across the entire value chain: • Information partnering with architects, contractors, and engineers Technology risk • Increase utilization of Global Excellence Centers • Information Security risk 40 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Connectivity matrix | Our strategy Material topics Key Performance Indicators Strategic targets 2018 2020 (see page 29) Results 2018 Results 2017 Page Number of employees (headcount as at 31 December) – 27,354 27,327 44 17 Employee engagement Employee engagement score (on a scale of 0 4) Staff engagement score improving annually 3.10 3.03 45 Talent management & Voluntary turnover rate (as % of total staff) Voluntary staff turnover < market 15.6% 14.6% 46 18 learning and development Identified leadership potential rate (retention %) – 69% 94% 46 21 Diversity and inclusion Females in total workforce (as % of total staff) – 37% 37% 48 Total Recordable Case Frequency (TRCF, per 200,000 work hours) – 0.18 0.26 50 People & Culture 22 Health and safety Lost Time Case Frequency (LTCF, per 200,000 work hours) – 0.06 0.11 50 Employees passing Code of Conduct training (in %) – 98% 97% 53 34 Business ethics Number of AGBP alleged breaches (including near misses) – 77 76 53 Investigated AGBP alleged breaches – 100% 100% 53 35 Tax policies and compliance (paying fair taxes) Group Effective Tax Rate over past five years – 25.9% n/a 53 36 Privacy (and personal data protection) Number of appointed privacy officers under the Privacy Policies – 12 10 54 37 Risk management framework Number of internal audits conducted in the year – 24 24 54 15 Brand awareness Brand awareness score (from 2019 onwards) Top-five brand awareness in markets we serve n/a n/a 55 16 Client experience (CX) Client experience score Top-quartile performance for client experience 45 n/a 55 Organic revenue growth (net revenues, in %) Surpass GDP growth in our markets 3% 1% 64 Book-to-bill ratio (net revenues) – 0.97 1.02 64 6 Organic revenue growth Innovation & Growth Organic revenue growth Global Key Clients (net revenues, in %) Organic revenue growth for Global Key Clients two times overall growth 10% 17% 64 Organic revenue growth Global Cities (net revenues, in %) – 11% 6% 67 % of revenues using BIM level 2 Digital adoption by our people and clients 34% n/a 68 14 Innovation and digitalization Arcadis Way implementation progress (as % of net revenues) – 33% 31% 69 26 Energy and emissions – carbon footprint Arcadis’ carbon footprint (MT CO2 per FTE) – 2.98 3.34 72 32 Environmental non-compliance Number of identified environmental non-compliances – none none 73 33 Climate change % of revenues that relate to relevant SDGs Significantly contribute to UN Sustainable Development Goals 80% n/a 74 1 Direct economic value generated Gross revenues (in € millions) – 3,256 3,219 81 Net Income from Operations, per share (EPS, in €) – 1.01 1.18 82 2 Direct economic value distributed Dividend per share (in €) 30 40% of Net Income from Operations 0.47 0.47 82 Focus & Performance Operating EBITA margin (as % of net revenues) Operating EBITA margin trending to 8.5% 9.5% of net revenues by 2020 7.3% 7.6% 83 5 Profit & loss performance Net Income from Operations (in € millions) – 88 101 84 Net Working Capital (as % of gross revenues) Net Working Capital < 17% of gross revenues 15.1% 16.9% 84 Days Sales Outstanding (DSO) DSO < 85 days 80 88 84 8 Balance sheet performance Return on Invested Capital (ROIC, in %) Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) > 10% 4.7% 7.3% 85 Net debt to EBITDA ratio (average) Net debt to EBITDA ratio between approximately 1.0 and 2.0 2.0 2.3 86 9 Cash flow performance Free Cash Flow (in € millions) – 149 98 87 For definitions and methods of measure for these indicators please refer to page 267. The indicators that fall within the scope of limited assurance of our external auditor are marked with the symbol. See page 259 for the Assurance report of the independent auditor, which includes details on the scoping and outcomes Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 41 Performance & developments | People & Culture Performance & developments People & Culture Create an environment where all our people can be at their best and attract, develop, and retain the workforce of the future At Arcadis, we take an integrated approach towards developing engaged and competent people, and continue to work with our partners and clients to increase the understanding of our social impact. With the launch of our strategy, in which ‘People & Culture’ is one of the three strategic pillars, we are reinforcing our commitment to our people. Number Employee Voluntary Identified leadership Females in of employees engagement score1 turnover rate potential rate total workforce headcount as at 31 December on a scale of 0 4 as % of total staff retention % as % of total staff 27,354 3.10 15.6% 69% 37% 2017: 27,327 2017: 3.03 2017: 14.6% 2017: 94% 2017: 37% Total Recordable Lost Time Case Employees passing Number of AGBP Investigated AGBP Case Frequency (TRCF) Frequency (LTCF) Code of Conduct alleged breaches alleged breaches per 200,000 work hours per 200,000 work hours training including near misses of all employees in 2018 0.18 0.06 98% 77 100% 2017: 0.26 2017: 0.11 2017: 97% 2017: 76 2017: 100% 1 Employees of CallisonRTKL are not included in the engagement scan of 2018 Improvement For definitions and methods of measure for these indicators please refer to page 267. The indicators that fall within the scope of limited assurance of Unchanged our external auditor are marked with the symbol. See page 259 for the Assurance report of the independent auditor, which includes details on the 42 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Deterioration scoping and outcomes. 27,354 Number of employees headcount as at 31 December 2018 Employee Your Voice 3.10 engagement score survey 2018 on a scale of 0 4 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 43 Performance & developments | People & Culture People & Culture Arcadis’ sustainability agenda is integral to our employee value proposition to transform our world. By focusing on the success and sustainability of our business, we attract, develop, retain and motivate our people. Our core values and keystone behaviors define who we are and what we advocate in relation to a People First culture. Updated leadership structure Number Employee spread by segment In April 2018, Arcadis welcomed Sarah Kuijlaars. Mrs. Kuijlaars officially of employees In % headcount as at 31 December replaced Renier Vree as Chief Financial Officer, who left Arcadis on 1 March 2018. Mrs. Kuijlaars came to Arcadis from Rolls-Royce Civil 2018 2017 27,354 7 6 Aerospace. Before joining Rolls-Royce, Mrs. Kuijlaars held several finance leadership roles during a 25-year career with Royal Dutch Shell. 20 26 21 25 2017: 27,327 To accelerate the progress on the implementation of the strategic plan, 'Creating a sustainable future' as launched in November 2017, Arcadis changed the leadership structure this year. In March, we announced the creation of a new Executive Leadership Team (ELT), which includes the 47 48 CEO and the CFO, together with Executives with clear accountability to deliver on all components of the strategic plan, including a strong focus on improving execution on all our projects. At the same time, the Executive Board became a two-member board consisting of Europe & Middle East Americas Asia Pacific CallisonRTKL Peter Oosterveer, CEO, and Sarah Kuijlaars as CFO. Fundamental in the adjusted structure are key functional focus areas, including people, Employees in Global Excellence Centers innovation, sales and business development and project performance. 10% 9% The ELT formulated ten top priorities in the fall of 2018 to position us 7% better to deliver on our strategic priorities. See page 28 for further details. 2,593 2,475 2,019 In 2018, the contacts between the ELT and the Supervisory Board have 1,298 been given shape by, amongst others, ELT members attending several Supervisory Board meetings. In those meetings presentations have been given on the areas of responsibility, and during the year frequent 2015 2016 2017 2018 contact took place between members of the ELT and the Chairman of the Supervisory Board. FTEs in GECs GEC staff as a % of total staff 44 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 People & Culture | Performance & developments People Strategy Employee engagement Our People Strategy outlines the key focus areas that will contribute Employee Engagement score1,2 to Improving Quality of Life from a people perspective: See our overview on a scale of 0 4 Connected Important to of material topics material topic these stakeholders: on page 35, and 3.10 yy Suppliers Why the connectivity 17 yy Civil Society matrix on pages 40 and 41. Create an environment where people can be their best and access 2017: 3.03 opportunitues that work for them and the world around them to Improve Quality of Life An engaged workforce is essential for Arcadis. The annual Arcadis 1 Run in 2014, 2015, 2017 and 2018 2 Employees of CallisonRTKL are not Employee engagement survey, ‘Your Voice’1, helps us understand how included in the engagement scan How employees feel at work and where we need to improve. The goal is to of 2018 ensure that people are proud to work at Arcadis and that they can bring the best of themselves: •• This year we piloted a ‘pulse’ survey – a short questionnaire that People First Living our Values Develop for the future still collects essential information about engagement, with the intent to move to more frequent pulse surveys in 2019. This allows faster Create an environment in A culture that is lived out With a focus on developing which people come first and by all Arcadians globally, our people for future follow up on feedback, as the one-year cycle gives teams more time are able to grow, perform through our values and market, client and to make a meaningful change. and succeed, enabling them behaviors. A great place to technology changes. •• The 2018 survey was sent to all employees (except CallisonRTKL) and to reach their potential. A work where people feel Looking ahead to ensure place where people aspire valued and have a sense of our people are equipped to measured both engagement and people’s view of line management. to be, a place that people belonging. A culture that be leading in our industry It had a 64% response rate. The engagement score jumped to 3.10 from are proud of and a place supports and encourages and we therefore invest in where inspiring leaders inclusiveness; our people future skills and capabilities. 3.03 in 2017. empower people to be reflecting the diversity Encouraging diversity and •• The results showed encouraging movement in key areas. Employees their best. of the communities we work innovative thinking. and live in. confirmed their ambassadorship of our products and services, with 94% agreeing that they would recommend our products and services (93% in 2017). 91% of our employees feel they are able to impact the These three pillars (People First, Living our Values and Develop for performance of Arcadis through their work (versus 83% in 2017 – the the Future) reinforce the most relevant material topics for our people: strongest score improvement) and 90% of the respondents indicate •• An environment in which everyone can grow, perform and succeed they are proud of working for Arcadis. •• An environment where people feel they belong and have their •• We have started implementing our new global performance voices heard, and management framework, Grow Perform Succeed, which is an evolved •• An environment where people can develop themselves to be fit approach towards performance, focusing on a continuous for the future conversation between line manager and direct report instead of the traditional performance reviews. Ultimately, we want to create a fulfilling employee experience and become an employer of choice. 1 Run in 2014, 2015, 2017 and 2018 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 45 Performance & developments | People & Culture To create the right environment for our people to grow, perform and Our people are the key to our success. A strong talent pool with engaged Voluntary succeed, three questions in the pulse survey addressed the role of line and talented employees forms the basis for innovation and organic turnover rate as % of total staff managers and how they contribute to that environment. We were growth and contributes to our ambition to be an employer of choice. In encouraged to see that respondents perceive that more time and 2018, our overall employee turnover was 21% (21% in 2017), while the 15.6% effort was spent on talking about their performance and voluntary turnover was 15.6%, coming from 14.6% in 2017. High development in 2018. These conversations, among other elements, potential retention was 69%, down from 94% in 2017, mainly due to are key for personal growth and engagement of all employees. Still, organizational changes, like bringing together the UK, Continental 2017: 14.6% there is room for further improvement, and we will continue to Europe and Middle East regions in one EME segment. develop our people managers. The majority of new colleagues are attracted via employee referrals and Identified leadership We are proud to see the increase in engagement from 3.03 to 3.10. online job boards. In 2018, we saw a significant increase in finding talent potential rate retention % It shows us our employees' optimism and recognition that we are on via direct engagement on via social media and via graduate recruitment. the right path, both in terms of business, as well as people practices. This led to a strong reduction in attracting talent via recruitment agencies. 69% Talent management & learning and development We further built on an effective foundation for global talent acquisition through the roll-out of our applicant tracking system, which is operational 2017: 94% See our overview in a major part of the organization by the end of 2018. We also invested Connected Important to of material topics in an external career site to increase effective interaction with future material topic these stakeholders: on page 35, and yy Suppliers the connectivity internal and external talent. We built on our brand awareness through 18 yy Civil Society matrix on pages campaigns and activities on social media. On LinkedIn, for example, we 40 and 41. managed to increase the number of company followers from 190,000 in 2017 to 260,000 in December 2018. Next to LinkedIn, we are successfully Attracting, retaining and developing people who are committed to working with the following job boards: 51job.com, Jobstreet, and Indeed bringing their best, who deliver on their promises. In 2018, we did a to promote our brand and vacancies in the markets we operate in. global study to ascertain why people join Arcadis and what makes Arcadis a unique and great place to work. The outcomes of that study Key Performance Indicators resulted in our employer value proposition, which is being implemented Ambition Actual Ambition 2016 2017 2018 2018 2019 globally to ensure consistency and keep on emphasizing our commitment Talent management to our company value People First and our ambition to become an % internal promotion 59% 69% 60% 50% 65% employer of choice. into executive level % voluntary turnover rate 15.0% 14.6% 14.0% 15.6% 15.0% % identified leadership 90% 94% 90% 69% 75% potential rate % retention of identified 67% 100% 90% 100% 75% female leadership talent 46 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 People & Culture | Performance & developments Developing our leaders and people managers is a key priority. We recognize that the world is changing, and the needs of our clients are Creating digital leadership changing, as is our industry and indeed our competitors. This requires Digital development stages Goal new thinking and approaches to leadership and management. We also want to ensure our leaders and people managers are equipped to Providing a framework for implementing Digital leadership transformational change strategies for provide a great employee experience to our people. In 2018, our Grow our business in a new digital reality Perform Succeed performance management framework was a crucial step in driving the people management agenda forward. Going into Innovation Shaping and developing new innovation 2019 people management development is a key focus area. leaders and our new ways of working e.g. Design Thinking & Lean Start-Up incubation projects Building a strong internal talent pipeline – based on potential, Technology literacy Increasing literacy around tools like BIM capabilities, and knowledge – is one of our key priorities in terms of Digital Asset Lifecycle & BIM amongst the wider Arcadis community meeting the changing demands of our businesses and the markets in which we operate. Two global programs that exemplify our Data literacy Enhancing expertise & literacy in commitment to growing our people are the Arcadis Global Leadership Data Analytics & Visualization leveraging data for our business Forum (AGLF) and the Advanced Management Program (AMP). In June 2018, we brought together 110 leaders globally for the Arcadis Global Leadership Forum, to connect, collaborate and communicate Learning and development grow our people, thus facilitating our about the progress made regarding the implementation of our company's growth. ‘Creating a sustainable future’ strategy. This was regarded as a unique opportunity for leaders to network and uncover new business Our employees are curious people and we encourage a culture of continuous opportunities together, role modeling our values and behaviors learning through a 70:20:10 approach: and shaping our Vision for 2030. •• 70% learning through experiences, like guided on-the-job assignments •• 20% through other people, like peer learning opportunities and mentoring Our six-month Advanced Management Program enabled 31 high •• 10% more formal learning through classroom training and digital learning potentials from around the world to work on their personal development. With this approach, people learn from experience, feedback, reflection, experiments and mistakes in addition to training courses. On average, Arcadis employees had seventeen hours of formal developmental training in 2018. The Arcadis Academy is our global hub for learning and development and gives employees access to Program Management, Project Management, Leadership Development, Digital, and Client Focus programs. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 47 Performance & developments | People & Culture As part of our Academy programs, Arcadis works closely together with Diversity and inclusion Females in leading international business schools and global learning content total workforce See our overview as % of total staff providers such as Vlerick Business School, Oxford Said Business School Connected Important to of material topics and the Strategic Account Management Association, to design and material topic these stakeholders: on page 35, and 37% deliver high-quality learning activities for employees around the world. yy Suppliers the connectivity 21 yy Civil Society matrix on pages Overview of Academy programs and appreciation in 2018 40 and 41. 2017: 37% Client Focus Latin America program; 50 participants, impacting over 250 people In 2017, our leadership has committed to increase awareness around Digital Vlerick Business School Digital Leadership Program; 250 participants our gender diversity ambitions; focusing on increasing representation BIM community 1,000 e-learning licenses, of women at executive level and throughout our talent pipeline in with an impressive activation rate of 46% order to fuel innovation and growth in every country we operate in. MITx Pilot program with ten participants co-designed Next to that our efforts are dedicated towards creating an inclusive with Massachussets Institute of Technology Expedition DNA 2,373 colleagues completed the digital e-learning modules work environment, where each employee contributes 100%. (with over 6,600 employees starting); 125 of them participated in the face-to-face program Females currently make up 37% of our total workforce (on par with Program Management 25 participants in Program Management Wave 4. 72 people enrolled in the Managing Successful Programs 2017). As we have seen mixed results in terms of reaching our gender Foundation course diversity ambitions, which is for instance exemplified when we look at Leadership the gender equality pay graph, as well as the female 37%/male 63% Arcadis Global 110 colleagues from around the world participated in the Leadership Forum Arcadis Global Leadership Forum and rated it 4 out of 5 ratio overall, we have made it a priority in our strategy to further Global Shapers 105 early career professionals joined Global Shapers: embed diversity across our businesses going forward, focusing on Generation 2018 and valued it at 4.5 out of 5 gender diversity. Advanced Management 31 people enrolled in the Advanced Management Program Program and rated it 4.8 out of 5 With the appointment of Sarah Kuijlaars in April 2018, our Executive Leadership Team’s gender diversity is 33% versus 67%. Our Executive Board, consisting of one female and one male member is a strong Executive Leadership Team’s example of gender balance beyond what is required by the Dutch gender diversity Corporate Governance Code. In % Diversity will continue to require attention and our Executive Leadership Team has devoted considerable energy to this topic in order to stimulate 33 change. Our CEO Peter Oosterveer expressed his commitment for 67 instance during the Pride in Amsterdam in August. We also ran an Female International Women’s Day campaign on social media, which recognized Male our people’s contributions to gender diversity, which resulted in a record-number of 96,071 online impressions. 48 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 People & Culture | Performance & developments Key Performance Indicators Ambition Actual Ambition Culture 2016 2017 2018 2018 2019 We strongly believe that fostering an open and inclusive culture will diversity and inclusion contribute significantly to our people's sense of wellbeing and job % of females in total workforce 36% 37% 38% 37% 38% fulfilment and that will ultimately contribute to people recognizing % of female executives 11% 15% 16% 19% 20% Arcadis as a great place to work. In 2017, as part of the strategy development process, we evaluated the state of our culture agenda through interviews and focus group Gender pay gap1 sessions with more than 200 leaders and 100 talents across the world to get a better understanding on where emphasis is required. That effort helped us to understand that our people want to give more meaning to our values and find it challenging to do so. It also became clear that people are looking for simple ways to explain the values to each other and our clients. Therefore, as we embarked on the implementation of our strategy in CallisonRTKL UK North GECs Asia Latin Continental Australia Middle November 2017, we introduced a program to embed the values and America America Europe Pacific East behaviors into our everyday business. Early 2018, at a global level, 90% 89% 89% 76% 73% 73% 72% 71% 67% workshops with senior leaders and enabling functions (e.g. finance, IT) Male Female were done to raise awareness of our values and behaviors. The workshops were then implemented across the regions and in total 130 workshops have taken place. Our Global Shapers (100 early career Gender split professionals) together with 30 high potentials participating in the Advanced Management Program around the world instigated a Culture Takeover Week in the first week of October. They ran a variety of 48% 53% 63% 64% 64% 70% 71% 81% workshops, lunch and learn sessions, poster campaigns and virtual pass it forward challenge. Over 100 values and behavior sessions took place in that week; a great testament to the enthusiasm and dedication of our Global Shapers and high potentials. 52% 47% 37% 36% 36% 30% 29% 19% Asia CallisonRTKL Latin North Continental Australia UK Middle America America Europe Pacific East Arcadis overall: 2018: 63% 37% Male Female 2017: 63% 37% 1 Latest available data of end of 2017 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 49 Performance & developments | People & Culture Health and Safety Effective management (e.g. assessment, mitigation, and prevention) Total Recordable of work-related H&S risks is ensured through: Case Frequency (TRCF) See our overview •• Prioritization and action plans with quantified targets for regional per 200,000 work hours Connected Important to of material topics material topic these stakeholders: CEOs and leadership; 0.18 on page 35, and yy Suppliers the connectivity •• Leadership and business unit managers on a regular basis, as well 22 yy Civil Society matrix on pages as between H&S leadership and regional executive management 40 and 41. on at least a quarterly basis; 2017: 0.26 •• Review of work-related incidents (see step six of the principles The health, safety, and well-being of employees and stakeholders is as described on the next page); central to everything we do at Arcadis. The Health and Safety (H&S) •• Conducting internal inspections and consultations by H&S specialists; Lost Time Case Global Vision and Policy focuses on a culture that strives for zero •• Independent external verification of health, safety, and well-being; Frequency (LTCF) per 200,000 work hours incidents using the TRACK process (for an explanation on TRACK, •• H&S targets being embedded in performance appraisals; see the grey box in this section with our six fundamental Health •• Safety culture through behavior-based observations and shared 0.06 & Safety principles. The Health & Safety Program is the responsibility of a Global team, information; •• Celebrate successes through safety competition, recognition, and rewards. 2017: 0.11 led by the Global H&S director, who directly reports to Rob Mooren, the Executive Leadership Team member accountable for H&S. The global H&S Management System identifies and tracks work-related risks through annual risk identification and assessment at business level The Executive Board, Senior Leadership, and all Arcadis staff (e.g. tracking incidents). Actual performance of each region is captured understand, believe in, demonstrate, and communicate the H&S in a consolidation tool and reported on a monthly basis to Arcadis’ commitments and engage in continuous improvement under the headquarters. Data is measured using standard definitions and auspices of the global H&S Management System standard, which is measurement techniques that typically match those of regulatory designed to standardize H&S processes across the Company. It focuses bodies that are relevant to Arcadis’ operations and those of clients. on proactive hazard recognition, risk assessment, and risk control to Definitions are explained in the Global H&S Management System prevent accidents, and allows for the nuances of local culture, client standard and the H&S performance monitoring and reporting guideline. expectations, and regulations. It includes comprehensive education H&S professionals review the data before submission, which is included and training (through internal and external seminars, amongst others) in quarterly reporting to the Executive Board and Supervisory Board. to provide employees with the knowledge and tools to enable them This review includes comparisons to other operating companies, to eliminate injuries and illness at work and at home. Best practices historical performance, and targets/objectives. and lessons learned from incidents relating to the workplace and travel are shared via documentation or information systems. In addition, by Performance 2018 teaming up with an external travel safety, security, and health services For the seventh year in a row, Arcadis’ Total Recordable Case Frequency company, employees have information available to them at all times (TRCF) for 2018 (0.18, a 31% decrease from 2017 when it was 0.26), is regarding the preventive measures available to eliminate or minimize at the lowest level since Arcadis began collecting global H&S data in risk on our projects. 2004, when it was 1.13. 50 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 People & Culture | Performance & developments Similarly, our Lost Time Case Frequency (LTCF) for 2018 (0.06) decreased 45% when compared to 2017 (0.11) and stands at an all-time low. Arcadis’ injury rates continue to remain well below the average The six fundamental Health and Safety principles injury rates of the publicly available US benchmarks for the architecture and engineering industry, which were 0.70 (TRCF) and 0.20 (LTCF) for the most recent reporting period (2017). Near miss reporting, a key 1 Demonstrate Health & Safety stewardship daily – Make sure that you and every member of your team goes home safely every day, no matter what your role is in the Company. process in helping to prevent incidents, continues to increase (up 10% since 2017, and up 69% over the past five years), which is indicative of a continued improvement in hazard recognition and greater stewardship for sharing experiences to help prevent future injuries. No work-related 2 Use TRACK – Apply TRACK every day when planning tasks and before starting any task, and use TRACK again when conditions change. Our employees use the TRACK process to: fatalities occurred in the five-year period. Think through the task Global H&S objectives for 2018 were for all Arcadis leaders to complete Recognize the hazards at least one H&S assessment annually, and for 40% of all staff to perform Assess the risks a documented proactive health and safety action. These objectives were Control the risks Keep health and safety first in all things identified to drive health and safety engagement by leadership and staff to encourage further development of our proactive health and safety culture. Engagement by both leadership and staff was strong (2018: 90%), and 59% of staff performed a documented proactive H&S action. 3 Exercise Stop Work Authority – It is your responsibility to stop your own work, the work of other Arcadis staff, or work under Arcadis control, if you believe it to be unsafe. 4 In addition, we put our People First to align with our People & Culture Practice ‘If Not Me, Then Who?’ – Be accountable for keeping yourself and value by focusing on the health and well-being of our people in 2018. others around you safe by acting immediately to prevent harm. If you see To that end, we set an objective that every Arcadis region and/or something unsafe (or not right), say something! country develop a well-being program plan that allows our people to 5 access tools and resources that they can use to improve their health Undertake Health & Safety Planning – Prepare and maintain a Health & Safety and well-being. 100% of the regions/countries achieved that objective. Plan for all work activities performed outside of an office environment. Objectives for 2019 and beyond The global H&S objectives for 2019 are similar to 2018. We expect Arcadis leaders to complete at least one H&S assessment annually, and at least 6 Report Injuries and Incidents Immediately – Report all incidents, significant near misses, and unsafe acts and conditions immediately so that they can be investigated, corrected to prevent reoccurrence, and the lesson learned shared. 40% of staff to perform a documented proactive health and safety action. Finally, a third objective is for all regions/countries to implement the well-being program plans that were developed in 2018. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 51 Performance & developments | People & Culture Business ethics Anti-Corruption Specific Anti-Corruption Standards (SACS) provide specific guidelines See our overview related to gifts, hospitality and payments to third parties. Arcadis has Connected Important to of material topics material topic these stakeholders: on page 35, and embedded its commitment to the UN Global Compact principle on yy Employees the connectivity anti-corruption by referencing the SACS into the Arcadis General 34 yy Suppliers matrix on pages Business Principles (AGBP). Targeted anti-corruption training sessions 40 and 41. by leadership members and by Compliance Officers were held in various regions throughout the year. Today’s complex business environment demands that we firmly embed integrity in our daily business practices. Integrity means that we always Anti-competitive behavior work to the highest professional and ethical standards and establish We support the principles of free enterprise and fair competition and trust by being open, honest and responsible. Integrity is a fulfilment of observe applicable regulations. In 2017, we introduced global guidance our high standards of responsibility to the client, shareholders, business on competition law, as well as related training and awareness materials partners and employees, the public, and to governments and the laws (in addition to pre-existing local guidance). This was further embedded and culture of the countries in which we operate. in the business in 2018. The Arcadis General Business Principles (AGBP) further define our Dealing with dilemmas interpretation of business ethics. The AGBP set guidance for our The AGBP cannot anticipate the array of dilemmas we may face in our business decisions and actions throughout the world at all levels and day-to-day operations. An active policy in this area means recognizing apply equally to company actions and to individual behavior of all our dilemmas and taking responsibility for resolving them. We encourage employees in conducting Arcadis’ business. employees to discuss business dilemmas with each other and with their management, to make integrity an integral part of our culture. Governance Since June 2018, the Compliance function resides with Legal. Value for customers The Corporate Compliance Committee is composed of General We are a reliable partner for our clients and aim to deliver our services Counsel & Company Secretary, Chief People Officer (member of the without jeopardizing stakeholder interests. We offer services under Executive Leadership Team) as well as the Chief Compliance Officer. terms that do not compromise our independent professional judgment At Regional level the Compliance function is composed of a Compliance and aim to create optimal value for clients. We are transparent with Officer and a Compliance Committee. Each Compliance Committee clients about conflicts of interest that could emerge during the includes the Compliance Officer as well as Legal and Human execution of our services. Resource/People expertise. Responsible employment practices Our people are key to our success and we respect human and labor rights so that our people may work in a safe, healthy, professional and supportive environment. We encourage engagement and support personal development through comprehensive policies and initiatives. 52 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 People & Culture | Performance & developments Every Arcadis employee has an equal opportunity for personal 28 referrals from before 2018 were also still under investigation during recognition, advancement, career development and compensation, the year. Inappropriate behavior (employment-related) was the category Employees passing Code of Conduct regardless of background or beliefs. The same policy applies to with most reported issues. Violation of the AGBP may lead to sanctions, training recruitment. No form of discrimination or harassment is tolerated. up to and including discharge. Company-wide we had nine dismissals on of all employees in 2018 98% grounds related to breaches of the General Business Principles. Monitoring and accountability We require all our people to sign off on and comply with the AGBP. Tax policies and compliance (paying fair taxes) 2017: 97% In addition, every other year Arcadis employees complete online training aimed at increasing awareness of our AGBP and values. This training See our overview Connected Important to of material topics specifically addresses issues like corruption, collusion, bribery and other material topic these stakeholders: on page 35, and risks to which our employees may be exposed. It was most recently yy Employees the connectivity Number of AGBP 35 yy Civil Society matrix on pages alleged breaches rolled out in October 2018. Further to the outcome of the Strategic including near misses 40 and 41. Review of CallisonRTKL, and in anticipation of tailored values and 77 General Business Principles for CallisonRTKL, our CallisonRTKL people were invited to take the CallisonRTKL Anti-Corruption Training Module Tax policies and compliance (paying fair taxes) was identified as a instead of the AGBP online training this year. In 2018, a total of 98% material topic as per the Stakeholder Dialogue (see page 35). In this 2017: 76 of all employees passed the AGBP training or the Anti-Corruption regard, Arcadis’ tax policy and tax principles as set by the Executive Training Module. The next round of integrity training for all our Board are based upon and informed by the same core values embedded employees will be organized in 2020. in the Arcadis General Business Principles (AGBP) and our codes of conduct, as discussed with the Audit Committee in 2016. Investigated AGBP alleged breaches Arcadis monitors compliance with the AGBP in all operating companies on a quarterly basis. Management of operating companies certifies In 2018 the Company, together with Deloitte, has started an innovative 100% compliance through an annual Document of Representation. Arcadis crowdsourcing initiative with the aim to determine how to best measure will not hold employees accountable for any loss of business resulting responsible tax from the perspective of various stakeholders, which from compliance with the AGBP. is expected to be finalized in 2019. In the meantime, the Group's 2017: 100% weighted average Effective Tax Rate (ETR) of 25.9% over the past five Integrity Line years underlines its responsibility to society in the domain of taxation. Arcadis has a reporting procedure which includes an anonymous global Integrity Phone Line managed by a third party for the event people are The Company has shown a steady performance in the annual Tax Group Effective Tax Rate uncomfortable reporting in the line or to Compliance. Reporting tools Transparency Benchmark of the Dutch Association of Investors for over past five years are available to our employees 24 hours/7 days a week. Reports of Sustainable Development, having been ranked in the 2nd quartile 25.9% potential or suspected misconduct can be made in native languages. over the past three years (2018: rank 22-29 out of 76 companies). In 2018, a number of 77 alleged breaches or near misses of the Arcadis General Business Principles was reported to the Arcadis Taxable profits are recognized in countries in which value is created, 2017: n/a Corporate Compliance Committee, all of which were investigated in accordance with domestic and international tax rules and standards or advised upon (2017: 76). (such as OECD Guidelines) and applying the arm's length principle. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 53 Performance & developments | People & Culture Arcadis does not seek to avoid tax using secrecy jurisdictions, or The Policies also confirm the governance structure with regional Number of so-called tax havens, without commercial substance. privacy officers and a Chief Privacy Officer at global level. The approval appointed privacy officers in 2018 was supported by a global awareness campaign based on Six in the year Arcadis complies with its statutory obligations, pays its tax on time, and Golden Rules for privacy. We also performed various training sessions 12 builds and maintains a good, honest, and open working relationships and privacy assessments especially in the European region focused on with tax authorities. In this respect, Arcadis agreed on a horizontal the requirements under the European General Data Protection monitoring covenant with the Dutch tax authorities. Arcadis aims to Regulation in force per 25 May 2018 (GDPR). In 2019, we will continue 2017: 10 comply with the letter and spirit of the law and makes tax-related to implement the global privacy program within Arcadis worldwide. disclosures in accordance with the relevant domestic regulations, as well as applicable reporting requirements and standards (such as IFRS). Risk management framework Number of internal audits See our overview conducted Throughout the year, (potential) tax risks are identified, monitored, Connected Important to of material topics in the year and acted upon, to mitigate and preemptively avoid said risks. material topic these stakeholders: on page 35, and 24 The Company seeks to provide third party tax assurance by among yy Suppliers the connectivity others having its material corporate income tax returns reviewed by 37 yy Civil society matrix on pages 40 and 41. a big-4 tax firm. Material tax risk management topics are reported to 2017: 24 the Audit and Risk Committee. Exposure to risk is inevitable in the pursuit of our goals and therefore Information with respect to the reconciliation of the Effective Tax Rate a risk management framework is designed specifically to manage risk to statutory tax rate can be found on page 192, in note 11 of the exposures, considering our risk appetite in context of the strategy. Consolidated financial statements. The risk governance structure, risk profile and appetite, and the Privacy (and personal data protection) main risks for Arcadis are explained in detail in the Enterprise Risk Management section starting on page 134. During the year, our See our overview Internal audit function conducted 24 audits across the group (2017: 24). Connected Important to of material topics material topic these stakeholders: on page 35, and yy Employees the connectivity Brand awareness 36 yy Management matrix on pages 40 and 41. See our overview Connected Important to of material topics material topic these stakeholders: on page 35, and In Arcadis, we anticipated the forthcoming European privacy legislation yy Clients the connectivity (GDPR), and started related initial preparations back in 2016. In 2018, 15 yy Management matrix on pages 40 and 41. the Executive Board approved the Privacy Policies for employee data and for client, supplier and business partner data (also called Binding Corporate Rules) following approval of the Policies by the European Our brand strategy is one of differentiation and focus. Data Protection Authorities. 54 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 People & Culture | Performance & developments We seek to differentiate Arcadis from our competitors through We have made material progress towards our ambition of top quartile our ability to improve quality of life, whilst delivering exceptional client experience and loyalty, with a Net Promoter Score of 45 in 2018, and Brand awareness score and sustainable outcomes for our clients in the natural and recognize we have more to do on consistency and also demonstrating the built environment. monetary benefits we generate for our clients. To help with this, the CX program is being matured to engage broader and deeper into key from 2019 We measure our brand performance across a wide range of criteria client organizations, looking at the end-to-end client journey as well as onwards but have set specific KPIs around our ability to drive: firstly, our brand project delivery level. Additionally, coaching is being provided to our client awareness in our chosen markets and selected audience groups; account and project management teams, using improved ways to share secondly, our brand position, versus our competitive set; and finally and then most importantly act on client feedback. our ability to convert both awareness and strong position in the market to genuine business opportunities. A series of hard and soft metrics Enhance our client experience Client experience score sits under each of these three pillars, which are measured both globally and within our regional businesses. Measure holistic and in-depth client experience Client experience (CX) Gain insights to enhance focus on our clients’ success 45 See our overview 2017: n/a Connected Important to of material topics material topic these stakeholders: on page 35, and Continuously improve client satisfaction and yy Clients the connectivity progress sustainable long-term client partnerships 16 yy Management matrix on pages CX 40 and 41. During 2018, we scaled and refined our Client Experience (CX) program, with top clients in all major markets benefiting. The program, which partners with industry experts, uses an innovative mix of digital and personal contact with clients to gain deep insight into current satisfaction and future purchasing decisions, around ‘net promoter’ Other topics and ‘loyalty’ scores. Labor rights and relations, and human rights At Arcadis, we recognize the human rights of all people as outlined Results to date indicate that re-engergizing focus on key clients is in Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labor translating to better client experience, and in turn greater repeat Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, business. This is particulaly the case in North America where the United Nations Global Compact and the United Nations Guiding satisfaction levels are much higher than industry norms. Our mix of Principles on Business and Human Rights. Arcadis’ Human Rights and personalized client account leadership and enhancements to project Labor Rights Policy addresses human rights risks and we strive to prevent execution is valued. the infringement of human rights and to remediate the possible impact on human rights resulting from our activities. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 55 Performance & developments | People & Culture We expect our business partners to apply equivalent principles and seek •• Arcadis compensates employees competitively relative to its industry to actively support them where needed. Arcadis respects the role of and the local labor market. The Company’s principle is to provide works councils and collective bargaining, and works with these groups a living wage. in the countries and regions in which they are present. With our passion •• Arcadis attempts to prevent compulsory redundancies. In cases where to improve quality of life, Arcadis believes that respecting human these are unavoidable, the company promotes responsible rights is fundamental to a sustainable society. The basic rights and redundancy procedures. freedoms to which all people are entitled should be understood, •• Arcadis promotes a good work-life balance for its employees and respected and promoted by companies as a cornerstone of being a applies workplace and worktime flexibility strategies to accommodate. socially responsible business. Arcadis respects its employees’ right to join, form or not to join a labor union, seek representation, bargain or not bargain collectively in www.arcadis.com/en/global/who-we-are/business-practices/human-rights-andaccordance with local laws and without fear of reprisal, intimidation, labor-rights-policy or harassment. Where employees are represented by legally recognized unions, we aim to have constructive dialogues with their chosen Through the Human Rights and Labor Rights Policy, the company representatives and bargain in good faith with such representatives. commits to the following: •• Arcadis considers respect for human rights and the proper adherence Arcadis is conscious of the impact it has on the communities in which it to labor rights as an integral component of responsible business operates through the projects it performs on behalf of its clients. We are behavior. The Company is also committed to identify, prevent, or committed to engaging in dialogue with stakeholders on human rights mitigate adverse human rights impacts resulting from or caused by or labor rights issues related to our business where appropriate, taking our business activities before or if they occur through human rights the view that local issues are most appropriately addressed at local due diligence and mitigation processes. level. Please refer to the section on Enterprise Risk Management , •• Arcadis prohibits the use of all forms of forced labor, and any form starting on page 134, for details on risk mitigation on respect of this of human trafficking. Arcadis prohibits the employment of individuals topic. For key performance indicators, please refer to the Connectivity under the applicable statutory minimum age for workers. matrix on page 41. •• At Arcadis, the health, safety, and well-being of our employees and stakeholders are central to everything that we do. •• Arcadis has a Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) program. We are www.arcadis.com/en/global/who-we-are/business-practices/human-rights-anddedicated to fostering workplaces that are free from discrimination labor-rights-policy/ or harassment based on race, sex, national or social origin, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation, political opinion, or any other status protected by applicable law. •• Arcadis does not tolerate disrespectful or inappropriate behavior, unfair treatment, or unfair retaliation of any kind. Harassment is unacceptable. 56 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 People & Culture | Performance & developments Responsible procurement Create the future is all about nurturing future talent. We bring Arcadis procurement approach is based on regional support and together present-day experts and the talents of the future. For example, guidance with a focus on risks presented from our Global Purchasing Future ready, a transformational program that engages Philadelphia Principles and Global Partnering Policy and mitigating those risks middle school students about potential career paths and the future regionally. In 2018, this meant leveraging the mature procurement opportunities that they reveal. Arcadis staff hosted students at the functions with Procurement Policies and Supplier Codes of conduct Philadelphia office. The students were immediately immersed in a in the UK and the US, backed by regional leadership. Meanwhile work structural engineering activity that challenged the students to is performed on maturing the functions in other regions including construct structurally sound structures using only spaghetti and Latin America, Continental Europe, Australia Pacific and Asia and use marshmallows. The day continued with a classroom discussion on the Global Purchasing Principles and Partnering Policy to set the paths to becoming an engineer. The day concluded with a talk led aspirational goals for those locations. These will include sustainability, by John Horst on the upcoming digital trends that are shaping the equality, diversity & inclusion, safety, health, environment and quality. future of engineering. ​​​​ In 2019, a Global Procurement Strategy will be put in place. Create today Community engagement On Saturday 16 June 2018, teams from Arcadis UK took part in the Arcadis and its people dedicate time, expertise, and money to many Around the Peaks Challenge. Teams walked 26 or 13 miles or did a local community involvement initiatives. We encourage our people cycle route of 80 miles. They raised over 45.000 pounds for MIND. to participate in these activities, and in a growing number of regions MIND provides advice and support to empower anyone experiencing time was made available for our people to do so on company time. a mental health problem. They campaign to improve services, raise In our social programs, we perform volunteer-based activities and awareness and promote understanding. projects in the following program lines: FareShare is a leading food rescue charity in Melbourne and Brisbane Create today is about Arcadians providing hands on assistance, which since 2001 has been rescuing surplus food from businesses through a range of one-day activities, such as support at a variety and with the help of volunteers, cooking it into 25,000 nutritious meals of charity organizations, repacking of donated food, riverside clean a week. These meals are then distributed to over 500 charities across ups and organizing charity events to raise money and collect goods Melbourne and country Victoria, including soup vans, shelters for the for children’s home or primary school education. homeless and refugees. In 2018, Arcadis Melbourne supported this charity with a team by using their afternoon paid volunteer leave Create tomorrow is about helping local communities, by sharing our ‘benefit together’, preparing and packing meals. knowledge and experience to improve their quality of life. Our support consists of process consulting, technical advice, and access to our Members of the Phoenix office volunteered with the Feed My Starving extensive network. Shelter is a good international example. In 2018, Children organization. Along with the other volunteers present they ten missions took place, nine Urban Thinkers Campuses were packed enough meals to feed 100 children for an entire year in just two organized around the globe and twelve Urban Workshops took place hours. Meals that were packed will be sent to children in need living in in Arcadis offices worldwide. Over 200 Arcadians got involved. the Philippines. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 57 Performance & developments | People & Culture Arcadians in Singapore embraced the festive spirit in the December In 2018, Arcadis Malaysia continued supporting Yayasan Sunbeams month by donating presents to over 80 children from four different Home (YSH) a non-governmental, self-supporting, multi-racial Shine Children and Youth Services Centres, fulfilling their Christmas foundation and home to displaced, abused, and neglected children wishes and giving back to the community. of single parents in Malaysia. It has been in existence for over twenty years. Since 2016, Arcadis has been involved with YSH, donating Create tomorrow construction management services, cost management services, labor In the Netherlands, Arcadis works together with Koninklijke costs, and expenses expertise as well as sponsorship for some of the Nederlandsche Heidemaatschappij (KNHM). KNHM is a foundation, materials – while also seeking others to participate – to solve the and predecessor organization to Arcadis, which holds ca. 4% of Arcadis’ foundation’s development issues. outstanding shares. In a joint program, ‘Kern met Pit’, we support people who want to improve the quality of life in their neighborhood. Value of community engagement activities Arcadis, together with the Lovinklaan Foundation, invests in the In all, Arcadis’ and employee donations in hours, in-kind contributions, Shelter Program with UN Habitat. The Shelter program is financially sponsoring, and funding for community engagement activities stayed supported by the Lovinklaan Foundation, Arcadis’ largest shareholder, near to the same as 2017, €850.000. This includes the Company’s own for €440,000 each year. funding for the Shelter program, the cooperation with KNHM, and countless regional and local initiatives. Create the future In 2018, Arcadis across Europe and the UK continued running the Reporting standards programs directed at helping young refugees. These programs were The EU-directive on non-financial information (2014/95/eu) was partly funded by the Executive Board. Our Dutch colleagues, for implemented in national law in 2017. Arcadis complies with this example, participated in the Future Academy. In this academy, young EU-directive by disclosing our business model, and disclosing refugees with an interest in engineering are invited to invest in their information relating to environmental, social and employee-related own future in a twelve-course learning program. The curriculum matters, respect for human rights, anti-corruption and bribery matters. featured environmental topics, building-related issues, water knowledge, This information includes a description of the policies, outcomes and soft skills. Some of the participants already have working and risks related to these matters, and can be found throughout experience, others were forced to give up their studies as they fled their the Executive Board report. We have followed the Global Reporting country of origin. The goal of the program is to provide the refugees Initiative’s (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines while compiling the opportunity to build up a business network in the Netherlands, the sustainability performance included in this Annual Integrated thus improving their chances for employment. Arcadis people open Report. The GRI framework is the most widely used standardized their business networks in support and play a role in the program as sustainability reporting framework in the world. a coach, buddy or guest teacher. 58 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Two Global Shapers: Generation 2018 share their experience Global Shapers: “Arcadis is a global company with many different cultures coexisting, but rarely connecting depending on your role in the organization. My experience as a Global Shaper: Generation 2018 allowed me to embrace the diversity that creates the richness of Arcadis. Imagine Generation 2018 the energy of 105 young professionals sharing their best practices and putting their talents and knowledge together to solve the challenges of the future cities, that is definitely a once-in-a-lifetime experience. The face-to-face meeting in Boston is over, but the connections made and the ripple effect will keep going forever.” – Clément Gaudry, Civil Engineer in the Tunnels and Ports Division from Paris, France. “A rich mix of culture, the essence of different lifestyles and a hall full of millennial energy that's what the Global Shapers 2018 face-to-face program was like. This amazing platform true to its objectives had indeed given me the opportunity to meet, greet and network with my 104 fellow counterparts from different countries along with many leaders. And what more? The journey simply doesn't end there, in fact it has just begun. The connections made, relationships built and lessons learnt will continue and last for a lifetime creating a ripple effect.” – Dibya Maheswari, Marketing and Communication Specialist – Digital, Global Design, Bangalore, India. Global Shapers is our annual program that offers A group of Global Shapers interviewed citizens in the Fort Point Channel area in Boston to come up with a proposal for the City of Boston regarding redevelopment of the area, approximately 100 early career professionals from taking into account rising sea levels and the citizens’ needs for housing, leisure and work. around the world the opportunity to grow their network A different group worked on a client proposal for London to redevelop a transit hub in Hackney. Another group worked on a city citizen centric campaign in relation to our internationally, share knowledge and collaborate on Global Sustainable City Index: https://www.arcadis.com/en/global/our-perspectives/ business-driven projects. sustainable-cities-index-2018/citizen-centric-cities/ Global Shapers is sponsored by the Lovinklaan Foundation – Arcadis’ largest shareholder. As part of their development journey, Global Shapers work on creating a so-called ripple The program focuses on learning through working together in an international group, effect. One aspect of the ripple effect is to set up a community of city enthusiasts that in both a virtual and a face-to-face phase. This year’s face-to-face program took place in work on city-centric challenges. These communities are currently being set up across the Boston, MA, USA. globe and are called City Shapers. All of these deliverables were presented successfully to members of the Arcadis Executive Board, the Arcadis North America Leadership Team This year, the Global Shapers focused on one strategic imperative: Urbanization. Under and colleagues of the Arcadis offices on the east coast of the States during the grand the theme of #FutureCities, Global Shapers worked on four assignments to emphasize the finale of the face-to-face program. needs, trends and city pressures that future city citizens will experience, as outlined in our citizen-centric approach: Vision 2030. Global Shapers: Generation 2018 helped strengthen 50% of our employee base is below the age of 30 – they are the leaders of the future. Global Cities in improving quality of life in cities both now and in the future. Since its launch in 2011, Global Shapers has become a powerful network of more than 1,800 young professionals. Together they create a ripple effect throughout The end results are diverse: an app that allows people looking for housing in New York City the organization by using their generation’s strengths, such as being tech savvy and to find their ideal pad, based on a number of criteria. Another app was set up to help log collaborative-minded. If you want to know more about the Global Shapers program, potholes and enable road maintenance people to predict potholes. go to: www.arcadisglobalshapers.com Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 59 Expedition DNA Launched to build greater digital capability and support the digital transformation of Arcadis In 2018, Arcadis launched our cornerstone digital The program aims to build awareness and a common language centred around the four transformation program – Expedition DNA – to drive the digital realities – Customer Experience, Platforms, Data and Ecosystems as well as develop new skill sets in the application of each of these realities. Expedition DNA is composed of development of enhanced digital capability, and engage our online learning platform, Base Camp, as well as week-long intensive Expeditions where our people in the digital transformation of our business. participants are enabled to connect with each other and undertake a deep dive into one of the four realities of digital. This year, two expeditions were held in Corsendonk, Belgium. Expedition DNA is funded by the Lovinklaan Foundation, Arcadis’ largest shareholder. Base Camp was formally launched in June 2018, and is available to all 27,000 Arcadians as an online learning platform to build awareness of the Arcadis digital strategy and its implementation across the three time horizons: H1 – the digitization of our current business offerings; H2 – the creation of new digital products within our current business model, and H3 – development of new products and services with new business models. Engagement in Base Camp has been voluntary in order to drive engagement in the transformation program. 60 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 People & Culture | Performance & developments “This was the best training experience I ever had in my career. I can only appeal all other Arcadians to apply for an Expedition. It is definitively worth the effort (and more than that).” – Marco Lippeck, Senior Project Manager, Continental Europe Expedition #1 Participant “The next step in our journey relates to the concept of the growth mindset – to learn and do. We need to take what we've learned here, turn it into ordinary language and pass it along.” – Antony Faughnan, United Kingdom, Expedition #2 Participant “On Monday, I'm going to look at my data and find opportunities – we're all sitting on gold.” – Vivek Aditya Nemani, North America, Expedition #2 Participant The online program takes between six and eight hours to complete. By the end of 2018, The selection process for the Expeditions is focused on maximizing diversity across over 6,600 Arcadians had engaged with Base Camp, with a 36% completion rate. regions, business lines and levels of experience. Demand for the program has been high, Completion of Base Camp is a prerequisite for employees wanting to apply to participate in with over 1,000 applications being received for Expeditions #1 and #2. The highest an Expedition. The quality of the program is highly valued by Arcadians who have indicated demand has been for the Customer Experience and Data Skills Labs. The overall quality through the program feedback that Base Camp has enabled them to understand digital of the program is highly rated by the participants in these Expeditions, with a score of better and tangibly connect the concept to the business. Furthermore, the quality of Base 4.6 out of 5. The Expeditions are considered a truly transformative experience, developing Camp as a learning experience is highly valued by employees, scoring 8.3 out of 10 by Arcadians from being digital explorers to digital ambassadors with the capability to drive participants. change by creating a ripple effect for digital throughout the business. In addition to Base Camp, two Expeditions were also held during 2018. The Expedition program is designed to provide participants with a deep dive into one of the four realities in specifically designed and facilitated Skills Labs. Participants are also inspired by guest speakers, and activities throughout the week which are designed to bring the four realities together, enabling a T-shaped development journey. The program is also designed to enable participants to connect and form global coalitions around the common theme of digital transformation. The first expedition was held from 6 to 9 September, and the second was held from 14 to 18 October with 125 Arcadians from around the globe being selected to participate. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 61 Performance & developments | Innovation & Growth Performance & developments Innovation & Growth Grow through providing integrated and sustainable solutions to our clients, and be a digital frontrunner At Arcadis, the focus on innovation and growth helps us to create the best sustainable outcomes for our clients and society, while improving our financial performance. We scale existing technologies and explore new ones in co-creation with clients, and we apply integrated thinking to solve complexity. We utilize our local market knowledge and leverage our global experience for best-in-class solutions. Organic Book-to-bill Organic revenue Organic revenue % of revenues revenue growth ratio growth growth using BIM level 2 net revenues net revenues Global Key Clients Global Cities net revenues net revenues 3% 0.97 10% 11% 34% 2017: 1% 2017: 1.02 2017: 17% 2017: 6% 2017: n/a Arcadis Way Arcadis’ carbon Number of identified % of revenues implementation footprint environmental that relate to progress MT CO2 per FTE non-compliances relevant SDGs as % of net revenues 33% 2.98 none 80% 2017: 31% 2017: 3.34 2017: none 2017: n/a Improvement For definitions and methods of measure for these indicators please refer to page 267. The indicators that fall within the scope of limited assurance of Unchanged our external auditor are marked with the symbol. See page 259 for the Assurance report of the independent auditor, which includes details on the 62 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Deterioration scoping and outcomes. 3% Organic net revenue growth in 2018, overall Arcadis Organic revenue growth Global Key Clients in 2018, 10% net revenues Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 63 Performance & developments | Innovation & Growth Innovation & Growth While our primary focus is organic growth, we also look for opportunities to further expand our digital and data expertise, as evidenced by the recent acquisitions of E2 ManageTech and SEAMS. It is one of our strategic priorities to become a digital sustainable runner in the industry, which is evidenced by the current investments we are making in this area. Organic revenue growth provide the greatest value, we ensure our efforts deliver mutual success. Organic For this purpose, Arcadis operates three major client programs. revenue growth See our overview net revenues Connected Important to of material topics material topic these stakeholders: on page 35, and In our Global Sectors Program we focus on six priority sectors: 3% yy Investors the connectivity automotive, chemical & life sciences, contractors, financial institutions, 6 yy Management matrix on pages manufacturing & technology and oil & gas. Our team of sector leaders 40 and 41. focuses on the relationship and client needs of selected leading global 2017: 1% and regional clients in each priority sector. Net revenues totaled €2,440 million and increased organically by 3%, the currency impact was -3%. North America, Continental Europe, Our Global Solutions Program is centered around six core service Book-to-bill ratio the UK, and Australia Pacific all delivered organic growth. Revenues solutions and seven asset solutions. We have made good progress net revenues declined particularly in the Middle East due to higher selectivity and in digitally reshaping our design & engineering services and our cost the cancellation of a large project. & commercial management practice and we will roll-out next steps in 0.97 2019. Our solution leaders and the network of subject matter experts Organic revenue growth from Global Key Clients was 10%, and they rely on keep a finger on the pulse of innovation. exceeded our goals. 2017: 1.02 We continue to support the global urbanization challenge through Backlog at the end of December 2018 was €2.0 billion (2017: our Global Cities Program (previously Big Urban Clients) where we €2.1 billion), representing ten months of net revenues. The backlog support developed and emerging cities to be successful in improving Organic revenue decreased organically by 4% caused by an almost 60% organic decline mobility of citizens, enhancing resiliency of the urban environment, growth Global Key Clients in the Middle East resulting from our continued selective bidding. and regenerating depleted assets. Our global cities community provides net revenues Excluding the Middle East the backlog increased organically by 2%. a platform where colleagues across regions can exchange insights 10% about the most prominent urban issues. (Global) Sales & Business Development Client success is front and center of our engagement with markets. Following our strategic initiative to re-focus our client portfolio we 2017: 17% We want to be known for making a real difference to our client’s bottom have selected 250 local, regional, and global key clients and will be line, sustainability, and resilience, and we are doing this in a purposeful prioritizing our resources to work on strategic pursuits and strategic way. By carefully selecting those markets and clients where we can projects for them: bringing the best of Arcadis together to meet the most complex challenges of the markets and clients we serve. 64 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Innovation & Growth | Performance & developments To ensure best-practice behavior and delivery, we also have a strong Our Chemical clients are specializing in areas where they can achieve focus on continuous skills and people development through our higher margins and where they can identify efficiency savings by increasing dedicated Client Focus Academy. productivity or by making their supply chain more efficient. We create value for these clients by managing their most complex capital programs Deep market insight, our strong client relationships, and continuous and projects across geographies including research & development WINNER people development are key components of our global programs programs, logistics & manufacturing, getting new products to the market DUBAI and set us apart in the marketplace. fast, lab & field based testing to guarantee compliance, consulting on FRAME operational efficiency to help save costs, and support in sustainability AWARD Developments in 2018 – Global Sectors target definition and achievement. In 2018, we have continued our focus on six global market sectors. Our growth with our global key clients has been 10% which is far above An example: we have been awarded several contracts by Bayer a company average of 3% in 2018, and we have achieved this by delivering Life Science company for the provision of general planning, project a top-quartile client experience based on our deep sector insights. management and construction management service for a period of five years. These contracts include modernization and expansion of Automotive existing infrastructure on several production sites. Automotive manufacturing industry continues to face fierce cost pressure and tight environmental regulations. Consumers increase Contractors their expectations around customer experience and brands explore As projects continue to grow in size, and are being brought to the new retail models and new distribution channels. market through alternative delivery models, the need for a thorough understanding of all key success factors has increased. We team up with Innovation drives rapid transformation through the sector including leading contractors and differentiate solutions through state-of-the-art topics like connectivity, electrification, car-sharing, autonomous driving. technology, digital solutions, iconic design, stakeholder management, We join up with our automotive clients to explore new solutions that asset management insights and operations experience. embrace digital technologies. Our highly customized propositions, which include best-in-class facilities, environmental leadership, brand Our strong relationships with leading global contractors and investors and digital experience for retail, and new mobility networks are helping enable us to work across asset classes and geographies, and to our clients thrive in this rapidly changing market. contribute to the success of many mega-projects across the world. Our Global Excellence Centers contribute to our competitive advantage. We have successfully acquired program management assignments They bring experience, innovation, and agility to local markets; delivering for roll-out of several international high-power-charging networks consistency, quality, and certainty around risk and financial impact. for electric vehicles initiated by leading automotive manufacturers. Financial institutions Chemical & life science In 2018, we continued to see strong demand for major portfolio Our Life Science clients continue to invest in research & development transactions and refinance services across geographies. We have further and manufacturing facilities to follow market demand for new products, expanded our portfolio of CapEx program delivery with large financial or to produce existing products at lower cost. institutions, following the demand of the banking sector to increase control and to reduce risk. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 65 Performance & developments | Innovation & Growth Arcadis has embraced the opportunity to help deliver innovative digital Oil & Gas solutions for our clients through the use of digital advances and new In 2018, we have seen a stable market in oil & gas, with a continued technologies. The use of artificial intelligence to improve efficiency demand for efficiency increase and improved value generation from and reduce reliance on scarce labor for document reviews and insight existing assets. We have focused on efficient delivery of opex and is in operation. We are using our unique global environment and risk capex programs for our key clients. management capability to advise our clients in areas like sustainability, environment, social governance and clean energy. We are using our Arcadis FieldTech Solutions service model to help owners effectively manage their portfolio of redundant sites and We have developed market dominant positions with the world’s largest minimize their ongoing site maintenance costs, while maximizing real estate funds in UK & Europe as well as a fast growing reputation their return upon ultimate transfer of the property. Our service model with clients as a ‘go to’ adviser for real estate funds to develop and also provided a competitive advantage by combining best-in-class local re-position their asset investments in cities with our design and program skills with the scalability and consistency of Global Excellence Centers, management capability. We implement leading edge digital solutions in North America, Europe, and the UK. for workplace and retail banking CAPEX & OPEX governance and delivering Global capex programs for the world’s largest and leading In 2018, we have renewed several of our long-term agreements with Financial Institutions in North America, Asia and Europe & Middle East. global clients in the sector. Manufacturing & Technology Developments in 2018 Global Solutions The way in which goods are being manufactured continues to evolve, Our delivery organization is set up around six core service solutions: and many of our clients are exploring how to develop the ‘factory of consultancy, design & engineering, environmental restoration, the future’ using concepts like industry 4.0, additive manufacturing, operation & maintenance, cost & commercial management, program digitalization. They look for more sustainable solutions, redefine management, and seven asset solutions: integrated airports, intelligent supply chains, and centralize capital investment. water networks, integrated CapEx, ports & waterways, water management, intelligent transportation, rail & urban transport. We are positioned well and we support our clients in developing new state of the art greenfield solutions as well as in optimizing and Our solutions teams lead the way in enhancing client outcomes through redeveloping older or redundant sites. We see a significant increase identifying and scaling excellence, and driving collaboration across the of demand datacenters and distribution facilities following the business. They influence pursuits through collaboration and support, growth of online commerce. and they showcase and promote thought leadership. Solution leaders act as a link between regions, leveraging our global network, We supported a major lift manufacturing company in project and cost recognizing success in the business and help scale best practices. They management for the construction of a high-speed elevator test tower support and drive our communities of practice, championing technical in the South of China. excellence and leading the digital transformation of our core services. 66 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Innovation & Growth | Performance & developments Connecting the best of Arcadis has allowed us to win the design Mobility We help cities create integrated transport solutions and contract for San José’s Diridon high-speed rail station by bringing Dutch advanced transport alternatives to connect people within cities, and Organic revenue growth expertise to our US team. In a similar way we are using US and UK enhance connectivity with public transport. In Australia Pacific Arcadis Global Cities based technical innovation in emerging contaminants across the world, is working on public transport infrastructure projects in Sydney net revenues 11% for example a successful PFAS remediation project for an Australian and Melbourne. aviation client that also deployed Australian-developed technology. Resiliency – We work with cities to establish unique sustainable 2017: 6% Our roadmap for digitization of solutions includes universal BIM/GIS environments which respond to local climate and context, protecting adoption, digitally enabled cost management, project information communities from climate change, while enhancing a city’s ecological management, data-driven operation & maintenance, data analytics and urban design. At the same time creating a critical infrastructure feeding domain expertise, and artificial intelligence. that has multiple community purposes and creates destinations, and integrating resiliency with community design. We have been Developments in 2018 Global Cities assigned a contract to reinforce the ‘Afsluitdijk’, a major dam and Cities around the world -both developed and emergingare facing causeway north of Amsterdam, that was constructed in the 1930s similar challenges: population growth, demand for enhanced to create a fresh water lake know as the IJsselmeer. In addition, in the environmental quality, mobility and connectivity challenges, aging United States we were awarded a Biosolids Facilities Construction infrastructure, complexity of urban development, resilience requirements. Management contract. With our Global Cities Program, Arcadis is uniquely positioned to Regeneration We also help cities address the reuse of depleted assets address and improve the quality of life and enable cities to become to maximize a city’s true potential, transform underperforming cities into more competitive, sustainable, and smarter through mobility, resiliency, high-value social and cultural engines for growth, and breathe new life and regeneration outcomes. Organic net revenue growth from into global cities. In Asia, where urbanization is impacting the full region, Global Cities was 11% in 2018. Arcadis were appointed by the Hong Kong Urban Renewal Authority. Improving quality of life in cities • Integrated transport solutions • Protecting communities from climate change • Transforming underperforming cities Mobility Resiliency Regeneration Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 67 Performance & developments | Innovation & Growth For this client Arcadis develops a program of technical solutions that Data analytics % of revenues could extend the operational life of Hong Kong’s considerable existing 2018 was the year to grow Arcadis’ Advanced Analytics capabilities using BIM level 2 building inventory and help inform future building rehabilitation policy. globally. Together with the acquisition of SEAMS, a subsidiary of Arcadis, and their next generation Enterprise Data Analytics solutions 34% The City Executives who represent Arcadis in selected global cities we are empowering how Arcadis helps its clients succeed in a data develop opportunities, realize needs-based outcomes, and differentiate driven world. Data is the key enabler for Digital in all three-time us for selection to lead on singular projects and large programs. In 2018, horizons. The Data Analytics program was able to develop Analytics 2017: n/a we added San Francisco Bay Area to our selection, and Brussels will be use cases while scaling up our Analytics capabilities and creating the next city to be launched in 2019. the data infrastructure foundation. Innovation and digitization 1st time horizon (today) During 2018, Arcadis focused priorities on the digital asset lifecycle See our overview as a concept which enables us to provide better informed data driven Connected Important to of material topics material topic these stakeholders: on page 35, and decisions towards our clients by digitized processes and data yy Clients the connectivity collaboration in all stages of the asset lifecycle. The first step towards 14 yy Employees matrix on pages the Digital Asset Lifecycle has been the extensive roll-out of BIM Level 21 40 and 41. which included the monetization of applied technology. BIM is mainly focused on Design & Engineering. The goal of 25% of BIM Level 2 Digital and Digital technologies are changing the way companies coverage has largely been exceeded. Based on client needs, in 2018 and people work and interact. Digital has already transformed many the roadmaps for our other prioritized solutions Cost Commercial industries and organizations globally. Today there are only a handful Management and Remediation are developed. By strengthening our of sectors that are yet to be disrupted. Our Architecture, Engineering, Communities of Practitioners based on common Digital Uses we lay and Construction (AEC) industry is one of the last industries to go the foundation for an accelerated roll-out in 2019 of these roadmaps. through a digital transformation but Arcadis is acting to lead digital in this industry. 2nd and 3rd time horizons (tomorrow and after tomorrow) Within Arcadis Digital Innovation we have invested in three significant Our strategy is focused around three-time horizons, preparing us programs – Deep Orange, the incubation of prototypes that have a for today, tomorrow, and the day after tomorrow. By implementing strategic importance within the short term through an internal 1 B  uilding Information Modelling (BIM) is a the strategy, we will digitize and scale our existing technologies and incubation program, and TechStars. collaborative way of working underpinned by digital technologies. BIM Level 2 maturity is a business models and explore new technologies and value propositions series of domain and collaborative federated models. The models, consisting of both 3D in co-creation with our clients. Deep Orange geometrical and non-graphical data, are We have continued our work in co-creation with clients through prepared by different parties during the project life-cycle within the context of a common data In 2017, a global multidisciplinary team was formed to build a digitallyour Deep Orange program. Deep Orange is a co-creation innovation environment. Using proprietary information exchanges between various systems, project enabled business by further defining the agenda and establishing areas program based on the fundamental principles of design thinking for participants will have the means necessary to of client-led priorities to focus and invest in. Efforts of the digital natural and built assets. provide defined and validated outputs via digital transactions in a structured and reusable form transformation have continued in 2018. 68 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Innovation & Growth | Performance & developments In the program, multidisciplinary professionals from client organizations, The second part, called Expedition, is an intensive face-to-face skillsecosystem partners, and Arcadis identify innovative digital based learning journey which aims to build sustainable coalitions of Arcadis Way implementation opportunities for key public and private organizations. ambassadors that expand our digital capabilities across Arcadis. progress as % of net revenues 33% Techstars The Arcadis Way Arcadis takes its responsibility as a market and thought leader by The Arcadis Way is our harmonized way of working, which provides preparing a long-term vision on the future of cities as successful us with a true competitive edge. The elements of the Arcadis Way link 2017: 31% habitats for people. In complete accordance with Arcadis’ passion to with each strategic pillar, for example with Innovation & Growth by improve the quality of life, the company has and is actively investing enhancing client selectivity and pursuing profitable projects. For further in living, working, and traveling in cities now and in the decades to explanation of the Arcadis Way see pages 76 and 77 in this section on come fueled by innovation and technology. The Arcadis City of 2030 Innovation & Growth. Accelerator, Powered by TechStars, is a tangible action to make this ambition reality. The global partnership between Arcadis and TechStars In 2018, the Arcadis Way was implemented to Hong Kong, Macau and aims to identify and develop innovative start-ups to transform the Indonesia. Furthermore, substantial work was done to prepare for the natural and build environment. implementation of the Arcadis Way in North America, which will be the first region supported by the full suite of Oracle Cloud applications. Expedition DNA Expedition DNA has been developed as a core program to support the The go-live of North America, initially planned for October 2018, digital transformation of Arcadis by investing in the digital development of has been rescheduled to July 2019 to allow more time to ensure the our people. The program consists of two components to maximize the Oracle applications support the client specific billing requirements in incorporation of Digital in our Arcadis DNA. The first one is an online North America. The implementation of the Arcadis Way to Continental learning platform, called Base Camp, for all things digital. To date, over Europe has been rescheduled to July 2020. 25% of our workforce have started to voluntarily participate in Base Camp. Today Tomorrow After tomorrow • Data-driven earnings models • Human centric digital solutions • Revenue and margin growth 100% BIM Digital value propositions Digital lab Scale Incubate Explore Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 69 Performance & developments | Innovation & Growth Sustainability partnerships World Economic Forum Collaboration is key to come to the best and most sustainable solutions. Arcadis’ participation within the World Economic Forum (WEF) SDG 17 Partnerships for Goals supports this belief, which we practice at remained at the Industry Associate level, hence granting us access to Arcadis through active involvement in a number of partnerships in which several private meetings of the Infrastructure and Urban Development we collaborate with other businesses, governments, NGOs, and society. Industry Group. World Business Council for Sustainable Development As a member of the Governors Steering Committee Infrastructure In 2018, we continued our membership with the World Business Council & Urban Development Industries, our CEO actively contributed to for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), where we have a strong proceedings. We actively participated in the WEF Davos event. presence. This year we focused on three of their programs. Arcadis Our CEO Peter Oosterveer joined the World Economic Forum’s Alliance remained involved in the sustainable cities work within WBCSD, scaling of CEO Climate Leaders to send an important warning to world leaders. up our Zero Emission Cities (ZEC) and Energy Efficiency in Buildings Despite the progress to stem the negative effects of climate change, work. In 2018, this resulted in concrete projects with clients in the global greenhouse gas emissions remain at historically high levels. Amsterdam area. We started studies on waste heat from data-centers, The letter from CEOs of some of the world’s most prominent companies solar panels and make the Amsterdam Arena more energy efficient. In has a clear message: ‘We need to do more, faster and together.’ this program, which will change name to City Partnership Program, we will investigate our role in a ‘new city development’ of Xiong’an in China. This open letter was issued ahead of the 24th Conference of the Parties As part of the ongoing implementation of the Paris Agreement, Arcadis to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change has contributed to the Talanoa Dialogue used at the COP24 in Poland. (UNFCCC), which took place in Katowice, Poland in early December 2018. The letter expresses Arcadis’ commitment to climate action and our Next to the cities program, Arcadis joined the Circular Economy company’s willingness to ‘fast-track solutions’ to help the world make program Factor 10. Together with WBCSD we launched a research the 2015 Paris Climate Agreement a reality. But to do so the Alliance report entitled ‘How to scale the circular built environment?’. of CEO Climate Leaders is calling on world leaders to create an Arcadis was the writer of this report which was launched on 5 December. effective carbon pricing mechanism, to stimulate low-carbon finance and investments and to develop policy tools to create societal demand In October, we decided to co-chair the program Transforming Urban for low-carbon solutions. Mobility of the WBCSD and become one of their leading partners in this program. Next to leading this group, our role will be to bring in knowledge 100 Resilient Cities – pioneered by the Rockefeller foundation (100RC) on cities and mass transportation. This will lead to a report in 2019. Arcadis is a proud platform partner of 100 Resilient Cities, pioneered To gain further involvement of our employees with the theme of by the Rockefeller Foundation. The aim of the network is to ‘help cities sustainability, our Director of Finance Transformation & Integrated around the world become more resilient to the physical, social, and Reporting from our head office in Amsterdam, finished the WBCSD economic challenges that are a growing part of the 21st century’. Leadership Program together with around 45 other high-potential The network consists of 101 (as Houston after Hurricane Harvey leaders from other industries, focusing on integrating strategic just joined as an additional number 101) cities that are provided with sustainability into business decision-making and reporting. the resources to develop their own roadmap to Resilience. 70 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Innovation & Growth | Performance & developments Eventually, the goal is not to just help the individual cities to become Resilient Pathway interactive stakeholder sessions to identify resilient more resilient, but also to facilitate a global practice of urban Resilience urban (re)development opportunities were in 2018 held in Honolulu among governments, NGOs, the private sector, and citizens. (Iwilei Kapalama TOD), Greater Manchester (Bolton town Center Green Blue Resilience Opportunities) and in New Orleans (Storm Water Arcadis offered as part of our commitment to provide pro bono services Management Resilience Roundtables). Arcadis also participated in the sectors of built environment, climate and weather, finance and in 100RC urban resilience workshops in Surat, Chennai, Houston water management. Our RF100RC involvement has helped to position and Toronto. Arcadis worldwide as a thought leader in city Resilience, in particular from the perspective of urban climate change adaptation, flood UN Global Compact Resilience and financing of Resilience measures. We have been a member of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) since 2009, and are committed to its objectives and to the ten universal principles Our partnership with 100RC is based on a five-year commitment and regarding human rights, labor standards, environmental stewardship, started in mid-2015, so we have two more years to go. and anti-corruption. As part of this commitment, we launched our Human Rights and Labor Rights Policy in 2016. Our values, mission, Resilient Urban Development and strategy are fully aligned with the UNGC principles, and our signing Urban Resilience has been the nucleus of Arcadis Resilience activities, of these principles reflects our ambition to be a sustainability leader. and in particular our partnership with 100RC has been a driver for us We are committed to making the UNGC and its principles part of the to take actions and develop our curriculum, expertise, content and day-to-day operations of our Company and included this commitment network. Our focus within 100RC has been on implementing urban in our General Business Principles. Arcadis regards its suppliers and climate adaptation, flood Resilience and on helping our clients how to subcontractors as partners and collaborates with them to ensure their finance these Resilience measures. To unlock money flows and to raise activities are aligned with our UNGC commitment. In addition, Arcadis capacity of stakeholders, Arcadis has developed and successfully tested adheres to the Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises as issued by a new and unique high-level business model, the Resilient Pathway, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). usually related to urban (re)development, urban infrastructure or (water) utilities. The Resilient Pathway was used to help several 100RC cities to identify their ‘moments of change’ and to define investment opportunities, while creating a marriage between technical, financial and social engineering. The Resilient Pathway approach entails five different phases of scoping, optioneering, prioritization, deal structuring and project implementation. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 71 Performance & developments | Innovation & Growth Energy and emissions carbon footprint Every year information is assessed for quality and where necessary Arcadis’ carbon adjusted for improved data capture methodologies. For 2018, those footprint See our overview MT CO2 per FTE Connected changes included updates to vehicle travel estimates particularly Important to of material topics material topic these stakeholders: on page 35, and in Australia, Brazil and Chile drove down vehicle numbers. Energy 2.98 yy Civil society the connectivity consumption continued to decline from 2017 to 2018 as we continue 26 yy Employees matrix on pages to seek out more energy-efficient buildings and optimize building space. 40 and 41. Public transport continues to increase, attributed in part to public 2017: 3.34 agencies’ improved data tracking systems and in part to employees Our carbon footprint reflects the way we do business. Since 2010, favoring more efficient forms of travel. Furthermore, an error was we have strived to report consistently with World Business Council identified in how our third-party vendor was reporting scope 3 public for Sustainable Development/World Resources Institute Corporate transportation data in the U.S. this also drove down scope 3 public Reporting Standards (GRP). The result is a global organization focused transportation numbers. on understanding our true environmental impact and a near-perfect decade of reducing our carbon footprint. While the road has not always It was determined that paper purchased in Australia (20% PCW) didn’t been the easy one, our continuous improvement approach has allowed meet the minimum criteria (30% PCW) and therefore the percentage regions to set and achieve individual targets reflecting their specific of PCW/FSC paper usage decreased. business model, their client needs, and their peoples’ passions. As a global organization, we continue to sharpen our approach to In 2019, we will continue our efforts to reduce our impacts regionally. understand both the impact of our operations directly and the indirect At the global level, we will focus on transitioning regions to a new impacts our work has on our clients’ environmental footprint. reporting platform and work individually with each region to ensure estimation techniques and emission factors, particularly for scope 3 Arcadis applies the operational control approach, and accounts for indirect emissions, are used consistently and reflective of the way we the greenhouse gas emissions from operations over which it has do business. control. For measuring, managing, and reporting on greenhouse gases, we follow methodologies outlined in the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Our Core Sustainability Team continues to be pivotal to data collection, protocol. While each region has some flexibility in adopting their reporting, and sharing best practices. Roll-out of an integrated European own targets and tracking their own progress, Arcadis requires regions ISO 50001 energy management system and ISO 14001 environmental to report a select set of global metrics annually that we have management system continues. Engaging our clients and integrating determined to be material to our organization’s environmental impact. sustainability into the work we do also continues. Despite our efforts to Metrics are compiled globally and summarized in the annual report; identify ways that we can accurately measure and track impacts related additional details are published publicly via the Climate Disclosure to our client work, we continue to see greater interest from our clients Project. Carbon footprint data are reported by the operating companies and our people to collaborate more and embed sustainability into to environmental engineering professionals, which review the data. everything we do. Our commitment to sustainability continues to This review includes a comparison to other operating companies support our drive to improve quality of life in every community in and historical performance. which we operate. 72 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Innovation & Growth | Performance & developments Carbon footprint results Environmental non-compliance Emissions per FTE by emission source Number of identified See our overview environmental CO2 Emissions (MT CO2 /FTE) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Connected Important to of material topics non-compliances material topic these stakeholders: none on page 35, and Scope 1 Vehicles (Business) 0.63 0.66 0.57 0.54 0.44 yy Civil society the connectivity Scope 1 Vehicles (Commuting) 0.09 0.09 0.08 0.07 0.06 32 yy Employees matrix on pages Scope 2 Electricity 1.25 1.16 1.05 1.02 0.96 40 and 41. Scope 3 Air 0.98 0.88 0.90 0.83 0.81 2017: none Scope 3 Auto 0.60 0.50 0.64 0.60 0.49 On an annual basis, Arcadis performs many environmental remediation Scope 3 Public Transport 0.16 0.17 0.18 0.19 0.18 projects. These projects involve the removal of (hazardous) chemicals Scope 3 Natural Gas 0.17 0.10 0.08 0.08 0.05 from soil, groundwater and sediments. Over the years, Arcadis has Scope 3 Fuel (Other) 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 specialized in in-situ remediation technologies, negating the need Total 3.88 3.56 3.50 3.34 2.98 to haul these (hazardous) chemicals and transport them to treatment plants. The inherent advantages of in-situ remediation technologies Nominal metrics per FTE by emission source are related to cost, safety and ease of compliance. The cost reduction mostly stems from the reduced use of machines and man-power to (METRICS PER FTE) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 remove materials from treatment sites, which can add labor cost, Scope 1 Vehicles (km/FTE) 3,379 3,446 3,247 2,829 2,268 plus cost of equipment and fuel. Scope 2 Electricity (kWh/FTE) 2,515 2,403 2,189 2,147 2,021 Scope 3 Air (km/FTE) 7,530 6,674 6,815 6,838 6,786 Health and safety is aided as the risk of physical contact of workers Scope 3 Auto (km/FTE) 2,204 2,179 2,278 2,319 1,899 with the hazardous materials is greatly reduced. Arcadis has a strong Scope 3 Public Transport (km/FTE) 1,925 2,122 2,215 2,311 2,267 health and safety program, geared towards seeing to the residual Scope 3 Natural Gas (kWh/FTE) 920 519 445 405 250 risks which remain in these projects. Finally, compliance with Scope 3 Other Fuel (kWh/FTE) 20 25 19 21 19 environmental standards is easier to manage, as no materials leave Paper Consumption (kg/FTE) 37 29 28 29 24 the site, unless this is unavoidable for proper treatment. In 2018, FSC/PCW Paper (%) 82% 83% 85% 87% 82% no material environmental non-compliance issues were reported within Arcadis (2017: none). Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 73 Performance & developments | Innovation & Growth Climate change We are in the process of assessing our risks and opportunities posed by % of revenues climate change based on the work of the Task Force of Climate Change that relate to See our overview relevant SDGs Connected Related Disclosure. The experience gained through this can then also Important to of material topics material topic these stakeholders: on page 35, and be applied to work for clients. 80% yy Civil society the connectivity 33 yy Employees matrix on pages Circular economy 40 and 41. Looking beyond the current ‘take, make and dispose’ extractive 2017: n/a industrial model, the circular economy is restorative and regenerative Arcadis’ broad consulting capabilities related to climate change range by design. Relying on system-wide innovation, it aims to redefine from strategy development and carbon footprint reporting to products and services to design waste out, while minimizing negative consulting on preventing or reducing the causes of climate change. impacts. Underpinned by a transition to renewable energy sources, The issue of climate change and concerted government efforts to the circular model builds economic, natural, and social capital. reduce carbon outputs represents a significant opportunity for Arcadis. The company consults to both governments and private companies to In 2017, Arcadis worked on the development of its own circular assist them in significantly reducing carbon outputs and increase economy strategy, identifying opportunities where it can help its clients climate resilience over the next decades. develop a vision, strategy or action plans related to circular thinking and working. At a tactical level, Arcadis can provide clients with advice on Our strength in climate change consulting mainly lies in helping clients how circular thinking impacts policies and how it relates to sustainability address the climate issue in their operations to create a lasting positive programs. Operationally, Arcadis plays a role in designing circular impact. This can range from climate change mitigation strategies in solutions for construction projects, area development, reuse of buildings supply chains and energy efficiency solutions in industrial processes, and many other concepts. all the way through to embedded carbon analysis in material choices and energy-efficient designs in buildings and infrastructure. In 2018, we started executing this strategy in concrete projects and in Additionally, we work with our clients on climate change adaptation our own business operations. For example, we transformed our biggest strategies. We do this mainly for urban clients, either creating resilient office in the world in Amersfoort to the new standards and used the adaptation measures or strategies. principles of Circular Economy. We re-used parts of our furniture (painted it, new decks et cetera), we sold our old walls and plants instead For many of our industrial clients, climate change can have a major of seeing them as waste, we re-used close in boilers, and lighting, and impact on their assets and liabilities. Given the consulting nature of our used sustainable new materials like circular carpet (made of old fishing activities, this impact is thought to be limited for Arcadis and therefore nets), furniture and walls. Based on these decisions, we stayed within not listed as a risk to the firm, but rather as an opportunity. However, budget and created a more healthy and pleasant place to work – based where possible, the Company is addressing climate change in its on this we won the Healthy Urban Office Award. We also did several operations through actions directed at reducing its carbon footprint. projects for clients. Big clients where we add circularity in projects are the European Union (policies on circular economy), ProRail (Copper Cycle) and several municipalities with concrete projects. 74 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Innovation & Growth | Performance & developments We launched this year a report together with the WBCSD to tackle the •• Measure our impacts effectively and monitor our performance question ‘How to scale the circular built environment?’. We performed a through key performance indicators. global research and advised on how to scale up. As a leading company •• Set appropriate targets and strive for continuous improvement. we also took the initiative together with other private parties to This includes, but is not limited to the issues of energy, water, waste influence policy making by sending a letter to politicians about how to and carbon. scale up circular economy in The Netherlands. This policy is implemented at a regional level to reflect the varying Securing water of sufficient quantity and quality is one of the most challenges and priorities in different localities. Performance is reported important challenges facing the world today. It affects present and to the Executive Board and made available to our stakeholders as future generations, and has significant implications for business, society, appropriate. and the environment. In 2016, many of the world’s largest companies reported US$14 billion in water-related impacts including drought, Outcomes of the policy flooding or water stress – five times more than the previous year. Having achieved certification of its Energy Management System in accordance with ISO 50001, Arcadis NV 2018 was able to structurally This Business Guide to Circular Water Management is designed to improve its energy performance. Arcadis NV's carbon reduction goal is equip business decision-makers with the tools they need to understand to reduce 30% MT CO2 per FTE and 20% energy (GJ) per FTE in 2025 how to overcome internal and external barriers to implementing circular compared to 2015. To achieve this target, the program will mainly focus water management solutions. It will also help businesses understand on reducing travel by plane, the biggest source of carbon dioxide. Our how and why water regulations matter, and what best practices renewed Travel Policy discourages air travel in favor of virtual meetings. already exist. At the same time, under 700 kilometers, train travel has become mandatory, provided it stays within certain time limits. Disclosures related to environmental matters Arcadis has a Global Sustainability Policy through which, in relation In 2018, Arcadis joined KLM’s Corporate BioFuel Program (CBP) through to environmental matters, the company commits to the following: which the company will purchase sustainable biofuel for all its business •• Through provision of our services, to promote and achieve reduced flights. Our entry into KLM’s Program contributes significantly to negative impacts and maximized positive impacts for our clients. making air travel more sustainable. •• Where possible, avoid or reduce negative impacts from our own activities and operations. •• Work with our suppliers and partners to select products and services www. .com/en/global/who-we-are/business-practices/human-rights-and-laborwhich are socially, economically and environmentally responsible. rights-policy/ •• Empower and encourage our people, through training and our senior leaders, to embrace sustainable practices in everything we do. •• As a minimum, comply with legislation and regulatory requirements that apply to our operations and our project activities. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 75 Performance & developments | Innovation & Growth The Arcadis Way Implementing harmonized business processes, supporting technologies and behaviors, creates a global way of working. The Arcadis Way enables employees to grow and provide superior value to clients, realize their potential, and work jointly towards common goals, based on shared values. Our harmonized way of working People & Culture Innovation & Growth Focus & Performance Enable our people to develop in a culture that Enhance client selectivity, and pursue Enhance project performance via best includes client focus and knowledge exchange profitable projects practice processes, and data analytics Single cloud platform covering People, Clients, Sales, Delivery, Finance, and Business Intelligence Key processes and operational control points for projects Market-to-opportunity Pursuit-to-win Deliver-to-result Control project Create Identify Create Create Create Contract Initiate Plan Close awareness need opportunity pursuit team offer awarding project project project & approach Execute project Client Opportunity Strategic Pursuit Sign Project Project Reflect go/no-go go/no-go Committee contract kick-off reviews & learn Handover meeting 76 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Progress Arcadis Way implementation Net revenues of countries on Arcadis Way as percentage of total net revenues 2016 Asia (in part) 2017 Australia Pacific, Middle East, UK, and GECs (Philippines and India) 2018 33% Asia (Hong Kong, Macau and Indonesia) Implemented as at 31 December 2018 2019 North America 2020 and after Continental Europe, Asia (part), Latin America Realizing our strategic targets Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 77 Performance & developments | Focus & Performance Performance & developments Focus & Performance Focus where we can lead, and deliver client and project excellence At Arcadis, we build leadership positions based on relevance for clients, local presence, and global positions. Businesses that fail to meet our criteria are de-prioritized. Consistency is created through the Arcadis Way. We can offer competitive delivery models by increasing the utilization of our Global Excellence Centers. Gross Net Income from Dividend Operating EBITA Net Income revenues Operations, per share per share margin from Operations in € millions in € proposed, in € as % of net revenues in € millions 3,256 1.01 0.47 7.3% 88 2017: 3,219 2017: 1.18 2017: 0.47 2017: 7.6% 2017: 101 Net Working Days Sales Return on Net debt to Free Capital Outstanding Invested Capital EBITDA ratio Cash Flow as % of gross revenues (DSO) (ROIC) average in € millions 15.1% 80 4.7% 2.0 149 2017: 16.9% 2017: 88 2017: 7.3% 2017: 2.3 2017: 98 Improvement For definitions and methods of measure for these indicators please refer to page 267. The indicators that fall within the scope of limited assurance of Unchanged our external auditor are marked with the symbol. See page 259 for the Assurance report of the independent auditor, which includes details on the 78 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Deterioration scoping and outcomes. 3,256 Gross revenues in € millions Operating as % of 7.3% EBITA margin net revenues (€2,440) Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 79 Performance & developments | Focus & Performance Focus & Performance In 2018, we delivered a strong cash flow, on the back of an increased focus on project performance, continued attention for more rigorous working capital management and good results in our key markets. We have reviewed our portfolio and ringfenced the issues in the Middle East and Asia, where we are taking decisive actions to turn around the underperforming businesses to improve growth and returns. These steps combined with our continued focus on the implementation of the three strategic pillars will enable us to achieve our targeted operating EBITA margin in 2020. Financial highlights for the year •• Net working capital improved to 15.1% •• Operating EBITA margin decreased to 7.3% •• Net income from operations of €88 million (2017: 16.9%); Days Sales Outstanding to 80 days (2017: 7.6%); including project write-offs and (2017: €101 million). (2017: 88 days). provisions related to the Middle East and Asia •• Proposal to maintain dividend at €0.47 per share •• Strong free cash flow of €149 million leading with a total margin impact of 0.8%. (2017: €0.47); pay-out ratio 47%. to a year-end Net debt/EBITDA ratio of 1.7. •• Goodwill impairment of €40 million, mainly •• Organic net revenue growth of 3% to €2.4 billion reflecting re-assessment of Middle East, leading (gross revenues of €3.3 billion). to a net loss of €27 million. “With a strong focus on cash and the successful refinancing, we have strengthened our balance sheet in line with our strategic framework.” Sarah Kuijlaars CFO Arcadis 80 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Focus & Performance | Performance & developments Direct economic value generated Examples of these building blocks are a project review training for our Gross revenues line managers, improved risk management tools for project managers in € millions See our overview and client portfolio analyses for our sales community. Connected Important to of material topics material topic these stakeholders: on page 35, and 3,256 yy Management the connectivity Make Every Project Count requires participation from different roles in 1 yy Employees matrix on pages the company: project management, Finance, Legal, line management 40 and 41. and Sales & Business Development. Our client and project excellence 2017: 3,219 focus will enable us to execute our projects consistently and flawlessly. Gross revenues for the year amount to €3,256 million This will also drive Sales & Business Development and sales excellence (2017: €3,219 million). Net revenues totaled €2,440 million across the project lifecycle. and increased organically by 3%, the currency impact was -3%. Net revenues in € millions North America, Continental Europe, the UK, and Australia Pacific all The first results of this program became visible in 2018 in several of delivered organic growth. Revenues declined particularly in the Middle our regions and countries. We recognized a reduction of the number of East due to higher selectivity and the cancellation of a large project. Make Every Project Count loss-making projects and there was more focus on project management capabilities and selective tendering. The Philippines achieved as first country within Arcadis, the goal of having ‘zero loss making projects’. 2,440 2017: 2,437 At the beginning of 2018 we rolled out our new Make Every Project The success was down to a combination of collaboration, client Count (MEPC) program. The program aims to significantly improve selection/negotiation and operational discipline. This meant bidding project financial performance by focusing on aligning our people, only where there was ‘value’ that Arcadis could bring and not only price. behaviors, processes and systems with The Arcadis Way. It is an Before starting the execution of a project in the Philippines, there was a important lever to improve our financial performance over the next clear plan for profit, the right/trained project managers were available three years and be a leader in our industry. and there is a collaborative mindset of the team to create the outcomes for the client and the promised profits for Arcadis. By executing MEPC has a bottom-up approach. In Maturity Assessment workshops structured monthly reviews, being transparent on all challenges, asking – performed on a business unit level – our people evaluate and rate their for help and tracking scope changes, the teams controlled and managed unit’s maturity on ten principles that describe how we do business at their projects in a disciplined way. The combination of the right people, Arcadis. Those principles cover the whole project lifecycle: from sales selection, mindset and discipline led to this achievement and meant and project delivery towards project close-out and capturing lessons that every project contributed to the country's profitability. learned. Units identify improvement areas and agree actions to improve their maturity. In 2018, we performed 120 of those one-days workshops. Due to a stricter project review regime in 2018 we believe that our These Maturity Assessments will be performed every year for the current project portfolio is healthier than it was before. We expect duration of the program. In addition, we developed a number of tools the coming years an improvement of project financial performance (or ‘building blocks’) on a central level, aimed to support our units as a result of the MEPC program. in increasing their maturity. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 81 Performance & developments | Focus & Performance Direct economic value distributed As part of its communications policy, Arcadis regularly keeps the public Net Income from informed about other important developments, such as significant Operations, per share See our overview in € Connected project wins or acquisitions, through ad hoc press releases. Important to of material topics material topic these stakeholders: on page 35, and 1.01 yy Management the connectivity In 2018, Arcadis held investor roadshows and participated in investor 2 yy Civil society matrix on pages conferences in the world’s major financial centers including Boston, 40 and 41. Brussels, Frankfurt, Paris, London, Madrid, New York, Toronto, while 2017: 1.18 also hosting reverse roadshows for investors at its offices. Arcadis shares in general Approximately 200 investor meetings were held in the year. Arcadis shares are listed on Euronext Amsterdam under the symbol Arcadis is currently covered by eight financial analysts. Dividend per share ARCAD, where it is a constituent of the Amsterdam Midkap Index® proposed, in € (AMX). The average daily trading volume in Arcadis shares on Euronext The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders is scheduled for Amsterdam in 2018 was 214,298 shares (2017: 261,937). Of the total 25 April 2019 2.00 p.m. in Amsterdam, the Netherlands. The agenda 0.47 volume traded, 58% of the shares were traded via Euronext, 16% via for this meeting will be available in March 2019 from the Company BATS, 15% via CHI-X, 10% via Turquoise and 1% via Equiduct. upon request, and will be published on the Company’s website. 2017: 0.47 As at 31 December 2018, and pursuant to the Dutch Financial Number of outstanding ordinary shares Supervision Act, the largest shareholders in Arcadis were: The total number of outstanding ordinary shares as at 31 December 2018 was 87,711,327 (see note 24 of the Consolidated Stichting Lovinklaan 18% financial statements). During 2018, 580,958 shares were repurchased APG Asset Management 14% to cover obligations related to incentive plans, while 221,133 previously Fidelity Management & Research 10% repurchased shares were used for the exercising of options, and another Vereniging KNHM 4% 1,608,094 shares were issued for stock dividend. Arcadis has an active investor relations policy aimed at supporting The average number of shares, used for calculating earnings per share, the Company’s long-term plans by keeping existing and potential increased to 87.1 million (2017: 85.9 million). For more information on shareholders fully abreast of its strategy and latest operational and the number of outstanding shares and options, and on share purchase financial developments. To emphasize its focus on the long term, plans, see notes 9, 12 and 24 to the Consolidated financial statements. Arcadis releases a trading update for the first and third quarters of the year, and a full set of financial results for the full and half-year. Share price development Twice a year, at the presentation of its full-year and half-year results, On the last trading day of 2018, the Arcadis share price closed at Arcadis holds a financial press and analyst conference, which is €10.66, while on the last trading day of 2017 it closed at €19.05, broadcasted live over the internet. A conference call was held in 2018 for a year-on-year absolute decrease of 44%. Including reinvested financial analysts and investors at the presentation of the third quarter dividends, the total return was -42%. The development of the trading updates. Arcadis share compared to the peer group companies is shown in the graph on page 85. 82 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Focus & Performance | Performance & developments The peer group consisted of the following international, publicly listed Profit and loss performance companies in the consulting and engineering industry with activities EBITA See our overview in € millions and a size comparable to those of Arcadis: Aecom (New York Stock Connected Important to of material topics Exchange); Cardno (Australian Securities Exchange); Hill International material topic these stakeholders: on page 35, and 162 (New York Stock Exchange); Jacobs (New York Stock Exchange); Pöyry yy Investors the connectivity (Helsinki Stock Exchange); RPS (London Stock Exchange); SNC-Lavalin 5 yy Management matrix on pages 40 and 41. (Toronto Stock Exchange); Stantec (New York Stock Exchange); 2017: 161 Sweco (The Nordic Exchange, Stockholm); Tetra Tech (NASDAQ); Wood Group (London Stock Exchange); Worley Parsons (Australian The profit and loss performance of Arcadis in 2018 and 2017 is Securities Exchange); WSP (Toronto Stock Exchange). summarized as follows (see also the Consolidated financial statements): EBITDA In € millions 2018 2017 in € millions Earnings per share Operating income reported 98.4 129.9 The basic earnings per share for 2018 amounted to €0.31 negative 204 Depreciation and amortization 42.6 39.6 (2017: €0.82). Earnings per share based on Net Income from Operations Amortization other intangible assets 22.7 31.0 amounted to €1.01 (2017: €1.18). See note 12 to the Consolidated Impairment charges 40.4 – financial statements for further details. EBITDA 204.1 200.5 2017: 200 Dividend per share (policy and proposal) EBITA 161.5 160.9 Arcadis’ dividend policy is aimed at dividend stability and a pay-out of 30 40% of Net Income from Operations, to provide shareholders Non-operating costs 15.7 25.5 Operating EBITA Operating EBITA 177.2 186.4 in € millions a respectable dividend yield, to maintain a healthy financial structure, and to retain sufficient earnings in order to grow both organically 177 and through acquisitions. Reflecting our confidence in the strengthened EBITDA, EBITA, and operating income balance sheet and steps taken to achieve the targets of our strategic Our EBITDA in the year was €204 million (2017: €200 million). EBITA framework, a dividend of €0.47 per share is proposed, being 47% of was slightly higher at €162 million compared to €161 million in 2017. 2017: 186 Net Income from Operations. Operating EBITA decreased by 5% to €177 million (2017: €186 million) including a currency impact of -4%. Higher results in North America, As in the previous year, shareholders will be offered the choice between the UK, Continental Europe and Australia Pacific were offset by lower a cash dividend or a dividend in shares, with further details to be results mainly from the Middle East and Asia. Operating EBITA margin Operating EBITA margin provided in the agenda for the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. decreased to 7.3% (2017: 7.6%); including project write offs and as % of net revenues provisions in the Middle East and Asia with a total operating EBITA 7.3% margin impact of 0.8% 2017: 7.6% Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 83 Performance & developments | Focus & Performance Non-operating costs were €16 million (2017: €25 million), of which For Latin America, an impairment charge of €6.5 million has been Net Income from recognized in 2018. This reflects our future business expectations in €15 million related to restructuring in Continental Europe and Brazil, Operations in € millions €4 million to one-off pension costs in the UK, a release of €5 million Latin America, where in Brazil the post-electoral economic sentiment is due to the settlement of an acquisition related claim and €2 million positive but concrete measures and progress is yet to come. For Middle 88 in acquisition & divestment costs. EBITA was €162 million, slightly East, an impairment charge of €33.9 million has been recognized in higher than last year (2017: €161 million). 2018. This reflects our future business expectations in the Middle East as a result of the decision to be more selective and de-risk the portfolio. 2017: 101 Personnel costs Personnel costs were €1,887 million, a 1% increase compared to the The total impairment on Goodwill recognized in 2018 amounts to previous year (2017: €1,866 million). Our global workforce remained flat €40.4 million. Net Working versus December 2017. The number of people in the regions slightly Capital as % of gross revenues increased, offset by a decrease in the Global Excellence Centers. Net finance expense Net finance expenses were €27 million (2017: €26 million). Net interest 15.1% Other operational costs expenses decreased to €23 million (2017: €24 million) as a result of Other operational costs were €355 million, 4% less than previous year lower debt. (2017: €371 million). 2017: 16.9% Results for associates and joint ventures Depreciation and amortization Result from investments accounted for using the equity method was Depreciation and amortization of property, plants and equipment a loss of €13 million (2017: loss of €12 million), related to non-core Days Sales clean energy assets in Brazil. The credit loss on shareholder loans and software was €43 million (2017: €40 million). Identifiable intangible Outstanding (DSO) assets related to acquisitions such as the profit included in backlog, and corporate guarantees (‘impairment ALEN’) was €53 million. customer relationships, and brand values are amortized. The 80 amortization in 2018 was €23 million (2017: €31 million). Income taxes The normalized effective income tax rate was 27.2% (2017: 19.7%). Impairment of assets The tax rate in 2017 was low due to the US tax reform resulting in a 2017: 88 one-time gain of €13 million from revaluation of deferred tax positions. The outcome of the Goodwill impairment test calculation at 31 December 2018 revealed that the recoverable amount of the Company decreased compared to prior year. The recoverable Net income from Operations amount for all Cash-Generating Units, except Latin America Net income from operations decreased 13% to €88 million and Middle East, exceeded the carrying amount. (2017: €101 million) or €1.01 per share (2017: €1.18). 84 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Focus & Performance | Performance & developments Arcadis (Euronext) against AMX Arcadis (Euronext) against peer group 120 200 170 100 140 80 110 60 80 40 50 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan 2011 Jan 2012 Jan 2013 Jan 2014 Jan 2015 Jan 2016 Jan 2017 Jan 2018 Jan 2019 Arcadis 1st quarter 2nd quarter 3rd quarter 4th quarter Arcadis AMX 19.48 High 18.05 High 15.79 High 14.46 High Peer group 14.88 Low 15.34 Low 14.26 Low 10.08 Low Balance sheet performance (Net) Working Capital and Days Sales Outstanding (DSO) Net working capital as a percentage of gross revenues was 15.1% See our overview (Q4 2017: 16.9%). The Days Sales Outstanding improved to 80 days Connected Important to of material topics material topic these stakeholders: on page 35, and (2017: 88 days). yy Investors the connectivity 8 yy Employees matrix on pages As at 31 December, Net Working Capital, and Net Working Capital as 40 and 41. a percentage of gross revenues are is calculated as follows: Year-on-year, the balance sheet total decreased to €2,709 million In € millions 2018 2017 (2017: €2,786 million), as a result of the loss for the period and Contract assets (unbilled receivables) 545 565 transactions with owners of the Company. The total amount of Trade receivables (excl. receivables from associates) 582 578 intangible assets, including goodwill, declined to €1,054 million Contract liabilities (billing in excess of cost, loss provisions) (371) (363) (2017: €1,074 million), mainly impacted by goodwill impairments, Accounts payable (236) (237) amortization and exchange rate effects. Net Working Capital 520 543 The investments in (in)tangible assets (excluding acquisitions) Q4 gross revenues, annualized 3,444 3,219 increased to €65 million (2017: €59 million), mainly as a result of Net Working Capital as % of gross revenues 15.1% 16.9% higher investments in software and intangibles under development. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 85 Performance & developments | Focus & Performance Cash and cash equivalents Net debt Return on Cash and cash equivalents at year-end amounted to €241 million Net debt, which is defined as interest bearing debt minus cash and cash Invested Capital (ROIC) (2017: €268 million). equivalents, was €342 million (2017: €416 million). Interest bearing debt also includes after-payment obligations related to acquisitions, totaling 4.7% Equity €9 million (2017: €8 million). The movements in total equity are summarized in the Consolidated statement of changes in equity on page 172. Balance sheet ratios 2017: 7.3% The year-end net debt to EBITDA ratio was 1.7 (2017: 2.1). Based on the Loans and borrowings average net debt for June 2018 and December 2018, the leverage ratio Long-term loans and borrowings decreased to €386 million per the bank covenants was 2.0 (2017: 2.3). The Return on Invested Net debt to (2017: €474 million), as an amount of €97 million became short-term Capital was 4.7% (2017: 7.3%). Also, the other balance sheet ratios EBITDA ratio average due to its maturity date in 2019. Short-term loans and borrowings, remained solid at year-end 2018: including the current portion of long-term debt, was €202 million •• Net debt to equity ratio was 0.4 (2017: 0.4) 2.0 (2017: €214 million). •• Lease-adjusted interest coverage ratio was 2.6 (2017: 2.4). In January 2019, Arcadis successfully refinanced €200 million of Covenants in loan agreements with banks stipulate that the average 2017: 2.3 syndicated committed credit facilities with its six core relationship net debt to EBITDA ratio should be below 3.0, which is measured twice banks. The maturity of two Term loans and a Revolving Credit Facility a year: at the end of June and at year-end. The calculation is based on (RCF) has been extended to 2024, with the option for Arcadis to extend the average of net debt at the moment of measurement and on the the RCF twice with one year to 2026. The terms of the refinanced credit previous moment of measurement, divided by the (pro-forma) EBITDA facilities include an interest discount when certain sustainability KPIs of the twelve months preceding. According to this definition, the are reached. average net debt to EBITDA ratio at year-end 2018 was 2.0 (2017: 2.3). Arcadis’ long-term goal is a net debt to EBITDA ratio between 1.0 Including the refinanced facilities, Arcadis has €915 million of unsecured and 2.0. committed credit facilities which are stepwise maturing between 2020-2024 (with the option for Arcadis to extend the RCF to 2026). With effect from 31 December 2013, a lease-adjusted interest coverage The well diversified, multicurrency, unsecured committed credit facilities ratio is also applicable in which EBITDA to relevant Net Finance Expense comprise of US Private Placements, Schuldschein, syndicated term ratio must exceed 1.75, measured twice a year at year-end and at the loans and RCFs. Currently, there is ample headroom available in the end of June. At 31 December 2018, this ratio calculated in accordance unutilized part of these unsecured committed credit facilities. with agreements with lenders is 2.6 (2017: 2.4). 86 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Focus & Performance | Performance & developments Management has assessed the going concern assumption, also in Performance by Segment light of an amount of US$202.5 million and €24.5 million of committed The four Segments of Arcadis (Americas, Europe & Middle East, Free Cash Flow in € millions Term Loans that were to mature in June and September 2019. The Asia Pacific, and CallisonRTKL) reflect the operating model process to refinance this debt has been finalized end of January 2019 and responsibilities of the members of the Executive Board. 149 by signing a new credit facility agreement for the following: The performance and developments of these Segments are described in more detail in the next sections of this Annual US$87.5 million Term loan with a maturity in 2024 Integrated Report. In addition a section on Arcadis Logos Energia 2017: 98 •• €25 million Term loan with a maturity in 2024 (ALEN), our associate, is included on page 118. •• US$115 million Revolving Credit facility (RCF) with a maturity in 2024 (with two one-year extension options) Financial Dates A sensitivity analysis performed on the balance sheet ratios supports The tentative financial publication dates for Arcadis NV in 2019: the preparation of the Consolidated financial statements based on going concern (see also page 145 and note 30 of the Consolidated 18 April 2019 financial statements). Trading update Q1 2019 Cash flow performance 25 April 2019 Annual General Meeting of See our overview Shareholders Connected Important to of material topics material topic these stakeholders: on page 35, and 25 July 2019 yy Investors the connectivity Press release Q2 2019, press call, 9 yy Management matrix on pages interim financials H1 2019, analyst 40 and 41. meeting + live web cast 24 October 2019 Free cash flow improved to €149 million (2017: €98 million). The cash Trading update Q3 2019 flow improved due to a disciplined approach across the company and €25 million collected on overdue receivables in the Middle East (KSA) in the first half of the year. Early January 2019, Arcadis received a significant cash payment of This calendar may be subject to change. €21 million relating to a long overdue receivable in the US related to For updates see the Company’s website. a large oil & gas project that was settled in December 2018. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 87 Performance by Segment | Europe & Middle East Performance by Segment Europe & Middle East Continental Europe Number of 34 Infrastructure 44 United Kingdom employees Expertise Water Middle East headcount as at in % Environment 31 December 10 Buildings 12 12,929 22 2017: 13,135 Public 46 Clients Regulated in % % of net Private industrial revenues 32 of total Arcadis 46% 38 21 Consultancy 1 Architectural design 2017: 46% Services Design & engineering in % Program, project & cost management 40 Clients Network Rail, ProRail, High Speed Two (H2), 13 Birmingham City Council, Syngenta, Highways England, Continental Europe Regions Kahramaa, Ashghal, Emaar, % of Segment 49 United Kingdom UnibailRodamco-Westfield 38 Middle East All percentages based on FY’18 net revenues 88 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Europe & Middle East | Performance by Segment Performance in 2018 Number of Employee Voluntary Total Recordable Case Females in total employees engagement score turnover rate Frequency (TRCF) workforce headcount as at on a scale of 0 4 as % of total staff per 200,000 work hours as % of total staff 31 December People & Culture 12,929 3.08 13% 0.10 31% 2017: 13,135 2017: 3.04 2017: 12% 2017: 0.22 2017: 31% Organic revenue Organic revenue Book-to-bill Arcadis Way Arcadis’ growth growth ratio implementation carbon footprint net revenues Global Key Clients net revenues progress MT CO2 per FTE net revenues as % of net revenues Innovation & Growth 3% -3% 0.93 57% 2.02 2017: 4% 2017: 19% 2017: 1.07 2017: 52% 2017: 3.43 Gross Net Operating Net Working Days Sales revenues revenues EBITA margin Capital Outstanding in € millions in € millions as % of net as % of gross (DSO) revenues revenues Focus & Performance 1,392 1,133 6.8% 16.5% 81 2017: 1,337 2017: 1,113 2017: 7.6% 2017: 20.0% 2017: 96 Improvement Unchanged Deterioration Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 89 Performance by Segment | Europe & Middle East Key business developments in 2018 In Continental Europe, the private sector continues to invest in capex projects and digitization. In the UK, strong growth was achieved, especially in infrastructure and due to some sizable wins in the buildings sector. Uncertainty around Brexit reduces client confidence. In the Middle East, our more selective approach to markets and client types affected revenue growth, but provides the right basis for profitable growth over time. Key developments Europe & Middle East • Organic net revenue growth of 3% included an • The operating EBITA margin was 6.8% (2017: • In the beginning of 2018 SEAMS was acquired increase of 3% in Continental Europe and 13% 7.6%) and was impacted by write downs provisions in the UK and in the second half of 2018 IBUe in in the UK. In line with our strategy we reduced taken for work in progress (contract assets) in Continental Europe. revenues in the Middle East, resulting in a 17% the Middle East. decrease of organic net revenue growth. “In Continental Europe and the UK, our success is driven by passionate people with sector, asset, and digital knowledge. This enables us to infuse knowledge into data, strengthening client relationships and improving business outcomes. In the Middle East, our objective is to de-risk Alan Brookes through focus and selectivity.” Group Executive responsible for Europe & Middle East 90 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Europe & Middle East | Performance by Segment Continental Europe Priority will be given to large programs and projects (across the digital Market dynamics transformations with our clients) and large cities. Market trends and opportunities that we identified for Continental Europe include: Developments in 2018 •• Our position in rail and road infrastructure continues to be strong. We made a small acquisition in Germany, IBUe GmbH, a people We were able to expand our position in the asset lifecycle by securing engineering consultancy for environment and energy. With this project wins in France, Belgium and the Netherlands. The use of acquisition Arcadis strenghtened its position as a partner in the field digital technologies was key for winning. of transmission networks in Germany. •• In our industrial sectors, clients continue to invest in datacenters and industrial capex projects. We are moving from stand alone local Organic net revenue growth for the year was 3%, despite a decline in approaches towards an orchestrated way of working across different the fourth quarter caused by a reduction in work for the Earthquake countries. This enables us to increase client experience and improve program in the Netherlands. The operating EBITA margin improved to delivery quality. 8.4% (2017: 7.3%) led by the Netherlands, Germany and Belgium. The •• Within our environmental service lines, we are experiencing two backlog increased by 5% with higher positions in Germany and Belgium. trends throughout Europe. The first trend is clients to remediate large areas with contaminated soil and groundwater, which is especially Examples of important new project wins and/or projects that were relevant for countries in southern Europe. The other trend is the completed during 2018 include: increased need for environmental compliance data that enables •• Unibail-Rodamco-Westfield, the premier global developer and (industrial) clients to maintain a high level of compliance and manage operator of flagship shopping destinations, are partnering in the build (permitting) data. of a vast development project the ‘southern Überseequartier’ in •• Government spending continues and diversifies, although it differs Hamburg, Germany. Arcadis will be responsible for the seamless from country to country. execution of the project which includes multi-project management, •• We continue to focus even more on our key clients and connecting program management, site management and tenant coordination. these key clients with our key services. This shortens our go-to-market •• Advise and support of the Flemish Agency for Roads and Traffic time and enables to fast introduce new (digital) solutions to our clients. (AWV) in modernizing their approach to tunnel management and renovation. The contract encompasses consultancy on conservation Strategy implementation in Continental Europe and includes studies, inspection, drafting of safety and renovation While implementing the corporate strategy, Continental Europe files and Building Information Modeling (BIM) of the tunnels in will mainly focus on accelerating the people and culture pillar of the Flemish Region. The use of BIM enables the preparation of the strategy continuing to implement diversity and inclusion programs renovations down to the smallest detail and the organization and leveraging our brand position to attract and retain talent. of maintenance in a smarter way according to the very latest Investments will be made in design, engineering, and project principles of asset management. management capabilities as well as digital and analytics skills. •• IBUe won a project for TenneT and started providing environmental Project delivery will continue to be improved though the Make Every planning services for the SuedOstLink connection, the most important Project Count program and continued focus on the Arcadis Way. Global new transmission lines between northern and southern Germany Excellence Centers will be made a key component of the business model. and important for the successful energy transition. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 91 Performance by Segment | Europe & Middle East •• Arcadis, together with leading Polish governmental organizations, •• General market trend towards tighter fee competition; developed plans for adaptation to climate change for 44 Polish cities •• Uncertainty remains around the potential impact of Brexit, with more than 100,000 inhabitants. Each city was the subject of an particularly on the long-term availability of labour, short-term individual assessment to determine its resilience, thus creating a basis UK investment opportunities and the operation of vital just-in-time for planning adaptation measures to be implemented in that city. supply chains. The project was completed in December 2018. Strategy implementation in the UK The number of employees in Continental Europe decreased in 2018 to Our digital transformation has stepped up a gear in 2018 and presents 6,149 (2017: 6,264), 36% of whom are female. The number of employees opportunities to lead the market. This is particularly true as we continue in the Global Excellence Centers supporting Continental Europe is to focus on end-user experience, increasingly responding to challenges approximately 5% of the number of employees in this region, and this posed not just by our clients, but by our client’s customers. is expected to continue to increase in the future. Continental Europe had a positive increase in Your Voice survey scores and continues to focus Following the UK referendum to leave the EU in 2016, we have on improving the quality of the working environment and development continued to closely monitor and plan for all eventualities during opportunities for our people. the Brexit negotiation process, working in partnership with our people and clients to help mitigate risk and plan for the future. United Kingdom As the UK economic landscape evolves over time, we will remain Market dynamics focused on the need for good governance, risk sharing and Market trends and opportunities that we identified for the UK include: collaboration. As a diversified, resilient business, we are well placed •• The UK has maintained a strong global reputation and remains to manage any short-term risks and embrace new opportunities an attractive place for investors UK ranked in the top ten countries for the UK, both within and outside of the EU. for doing business by the World Bank; •• Key UK infrastructure sectors have large expected pipelines of spend Developments in 2018 and new funding cycles beginning in 2019. There is evidence of some In 2018, net revenues in the UK increased organically by 13% delayed spend in the public sector and more uncertain timescales driven mainly by significant UK infrastructure investment such as on major projects including High Speed 2 (HS2); HS2, Lower Thames Crossing and the Digital Rail Programme with •• HM Treasury consensus forecast for UK economic growth in 2019 Network Rail; as well as sizeable wins in our buildings sector. is 1.4%. This is highly comparable to similar peer-economies; The operating EBITA margin was 8.7% (2017: 9.2%). The win of •• Valuation of sterling has supported continued investment, particularly many strategic pursuits contributed to backlog growth of 13%. from China and India. Some international investors have adopted a less favourable view on investment into UK rail, energy and water projects, citing the country's volatile political environment; •• Construction output is at a historically high level and the supply chain is still reporting good order books and tender prices continue to inflate; 92 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Europe & Middle East | Performance by Segment Examples of important new project wins and/or projects that were Arcadis has been named a ‘UK Superbrand’ for the second year running completed during 2018 include: and in December 2018 was ranked among the top-25 best places to •• Supporting Network Rail with its commitment to a digital future work in the UK by Glassdoor. A core focus for the UK business will be in through the delivery of the Digital Railway Programme. By deploying continuing to build on the strength of our brand, maintaining ongoing modern signalling and train control technology to increase capacity, improvements through our People First values, adherence to the reduce delays, enhance safety and drive down costs, the programme Arcadis Way and by embracing the principles of Make Every Project will keep the UK at the cutting edge of the rail innovation and Count (MEPC). This includes working only for those markets where we contribute to increasing growth and productivity across the UK; see an opportunity for a sustainable and profitable business, bidding •• Completion of the first phase of the Graphene Engineering Innovation for opportunities where we can make a profit and only making promises Centre (GEIC) at The University of Manchester. The £60 million facility that we can deliver. will be critical to exploit and maintain the UK's world-leading position in graphene and related 2D materials; Digital and technological innovation presents opportunities for future •• Working as part of a consortium of eleven organisations embarking growth. For example, our capabilities in developing Precision Based on a UK government funded project, known as OmniCAV, to create Manufacturing in housing will help to address the shortfall in new a high-fidelity road simulation environment in Oxfordshire. It will homes, while smart transport solutions and new innovative funding feature artificial intelligence (AI) trained models of road users to test models will be essential to deliver the UK’s infrastructure requirements. the safe deployment of connected and autonomous vehicles; •• Working with Birmingham City Council and Homes England to The number of employees in the UK is 4,792, 29% of whom are female, develop an investible framework for the regeneration of Digbeth, a while the number of employees in the Global Excellence Centers (GECs) 48-hectare area at the heart of Birmingham’s Creative Quarter. With supporting the UK business stands at 668. With the potential impact on the potential to provide more than 2,000 new homes, the masterplan long-term labour availability post Brexit, the GEC capability is a boost to also encompasses the area around the new Curzon Street HS2 the UK business and has already led to the adoption of new station, which will create a new ‘front door’ to catalyse further growth; technologies and efficiency gains. Developing digital capabilities •• Awarded a £7million contract to future-proof the proposed Old Oak amongst all employees in the UK remains a core goal internally, with Common HS2 station in West London, projected to be the biggest strong take-up of engagement programmes launched specifically to sub-surface station to be built in the UK. Design services encompass embed digital expertise into our DNA. track work, signalling power supply systems, and electrification so that the railway can operate safely and efficiently for decades to come; •• Working with one of the UK’s largest energy providers based in Scotland, Arcadis has supported complex transmission projects to bring renewable energy to over one million UK homes in 2018 with plans afoot in 2019 to connect some of the largest UK offshore windfarms to the National Grid. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 93 Performance by Segment | Europe & Middle East Middle East For 2019, growth should be supported by higher hydrocarbon Market dynamics production and infrastructure projects. However, the ongoing Market trends and opportunities that we identified for embargo and exposure to volatile commodity prices are potential the Middle East include: downside risks to the economy. •• The outlook for growth in the Middle East is expected to remain challenging in the early part of 2019 and to improve towards Strategy implementation in the Middle East the end of the year and continue to grow in 2020; The Middle East business performed a detailed review of its service •• Geopolitical situations or possible renewed volatility in oil prices and client portfolio and prepared a Portfolio Strategy to create a represent the main risks to the Middle East for market growth; sustainable business and drive improved long-term value. As result •• In Saudi Arabia, the economic recovery should broaden this year of the strategy, the business is focusing on fewer, high-value clients due to reduced budget deficit as result of increased oil prices, in priority markets, and more lower-risk time & materials projects which should support domestic demand. The Saudi Government is with the objective of growing our business based on core capabilities. continuing significant investment in the development of largescale These are Design & Engineering, Construction Supervision and Project projects underpinning their Vision 2030, such as the Red Sea project, and Program Management. In addition, the Middle East is also reducing NEOM and other major initiatives supporting the Kingdom’s program presence and services in non-core markets and looking to grow by to diversify the economy; focusing on higher margin sectors where Arcadis can leverage from •• In the UAE, the stock market in Dubai in 2018 posted its worst global capabilities such as Aviation and Rail as well as providing higher annual performance since 2008 with a 25% fall, owing to oversupply margin Advisory and O&M services. and falling prices in the critical real-estate market; in contrast, the Abu Dhabi stock index performed robustly. For 2019, Dubai published Developments in 2018 its annual budget early January, with a continued focus on The strategic re-orientation and the various measures including higher infrastructure investment to prepare for Expo 2020. Despite selectivity led to a lower organic net revenue in the Middle East of 17% uncertainty about the development in the oil market, the economy in the year. The operating EBITA margin decreased to -2.5% (2017: 4.7%) appears ready for growth this year. Strong fiscal stimulus and the due to provisions taken for legacy design work. Expo 2020-related infrastructure push – should enhance construction and tourism activity. Nevertheless, a global growth slowdown, The Middle East has been gradually improving profitability of the key uncertainty about oil prices and increased financial volatility could client portfolio, reduced the cost base to suit workload and strategy. somewhat reduce this positive outlook; Despite a difficult market environment the Arcadis Middle East business •• In Qatar the economy showed a positive picture towards the end has collected substantial payments on overdue receivables, and closed of the 2018, with exports and the trade surplus rising by double out most of the legacy projects in the region. The introduction of a new digits in annual terms. Moreover, foreign reserves continued to rise sales force to enhace the quality of our pipeline is already bearing fruit. in November. Approval of the 2019 budget forecasts the first fiscal surplus since 2014. Also, in a politically motivated move Qatar withdrew from OPEC effective January 2019. 94 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Europe & Middle East | Performance by Segment The Middle East launched the Make Every Project Count (MEPC) Segment financial results program with the aim of reducing loss-making projects by focusing The overall financial results of the Segment in 2018 were as follows: our efforts on aligning our people, behaviors, processes and systems with the Arcadis Way of operating. Revenues Revenue growth In € millions 2018 2017 Total Organic Acquisitions Currency Other In Q4 2018, a goodwill impairment charge of €33.9 million has Gross revenues 1,392 1,337 4% 5% 0% -1% 0% been recognized. This reflects our future business expectations Net revenues 1,133 1,113 2% 3% 0% -1% 0% in the Middle East as a result of the decision to be more selective and de-risk the portfolio. 2018 2017 EBITA 68.4 74.0 The number of employees in the Middle East decreased in 2018 EBITA margin 6.0% 6.7% to 1,666 (2017: 2,175), 19% of whom are female. The number of Operating EBITA1 77.4 84.3 employees in the Global Excellence Centers (GECs) supporting the Operating EBITA margin 6.8% 7.6% Middle East is approximately 19% of the number of employees in this 1 Operating EBITA excludes acquisitions, restructuring, and integration-related costs region. The People First value has been further embedded through multiple related initiatives. The Your Voice employee engagement score showed an increase from 3.17 to 3.31. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 95 Regeneration masterplan Client: Birmingham City Council Birmingham United Kingdom Arcadis has worked with Birmingham City Council and Homes England to develop a comprehensive framework for the regeneration of Digbeth. Challenge: Birmingham is in the middle of a transformation amid the arrival of the High Speed 2 railway. This includes the regeneration of Digbeth and the Grand Union Canal Corridor, presenting a unique stage to develop a new urban district close to the retail and commercial core of the city. Solution: Arcadis helped develop a comprehensive masterplan for the regeneration of Digbeth focusing on the development’s potential to create strong links to key planned public transport services, and providing for a well-balanced and appropriate range of uses, including hotel, retail and food and drink offers, as well as the potential for more than 2,000 new homes. Impact: By expanding the City Centre Enterprise Zone, there is the potential for an additional £724 million worth of investment into the area. At the heart of Birmingham’s Creative Quarter, a balance has been struck between creating value, providing new housing and development and retaining the historic character of the area. This project is likely to enhance the diversity of Birmingham as a place to live, work and enjoy. 96 One of the largest building projects in Europe Client: Unibail-Rodamco-Westfield Hamburg Germany Investor and developer Unibail-Rodamco-Westfield teamed up with Arcadis to create the southern Überseequartier in Hamburg, Germany, one of the largest building projects in Europe. Challenge: The mixed-use southern Überseequartier project, estimated to a total area of 419,000 sqm, requires outstanding project management skills, combined with a focus on compliance with the highest standards. Solution: Arcadis is responsible for the seamless execution of the project which includes multi-project management, program management, site management and tenant coordination. Impact: Southern Überseequartier in Hamburg’s Hafencity will be one of the largest building projects in Europe and recognized globally. It will include fourteen buildings with 80,500 sqm for retail, 21,000 sqm for gastronomy and entertainment including a multiplex cinema, a cruise terminal with an underground bus station, three hotels, offices with around 4,200 workplaces, and approximately 650 apartments. The former underutilized port and industrial area will become a dynamic vibrant meeting place for the citizens of Hamburg as well as for tourists and thereby contributing to quality of life in an ever-changing environment. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 97 Performance by Segment | Americas Performance by Segment Americas 8 16 North America Number of Infrastructure Latin America employees Expertise Water headcount as at in % 26 Environment 31 December 50 Buildings 7,205 2017: 6,816 39 Public 46 Clients Regulated in % % of net Private industrial revenues 15 of total Arcadis 31% 20 Consultancy Design & engineering 2017: 31% Services 44 in % Program, project & cost management 36 90+10+F Clients Georgia DOT, USACE, CSX Transportation, 10 Boeing, General Motors, Public Sediment Alameda Regions North America Creek, The Nature % of Segment Latin America Conservancy, Colliers 90 All percentages based on FY’18 net revenues 98 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Americas | Performance by Segment Performance in 2018 Number of Employee Voluntary Total Recordable Case Females in total employees engagement score turnover rate Frequency (TRCF) workforce headcount as at on a scale of 0 4 as % of total staff per 200,000 work hours as % of total staff 31 December People & Culture 7,205 3.15 10% 0.44 36% 2017: 6,816 2017: 3.04 2017: 9% 2017: 0.56 2017: 36% Organic revenue Organic revenue Book-to-bill Arcadis Way Arcadis’ growth growth ratio implementation carbon footprint net revenues Global Key Clients net revenues progress MT CO2 per FTE net revenues as % of net revenues Innovation & Growth 5% 14% 1.05 to start 4.91 2017: -2% 2017: 15% 2017: 0.97 2017: to start 2017: 4.97 Gross Net Operating Net Working Days Sales revenues revenues EBITA margin Capital Outstanding in € millions in € millions as % of net as % of gross (DSO) revenues revenues Focus & Performance 1,186 755 7.3% 13.2% 78 2017: 1,175 2017: 751 2017: 6.3% 2017: 14.2% 2017: 84 Improvement Unchanged Deterioration Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 99 Performance by Segment | Americas Key business developments in 2018 Our North America business capitalized on a strong US economy and a focused strategy to deliver organic growth, increased sales and continued margin improvement in 2018. All market sectors in North America demonstrated growth, with the environment market in both North and Latin America being very strong. In Latin America, the Brazil economy improved slightly but was tempered by the Presidential election. Chile meanwhile was positively impacted by a resurgence in the mining sector. Key developments Americas • Organic net revenue growth was 5% for the year. • The operating EBITA margin increased to Strong organic growth in North America was 7.3% (2017: 6.3%), due to an improvement in partly offset by a small decline in Latin America. North America and a close to break-even result in Latin America. “Our focus on People & Culture in the Americas has resulted in more engaged employees and better outcomes for our clients. This in turn has produced improved financial results and created a virtuous circle for future growth.” Mary Ann Hopkins Group Executive responsible for Americas 100 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Americas | Performance by Segment North America Developments in 2018 Market dynamics After a turning corner in 2017, North American performance stabilized Market trends and opportunities that we identified for North America and began to accelerate in 2018. At 2% in 2017, organic net revenue include: growth nearly trippled to 6% in 2018. The higher revenues were mainly •• Clients are considering design-build and public-private partnership driven by Environment and Water. The operating EBITA margin to streamline procurement, reduce time and costs, and increase improved further to 8.8% (2017: 8.1%). efficiencies. •• Suppliers continue to consolidate as clients demand integrated Net working capital improved due to a reduction in Days Sales service offerings. Outstanding (DSO). In December 2018, a settlement was reached with •• Cities and industries are developing and implementing resilience an insurance company about a long-term outstanding receivable of strategies, aiming to future-proof against incidents such as severe approximately US$24 million (€21 million) related to a large oil & gas weather, cyber intrusions and emerging contaminants. project, of which the payment was received in January 2019. •• Clients are increasingly reimaging their business strategies for a digital world, striving to make smarter and more agile decisions. Examples of important new project wins and/or projects that were •• Cities are getting ‘smarter’ by increasing use of technology completed during 2018 include: to better monitor and manage assets and resources. •• Under an US$8 million contract, Arcadis combined advanced data •• Investors are increasingly considering environmental, social analytics with an intimate understanding of local challenges to and governance (ESG), which in turn drives environmental priorities develop a plan to help transform waste collection in New York City. for private-sector clients. The plan lays out a blueprint to reduce truck traffic by about 18 million miles per year or 63%; Strategy implementation in North America •• As part of a program management team, Arcadis is providing onsite While implementing the corporate strategy, North America focused on technical support and risk analysis in support of critical flood developing employees, recognizing and rewarding their performance, protection measures for the Port Lands in Toronto, considered one diversity, and becoming the employer of choice. The aim was to grow in of the largest underdeveloped stretches of downtown waterfront the infrastructure, water, and environmental markets; a healthy growth in Canada; in both gross and net revenues was shown in 2018. The focus on •• Arcadis partnered with a major financial institution to improve selecting the right projects, operational efficiencies and cost-control corporate governance and spending efficiency. Arcadis’ program measures significantly improved the operating EBITA margin. management and digital enablement work will help ensure global facility management suppliers meet reporting obligations and provide analytics on operating data and maintenance trends to optimize performance. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 101 Performance by Segment | Americas •• Arcadis was selected as one of only two national environmental Safety performance improved as well, with year-over-year improvement management company suppliers for a major oil and gas company. in behavior-based leading indicators and a slight reduction in Total Valued at approximately US$30 million in new work, the project is Recordable Case Frequency. The program increasingly emphasizes expected to deliver significant cost savings to the client through managing risks associated with the growing amount of field work in change management and a unique, collaborative approach to helping the North American portfolio. the client optimize its portfolio. •• Arcadis is providing pro-bono engineering support for Life Remodeled Latin America in Detroit, Michigan, which is transforming a school into a community Market dynamics innovation center to provide recreation, after-school programming, Market trends and opportunities that we identified for Latin America real-world educational experiences and new career pathways for include: public school students and members of the surrounding community. •• Macro-economic indicators continue to improve in Brazil, yet at a slower pace than expected; North America continued to lay the foundation for the Arcadis Way. •• Private and foreign capital continue to respond to concessions, Following significant planning and change management work early PPPs, and M&A post election scenario in Brazil expected in the year and testing and training late in the year, North America to contribute to increased activity; is on track to launch Arcadis Way in mid-2019. •• Mining recovery – especially in Chile and Peru have contributed to increased revenues in 2018 and is expected to expand activity in 2019. The number of employees in North America increased 8% to 5,589, 36% of whom are female. North America is supported by 208 employees Strategy implementation in Latin America in the Global Excellence Centers, a number that will continue to grow Strategy in Latin America continues to focus on rebuilding the spirit to improve competitiveness. of the region after several years of contraction, focusing on engaging employees, promoting greater collaboration and better integration North America’s Employee engagement score increased from 3.02 of Arcadis both regionally and globally. A more focused approach to 3.12 in 2018, thanks to a keen focus on People & Culture initiatives to clients and market sectors is being implemented to drive sales ranging from improving the onboarding process and expanded and execution excellence and grow our market share. Our market leadership development programs to better recognizing and sector focus includes Industry, Mining, Transport and Logistics, rewarding performance. Marrying the passions and skills of our people, Water and Power where we see the best alignment of capabilities and North America announced the first winners of its Improving Quality growth prospects. We utilize our local knowledge and presence and of Life awards – pro bono projects proposed by employees and delivered our global collaboration to deliver exceptional results to local and in partnership with local not-for-profits to improve quality of life multi-national clients. BIM and innovative digital solutions are becoming in Detroit, Michigan and Los Angeles, California. a differentiator to winning work in the region. Key organizational changes and succession within the management structure have contributed to a more nimble and efficient organization. 102 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Americas | Performance by Segment Developments in 2018 In Q4 2018, a goodwill impairment charge of €6.5 million has been In Brazil, progress in 2018 was significant versus the prior year, with recognized. This reflects our future business expectations in Latin greater order intake and improved margins, but decreased revenue. America, where in Brazil the post-electoral economic sentiment is In Chile and Peru, business has grown at a healthy pace in reflecting the positive but concrete measures and progress is yet to come. more benign economic and political environment. In 2018, net revenues in Latin America decreased organically by 2%, which was impacted The number of employees in Latin America decreased in 2018 mostly by clients in Brazil continuing to delay investment decisions, to 1,413 (2017: 1,438), while 37% of the employees are female. considering the unstable political environment. The environmental The region is starting to make use of employees in the Global Excellence business in Brazil showed a healthy improvement with better order Centers through a series of pilot initiatives in 2018. The results of the intake and increased revenues. During the year, revenues have stabilized Your Voice Survey in 2018 showed significant improvement over 2017 in Brazil after three years of decline. Revenues in Chile saw robust year and reflect actions to improve open and transparent communication over year growth, with margins below expectations. across the region in 2018. Examples of important new project wins and/or projects that were Segment financial results completed during 2018 include: The overall financial results of the Segment in 2018 were as follows: •• Program management for the state of the art Albert Einstein Education Center in Sao Paulo (the largest and most reputable Revenues Revenue growth hospital enterprise in Latin America); In € millions 2018 2017 Total Organic Acquisitions Currency •• Program management for the Metro Line 3 in Santiago; Gross revenues 1,186 1,175 1% 6% 1% -6% •• Environmental impact Assessment and Environmental Licensing Net revenues 755 751 1% 5% 1% -5% for Neonergia during pre-auction phases for transmission lines; •• Detailed tailings dam design for the Quellaveco Mine in Peru 2018 2017 for Anglo American; EBITA 51.7 36.0 •• Environmental impact Assessments for Minera Cerro Colorado EBITA margin 6.8% 4.8% CMCC – BHP, which will allow the operational continuity of the mine; Operating EBITA1 54.9 47.5 •• Several socio-environmental and technical due diligences for large Operating EBITA margin 7.3% 6.3% M&A transactions. 1 Operating EBITA excludes acquisitions, restructuring and integration-related costs Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 103 Saving water in manufacturing Client: General Motors Mexico Saving water in manufacturing and achieving strong sustainable results in a highly water stressed region of Mexico. Challenge: General Motors (GM) has been recognized as an industry leader in sustainability. In a response to market demand, GM elected to expand production at their Silao manufacturing facility bringing additional jobs to the region. Due to water being scarce in this area, GM viewed it as critical to minimize the water footprint of the facility to preserve much needed water for the local community. Solution: Arcadis has led the client from a feasibility evaluation, through detailed design, and into the construction phase of a state-of-the-art wastewater recycle system. Impact: Upon completion, the Silao site will recycle 80% of its waste water. A future phase of the project may include onsite brine management from a reverse osmosis process, recovering even more water through the application of zero liquid discharge (ZLD) technology, achieving over 95% recovery. Despite a production increase, groundwater extraction volume will be halved, preserving much needed water for the community. 104 Sediment is the building block of resilience in the Bay Client: Resilient by Design Bay Area Challenge San Francisco USA Arcadis was selected as part of a larger team to participate in a year-long research and design project, as part of the Resilient by Design Bay Area Challenge. Challenge: Marshlands surrounding the San Francisco Bay are being negatively impacted by rising sea levels from climate change. It is estimated that with 3.5 inch of sea level rise by 2100, the region’s current sediment supply will not sustain these ecosystems over time, and without sediment, the baylands will drown. This would be a slow but devastating scale of loss threatening ecosystems, recreational landscapes, and puts the region’s critical drinking water, energy, and transportation systems at risk. Solution: Arcadis played a key role in the Public Sediment team. Over the course of a year, the collaborative design effort brought together local residents, public officials and local, national and international experts to develop ways for Alameda Creek to help the marshlands adapt to sea level rise by providing sediment to bay marshes and mudflats. Impact: The Public Sediment for Alameda Creek project is aimed at focusing on sediment to link it to its historic baylands, and strengthen the Bay Area’s resilience to sea level rise, severe storms, flooding and earthquakes. It provides a sustainable supply of sediment to bay marshes and mudflats for sea level rise adaptation, reconnects migratory fish with their historic spawning grounds, and introduces a network of community spaces that reclaim the creek as a place for people, building an ethos and awareness around public sediment resources. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 105 Performance by Segment | Asia Pacific Performance by Segment Asia Pacific Asia Number of 27 Infrastructure Australia Pacific employees Expertise Water headcount as at in % 5 Environment 31 December 68 Buildings 5,467 2017: 5,664 32 Public Clients Regulated in % % of net 2 Private industrial revenues 66 of total Arcadis 14% 10 Consultancy Design & engineering 2017: 14% Services 29 61 in % Program, project & cost management 61+39+F Clients HSBC, (Regional) Government, Alibaba, Transport for New South Wales University of Chicago, Rail Projects Victoria, 39 Regions Asia Universal studios Beijing, % of Segment Australia Pacific Brisbane Airport 61 All percentages based on FY’18 net revenues 106 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Asia Pacific | Performance by Segment Performance in 2018 Number of Employee Voluntary Total Recordable Case Females in total employees engagement score turnover rate Frequency (TRCF) workforce headcount as at on a scale of 0 4 as % of total staff per 200,000 work hours as % of total staff 31 December People & Culture 5,467 3.06 27% 0.13 48% 2017: 5,664 2017: 2.98 2017: 26% 2017: 0.13 2017: 47% Organic revenue Organic revenue Book-to-bill Arcadis Way Arcadis’ growth growth ratio implementation carbon footprint net revenues Global Key Clients net revenues progress MT CO2 per FTE net revenues as % of net revenues Innovation & Growth 2% 69% 0.94 72% 1.64 2017: 2% 2017: 20% 2017: 1.08 2017: 54% 2017: 1.80 Gross Net Operating Net Working Days Sales revenues revenues EBITA margin Capital Outstanding in € millions in € millions as % of net as % of gross (DSO) revenues revenues Focus & Performance 375 331 7.7% 21.8% 89 2017: 387 2017: 344 2017: 8.9% 2017: 20.8% 2017: 85 Improvement Unchanged Deterioration Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 107 Performance by Segment | Asia Pacific Key business developments in 2018 Whilst a slowdown in the property sector in Asia is evident, particularly in China, opportunities in the emerging China Tech sector and water and environment more broadly across Asia are being realized. In Australia Pacific we continue to benefit from a strong infrastructure pipeline driven by urban renewal and efforts to significantly enhance mobility in major cities, particularly Sydney and Melbourne. Key developments Asia Pacific • Gross revenues of Asia Pacific for the year amounted • Operating EBITA of Asia Pacific in 2018 decreased • A simplified strategy and structure was to €375 million. Net revenues increased organically compared to 2017, impacted by softening of the implemented in Asia to ensure a greater focus by 2%, and consisted of 10% growth in Australia market in Asia and project write-offs. The operating on fewer, more potentially profitable countries. Pacific, compensating a 3% decrease in Asia. EBITA margin was 7.7%, and continued to be above group average. “Progress in realizing the enormous potential of the Asia Pacific region has been really solid this year. Asia in 2018 was all about re-establishing a strong foundation for future profitable growth, whilst in Australia Pacific 2018 was yet another year of strong growth Greg Steele and performance.” Group Executive responsible for Asia Pacific 108 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Asia Pacific | Performance by Segment Asia Examples of new project wins and/or projects that were completed Market dynamics during 2018 include: Market trends and opportunities that impacted the region were: •• Universal Studios Beijing , an upcoming Universal theme park in •• Slow down in the China property market; Beijing, China; •• Emergence of the China Tech industry; •• The development of a program, with a grant from the Dutch •• Rising costs in China resulting in the establishment of factories Government, to improve environmental and social performance in in other South East Asian countries; the Chinese wet processing industry. The project will support Dutch •• Slow down in Malaysia, including suspension of major projects clothing brands with a supply chain in China to gain more insight by as a result of reviews by the new Government; reviewing and improving their suppliers’ current environmental •• Flat market conditions in Singapore and Hong Kong; performance around pollution prevention, reducing resource •• Good growth in Macau and Philippines; consumption and occupational Health & Safety; •• Increased relevance of livability, environment and water issues •• Hong Kong Harbour tunnel crossing. in Asian cities. The number of employees in Asia decreased in 2018 to 3,963 Strategy implementation in Asia (2017: 4,172), 52% of whom are female. The voluntary turnover A simplified strategy and structure was implemented. A review of increased to 28.8% in the year. Reducing this level of turnover will the Asia portfolio of countries, services and clients has resulted be a key focus in 2019. in a much more focused and coordinated approach to winning and delivering projects across the region. We began digitizing our cost Australia Pacific management business and we redoubled our efforts to improve Market dynamics project delivery performance. A wellbeing program for all staff was The region continues to perform strongly off the back of a good market. implemented which was well received. Staff engagement across Trends and opportunities include: the region improved significantly. •• GDP of 3% and unemployment of 5% better than expected; •• Our key markets of infrastructure, environment, and buildings are solid; Developments in 2018 •• High population growth in major cities continues to drive urban Net revenues in Asia decreased organically by 3%. Whilst this was renewal and enhanced mobility initiatives; primarily due to a slow down in the China property market, the region •• Very strong infrastructure pipeline in Sydney and Melbourne driven also became more selective in bidding higher quality projects from by asset recycling and delivered through PPPs; a profit and payment perspective. A sophisticated client excellence •• Resources sector showing signs of improvement. program and focused project delivery culture contributed significantly to the success of the Phillipines business. Strategy implementation in Australia Pacific Australia Pacific will continue to concentrate on growth in four areas: technical advisory; rail; environment and cost and project management. A continued focus on client & pursuit excellence will remain core to the strategy as will improving project delivery performance and better use of Global Excellence Centers. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 109 Performance by Segment | Asia Pacific Developments in 2018 Segment financial results Net revenues in Australia Pacific increased organically by 10%. The overall financial results of the Segment in 2018 were as follows: This strong revenue growth was fueled by delivery and growth in projects such as Melbourne Metro, Sydney Metro and strong Revenues Revenue growth highways programs in Sydney and Melbourne. In € millions 2018 2017 Total Organic Acquisitions Currency Gross revenues 375 387 -3% 3% -1% -5% Examples of new project wins and/or projects that were completed Net revenues 331 344 -4% 2% -1% -5% during 2018 include: • Melbourne Metro, which is the initial phase of a larger program 2018 2017 through the Melbourne CBD including five new stations. EBITA 24.2 30.1 Arcadis in joint venture is the lead designer; EBITA margin 7.3% 8.7% • Sydney Light Rail, which is a project in the CBD of Sydney which links Operating EBITA1 25.4 30.7 Circular Quay to Central station and the existing light rail network. Operating EBITA margin 7.7% 8.9% Arcadis in joint venture is the Independent Certifier for this complex 1 Operating EBITA excludes acquisitions, restructuring and integration-related costs project in the centre of Australia’s largest city; • Brisbane Airport, whereby Arcadis is lead consultant in the remediation of land contaminated by PFAS. New technology in combination with Arcadis’ global expertise was successfully employed to complete this project. The number of employees in Australia Pacific decreased in 2018 to 982 (2017: 1,276), 30% of whom are female. The number of employees in the Global Excellence Centers supporting Australia is approximately 25% of the total revenue. Voluntary turnover increased to 16.7% in the year. Efforts to reduce the level of turnover will continue in 2019. 110 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Moving Melbourne Client: Rail Projects Victoria Melbourne Australia Arcadis is part of the CYP Design and Construction Joint Venture (led by Lendlease, John Holland and Bouygues) delivering the Tunnels and Stations package of the AUS$11 billion Metro Tunnel Project, Victoria’s biggest ever public transport infrastructure project. Challenge: The city of Melbourne is growing, but more trains cannot run in and out of the city because the City Loop is nearing capacity. Solution: Arcadis, together in a joint venture with Arup and WSP, is delivering the detailed design to support CYP Design and Construction Joint Venture to design and construct the Metro Tunnel’s twin nine-kilometre tunnels and five new underground stations. Impact: The Metro Tunnel will create a new end-to-end rail line from Sunbury in Melbourne’s west to Cranbourne/Pakenham in the south-east, with high capacity trains and five new underground stations. It will create capacity on the network to enable more than a half a million additional passengers per week across Melbourne’s train network to use the rail system during the peak periods. The stations will also set a new benchmark in design, delivering five new architectural landmarks for Melbourne. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 111 Performance by Segment | CallisonRTKL Performance by Segment CallisonRTKL Number of Infrastructure employees Expertise 100 Water headcount as at in % Environment 31 December Buildings 1,753 15 2017: 1,712 3 Public Clients Regulated in % % of net Private industrial revenues 82 of total Arcadis 9% 3 4 Consultancy Architectural design 2017: 9% Services Design & engineering in % Program, project & cost management Clients 93 AT&T, Nordstrom, Emaar, Apple, Citigroup, Target, 6 2 Anschutz Entertainment 12 North America Group, Petco, Lenovo Asia Regions % of Segment 52 Middle East 28 UK/Europe Other All percentages based on FY’18 net revenues 112 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 CallisonRTKL | Performance by Segment Performance in 2018 Number of Employee Voluntary Total Recordable Case Females in total employees engagement score turnover rate Frequency (TRCF) workforce headcount as at on a scale of 0 4 as % of total staff per 200,000 work hours as % of total staff 31 December People & 1,753 n/a 21% 0.07 47% 1 Culture 2017: 1,712 2017: 2.90 2017: 18% 2017: nil 2017: 45% Organic revenue Organic revenue Book-to-bill Arcadis Way Arcadis’ growth growth ratio implementation carbon footprint net revenues Global Key Clients net revenues progress MT CO2 per FTE net revenues as % of net revenues Innovation & Growth 0% -22% 0.91 to start 4.76 2017: -3% 2017: 3% 2017: 0.84 2017: to start 2017: 4.71 Gross Net Operating Net Working Days Sales revenues revenues EBITA margin Capital Outstanding in € millions in € millions as % of net as % of gross (DSO) revenues revenues Focus & Performance 301 220 8.8% 8.9% 70 2017: 320 2017: 229 2017: 10.4% 2017: 8.3% 2017: 73 Improvement Unchanged Deterioration 1 Employees of CallisonRTKL were not included in the engagement scan of 2018 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 113 Performance by Segment | CallisonRTKL Key business developments in 2018 Arcadis announced it retained ownership of CallisonRTKL in July. Since that time, the global design firm has made significant progress toward transforming its business for the future. It has established a clearly defined vision, target position and strategy, and over the next two years, it will build on its strong global position to deliver financial predictability, EBITA and net revenue growth. Key developments CallisonRTLKL • Net revenues were organically in line with last • The operating EBITA margin was 8.8% (2017: • After the performance of a strategic review of year and positively impacted by growth in the 10.4%) and was impacted by cost associated with CallisonRTKL which evaluated a range of strategic commercial practice group as a result of a more the strategic review process completed in 2018 and options to optimize its value either within or outside standardized project review. provisions for bad debt in Asia and the Middle East. of Arcadis, a decision was made in July 2018 to retain CallisonRTKL. CallisonRTKL is implementing a new organizational set-up to improve performance. “CallisonRTKL will remain a key member of Arcadis following the results of the strategic review in 2018. Their focus on creative problem-solving signals a bold and exciting future for our people and clients.” Mary Ann Hopkins Group Executive responsible for CallisonRTKL 114 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 CallisonRTKL | Performance by Segment CallisonRTKL CallisonRTKL has established a new vision and position in the interest of Market dynamics clearly differentiating itself in its markets and among its competitors. Key global themes of urbanisation, resiliency, and liveability continue Leveraging its enduring legacy of value-adding design solutions, to be strong drivers globally for architectural and design services. CallisonRTKL aims to be the world’s most sought-after creative Despite a number of potential geo-political uncertainties in some problem-solver. Central to its ability to achieve this is: markets, there is increased demand for creative problem solving •• the diversity of its design expertise, which combines expertise in to help cities, our clients, and the users of CallisonRTKL’s projects sectors, geographies and services with a broad global perspective; to adapt to many of the major trends that are impacting our lives. •• a dynamic community of people and individuals empowered to work Some of the major industry shaping themes which are key drivers together to generate solutions; to the growth of Architecture and Design include: •• data-driven insights to inform, enhance and evaluate the impact of •• Increasing demand for quality housing across all spectrums its work. of affordability, •• Increased density leading to more mixed use projects, Developments in 2018 •• Adaptive reuse of assets that have been made redundant by our Full year net revenue organic growth in 2018 was basically flat from changing world, 2017 and EBITA margins showed some deterioration partly due to •• Continued changes in demographics creating new opportunities transaction fees associated with the strategic review process. in health care and housing, Importantly the commercial practice returned to organic growth, •• Integration of innovative technology with strong design to create with the Shopping and Entertainment District sector strong across positive and strong user experiences. all regions and the mixed used expertise in demand. The Retail practice group generated strong margins with changes in retailers’ models Strategy implementation driving demand for new solutions in retail experience. The Health In 2018, CallisonRTKL leadership developed a new operating model, practice performed well on margin and is repositioning for growth with which aims to empower the executive team to deliver strategic new leadership. Workplace Practice built backlog while managing risks initiatives, improve the client experience, strengthen further sector around challenging projects. Our repositioning and reorganization will and service expertise, devolving key decision-making to regions build advantage around our ability to combine sector knowledge and and office leaders, building empowerment and collaboration. The creative design solutions around specific client needs. The stronger new operating model and new Executive Team, led by CallisonRTKL performance in the second half of the year is an encouraging indicator President & CEO Tim Neal, is in place from January 2019. of momentum in what had been a disrupted year for the business. In addition to rolling out the new structure, the Executive Team has immediately focused on improving the business’ performance in four critical areas: 1) Sales & Business Development, 2) design and innovation, 3) people and culture, and 4) commercialization, projects and partnerships. These strategic initiatives are supported by a refreshed working relationship between CallisonRTKL and Arcadis, which seeks to enable mutual benefit. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 115 Performance by Segment | CallisonRTKL Examples of important new project wins and projects that were The number of employees in CallisonRTKL increased in 2018 to completed during 2018 include: 1,753 (2017: 1,712), 47% of whom are female. •• CallisonRTKL’s design of the latest expansion of Chadstone Shopping Center in Melbourne, Australia, with its striking signature skylight The number of employees in the GECs supporting CallisonRTKL is roof, was recognised by ICSC Asia Pacific as the Gold Winner for approximately 5% of the number of employees in this Segment. Renovations and Expansions, and drove a 33% growth in income to reach the AUS$2 billion level; Segment financial results •• Mercedes Platz, the dynamic mixed use entertainment district The overall financial results of the Segment in 2018 were as follows: connected to the O2 Arena in Berlin designed by CallisonRTKL, Revenues Revenue growth opened in October 2018 to strong reviews and large crowds, and In € millions 2018 2017 Total Organic Acquisitions Currency represented another collaboration with AEG; Gross revenues 301 320 -6% -2% 0% -4% •• CallisonRTKL was selected to provide full architectural design services for the University of California San Diego Hillcrest Campus Net revenues 220 229 -4% 0% 0% -4% Redevelopmentthe first phase of a holistic redevelopment of this leading research hospital in Southern California; 2018 2017 •• CallisonRTKL’s retail design team celebrated the grand opening of EBITA 17.3 20.8 Petco’s first PetCoach location in San Marcos, CA. The CallisonRTKL EBITA margin 7.9% 9.1% team worked closely with Petco’s leadership to help the company Operating EBITA1 19.4 23.9 design a completely new retail experience, which is intended to be Operating EBITA margin 8.8% 10.4% rolled out in future locations around the US; 1 Operating EBITA excludes acquisitions, restructuring and integration-related costs •• Dubai Hills Mall is a keystone project of successful collaboration between CallisonRTKL and Arcadis; it is a beacon of excellence in retail design and engineering proficiency, married with fast track construction methodology. A major experiential retail development, Dubai Hills Mall heralds a significant step forward in design, delivery and construction on a global scale; •• 2018 saw the completion of phase 2 of Lenovo’s LEED Gold and China Green Building Design Label Three Star headquarters which creates a new community within the Zhongguancun Software Park, opening their outdoor courtyards, park and track completely to the public, so as to meet the leisure needs of surrounding communities. The design philosophy follows the theme of ‘duality’ in a series of oppositions such as work and life, order and innovation, city and enterprise, and the combination of indoor and outdoor public space and services. 116 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Creating a vibrant mixed-use destination Client: Anschutz Entertainment Group Berlin Germany A mixed-use masterplan, connecting the largest remaining section of the Berlin Wall to the Mercedes-Benz Arena, featuring the design of the Verti Music Hall, state-of-the-art UCI cinemas, 28-lane Bowling World, two hotels, office space and over twenty restaurants and cafes. Challenge: Anschutz Entertainment Group imagined the creation of a lively city quarter on an urban brownfield site. After the opening of their successful Mercedes Benz Arena they looked to complete the heart of the district with a wide range of mixed uses on a central location between the arena and the river. The design needed to provide animated street edges, quality addresses for the hotels and offices, incorporate large leisure boxes and create a central plaza for diverse events, large and small. Solution: CallisonRTKL started by refining the local strategic masterplan, stitching together existing and future uses with the transport hubs, riverside attractions and pedestrian networks. The central public square becomes the front door address for catering and leisure tenants, while the riverfront views to the East Side Gallery are enjoyed by the hotel and office buildings. Impact: As part of large urban regeneration scheme, Mercedes Platz provides a focal point for the local community, as well as a regional destination for leisure and entertainment. The curated mix of uses ensure that the district will never 'go dark' and the different zones are designed to offer varied and engaging experiences for visitors any time of day or night. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 117 Performance associate | Arcadis Logos Energia (ALEN) Performance associate Arcadis Logos Energia (ALEN) Arcadis Logos Energia (ALEN), an associate of Arcadis in which it owns Considering delays in the construction process and sales contracts, 49.99% of the shares and voting rights, builds, operates and transfers increasing costs and assumed lower contract prices we performed a renewable energy assets in Brazil, leveraging the engineering skills of re-assessment of the business case in the third quarter. Based on these Arcadis Logos. Since 2011, ALEN has focused primarily on divesting insights Arcadis took a value adjustment of €53 million on the ALEN the existing portfolio of energy assets and no new projects have been business case. taken on board. On the balance sheet of 31 December 2018 is a provision of €28 million Today, the assets in ALEN’s portfolio are biogas installations on for expected credit loss. The net investment, including the shareholder five large landfills in the metropoles of Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo. loans, is valued at nil. The off-balance sheet financial guarantees for Together with partners, ALEN is finalizing investment plans on these ALEN are €87 million. The operating loss in the fourth quarter was Gas-to-gas landfills and (re)building five state-of-the-art installations that will €3 million. As the assets start generating cash, we expect the loss to Gas Verde Seropédica Rio de Janeiro come fully operational in 2019. The biogas installations contribute decline over time in 2019 and anticipate to be break-even in the second • 42% stake by ALEN significantly in reducing greenhouse gas emissions from methane that half of the year. • Operational as of Q4 2018 would otherwise be released to the atmosphere, besides contributing to sustainable energy production. Itaú bank has been appointed as financial advisor for the divestment process. Itaú, the largest investment bank in Brazil has a strong track Gas-to-power In 2018, Arcadis was confronted with several significant setbacks in record in the energy sector in Brazil. The objective is to divest the energy Nova Iguaçu Rio de Janeiro relation to the ALEN associate. Overall, the project was delayed for assets in 2019. • 50% stake by ALEN • Operational as of January 2019 more than six months and the investments increased significantly. See note 15 of the Consolidated financial statements for further details São Gonçalo Rio de Janeiro Progress continued to be made by the ALEN associate in the on Arcadis’ investment in ALEN and the provided corporate guarantees. • 50% stake by ALEN completion of the energy assets. The gas-to-gas plant is operational, • Operational in 2019 and a contract is now signed for 35% of the capacity with an industrial São João São Paulo buyer. An additional 35% of capacity is currently under negotiation with • 75% stake by ALEN another industrial buyer. The delivery of the gas will start at the end of • Operational since 2008 the first quarter. Discussions are ongoing with two other industrial gas consumers for the remaining capacity. The largest gas-to-power plant Bandeirantes São Paulo is in operation since the end of January and delivers 60% of the total • 75% stake by ALEN • Operational since 2004 capacity which will increase to 100% within two months. The third and last plant is on track to become operational in the course of 2019. 118 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Sustainable water supply Client: Kahramaa, the Qatar General Electricity & Water Corporation Qatar The Water Security Mega Reservoir Project is part of Qatar’s major programme to strategically secure the supply of water to its people due to the growing economy and demand for water. Challenge: To provide seven days of strategic water storage within its network through five mega reservoir sites to support the demand of Qatar’s anticipated growing population. Each of the reservoir sites will have interconnecting networks of large water pipelines that will also link to desalination plants, expected to almost triple the current water storage. Solution: Arcadis is providing pre-design studies, preliminary design, detailed design, tender procurement and construction supervision. The project entails the construction of mega-reservoirs at each of the five sites and some 600km of large diameter trunk main primary distribution network, together with associated major pumping stations. Each reservoir site contains a number of reservoir modules, which are presently the largest drinking water storage tanks in the world, with a capacity of 441,000 m3 per tank. In addition, the project is expected to create the largest drinking water storage network in the world, that will ultimately be able to provide 17 million m3 of strategic drinking water storage to the State of Qatar. Impact: Upon completion, this project will reduce the risk of water interruptions and overall requirements for water pumping, providing the community with a sustainable water supply for future generations. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 119 Enhancing sustainability along the Los Angeles river Client: The Nature Conservancy Los Angeles USA Arcadis helping to promote the use of natural infrastructure to solve pressing urban environmental challenges. Challenge: The Nature Conservancy (TNC) is pushing an effort to turn Los Angeles from ‘gray to green’. By utilizing natural infrastructure instead of traditional human engineered gray infrastructure, TNC hopes to improve water quality and reintroduce nature back to urban areas where it has been absent for decades. Solution: Arcadis helped select a project site near the LA River with a permeable bottom due to groundwater upwelling, as well as significant vegetation. The project focuses on using green infrastructure systems and processes to transform stormwater management and address vital requirements such as water supply and quality. Impact: By using natural solutions to increase biodiversity, reconnect urban communities with nature and secure a reliable water supply for the future, the team is creating a new model for urban conservation nationwide. 120 Revitalizing a key waterfront area Client: Colliers Toronto Canada Arcadis is helping with critical flood protection measures in downtown Toronto Challenge: Port Lands in Toronto is an underutilized 1,000-acre industrial site in the heart of Toronto. Portions of the site are at risk of flooding and the soil is contaminated. In the event of an extreme weather event, floodwaters from the Don River could overwhelm portions of the city. Solution: Arcadis will provide program management, onsite technical support and risk analysis for this seven-year project which includes construction of new roads, bridges, flood protection infrastructure and parks. By creating two new outlets for the river, floodwaters will run into the inner harbor instead of potentially damaging surrounding neighborhoods. Impact: When the seven-year project is complete, the waterfront will feature 40 new hectares of lush greenspace and parkland. This project will revitalize an underutilized industrial area to better serve millions of Canadians and improve quality of life. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 121 Governance & Compliance | Composition of the Executive Board Governance & Compliance Operating responsibility Composition of the Executive Board Peter Oosterveer Sarah Kuijlaars Dutch nationality, British nationality, 1957 1967 BSc MA (Oxon), FCMA, ACT Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Executive Board Chief Financial Officer and Member of the Executive Board IT/Arcadis Way, Legal & Compliance, Internal Audit Financial Planning, Reporting & Business Appraisal, Tax, Treasury, Risk & Control, Investor Relations Term 2017 2021 Term 2018 2022 Peter Oosterveer was selected as Chief Executive in the Netherlands, and subsequently to lead Sarah Kuijlaars was selected as Chief Financial Finance Director Shell Nigeria Exploration and Officer and Chairman of the Executive Board of the growth of the Chemicals business for Fluor Officer and Member of the Executive Board Production, and Vice President Finance Upstream Arcadis NV in 2017. Prior to Arcadis he worked in Europe, Africa, and the Middle East, followed of Arcadis NV in 2018. Prior to joining Arcadis CIS in Russia. In 2013, Sarah Kuijlaars was for Hoogovens IJmuiden (now Tata Steel) and by assuming global responsibility for the she worked in various roles for Royal Dutch Shell appointed Senior Vice President Finance Alpha Engineering before joining Fluor Corporation Chemicals Group. Peter Oosterveer relocated and Rolls-Royce Holdings. Downstream Global Controller in the United in 1988 as Controls System Engineer. Initially to Houston in 2009 to become President of Kingdom. She moved to Rolls-Royce Holdings in based out of the Netherlands, he was assigned the Energy and Chemicals group for Fluor In 1989, she joined Royal Dutch Shell in London 2016, where she held various positions, including to several international projects, followed by globally, which also made him a member as Regional Treasury and Banking Management Controller, Deputy CFO and CFO of Civil Aerospace. general management roles. of the Fluor Corporate Leadership Team. Assistant, followed by financial planning, advisory and treasury roles based in, inter alia, Brazil, Sarah Kuijlaars holds a Master’s degree in In 1999, he moved to Fluor’s headquarters In 2014, he was appointed as Chief Operating Argentina and the Netherlands. She subsequently mathematics from Oxford University, is a in California to lead the Corporate SAP Officer of Fluor, responsible for approximately took on larger financial leadership roles, including Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management implementation. After the successful delivery US$20 billion of annual revenues. Peter Oosterveer Finance Manager Shell Exploration and Production Accountants (FCMA) and an associated of this program, he returned to the Netherlands is also a former Director of the US-China Business International in the United Arab Emirates, member of Corporate Treasurers (ACT). to assume the role of General Manager for Fluor Council and a former Director of FMC Technologies. 122 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Composition of the Executive Leadership Team | Governance & Compliance Composition of the Executive Leadership Team1 Mary Ann Erik Alan Stephan Hopkins Blokhuis Brookes Ritter US Dutch British German nationality, nationality, nationality, nationality, 1965 1967 1961 1968 MS MSc BSc, FRICS MB In ELT since In ELT since In ELT since In ELT since 11 March 2018 11 March 2018 1 April 2018 1 April 2018 Group Executive Innovation and Transformation Group Executive Americas and CallisonRTKL Group Executive Sales & Business development Group Executive Europe & Middle East Corporate Strategy & Development, Digital, North America, Latin America, CallisonRTKL Global Clients, Global Solutions, Sales Excellence Continental Europe, United Kingdom, Middle East Marketing & Communications, Sustainability Greg Steele Rob Lia Australian Mooren Belilos nationality, Dutch Dutch 1961 nationality, nationality, BE, Grad Dip 1956 1962 Bus, FIEAust MSc BSc In ELT since In ELT since In ELT since 16 July 2018 1 April 2018 1 April 2018 1 The full Executive Leadership Team includes the CEO and CFO Group Executive Asia Pacific Group Executive Project Services Chief People Officer Asia, Australia Pacific GECs, Health & Safety, Project Management People Strategy & Culture Excellence Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 123 Governance & Compliance | Composition of the Supervisory Board Composition of the Supervisory Board Niek W. Michiel P. J.C. Maarten Ruth Hoek Lap Schönfeld Markland Dutch Dutch Dutch British nationality, nationality, nationality, nationality, 1956 1962 1949 1953 Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee, Vice-Chairman Supervisory Board, Audit and Risk Committee (Chairman) Remuneration Committee (Chair), Selection and Appointment Committee (Chair), Audit and Risk Committee Term 2008 2020 Selection Committee Remuneration Committee Term 2015 2019 Term 2009 2021 Term 2013 2021 Current other non-Executive Board positions: Current other positions: Current other non-Executive Board positions: Current other non-Executive Board positions: •• Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Van Oord •• Industrial Advisor to EQT Partners •• Member Supervisory Board Fugro N.V. •• Independent non-Executive Board Member •• Member of the Supervisory Board of Anthony •• Director Rijn Capital B.V. •• Board member Stichting VOPAK Deloitte LLP Veder (Netherlands Antilles N.V.) •• Board Member Stichting Continuïteit ICT •• Senior Independent Director Quilter PLC •• Member of the Supervisory Board of the KNRM Previous positions: •• Board Chairman Children Fund of Malawi (Raad van Toezicht) Managing Director and Partner Goldman Sachs Previous positions: •• Member of the Supervisory Board of BE Inc. (2004 2014); Non-executive director Royal Previous positions: Non-executive Director The Sage Group PLC Semiconductor Industries N.V. Brompton & Harefield Hospitals Charity in London Member Supervisory Board SIF Holding N.V. (2007 2017); Non-executive Director Standard •• Member of the board of the foundation (2012 2015); Executive Vice President Orange SA (2016 2018); Member Supervisory Board Chartered PLC (2003 2015); Lawyer/Partner, Preference Shares NEDAP N.V. (2001 2003); Managing Director Morgan Stanley University of the Arts, The Hague (2008 2016); Freshfields (1977 2003) in their offices in London, and Co., London (1988 2001); Assistant Vice Member Supervisory Board AFM (2012 2014); Singapore, and Hong Kong; Lawyer, Nabarro Current other positions: President JP Morgan (1984 1988). Member Supervisory Board Brunel N.V. Nathanson (1975 1977). •• Managing Director of Brandaris Capital (2011 2012); Member Supervisory •• Executive Director Dutch Star Companies ONE Board Draka N.V. (2010 2011); Member Supervisory Board Technical University Delft Previous positions: (2008 2016); Member Supervisory Board S&B Chairman of the Supervisory Board of StadsIndustrial Minerals Finance Holdings S.a.r.l. herstel Amsterdam N.V. (2011 2015; member SB (2009 2015); Vice-Chairman of the Executive 2003 2015); Chairman of the Supervisory Board Board and CFO of Stork BV (2001 2008); of Stichting Zuiderzeemuseum (2011 2015; Several senior international management member SB 2008 2015); Member of the positions at Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (1977 2001); Supervisory Board of NIBC Bank N.V. (2003 2015); USA, Argentina, Portugal, Switzerland, Germany, Chairman Executive Board Delta Lloyd (2001 and the Netherlands); worked in Malawi, Africa for 2014; member EB 1997 2014); Member of the the UN Development Program (1974 1976). Supervisory Board of Euronext N.V. (2010 2013); Several functions within Delta Lloyd and Shell. 124 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Composition of the Supervisory Board | Governance & Compliance Deanna Wee Gee Michael C. Goodwin Ang Putnam Canadian Singaporean British nationality, nationality, nationality, 1965 1961 1960 Remuneration Committee, Remuneration Committee, Audit and Risk Committee Selection Committee Selection Committee Term 2018 2022 Term 2016 2020 Term 2017 2021 Current other positions: Current other non-Executive Board positions: Current other non-Executive Board positions •• Member of the Board of Directors •• Board member Building and Construction •• Non-Executive Director Network Rail Ltd Kosmos Energy Authority of Singapore •• Non-Executive Director Southern Water •• Member of the Board of Directors Services Ltd Oceaneering International, Inc. Previous positions: •• Non-Executive Director ‘Tideway’ Bazalgette CEO Keppel Land Limited (2013 2017); Tunnel Ltd Previous positions: Board member Raffles Institution (2015 2017); President TECHNIP North America (2013 2017); Board member Keppel REIT Management Limited Previous positions: Chief Operating Officer, Offshore TECHNIP (2013 2017); Executive Vice-Chairman Keppel Member of the Advisory Board of the Association North America (2012 2013); Senior Vice President Land China (2010 2012); Executive Director and of Consulting Engineers (2012 2018); Specialist Operations Integration, TECHNIP (2011 2012); Chief Executive Officer Keppel Land international Advisor to the House of Lords Science & Chief Financial Officer North America, TECHNIP (2006 2009); Various positions in hotel, real estate, Technology Committee, assisting their Report (2007 2011); Various positions at VeritasDCG and strategy consulting industries in the USA, on ‘Offsite manufacture for Construction’ (2018); (1993 2007). Hong Kong and Singapore. Member of the UK Government’s Construction Leadership Council (2012 Jan 2018); Chair of the UK Government’s Green Construction Board (2012 2017); CEO Skanska UK PLC (2009 2017); Several leadership positions within Skanska UK PLC (1995 2009); Area Manager and Contracts Manager Balfour Beatty Plc (1988 1995); Trafalgar House (1982 1987). Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 125 Governance & Compliance | Corporate Governance report Corporate Governance report Arcadis is committed to the principles of good governance: integrity, transparency, accountability, and proper supervision. It has complied with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code since it was first introduced in 2003, with few deviations. During 2017, Arcadis implemented the changes resulting from the revised Corporate Governance Code which was published in December 2016. In addition, Arcadis took the opportunity to optimize its corporate governance in the interest of the wider organization. It focused on the effectiveness of six identified core governance topics and related processes: Executive Board and Executive Board effectiveness, Supervisory Board and Supervisory Board effectiveness, risk management and business control, internal audit, culture, and diversity and inclusion. As indicated last year, Arcadis continued these efforts in 2018. In March 2018, Arcadis introduced a new leadership structure. Arcadis An overview of the corporate governance structure of Arcadis in 2018 reduced the number of members of its Executive Board from five to is provided below. Arcadis applies all principles and best practice two: the CEO and the CFO. At the same time, it introduced the provisions of the Corporate Governance Code, with one historical Executive Leadership Team (ELT) consisting of the CEO, the CFO and exception. This is described on page 132. currently seven executives. Changes to the governance structure in connection with the introduction of the Executive Leadership Team are For additional information about corporate governance at Arcadis, further discussed in this Corporate Governance Report and on pages 44, please visit our website. 150 and 154 of this Annual Integrated Report. Arcadis also expanded the application of the diversity policy for the Executive Board by including diversity targets for the Executive Leadership Team. www.arcadis.com/governance The core topics of the Corporate Governance Code are all explicitly Organizational structure addressed in various chapters of this Annual Integrated Report. The Executive Board, consisting of the CEO and CFO, is entrusted with For example, diversity in the Executive Board, Executive Leadership the management of the Company, under supervision of the Supervisory Team and Supervisory Board is addressed in this Corporate Governance Board. To accelerate progress on the implementation of the strategy report on pages 128 and 129. Long-term value creation within Arcadis of Arcadis, the Company introduced the Executive Leadership Team. is addressed on pages 14 and 15 in the Executive Board Report. The Executive Leadership Team consists of the CEO, the CFO and Our company culture is discussed in the section People & Culture seven executives with clear accountability to deliver on all components starting on page 42. The section on Enterprise Risk Management can of the Strategy. be found on page 134. 126 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Corporate Governance report | Governance & Compliance Since 2003, Arcadis NV has been an international holding company. Executive Leadership Team Members of the Executive and Supervisory Boards are appointed and The Executive Leadership Team consists of the CEO, the CFO and dismissed by the General Meeting of Shareholders. The General Meeting seven executives with clear accountability to deliver on all components can amend the Articles of Association if and as proposed by the of the strategic plan. Key functional focus areas of the Executive Executive Board, with prior approval of the Supervisory Board and Leadership Team include People, Innovation, Sales and Business the Arcadis Priority Foundation. Such a decision requires a majority of Development, and Project performance, all institutionalized globally. at least three-quarters of the votes cast in a meeting in which at least The present composition of the Executive Leadership Team and three-quarters of the issued share capital is represented. If the quorum information about its members is provided on page 123 of this is not met, a second meeting is required, in which the resolution can be Annual Integrated Report. adopted by a majority of at least three-quarters of the votes, regardless of the share capital represented in the meeting. The CEO determines the number of members of the Executive Leadership Team with approval of the Supervisory Board. The members of the Executive Board Executive Leadership Team who are not Executive Board members The Executive Board consists of the CEO and the CFO. The Executive are appointed and dismissed by the CEO, subject to approval of the Board is responsible for the management of the Company as well as Supervisory Board. the continuity of the Company and the Company’s goals, objectives, long-term value creation strategy, policy, and results. At least once a year, the Executive Leadership Team evaluates its own functioning as a whole, including the dynamics of and the relationship The General Meeting appoints the Executive Board members. For every between the Executive Leadership Team and the Executive Board, appointment, the Supervisory Board is entitled to make a nomination. and that of individual members of the Executive Leadership Team. The General Meeting can overrule a binding nomination by the Supervisory Board by a resolution adopted by a majority of at least At least once a year, outside the presence of the Executive Board two-thirds of the votes, representing more than half of the issued share and the Executive Leadership Team, the Supervisory Board evaluates capital. On a non-binding nomination, the General Meeting decides by the functioning of the Executive Leadership Team, the Executive Board simple majority. The General Meeting can dismiss an Executive Board and that of the individual Executive Board members, and discusses member. Such a decision, other than proposed by the Supervisory the conclusions that must be attached to the evaluation, also in light Board, requires at least two-thirds of the votes, representing at least of succession. half of the issued share capital. The Supervisory Board appoints one of the members of the Executive Board as Chairperson and determines, Supervisory Board in consultation with the Executive Board, the division of tasks. The The Supervisory Board supervises and advises the Executive Board composition of the Executive Board and information about its members and the Executive Leadership Team on the performance of its tasks is provided on page 122 of this Annual Integrated Report. and supervises the overall development of the Company and its affiliates. In doing so, the Supervisory Board is guided by the interests of the Company and its stakeholders. Pursuant to the Articles of Association of the Company, the Supervisory Board consists of at least three members. Members are appointed by the General Meeting. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 127 Governance & Compliance | Corporate Governance report For every appointment, the Supervisory Board is entitled to make a At least once per year, outside the presence of the Executive Board, nomination. The General Meeting can overrule a binding nomination of the Supervisory Board evaluates its own functioning, the functioning the Supervisory Board by a resolution adopted by a majority of at least of the Supervisory Board committees, and that of the individual two-thirds of the votes, representing more than one-third of the issued Supervisory Board members, and discusses the conclusions that share capital. In the case of a non-binding nomination, the General are attached to the evaluation. Meeting decides by simple majority. The General Meeting can dismiss a member of the Supervisory Board. Such a decision, other than Diversity in the Executive Board, Executive Leadership Team proposed by the Supervisory Board, requires at least two-thirds of and Supervisory Board the votes, representing at least one-third of the issued share capital. Arcadis believes that diversity and inclusion should extend to all areas of its organization3. Starting at the Board level, in 2017, Arcadis further The Supervisory Board appoints one of its members as Chairperson detailed its diversity policies for the composition of the Executive Board and one as Vice-Chairperson 1. In the case of an appointment or and Supervisory Board. In view of the introduction of the Executive reappointment of Supervisory Board members, the Supervisory Board Leadership Team in March 2018, the diversity policy for the Executive profile is taken into account. Members are appointed for a maximum Board was expanded to include diversity in the Executive Leadership Team. period of four years. Pursuant to best practice provision 2.2.2 of the Arcadis believes that the organization gains from a broad range of Corporate Governance Code, as of financial year 2017, a Supervisory skills and a variety of backgrounds. Based on the nature and complexity Board member may be reappointed once for a second maximum of the Arcadis business, the markets in which Arcadis operates, and period of four years, and subsequently for a maximum period of two the diversity of the client base of Arcadis, Arcadis identified the diversity years, which reappointment may be extended by a maximum of aspects of gender, nationality/geographical provenance, and background another two years2.In the event of a reappointment after eight years, (education and/or (work) experience) as being most relevant for Arcadis reasons will be given in the report of the Supervisory Board. and its business. On the basis of these diversity aspects, diversity targets have been identified for the Supervisory Board, the Executive Board and The Supervisory Board has established three committees from among the Executive Leadership Team. The paragraphs below describe these its members: an Audit and Risk Committee, a Selection Committee, specific diversity targets and their implementation and results against and a Remuneration Committee. Their task is to assist and advise the targets. Going forward, Arcadis will continue to identify and search the Supervisory Board in fulfilling its responsibilities. The tasks and internal and external candidates for positions in the Executive Board, procedures of the committees are outlined in their charters, which the Executive Leadership Team and the Supervisory Board from a can be found on our website. The present composition of the variety of backgrounds, whilst at the same time not compromising 1 In 2018, Niek Hoek was chairperson and Michiel Lap was vice-chairperson Supervisory Board, its committees, and information about the quality, expertise, and experience. In the event that a global recruitment 2 Based on the transitional arrangement in the Corporate Governance Code 2016, the reSupervisory Board members are provided on pages 124 and 125 firm is engaged, Arcadis gives search instructions in line with the appointment of Ruth Markland during the Annual General Meeting 2017 for a third four-year term of this Annual Integrated Report. diversity policies. was exempted from this best practice provision 2.2.2. Furthermore, best practice provision 2.2.2 does not apply to Maarten Schönfeld, whose third four-year term extends until 2020 3 For more information about Diversity and Inclusion within Arcadis globally, please see page 48 4 Section 166 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code 128 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Corporate Governance report | Governance & Compliance Gender – targets & outcome As four of the seven Supervisory Board members have a financial In line with applicable legislation4, the Supervisory Board has set the background, Arcadis meets this requirement. The second target set by following gender diversity targets: for both the Executive Board and Arcadis requires that at least one member of the Supervisory Board the Executive Leadership Team at least 30% shall consist of female shall have experience in the global design, the engineering and/or the members, and at least 30% shall consist of male members. Likewise, consulting industry or an industry adjacent thereto. This target is also for the Supervisory Board at least 30% shall consist of female members, met with five members having this type of experience. and at least 30% shall consist of male members. After the appointment in 2018 of Sarah Kuijlaars as member of the Executive Board, the Diversity in the Executive Board and the Executive Leadership Team Executive Board consists of one male (50%) and one female member (50%). The Executive Leadership Team consists of three female (33.3%) Year of birth Gender Nationality and six male (66.6%) members. The Supervisory Board consists of five Mr. Oosterveer 1957 Male Dutch male (71%) and two female members (29%). With this Arcadis achieved, Mrs. Kuijlaars 1967 Female British or is very close to achieving, its gender diversity targets. Mrs. Belilos 1962 Female Dutch Mr. Blokhuis 1967 Male Dutch Nationality/geographical provenance –targets & outcome Mr. Brookes 1961 Male British Arcadis is active in many regions and countries worldwide. Arcadis set Mrs. Hopkins 1965 Female American the following targets in terms of nationality/geographical provenance. Mr. Mooren 1956 Male Dutch In the Executive Leadership Team, at least three regions where Arcadis is Mr. Ritter 1968 Male German active shall be represented. In the Supervisory Board, at least three regions Mr. Steele 1961 Male Australian where Arcadis is active shall be represented. Based on the current composition of the Executive Leadership Team and the Supervisory Board, Arcadis meets these diversity targets. Professional Client service/ relationship Interengineering Legal, Tax and external Background: education and/or (work) experience – targets & outcome national and consulting and risk stakeholder experience experience management Finance management The background target for the Executive Leadership Team requires Mr. Oosterveer that at least three members shall have experience in the global design, Mrs. Kuijlaars the engineering and/or the consulting industry or an industry adjacent Mrs. Belilos thereto. Arcadis meets this target as seven members of the Executive Mr. Blokhuis Leadership Team have this type of experience. The background target Mr. Brookes for the Supervisory Board consists of two requirements. The first Mrs. Hopkins requirement, which also follows from the Dutch Decree Establishing Mr. Mooren Audit Committees, is that at least one member of the Supervisory Board Mr. Ritter shall have a financial background. Mr. Steele Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 129 Governance & Compliance | Corporate Governance report Diversity in the Supervisory Board on the agenda if it receives the substantiated proposal clearly stating the item to be discussed, or a draft resolution, in writing at least 60 days Year of birth Gender Nationality prior to the meeting date. Each shareholder is entitled to attend Mr. Hoek 1956 Male Dutch shareholder meetings in person or be represented by written proxy Mr. Lap 1962 Male Dutch and to exercise voting rights with due observance of the provisions Mr. Schönfeld 1949 Male Dutch in the Articles of Association. Each outstanding share entitles the Ms. Markland 1953 Female British holder to one vote. Resolutions are adopted by simple majority unless Mr. Ang 1961 Male Singaporean the Articles of Association or the law provide(s) otherwise. Arcadis Mr. Putnam 1960 Male British advocates active shareholder participation at shareholder meetings. Mrs. Goodwin 1965 Female Canadian Since 2007, the Articles of Association allow for communication and voting by electronic means. Professional service/ Client engineering relationship For more information about the powers of the General Meeting Interand Legal, Tax and external as well as the Company’s Articles of Association, please visit: national consulting and risk stakeholder experience experience management Finance management Mr. Hoek Mr. Lap www.arcadis.com/governance Mr. Schönfeld Ms. Markland Share capital Mr. Ang The authorized share capital of Arcadis NV consists of ordinary shares, Mr. Putnam cumulative financing preference shares, priority shares, and cumulative Mrs. Goodwin preference (protective) shares, each with a nominal value of €0.02. At year-end 2018, the total number of ordinary shares issued was For more information about nationality/geographical provenance 89,015,305. Currently, only ordinary shares and 600 priority shares and the background (education/work experience) of the members of have been issued. See note 24 to the Consolidated financial statements the Executive Leadership Team and the Supervisory Board of Arcadis, for further details. Priority shares and cumulative preference shares please refer to their biographies on pages 122 to 125 respectively. have an impact on the governance of the Company. General meeting of shareholders Priority shares At least once a year, Arcadis NV convenes a shareholder meeting. The 600 priority shares, held by the Arcadis Priority Foundation Meetings are convened by the Executive and/or Supervisory Board. (Stichting Prioriteit Arcadis NV), entitle the holder to a right of approval Meetings can also be convened at the request of shareholders jointly regarding certain important decisions. These include the issuance, representing at least 10% of the Company’s issued share capital if acquisition or disposal of shares, amendments to the Articles of authorized by the relevant Dutch court. Shareholders who hold at least Association, dissolution of the Company, as well as certain major 3% of the issued share capital have the right to propose an item for co-operations, acquisitions, and divestments. inclusion on the agenda. The Company will in principle include the item 130 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Corporate Governance report | Governance & Compliance Pursuant to the articles of association of the Priority Foundation (which Financial reporting and role of auditors were updated in 2018 to align the composition of the Priority Before being presented to the General Meeting for adoption, annual Foundation Board with the new leadership structure), the Priority financial statements as prepared by the Executive Board must be Foundation Board is comprised of two members of the Executive Board, examined by an external certified public auditor. one member of the Executive Leadership Team, seven members of the Supervisory Board, and ten members who are Arcadis employees. All The General Meeting has the authority to appoint the auditor. Each year, resolutions of the Board require a majority of at least 60% of the votes the Supervisory Board nominates the auditor for (re-)appointment by cast, meaning that both employee support and Board support is needed the General Meeting, taking into account the advice of the Audit and for those far-reaching decisions. Risk Committee. The auditor’s assignment and remuneration are resolved on by the Supervisory Board, on the recommendation of the Cumulative preference (protective) shares Audit and Risk Committee. Prior to publication, the half-year results and Currently, no cumulative preference shares have been issued. However, reports are discussed with the Audit and Risk Committee in the an option agreement to acquire and transfer such shares has been presence of the external auditors, and subsequently with the entered into between the Arcadis Preferred Stock Foundation (Stichting Supervisory Board. The (quarterly) results and reports of the first and Preferente Aandelen Arcadis NV) and Arcadis NV. The objective of this the third quarter are discussed with the Audit and Risk Committee, in foundation is to protect the interests of Arcadis, its enterprises, and all the presence of the external auditors, prior to publication. of those involved. In the event of any hostile situation, preference shares can be obtained by this Foundation. This would allow the Executive The external auditor attends all Audit and Risk Committee meetings Board and the Supervisory Board time to duly consider the situation and the meetings of the Supervisory Board in which the annual financial and the interests involved. For more information, please see note 24 statements are to be approved and the year-end audit report of the to the Consolidated financial statements. external auditor is discussed. The Arcadis Auditor Independence Policy contains rules and procedures for the engagement of the external Regulations concerning Arcadis securities transactions auditor, in order to ensure its independence. The Audit and Risk Committee Arcadis has put in place regulations regarding transactions in Arcadis annually reports to the Supervisory Board on the functioning of the securities that apply to all employees unless stipulated otherwise. external auditor and the relationship with the external auditor, whilst These regulations also prohibit Executive Board members and (other) giving due consideration to the Executive Board's observations. members of the Executive Leadership Team from executing transactions The desirability of rotating the external auditor’s lead partner is in the securities of certain identified listed peer companies, regardless also evaluated. In 2014, PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants NV of whether they have inside information or not. Members of the was appointed as the new auditor for the financial year. Supervisory Board are required to obtain prior approval from the PricewaterhouseCoopers has been reappointed by the General Meeting Compliance Officer if they wish to execute transactions in the securities every year since then. The lead partner was changed again in 2017 due of such companies. to retirement. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 131 Governance & Compliance | Corporate Governance report Arcadis has an internal audit function which operates under the It was further stipulated that nominations to the Executive Board would responsibility of the Executive Board, (with lines to the CEO, CFO, and normally be binding, whereas nominations to the Supervisory Board the Audit and Risk Committee). The role of the internal audit function is would, under normal circumstances, be non-binding. The General to assess the design and the operation of the internal risk management Meeting explicitly approved this practice in 2003 by adopting the and control systems. The scope of work of the internal audit function resolution to make the related amendments to the Articles of is regulated in an Internal Audit Charter. In line with the Corporate Association. Governance Code, both the appointment and dismissal of the Head of Internal Audit shall be submitted to the full Supervisory Board Relevant documents on corporate website for approval, with a recommendation issued by the Audit and Risk •• Dutch Corporate Governance Code (version 2016) Committee. In line with the Corporate Governance Code, the Executive •• Arcadis NV Articles of Association Board, the external auditor and the Audit and Risk Committee are •• Executive Board and Executive Leadership Team Rules involved in the preparation and approval of the annual internal •• Regulation Supervisory Board audit plan. The annual internal audit plan is submitted to the •• Diversity Policy for the Executive Board and Executive Board and Supervisory Board for approval. Internal Audit the Executive Leadership Team of Arcadis NV Reports are discussed with the Executive Board and with the Audit •• Diversity Policy Supervisory Board and Risk Committee in the presence of the external auditor. •• Regulations regarding transactions in Arcadis securities •• Arcadis policy on bilateral contacts with shareholders Compliance with the principles and best practice provisions of the Corporate Governance Code Arcadis applies the principles and best practices of the Corporate Governance Code, except for the following and for the reasons set www.arcadis.com/governance out below: 4.3.3: In 2003, the Articles of Association of the Company were amended to abandon the structure regime. At that time, provisions were included in the Articles of Association that prescribe that binding nominations for the appointment or dismissal of members of the Executive and Supervisory Board can only be overruled by the General Meeting by a qualified majority rather than an absolute majority. This was done in view of the percentage of share ownership of the Lovinklaan Foundation. As the percentage of share ownership of Lovinklaan is still significant (18% on 31 December 2018, see page 82), the reasons for this deviation are still applicable and the deviation is expected to continue to apply as long as Lovinklaan has a significant ownership. 132 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 The Shelter Program in 2018 active to support UN-Habitat all over the world In the Shelter program Arcadis supports UN-Habitat In addition to the missions Arcadis staff took part in Urban Thinkers Campuses, where since 2010 to provide technical expertise for development on the initiative of the UN-Habitat World Urban Campaign governments, NGO’s and the private sector share experience on urban issues. In 2018, Arcadis staff were able projects all over the world. The Shelter program is to participate in urban Thinkers Campuses in Qatar, Australia, India, Belgium, Argentina made possible through funding by Lovinklaan Foundation. and Macau. To share experience and involve more Arcadis staff eleven urban workshops were held in Arcadis offices, in 2018 in Malaysia, Thailand, several in The Netherlands In 2018, we supported twelve projects on request of and Belgium, in Canada, Philippines and the U.K. UN-Habitat. Arcadis organizes an annual Shelter Academy for knowledge transfer in cooperation with UN-Habitat as part of the Shelter program. On recommendation of UN-Habitat Support was provided for climate change adaptation projects in Madagascar, Comoros, officials are invited for a training program in The Netherlands on the topic of Resilient Mozambique and Malawi, in Nepal for several follow up projects for earthquake recovery, City Development and Climate Change, with lectures by Arcadis experts, visits to in Jamaica advise was provided on flood prevention, in Laos and Cambodia the topic municipalities and water boards, and site visits. The Shelter Academy in 2018 included was climate change and environmental development, in the Philippines urban training participants from The Philippines, Cambodia, Nepal, Ghana, Malawi, Mozambique, workshops were held for the national government and for three municipalities, and Jamaica and Brazil, with directors of municipal planning departments and three mayors. from our offices we support UN-Habitat to develop a framework of environmental The participants use the knowledge to implement the goal of UN-Habitat to develop and social standards. better cities all over the world. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 133 Governance & Compliance | Enterprise Risk Management Enterprise Risk Management Taking and managing risk is part of daily business. Controlled risks can present new opportunities, resulting in value creation. Uncontrolled risks can hinder the achievement of long-term strategic objectives and Arcadis’ ability to succeed. Arcadis’ risk and control framework helps to balance this risk and reward. It identifies risks and defines controls which mitigate or manage these risks in line with Arcadis’ risk appetite. Strategic risks The Changing Risk Universe Market During late 2017, in consultation with internal and external subject Capability & Innovation Acquisition & Divestment matter experts, Arcadis’ Executive Board finalized its review of Arcadis’ Corporate Financing risk universe and its risk and control framework, which included identification and analysis of its risks in light of its new strategy. Operational risks It focused on the evolving nature of the market and of Arcadis’ activities and considered how much risk it could accept in pursuit Arcadis Client & Opportunity Project & Contract Execution People & Capacity of its strategic objectives. 15 Key Third Party Management Liquidity & Working Transformational Programs Health & Safety Risks Capital Management Information Security Financial Reporting Information Technology As a result of this review, a revised risk and control framework – the Arcadis Risk & Control Framework (the ARC Framework) – was introduced in 2018. Compliance risks The ARC Framework identifies fifteen global key risks, divided into Regulatory & Policy Compliance three risk categories – Strategic, Operational and Compliance. It includes 122 business controls which are supported by documents such as authorization charts and policies, standards, procedures and guidelines, all of which target risk mitigation in accordance with Arcadis’ risk appetite. The ARC Framework is aligned to all three pillars from Arcadis’ 2018-2020 strategy: People & Culture, Innovation & Growth and Focus & Performance and as such includes the following key risks: People & Capacity Risk, Capability & Innovation Risk and Project & Client Execution Risk. It is the cornerstone of Arcadis’ risk management approach and supports Arcadis in further embedding risk management in the business. 134 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Enterprise Risk Management | Governance & Compliance Risks at a glance Risk Area Risk Risk Description Business Impact Trend Risk Appetite Strategic Market The risk that market developments have an adverse effect Not meeting revenue and profitability targets set in business on Arcadis’ growth plans Capability & The risk that the knowledge and technical capability and Lack of presence in growth sectors of the market and inability Innovation capacity of Arcadis’ employees does not always match to replace obsolete service offerings prevailing market needs and that Arcadis is not developing or applying new, innovative solutions for the market effectively Acquisition & The risk that acquisitions do not deliver the intended return Value destruction, negative impact on profit, deterioration Divestment on investment or that assets to be divested are not divested of employee morale in a timely fashion, for the right values Corporate Financing The risk of having inadequate access to capital from Inability to invest in organic growth or business acquisitions external sources Operational Client & Opportunity The risk that too large a proportion of net revenue comes Growth in revenue falls short of business objectives or declines from a small group of clients and/or that an insufficient number of strategic pursuits are converted to profitable wins Project & Contract The risk of underperformance in the delivery of projects Shortfalls in project financial results (multipliers/margins, cash Execution collection), dissatisfied clients, and legal claims against Arcadis People & Capacity The risk that the business has insufficient talent to win Ineffective delivery of projects, management of operations and deliver client projects and to lead the business to achieve and leadership of the business its fullest potential Transformational The risk that major change programs are not delivered Impedes the achievement of business objectives including Programs effectively or cost efficiently growth, collaboration, and operational efficiency Third Party The risk of inadequate performance by third parties (e.g. Financial performance negatively impacted; Management suppliers, agents, sub-contractors, joint venture partners, disruption to business operations; reputational damage equity partners) Health & Safety The risk of health and safety incidents which adversely affect Harm to employee(s), personal liability, financial loss Arcadis' people or the business and reputational damage Liquidity & Working The risk that the business has insufficient Free Cash Flow Inability to pay liabilities, including suppliers and payroll, Capital Management to fund its operations and stay within acceptable debt ratios on time Financial Reporting The risk that the financial statements contain material Loss of confidence in the accounts by key external and misstatements internal users Information Security The risk that confidentiality, integrity and availability Loss of critical business information or availability of systems of data is compromised due to cyber-attacks leading to financial losses and/or reputational damage Information The risk of critical IT systems being unavailable or having Financial loss due to business disruption; inability to support the Technology restricted availability to the business business with providing its services in an effective and efficient manner Compliance Regulatory & Policy The risk of non-compliance with statutory laws and Fines, claims and reputational damage Compliance regulations in applicable jurisdictions in which Arcadis operates or with Arcadis' internal authority schemes and other company standards, policies or guidelines Increasing Stable Decreasing Averse Low Medium High Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 135 Governance & Compliance | Enterprise Risk Management Responsibility for risk management Risk appetite In addition to creating and maintaining an internal risk and control The ARC Framework balances risk and opportunity and clearly sets out system, the Executive Board is responsible for ensuring that such a the Executive Board’s appetite for risk. To facilitate the communication system is integrated and embedded into Arcadis’ work processes. of the risk appetite to the business, Key Risk Indicators, based on both qualitative and quantitative metrics, were developed for each of the Arcadis’ Executive Board is supported in this by the ELT members. fifteen key risks. In 2018, to strengthen risk oversight at a functional level, each ELT member was given overall responsibility for one or more of the The Key Risk Indicators are monitored on a periodic basis to provide an fifteen key risks in the ARC Framework. early warning as to where exposure to risk may be exceeding appetite. Where exposure is outside of appetite range, existing controls may have The Risk Management function, headed by the Chief Risk Officer (CRO) more focus placed on them, alternatively the introduction of additional and supported by a Corporate Risk Management team and Regional or revised controls may be considered. Risk Managers, provides guidance and assistance to the Executive Board. This includes active participation in Pursuit Committees and Arcadis’ risk appetite changes over time reflecting developments project reviews, carrying out Project Deep Dives, driving risk awareness in society, the client landscape and changes within Arcadis. in the organization and supporting the assessments of the operation and effectiveness of the ARC Framework in the regions (see below Risk management in action ‘Arcadis Risk Assurance Program’). Arcadis follows a three-line defense model. The operating entities are the first line of defense, embedding risk management as a formal The Risk Management Committee, chaired by the Chief Financial Officer part of all major decision making via tools such as risk registers, (CFO), advises the Executive Board/ELT and other management on project watch lists and client and project Go/No Go assessments. strategic, operational and global risk questions in the context of Arcadis’ risk appetite. It continually assesses whether Arcadis has identified and The Risk Management function is part of the second line of defense mitigated or managed all known and emerging risks and ensures that along with other enabling functions including Human Resources, robust risk management exists across Arcadis. The Chairman nominates Legal, Health & Safety, Finance and Information Security. These the other members of the Risk Management Committee, to include functions assist and support the first line of defense with identification (at least) five members (Senior Business Representative(s) from one or and analysis of key risks (including the likely impact and probability more regions, Arcadis NV General Counsel, Director of Internal Audit and of the risks arising), mitigation of risk through the introduction of the CRO). Their appointment is confirmed by the Executive Board/ELT. policies, standards, procedures and guidelines, providing training and awareness, and with the periodic assessment of the design and operating effectiveness of risk mitigating controls. The Risk Management function was strengthened in 2018 with the appointment of a new CRO, reporting directly to the CFO with a dotted line to the Group Executive Project Services. An increased focus on project risk and further enhancing the risk awareness in the organization will be the key focus for the Risk Management function in 2019. 136 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Enterprise Risk Management | Governance & Compliance Arcadis’ Internal Audit function provides the third line of defense. Phases of the Risk Assurance Program Its role is explained in more detail on the next page. Arcadis’ Risk Assurance Program A key part of Arcadis’ risk management process is to periodically and Reporting and Planning systematically assess whether the control measures, as defined in the Monitoring IDENTIFY and Scoping ARC Framework, are designed and operating effectively across the Q4 Q1 regions. The Executive Board is responsible for this monitoring. As part of the new ARC Framework, a revised Risk Assurance Program (including revised testing methodology), covering all control measures relating to strategic, operational (which includes financial reporting) and compliance risks, was introduced. This provides for a continuous annual cycle for testing the design and operation of the controls to ensure that Q3 Q2 Testing operating Validating the key risks are being effectively mitigated or managed. effectiveness control design The regional management teams for each region are responsible for ensuring that the controls are working within their region. The Regional Risk Manager oversees the Risk Assurance Program in its region and delivers the findings to the regional management team in a report. If no major failings in the design, implementation or execution of the The report includes an evaluation of the resolution of control issues controls under the ARC Framework are found (i.e. no failings which arising from the prior year and summarizes if any improvements to the result in material losses or impact), the conclusion is that the controls design or implementation of the controls are required for the current were operating effectively throughout the year. year. The regional assessments are overseen and co-ordinated by the Corporate Risk Management team. Once completed, each region The Risk Assurance Program may identify new and evolving risk causes presents its report to the CRO and Group Controller. The findings are which require the design of controls to be updated and/or strengthened. discussed in detail between the Region, the CRO and the Group These changes will be actioned and communicated by Corporate Risk Controller with the aim of improving the quality of the findings and Management. Where required improvements in the implementation of the associated recommendations. Attention is given to observed the controls by the regions or functions are identified, these are weaknesses, instances of misconduct and irregularities, indications from captured in a tracker. The tracker is periodically monitored by Corporate whistle blowers, lessons learned and findings and recommendations Risk Management to ensure that the improvements are being actioned. from the internal audit department and external audit firm. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 137 Governance & Compliance | Enterprise Risk Management Each Regional CEO and the Regional CFO is required to sign-off an The Head of Internal Audit has direct access to the Executive Board and annual Letter/Document of Representation (DOR), which is addressed attends Audit and Risk Committee meetings. to the Group CEO and CFO. In addition, as from 2018, each ELT member is required to develop and sign off a Functional DOR in respect of the The priorities for Internal Audit are defined in a dialogue with the ELT key risk or risks for which they are responsible. They are supported in and the Audit and Risk Committee and are approved by the Executive this by relevant functional leaders and Corporate Risk Management. Board and the Supervisory Board. They are based on the results of an overall risk assessment of Arcadis which focuses on the main risk Based on the Regional and Functional DORs, Arcadis NV issues a DOR management and internal control systems. Priorities of the Internal (including an In Control Statement) to the external auditor. Audit plan are discussed with the external auditor. Ongoing interaction exists between Internal Audit and the external auditor regarding the Internal Audit progress of execution of the plan and main results. The audit plan is Arcadis’ Internal Audit function acts as the third line of defence and reassessed quarterly against changes in the overall risk environment operates under the responsibility of the Executive Board. Its objective is of Arcadis. The audits of Internal Audit are aligned with the second to enhance Arcadis’ performance through assurance. line functions. Three lines of defence Audit and Risk Committee / Supervisory Board Executive Board Executive Leadership Team First Line of Defense Second Line of Defense Third Line of Defense EA Risk Management Information Security Management controls Finance Tax Internal Audit External Audit Process controls Legal Compliance Human Resources Health & Safety 138 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Enterprise Risk Management | Governance & Compliance In 2018, Internal Audit completed its audit plan and conducted 24 audit Observations and recommendations as reported by Internal Audit are engagements. It continued to focus its activities on the Arcadis Way, submitted to management of the operating entities or global functions including an assessment of effective embedment of risk management including appropriate regional and ELT members and included in the and segregation of duties. In addition, process audits in operating tracker. Regional management is responsible for executing and entities and on global themes across regions were undertaken. monitoring the progress of remedial measures put in place to mitigate During 2018, Internal Audit observed that there were some areas of and manage the reported risks. non-compliance and identified opportunities for improvement, however these do not materially impact the finding of the overall The role of the Audit and Risk Committee includes monitoring the effectiveness of the risk and control systems. Main reportable progress of management follow up as a result of audits. The Audit and observations involved Arcadis Logos Energia in Brazil (ALEN), where Risk committee receives, on a quarterly basis, the results of audits and Internal Audit made several recommendations related to ALEN’s activities as performed by Risk Management, Internal Audit and PwC, financial governance, and CallisonRTKL, where observations were made the external auditor, and the main results and progress on actions are regarding analytical support by Finance towards practice groups. discussed. Effective management of these actions have been observed and are considered to be completed. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 139 Governance & Compliance | Enterprise Risk Management Main risks table Strategic risks Market risk Capability & Innovation Arcadis continues to operate in a competitive market that is exposed to economic cycles, Market needs are rapidly changing. Arcadis is aware that it must innovate based on geopolitical shifts, consolidation of competitors and the consolidation of supplier base by the changing market demands and not based on its existing capabilities. It is developing clients. In 2018 Arcadis saw protectionism having an increased impact and the acceleration the knowledge and the technical capability of its people to match those market needs. of digital driving new ways of working. The transformation of Arcadis’ business model will help it to maintain a sustainable future but this needs to be done quickly and with a comprehensive understanding of what is Specific risk-mitigating actions in 2018 needed to achieve this transformation, and by when. 1. Communication of the importance of focus and courage in helping the successful delivery of Arcadis’ 2018-2020 global strategy, including introducing the top ten Priorities (see page 28). Specific risk-mitigating actions in 2018 2. Focus on strengthening relationships with key clients. 1. Arcadis partnered with TechStars, a market leading start up accelerator, to bring an 3. Re-evaluation of regional portfolios resulting in increased focus on a diverse portfolio ‘outside in’ approach and help bring the brightest and most innovative ideas to the market. of public and private clients in a variety of sectors, and depth of expertise. This included 2. ‘Deep Orange’, Arcadis’ design thinking innovation program which allows Arcadians to the exit of certain markets and sectors in the Middle East in order to decrease the overall co-create with Clients and Partners to create digital solutions to support their business risk profile in that region. needs, continued to be rolled out in further Arcadis regions. 4. Progress the development of the digital agenda including increased company awareness 3. Expedition DNA, on online experience open to all Arcadians, introduced the background through the roll out of Digital Base Camp. to digital at Arcadis and some of the key concepts and themes that underpin it. Over 6,600 Arcadians took part in Expedition DNA in 2018, which highlights a desire on the part of many Arcadians to self-develop and contribute to Arcadis’ digital journey. 4. The Vlerick Business School delivered its program, focused on the digital market, to Senior Leaders, providing a more detailed understanding of digital to allow for better decision making and avoidance of pitfalls. 5. The digitalization of cost and commercial management was started in several regions. Risk Appetite: Risk Trend: Risk Appetite: Risk Trend: Further activities planned for 2019 Further activities planned for 2019 During 2019 there will be a continued focus on implementing the strategy including During 2019 Arcadis will continue the digitalization of cost and commercial management across (1) digitalization of global solutions to ensure that Arcadis remains competitive with the regions. It will also work towards digitalizing more of its global solutions including Design both traditional and non-traditional rivals and improve knowledge and asset management and Engineering and Environmental remediation, as well as digitalizing its consultancy services through data analytics (2) focus the portfolio and (3) strengthen key client relationships. (e.g. Program Management and Operate & Maintain). The launch of ‘Vision 2030’ will position Arcadis with both clients and prospective employees as a consultant and employer of choice. Being an employer of choice will help to retain and attract talent with key digital skills. Increasing Stable Decreasing Averse Low Medium High 140 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Enterprise Risk Management | Governance & Compliance Acquisition & Divestment risk Corporate Financing risk In 2018, Arcadis' did not undertake any large mergers or acquisitions, but chose to focus The excess liquidity seen in the debt capital markets in 2017 continued into 2018. This has on the organic growth of the global organization. It added some small companies to its had a positive effect on Arcadis’ ability to access capital from external sources meaning portfolio, with a focus on digital competencies. Arcadis continued to assess its portfolio and, liquidity remains good. On-going discussions with existing and potential lenders are being after looking at strategic alternatives, decided that CRTKL would be operated as a separate held to maximize financing flexibility for the group. division within Arcadis. Specific risk-mitigating actions in 2018 Specific risk-mitigating actions in 2018 1. Scenario analyses have been performed involving company management and corporate 1. Arcadis continued to cautiously look at smaller investments, applying a diligent process staff departments to ensure that the company is properly considering financing and for reviewing targets and assessing added value. Arcadis includes in its review the leveraging risks with a consistent outlook. ability to finance acquisitions and the managerial capabilities required for integration. 2. In Q4, a process was started to refinance a part of the Arcadis relationship bank debt, 2. Arcadis continued to carefully monitor the integration and value creation of past in order to extend the maturity to 2024. This has now been concluded. acquisitions with a formal review of past acquisitions after one and three years. It applies lessons learned when integrating subsequent acquisitions. 3. Acquired SEAMS – a company specialized in optimizing asset management through the use of big data – to support the digital strategy and bolster digital and data expertise. 4. In Asia, the country and business line portfolio was rationalized to ensure a more focused effort in Asia and a diversification of the business in areas where Arcadis is strong globally with the aim of returning the Asian business to profitable growth. Risk Appetite: Risk Trend: Risk Appetite: Risk Trend: Further activities planned for 2019 Further activities planned for 2019 Arcadis will continue to review its portfolio in certain regions which may lead to exiting Arcadis will actively review the appropriate level of diversification and maturity of the existing certain markets and sectors to reduce its overall risk profile. In 2019 Arcadis aims to divest debt financing components, commensurate with market conditions and risk appetite. its clean energy assets in Brazil. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 141 Governance & Compliance | Enterprise Risk Management Operational risks Client & Opportunity risk Project & Contract Execution risk Client buying patterns are changing: clients are looking for integrated thinking to solve The risk of underperformance in the delivery of client projects has continued to increase complex problems in a sustainable way and are increasingly transferring risk to their supply slightly due to the on-going shift towards clients transferring risk into the supply chain. chain. Reflecting this trend, engagement by contractors and public/private partnerships, Arcadis’ project teams have to be able to respond to changing demands and risk profiles whose own clients have procured services on a design and build basis, has gradually increased. on traditional projects. In addition to the traditional client projects, Arcadis is increasingly This trend and other market forces have resulted in increased exposure to Client & Opportunity involved in client projects with new contract types and alternative delivery methods. risk, however Arcadis’ experience and its Go/No Go procedures mitigate and manage Mitigations for risks that have not previously been encountered by Arcadis must now also such exposure. be considered and implemented, taking into account the relative limits of the knowledge and experience that exists within Arcadis regarding the execution of such contracts. Specific risk-mitigating actions in 2018 1. A global sales and business development function was created. Specific risk-mitigating actions in 2018 2. The client portfolio was assessed and re-focused to identify the top 250 local, regional 1. Global Digital Contract Review guidance as well as Joint Venture and Patent Guidelines and global key clients, ensuring that Arcadis works with clients who have a good business were introduced. fit and alignment. 2. As part of the Make Every Project Count (MEPC) initiative, 120 maturity assessments were 3. The client and opportunity Go/No Go process was strengthened which has resulted in carried out globally, involving over twelve hundred Arcadians in workshops. The participants a more uniform global approach to client and opportunity selection. committed to action plans to mitigate and manage identified risks and improve project 4. As part of the new sales excellence initiative, regional and global tender boards were profitability. combined to create ‘strategic pursuit committees’. The new Pursuit Committee process 3. Project review training sessions were developed and delivered to ensure that project creates better focus on pursuits by ensuring that pursuit leaders on strategic and high reviews were being executed in a uniform manner globally, highlighting any risks or value opportunities have access to Arcadis’ world-class experts, best in class experience and potential risks and dealing with them in an appropriate and timely manner. knowledge. By connecting the right people to the right opportunities, the aim is to increase 4. As a result of project write-offs in Asia the project review regime has been intensified and win and capture rates whilst maintaining a high level of scrutiny over risk factors. some management changes were implemented, with additional attention on operations management. 5. Based on recommendations of Internal Audit, operational and financial controls relating to ALEN have been further strengthened. Risk Appetite: Risk Trend: Risk Appetite: Risk Trend: Further activities planned for 2019 Further activities planned for 2019 All 250 key clients will have a consistent, best-practices approach and level of support applied As part of the on-going MEPC initiative a system to facilitate early intervention into projects that to achieve sales excellence. The Pursuit Committees will continue to be enhanced and refined are performing below expectations will be further rolled out in 2019. Project managers and line in 2019. managers will receive a monthly report detailing projects which could become loss making. If required, a structured support program is provided. The Client Experience process, which was piloted in 2018, will be scaled to the targeted The project review process will continue to be strengthened. During the tender phase of projects, client portfolio. contingencies will be added for expected operational risks. Project manager networks will be set up to share lessons learnt across business lines and solutions and to provide coaching and mentoring of junior project managers Training and mentoring of project managers will include digital project management. Increasing Stable Decreasing Averse Low Medium High 142 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Enterprise Risk Management | Governance & Compliance People & Capacity risk Transformational Programs Effective delivery of projects and strong leadership of Arcadis is dependent on attracting Arcadis recognizes that there are risks related to disruption caused by not delivering major and retaining employees with the appropriate competencies. Maintaining sufficient talent internal change programs effectively. Poor communication or too many initiatives may negate with such competencies against the background of changing markets and the ‘war for talent’ or reduced the intended positive impact of the program, with people becoming confused, presents a challenge. Providing opportunities for employees to develop new competencies is disengaged or distracted from their day-to-day activities. key to Arcadis’ success, particularly as it becomes more digital, client needs change and new competitors come into its space. Specific risk-mitigating actions in 2018 1. The ELT introduced the Top 10 Priorities and set up an Enterprise Program Management Specific risk-mitigating actions in 2018 Office (EMPO). The EMPO focuses on bringing change projects across the globe into a 1. Launched the ‘Employee Experience’ which focuses on the four key elements which make uniformed transformation, aligned with the Top 10 Priorities. Arcadis attractive to current and potential employees – Projects, People, Opportunities and 2. Due to enhancements required in billing and invoice creation in the Oracle ERP Cloud Flexibility. The Employee Experience is also the basis for the new Global Career site, where system, Arcadis decided to put its people and clients first and delayed the implementation Arcadis will post its vacancies and present the Employee Experience to potential employees. of the system in North America until July 2019. 2. The performance management framework 'Grow Perform Succeed' – was implemented globally to provide more frequent and meaningful performance conversations, focused on the future, growth and development. This promotes a growth mindset where employees are encouraged to develop their skills to suit the changing market demands. 3. A career framework setting out job families was introduced with the Arcadis Way to allow Arcadians to map where they currently sit in the career framework and what competences and skills they need to work on or obtain to move to where they aspire to be in their career. The job framework is also used for resources planning, so that the right people are assigned to the right projects. 4. The ‘People First’ pillar of Arcadis’ strategy continued to be promoted through the Values & Behaviors by introducing ‘The Little Things That Matter’ and ‘Cultural Take Over Week’. 5. The Digital Academy was further developed and the Client Focus Academy, Program Management Academy as well as the Project Management Academy continued to be used by Arcadians globally. Risk Appetite: Risk Trend: Risk Appetite: Risk Trend: Further activities planned for 2019 Further activities planned for 2019 In 2019 the focus will be on the further embedding of the Employee Experience and Grow Perform The new Oracle platform (Oracle ERP Cloud), supporting the Arcadis Way, will be rolled out Succeed, as well as the career framework and career paths. Training for line managers to better in North America. Australia Pacific will also be moved onto the new platform in 2019 and equip them for their complex tasks, including the people management aspects of their role, will preparations will be undertaken in the UK, China and Middle East for moving to the new platform be reviewed. There will be a continued focus on Arcadis’ Values and Behaviors and promoting in 2020. The staged roll out allows the Arcadis Way team to focus on one region at a time and to a work environment that is diverse and inclusive. apply lessons learnt, reducing any potential confusion or distraction. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 143 Governance & Compliance | Enterprise Risk Management Third Party Management risk Health & Safety risk Inadequate performance by third parties (e.g. suppliers, agents, sub-contractors, joint venture Arcadis’ core business regions and activities have remained substantially the same in partners, equity partners) can negatively impact financial performance, disrupt business 2018 and from that perspective the risk of health and safety incidents occurring has not operations and result in reputational damage. Arcadis strives to appoint third parties which significantly altered this year. Due to the increased focus on the opportunity Go/No Go are financially stable, and which align with Arcadis’ business principles and core values. Client process, health and safety concerns on potential projects are being raised at a much earlier and market awareness of the potential risks of poor third-party management and the impact it stage. This enables the health and safety function to more consistently provide input and could have on projects is increasing, therefore clients are looking in more detail at the measures for health and safety controls to be fully scoped and priced. and controls that Arcadis has in place regarding this risk. Specific risk-mitigating actions in 2018 Specific risk-mitigating actions in 2018 1. During 2018, all regions prepared employee well-being programs. 1. Arcadis operates a Global Partnering Policy, which in combination with the ARC Framework 2. Health & Safety has been integrated into the global risk management tracker so that all sets out minimum standards for the review and engagement of third parties and the internal actions identified during health & safety audits or regional Health & Safety self-assessments assessment of performance against those standards. are tracked to ensure prompt and adequate follow-up. 2. Third Party Management risk was included for the first time as one of Arcadis’ 15 Key Risks. Each region has been assessed on its compliance and remedial measures put in place where a region or sub-region was found to be non-compliant. 3. Joint Venture pre-contractual guidance was introduced. Risk Appetite: Risk Trend: Risk Appetite: Risk Trend: Further activities planned for 2019 Further activities planned for 2019 The Procurement function will work with Arcadis’ implementation partner to develop cloud-based The regional well-being programs will be implemented in 2019 with achievement of the planned modules covering supplier pre-qualification/due diligence, e-sourcing, supplier self-service portal, objectives forming part of the KPIs for each region. In addition, to support more robust leadership contract creation and performance management which will eventually replace legacy systems engagement in the Health & Safety program, the number and types of engagement activities and create a global standard approach. These will be rolled out to the regions as they move onto available to be performed will be expanded substantially in 2019. Finally, the Global Health & the cloud version of the ERP system and bring all regions onto the same third-party management Safety team will work to drive more uniform engagement of employees in the Health & Safety platform. In addition, the Global Purchasing Principles which are a key sub-document beneath program across all Arcadis regions. the Global Partnering Policy, will be updated to reflect enhanced expectations around the risks related to third-party management. This will guide local Procurement Policies, training and practices. Increasing Stable Decreasing Averse Low Medium High 144 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Enterprise Risk Management | Governance & Compliance Liquidity and Working Capital Management risk Financial Reporting risk Insufficient free cash flow could prevent Arcadis from being able to fund its operations. As a globally operating publicly listed company, Arcadis is required to comply with financial The Total Leverage Ratio is decreasing, with ongoing close monitoring of EBITDA reporting requirements. Material misstatements in reporting could significantly affect performance and composition of net debt. The corporate guarantees issued by Arcadis NV Arcadis’ reputation and/or its stock market value which in turn may result in shareholder in relation to the credit facilities provided ALEN could impact the relevant bank covenant issues. It is critical that all operating entities report to the same standards and deliver the ratios if these guarantees were called by the respective lending banks, increasing the Senior same transparent, high quality of reporting, in line with accounting and reporting principles Leverage ratio by a maximum of +0.4. applicable to Arcadis N.V. (IFRS as adopted by the EU). Arcadis now reports in line with IFRS 9 and 15 which came into force as of 1 January 2018. Specific risk-mitigating actions in 2018 Arcadis continues to work towards ensuring compliance with IFRS 16 and IFRIC 23 as of 1. Regional cash targets were provided on a quarterly, instead of bi-annual, basis. This led to 1 January 2019. improved cash visibility and further improved Arcadis’ liquidity position. PwC continues as statutory auditor for the majority of Arcadis’ operating entities. The 2. Efforts to improve working capital management were extended to ensure that Independent Auditor’s Report on page 250 reflects the significant financial reporting risks responsibility is taken by the Project Management and Client Relationship communities, (including ALEN) as identified by the external auditor. as well as regional leadership. Specific risk-mitigating actions in 2018 3. More detailed reporting has been performed on overdue receivables with better visibility 1. Dedicated expert working groups and a senior management steering committee met enabling progress to be tracked and allowing for intervention where necessary. periodically to discuss upcoming and effective changes in accounting and/or reporting 4. The Group Treasury Policy was reviewed, and an update was approved by the Executive standards, laws and regulations and to ensure comprehension and compliance in the global Board/ELT. finance community. 5. A sensitivity analysis was prepared to provide insight into the impact on Arcadis as a going 2. Reviews were carried out with the external auditor and training and guidance was provided concern of material changes in external factors which included business underperformance, on new accounting standards to regional and local finance teams to ensure compliance and the financial impact if ALEN’s guarantees were called, slow collection of, or inability to consistency across the Arcadis group. collect, (un)billed receivables and/or an increase in net working capital. 3. Detailed controls were developed, adopted and embedded in the ERP and risk and control matrices to support financial accounting and reporting processes within Arcadis and provide additional risk assurance in this area. 4. The requirement that financial and management reporting packages are reviewed by business management and signed-off by the relevant Regional CFO, in order to improve quality and timeliness, was strengthened. Risk Appetite: Risk Trend: Risk Appetite: Risk Trend: Further activities planned for 2019 Further activities planned for 2019 In addition to the regular project management principles, cost and cash management is one of Reporting standards will continue to be monitored and further training on the new standards to Arcadis’ Top 10 Priorities. There will be more focus on improved cash collection, improving cost be implemented as of 1 January 2019 will be delivered. Standardization of systems through Oracle management and a better understanding of commercial terms, as well as the technical outcomes will continue to reinforce the consistency of reporting processes across the group. of projects. There will be a continued focus on overdue receivables, including reports and analysis from Corporate finance on overdue receivables throughout the business being provided to There will be a focus on embedding the detailed financial accounting and reporting controls in company management for their consideration. Regions which have not yet leveraged the full the Regions which have gone live on the new Oracle ERP platform, with training being provided, benefits from the global working capital management program will be closely monitored and and where necessary staff being recruited, to ensure staff competencies follow the changed targets will be set for their improvement. accounting and reporting control environment. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 145 Governance & Compliance | Enterprise Risk Management Information Security risk Information Technology risk Information Security risk continues to present a threat to day-to-day business activities. The risk of critical IT systems being unavailable or having restricted availability to the The risks are rapidly changing and constantly evolving. This increased risk has resulted in business due to malware, employee error or hardware failure leading to loss of operational a maturing of the certification landscapes. Clients take a greater interest in how organisations functionality and business disruption is a constant threat to Arcadis. Arcadis therefore needs protect their data and will choose to do business with organisations which have the best to ensure that its IT systems are developed and improved in line with its digital offering to security ratings. support its future competitiveness in this growing market and enable it to provide its services in an effective and efficient manner. Specific risk-mitigating actions in 2018 1. An updated Information Security strategy has been developed and presented to the ELT Specific risk-mitigating actions in 2018 for approval. 1. The process of IT control testing was reviewed in line with the roll out of the 2. A cyber threat and risk assessment has been carried out in order to identify the high impact ARC Framework to make it more efficient and effective. areas for Arcadis. As a result of this assessment an Incident Response Process has been 2. Improvements were made to the connectivity of services. designed to deal with high impact cyber threats. 3. IT infrastructure was centralized, including migration of applications and platforms 3. Security awareness training has been implemented globally with completion rates and into the global data centers, in order to reduce exposure in terms of availability and pass rates monitored. Additional support is provided to regions where pass rates are lower to optimize resources. than expected. 4. Tools to interrogate where software is installed, enabling a check to ensure that they have appropriate licensing to be carried out, were deployed. Risk Appetite: Risk Trend: Risk Appetite: Risk Trend: Further activities planned for 2019 Further activities planned for 2019 Following the updated Information Security Strategy, the scope of the Global Information Security In 2019, IT will focus on transformation of the function so that it more closely reflects the Management system will be determined in alignment with ISO27001 to support Arcadis’ digital business requirements and can be more responsive to business needs. In connection with journey, developments in legislation and security threats and include other specific regional the updated Information Security Strategy, additional security controls will be implemented requirements. Specific security solutions will be deployed, and new security management on the IT infrastructure to increase resilience and reduce exposure to cyber threats. processes will be implemented to reduce exposure to Information Security risks. Security awareness training will be incorporated into the global induction program in 2019 meaning all new starters will have security awareness training upon joining Arcadis. Increasing Stable Decreasing Averse Low Medium High 146 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Enterprise Risk Management | Governance & Compliance Compliance risk Regulatory & Policy Compliance risk Arcadis does business in accordance with its General Business Principles, laws and regulations including labor laws, privacy regulations, accounting standards, tax laws, health and safety regulations, as well as governance and periodic filing requirements, applicable in the jurisdictions in which it operates. Management is responsible for raising awareness of, and applying, applicable laws and regulations. Global, Regional and Local policies are developed and implemented to support compliance. All new and existing Arcadis employees undertake training on the Arcadis General Business Principles (AGBP). This training provides legal background as well as guidance on recognizing compliance issues and on raising actual or suspected misconduct or irregularities under the applicable reporting procedures. The training uses business dilemmas to create and test awareness and understanding. Specific risk-mitigating actions in 2018 1. Refresher training on the AGBP was provided to all Arcadians in the form of an online training. This included a test in the form of dilemmas. 2. Arcadis’ Privacy Policies (Binding Corporate Rules) relating to both Employee data and the data of Arcadis’ Business Partners, Clients and Suppliers were introduced through a global awareness program and a GDPR online training was rolled out to focused regions and functions. An online toolkit with practical tools is made available to guide employees when processing personal data in their daily work. 3. The global integrity and anti-corruption program in 2018 continued to focus on encouraging management to own integrity. To further support this, integrity sessions with senior leadership teams were carried out in selected regions. A third party due diligence initiative, focused on a more consistent global approach was further developed in 2018 and this will be continued in 2019. 4. Several global policies were updated. These included the AGBP, Issue Handling and Reporting procedures and Specific Anti-Corruption standards, the regulations on transactions in Arcadis securities, and the Public Disclosure policy. Risk Appetite: Risk Trend: Further activities planned for 2019 The Arcadis Privacy policies will continue to be implemented in the regions. Policies and procedures will be reviewed to ensure alignment with the updated ARC framework and further guidance will be provided to the organization on applicability. See the People & Culture section for additional information about Compliance. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 147 Governance & Compliance | Enterprise Risk Management Management statements In accordance with Article 5:25c of the Financial Markets Supervision As a result of the management testing carried out in 2018, the regions Act (Wet op het Financieel Toezicht), the Executive Board confirms, and operating companies issued signed Letters/Documents of to the best of its knowledge, that: Representation and In-Control statements to the Executive Board. •• the Consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the The Executive Board/ELT has reviewed the Letters of Representation assets, liabilities, financial position and profit and loss of Arcadis and and In-Control statements, along with reports from Internal Audit its consolidated companies; and the Board Report from the external auditor. It has assessed the •• the Annual Report gives a true and fair view of the position as at effectiveness of the design and operation of the ARC Framework in 31 December 2018 and the developments during the financial year 2018 and has discussed this with the Audit and Risk Committee and of Arcadis and its group companies included in the Consolidated the Supervisory Board. financial statements; and •• the Annual Report describes the main risks Arcadis is facing. During 2018, no major failings (i.e. no failings which resulted in material losses or impact) in the design or implementation of the controls under The above statements are given on the basis that the ARC Framework the ARC Framework were observed. Where a control has not worked is primary designed to bring Arcadis’ risk exposure within its appetite as expected (e.g. quality of project reviews in Asia, operational and cannot therefore provide full and complete assurance that all performance of ALEN), areas for improvement were identified. human error, unforeseen circumstances, material misstatements, fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations will be prevented. Based on the information referred to above and its assessment, the Executive Board believes that: The names and functions of the Executive Board members are 1. The report provides sufficient insights into any failings in the mentioned on page 122 under ‘Composition of the Executive Board’. effectiveness of the internal managements and control systems; 2. The aforementioned systems provide a reasonable assurance that the financial reporting does not contain any material inaccuracies; 3. Based on the current state of affairs, it is justified that the financial reporting is prepared on a going concern basis; and 4. The report states those material risks and uncertainties that are relevant to the expectation of the company’s continuity for the period of twelve months after the preparation of the report. 148 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Supervisory Board report This Supervisory Board report provides the manner in which the duties and responsibilities of the Board were fulfilled in 2018; it describes the functioning of the Supervisory and Executive Board, and its compliance to the New Corporate Governance Code. Additionally, a detailed account is given of the respective 150 Report by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board Committees, and the 159 Remuneration report topics under discussion throughout the year. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 149 Supervisory Board report | Report by the Supervisory Board Report by the Supervisory Board Arcadis NV has a two-tier Board structure, consisting of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board, both with responsibilities for the Company and its stakeholders, yet each with its own specific task description. The task of the Executive Board is to manage the Company, and to realize its objectives and strategic goals. The task of the Supervisory Board is to supervise and advise the Executive Board. This Report by the Supervisory Board sets out the manner in which The team includes the two Executive Board members, three members the Supervisory Board fulfilled its duties and responsibilities in 2018. that represent the Arcadis P&L segments, and four members For details on the organizational structure see the paragraphs in the representing People & Culture, Project Services, Sales & Business section on Corporate Governance in this Annual Integrated Report. Development and Innovation & Transformation. The CEO chairs both For the activities of the Executive Board and Executive Leadership the Executive Board and the Executive Leadership Team. Team in 2018 see, amongst others, the CEO message, and also the performance by Segment pages in this Annual Integrated Report. The Supervisory Board believes that the reduction in size of the Executive Board and the introduction of the Executive Leadership Team in March Focus items 2018 2018 was a major step forward in optimizing the leadership structure As mentioned last year, the Supervisory Board believes that focus is key of the Company. The Executive Leadership Team immediately started to achieving the Company strategy and to creating long-term value. working on confirmation of roles, way of working and priorities to realize This includes that principal risks related to the strategy of the Company the strategic targets. In September, the Executive Leadership Team should be addressed. In exercising its task in 2018, the Supervisory confirmed and communicated the top ten global priorities, whereby it Board, in coordination with the Executive Board and the Executive committed that no new priority will be added unless a current one is Leadership Team, put special emphasis on the following topics: achieved or is taken of the list for other reasons. The steps in 2019 will be to implement the priorities and to further develop the team to its Creating a more effective management structure full potential. The Supervisory Board also supported the introduction In March 2018, the Executive Board was reduced in size and the mid-November of the Arcadis Leadership Network (ALN), a group of Executive Leadership Team (ELT) was introduced in order to have an 400+ leaders throughout the organization. The ALN has been shaped to optimal governance structure to realize long-term value creation and support more effective engagement, knowledge sharing and networking, to create close alignment with the Company’s strategy. providing tools to help our leaders communicate and succeed. 150 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Report by the Supervisory Board | Supervisory Board report OUR ROLE. The Supervisory Board extensively discussed and OUR ROLE. The Supervisory Board believes that digitalization is crucial considered the best set up for and team composition of the top to long-term value creation as well as for the sustainability and leadership level, first and foremost amongst its members and with longevity of the Company. As such it fully supports all efforts in this the CEO (at that point in time the new CFO had not yet joined the area and stresses the importance of progress. Within the Supervisory Company) and then also with key individuals concerned. The Executive Board a smaller group of Supervisory Board members has been Leadership Team is a substantially smaller group than the previous identified to regularly interact with the Leadership of the digital team. Senior Management Committee, yet still diverse and globally This will continue in 2019. The 2018 visits of the Supervisory Board to representative. The change of management structure was discussed in Chicago and to Amersfoort included presentations by local teams on the shareholders meeting on 24 April 2018. (steps in) digital services. The Supervisory Board supports the (maximum of) top ten global Putting our new strategy into practice and ascertain priorities confirmed by the Executive Leadership Team. Maximizing the profitable projects number of priorities is in line with our last year’s focus item ‘pruning Client focus, Make Every Project Count (MEPC), digital and people the number of initiatives’. efforts have been (further) developed in 2018 and are being implemented and actioned. Combined with ongoing focus on cash Further developing the digital strategy and EBITDA this should result in consistent and timely delivery of Arcadis is currently on a journey of transformation and reinvention our services and positive related financial results including improved of its business, spearheaded by the Arcadis digital team. The Arcadis working capital and a good cash position. As a result of the MEPC digital team has defined its approach across three time-horizons program we see a higher focus on project selectivity and financial (today, tomorrow, day after tomorrow) and four realities (experience, performance. Further implementation of the Arcadis Way, our global data, ecosystems, platforms). ‘Today’ we will digitally enable and scale way of working, will also be a significant contributor, with implementation our existing value propositions in areas such as Building Information to be balanced with associated risks. Risk is inherent to doing business Modelling (BIM), Geographical Information Systems and Advanced and to realization of the Company's strategy. Risk identification in Analytics to create an advantage and lay the foundation for a digital combination with good risk management offers opportunities to knowledge business. For ‘tomorrow’, we incubate new ideas and further improve performance. Further to the action identified in 2017, technologies such as artificial intelligence and virtual reality to sustain to update relevant policies and procedures, 2018 saw additional effort our competitive advantage. We will bring innovation from the outside-in in implementation and updating of the underlying risk and control (e.g. working with clients to design and deliver solutions to their biggest systems. This will continue in the coming period. To drive improvements problems) and bottom-up (e.g. investing in our knowledge and insight to and to address concerns around our control systems, a new Chief Risk identify, assess and support the best ideas). For the ‘day after tomorrow’ Officer was appointed per 1 September 2018. A new head of Data we explore longer term options to evolve Arcadis into a data-led, Security was appointed per 1 June 2018. Last but not least, people, client-centric, ‘living’ business model. We will understand what the and the performance of our people as well as living and applying our future holds for our business and the ‘living cities’ we dwell in. We are Core Values are key to realizing our priorities and strategy. The Grow, calling this long-term view ‘vision 2030’. Part of this will see us explore Perform, Succeed initiative (GPS) will be conducive to our people new partnerships to accelerate innovation and bring an outside-in bringing the best they have and fits with our core value of People First. perspective to shape the solutions of the future. Client focus, the new leadership structure, as well as MEPC and GPS Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 151 Supervisory Board report | Report by the Supervisory Board will be conducive to our core value Collaboration. Various efforts were the year between the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board, undertaken in the areas of integrity and sustainability. In this context we in particular on the strategic priorities, the financial performance like to mention the annual global Integrity & Anti-Corruption program the strategic review of CallisonRTKL and on ALEN as well as on and the implementation of the Global Privacy Program (which will related risks. We are comfortable with and support action taken by continue in 2019). management. Reference is made to the Report of the Audit and Risk Committee for more detail. We also note that, same as indicated last OUR ROLE. The Supervisory Board has consistently supported MEPC, year, both the Supervisory Board and Executive Board are comfortable client focus and digital, as well as people and value related efforts, with current (and further improved) debt ratio levels (2.0 for 2018 and pushed the focus on people development, succession management against 2.3 in 2017). and diversity and Integrity, as well as profitability and positive cash generation. It also started applying more formalized risk management Health & Safety supervision in the Audit and Risk Committee and full Supervisory Board We continue to be a strong promotor of Health & Safety and we fully in line with the New Dutch Corporate Governance Code. support the Company’s attention to further improving our performance in this regard. In 2018, we saw the trend continue to shift from focus on Further rebuild confidence with our investors. Bring down safety elements to focus on health aspects. working capital. Progress strategic review CallisonRTKL Putting our new strategy into place will result in improved and OUR ROLE. As to Health & Safety, all our meetings continue to start consistent delivery of results, supported by the ongoing implementation with an update on Health & Safety status and/or a Health & Safety of the Arcadis Way. Where reasonably possible, the Company also needs moment. By sharing experiences and suggestions the Supervisory to avoid one-offs. We do expect that the Company will be able to sell Board contributes to further awareness and improvement. H&S Arcadis Logos Energia (ALEN) in 2019. We spent substantial time on performance in 2018 was strong and further improved from 2017, discussing the operationalization of the assets and the further which was already a good year. The Supervisory Board is very pleased investment requirements. With the adjustments to the Middle East with this result. The Supervisory Board urges the organization to not portfolio, Middle East working capital will further decrease, and it become complacent and continue the journey to ‘Track to Zero’. We will not be allowed to reach previous very high levels. Although every note that several of our priorities were (also) extensively addressed in business faces (one-off) risks, for Asia the potential thereof should, going the respective Committees of the Supervisory Board. Supervisory Board forward, be of a nature and level appropriate to that organization now members that are not a member of a relevant Committee frequently sit that management has been changed. The Executive Leadership Team in on those other Committee meetings. The respective chairpersons of member together with the Asia CEO took a number of management the Committees always report on their discussions during the full actions and performed a portfolio analysis to confirm the way forward. Board meetings. In Latin America, the economy in Brazil is expected to improve under its new President. The Brazilian organization was downsized in such a way that it the business is very well positioned to pick up on opportunities going forward. Earlier in this Report, on page 11, we already commented on the outcome of the strategic review of CallisonRTKL. OUR ROLE. In-depth and thorough discussions took place during 152 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Report by the Supervisory Board | Supervisory Board report Supervisory Board meetings. Attendance but we concluded that the outcome is much more nuanced. We added In 2018, we had seven meetings of which five were regular scheduled the additional meeting time in the year in view of the strategic review meetings. All our meetings were attended by the members of the process of CallisonRTKL and the addition of Greg Steele to the Executive Board. Our July, September and December meetings were Executive Leadership Team with responsibility for AsiaPacific. also attended by the members of the Executive Leadership Team. We also had three ‘Supervisory Board-only’ meetings, as per our Supervisory Board members were rarely absent from either regular schedule. Supervisory Board meetings or Supervisory Board Committee meetings. The attendance percentage for the full Supervisory Board In our scheduled meetings we addressed the focus items listed earlier meetings, including the extra meetings was 98.6% (2017: 98.2%), for in this Report, as well as topics that we address every year, including the Supervisory Board-only meetings 100% (2017: 95.2%), for Audit and financials, performance, governance (including composition of the Risk Committee meetings 93.8% (2017: 100%), for Remuneration Supervisory Board and Executive Board and related (re-)nominations, Committee meetings 100% (2017: 100%) and for Selection Committee the remuneration of the Supervisory Board, Executive Board and meetings 100% (2017: 100%). As for absence from meetings: Executive Leadership Team, and more in general the preparation of the Mr. Putnam joined the Board in April 2018 and could not attend the annual shareholders meeting), Risk Management, Internal Audit, Legal, October Audit and Risk Committee meeting because of a schedule Claims and Claim related trends, Integrity, Compliance and the conflict. Mr. Ang could not attend one of the extra Supervisory Board Integrity & Anti-Corruption program, People, IT, developments in the meetings because of a schedule conflict. organization, important project wins and M&A/divestment/portfolio (opportunities). During the year we monitor progress against the Next to interaction with the Executive Board, the Executive Leadership priorities mentioned earlier in this Report. We also discussed Team as well as other regional leadership in the Supervisory Board shareholder feedback on company performance with the Executive meetings in the form of presentations in areas of responsibility and Leadership Team. As is our custom once three years have lapsed, we did discussion, interaction also takes place during social events in offices, a post-merger analysis on Callison in September 2018. We concluded dinners and one-on-one discussions with various senior leaders. that the strategic rationale and fit largely remained valid, but that Throughout the year, the Chairman maintained frequent contact integration took too much management attention and that the with the CEO, CFO as well as with the General Counsel & Company assumptions related to in particular the activities of Callison in China Secretary. Similarly the Chairpersons of the Supervisory Board were too optimistic. A similar analysis was done on Hyder in February Committees were in frequent contact with, as applicable, the CEO, CFO, 2019 in the Audit and Risk Committee. Hyder strengthened the Chief People Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Head of Internal Audit and infrastructure position of Arcadis, allowing us to bring to clients a full General Counsel & Company Secretary or her deputy. As is its custom suit of solutions from front-end to detailed Design & Engineering, from time to time and also considering share price developments creating significant synergies in the United Kingdom and Australia during the year, the Company’s core response team (which deals with Pacific. It also jump-stepped working with Global Excellence Centers. how to handle any (hostile) approach) met and liaised, and related It increased critical mass in the Middle East, but with that also our local materials were updated. This team includes the Supervisory Board exposure. At the time, markets considered the acquisition overpriced Chairman and selected other Supervisory Board members. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 153 Supervisory Board report | Report by the Supervisory Board Finally, we like to mention that all Supervisory Board members, as well In our meeting in February 2019 we concluded that the induction as two Executive Board members and one Executive Leadership team program of the Supervisory Board is good (this was a development member, are board members of the Priority Foundation. This foundation point from February 2018). In February 2018 we expressed criticism on also has ten Arcadis employees in its Board from across the organization. the timing of and sometimes quality (length) of information provided to As a group, these ten employees are joined up in another foundation’s the Supervisory Board. In February 2019 we re-emphasized the need for board, called the Bellevue Foundation. The board of the Priority further improvement. Foundation meets at least twice a year to discuss Arcadis affairs. In 2018 the constitutional documents of the Priority Foundation were In February 2018 we set personal targets for the CEO. During the year adjusted to align its board structure to the new Arcadis management we monitored the performance of the Executive Board and the structure. Reference is made to note 24 of the Consolidated financial individual Executive Board members in our Supervisory Board-only statements for further information on the Priority Foundation and the meeting(s). In February 2019, once the results for full year 2018 were Bellevue Foundation. confirmed, we did an assessment of the Executive Board performance, the two Executive Board members and the performance of the Functioning of the Supervisory Board, the Executive Board Executive Leadership Team. Following the discussions during the year, and the Executive Leadership Team and following the assessment, we will be providing feedback. Based on Annually we perform our assessment of the functioning of the the assessment in February 2019, the Supervisory Board has concluded Supervisory Board, the Supervisory Board Committees and the that the relationship between Executive Board and Supervisory Board is individual Supervisory Board members. In 2018, we performed good and constructive, whilst sufficiently critical. This is considered the assessments with two structured questionnaires prepared in essential to having both Boards functioning properly. For the Executive co-ordination with the Company. The assessment of the Chairman Leadership Team, the next step is to further develop the team to its of the Supervisory Board was led by the Vice-Chairman of the full potential. Supervisory Board without the presence of the Chairman. Composition Executive, Supervisory Board and As mentioned last year, since 2016 the Supervisory Board has confirmed Executive Leadership Team that each of the Supervisory Board members takes responsibility As at 31 December 2018, the Supervisory Board consisted of seven that certain specific attention areas/topics are addressed during the members, the Executive Board of two members and the Executive meetings. This helps ascertain that we give the topics the required Leadership Team of nine members, including the two Executive Board attention and optimize our respective specific expertise. We remembers. In April 2018, Mr. Putnam was appointed to the Supervisory confirmed the (division of the) responsibilities in February 2019. Since Board to fill the vacancy left by Mr. Grice who resigned after eight years 2016 we also structurally evaluate our Supervisory Board meetings in the Supervisory Board. Mrs. Kuijlaars was appointed to the Executive amongst ourselves at the end of every scheduled Supervisory Board Board (and the Executive Leadership Team) to fill the vacancy left meeting. We will continue applying this principle. As from 2019 we by Mr. Vree who resigned after eight years in the Executive Board. will also have Supervisory Board-only prior to all scheduled All Executive Leadership Team members were appointed in March 2018 Supervisory Board meetings. with the exception of Mr. Steele who started as Executive Leadership Team member in July 2018. 154 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Report by the Supervisory Board | Supervisory Board report For information about diversity targets in our Supervisory Board we As is customary, ahead of the February meeting the Committee met refer to the chapter on Corporate Governance in this Annual Integrated with the external auditor and the internal auditor, outside the presence Report. For the current composition of the Executive Board, the of the Executive Board. In its October session the Committee evaluated Executive Leadership Team and information about its members, the performance, independence and financial literacy of the Committee please refer to pages 122 and 123 of this Annual Integrated Report. and its members, with a positive conclusion. For the current composition of the Supervisory Board, its Committees, and information about its members, please refer to pages124 and 125 The Chairman of the Committee had regular contact with the CEO and of this Annual Integrated Report. the CFO to discuss focus items like financial performance, business risks and other matters. Similarly, the Chairman of the Committee regularly Corporate Governance met with the external auditor and the Head of Internal Audit to address In the chapter on Corporate Governance in this Annual Integrated any issues and discuss audit findings. It is customary that the Committee Report, the governance structure of the Company is described, and shares its main deliberations and findings in the Supervisory Board we explain the one deviation from the principles and best practice meeting following the AARC meeting. provisions of the Corporate Governance Code. The Supervisory Board meets the requirements of the Code regarding the independence Focus and Performance of its Chairman, of the other Supervisory Board members, and of the Financial performance of the Company was the common thread of the Supervisory Board as a whole. The Supervisory Board also complies Committee’s discussions and activities throughout 2018. Increasing with the best practice provision that its members do not hold more than external focus, disciplined project management, client selectivity and five supervisory board positions at certain ‘large’ (listed) companies the reduction of the number of loss-making projects through the Make or entities. The Executive Board members do not hold more than Every Project Count initiative were discussed in each meeting. Likewise, two supervisory board positions with such companies. During 2018, the growth of pipeline and backlog and the reduction of working capital no material transactions involving conflict of interest occurred for as well as cost (including non-operating cost) and cash management Executive or Supervisory Board members. were recurring agenda items. How to further strengthen our cash collection, in particular in the Middle East, continued to be high on Supervisory Board Committee reports the agenda. Audit and Risk Committee report The single-greatest specific attention item of the AARC in 2018 was M. Schönfeld (Chairman), N. Hoek, I. Grice (until 24 April 2018), M. Lap, the development of the clean energy assets in Brazil (ALEN) including M. Putnam (as from 24 April 2018) related risk and financial reporting. Thorough discussions were held with the people involved as well as with the external auditor on the In 2018, the Audit and Risk Committee (AARC) met four times. status of the development of the assets and the negotiations regarding All meetings of the Committee were attended by the CEO, the CFO, off-take contract(s). These discussions took place both during each the Group Controller (also in capacity of interim CFO prior to the AARC meeting, with follow up in the full Supervisory Board and through appointment of Mrs. Kuijlaars as CFO in April 2018), as well as the interim discussions with AARC/Supervisory Board members. internal and external auditors. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 155 Supervisory Board report | Report by the Supervisory Board Since half August 2018, bi-weekly written updates were provided to the We refer to the section on Enterprise Risk Management, on pages 134 full Supervisory Board as well. In Q3 2018, delays in progress, increasing through 148 of this Annual Integrated Report, for further information costs and assumed lower contract prices triggered a re-assessment of on the topics mentioned. As an overall conclusion for the year, the the business case. After extensive discussions which culminated in the meeting agreed in its February 2019 meeting that risk and control October AARC meeting, the Committee agreed with the need to systems as such are important, in place and are working. However, and recognize a value adjustment of in total €53 million. also considering events during 2018, there is a key role for culture, discipline and tone from the top in achieving a well-functioning risk In each meeting, in the presence of the Head of Internal Audit the past management and control system and that needs further attention. quarter's main internal audit findings and follow-up actions were discussed, progress made against the annual internal audit plan was Throughout the year, the Committee was kept closely informed on the discussed, and the functioning and effectiveness of the internal audit implementation of the Company’s Privacy program, also in light of the group was assessed. The meeting discussed the advisory role of Internal entry into force of the General Data Protection Regulation in May 2018. Audit in the roll-out of the Arcadis Way program (e.g. facilitating risk Practical implementation of the program as well as awareness raising workshops in Regions where the program has been rolled out) and across the business and cultural embedding of the program were provided feedback to further improve the assurance role of the discussed in the presence of the Company’s Chief Compliance and department. The Head of Internal Audit also presented the Committee Privacy Officer. with the positive outcome of a self-assessment on compliance with the requirements that the Dutch Corporate Governance Code imposes on In the context of the annual results 2018, the meeting discussed and the Internal Audit function. reconfirmed the Company’s dividend policy and recommended the dividend proposal of €0.47 per ordinary share to the Supervisory Board. Also, in each meeting, in the presence of the Chief Risk Officer, the In April, PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC), the Company’s external meeting dedicated time to discuss various Risk Management topics, auditor, presented its audit plan for 2018, which was discussed and including the embedding of Risk Management in the Company’s approved. As is customary, during the April meeting the AARC also operations. Each quarter, the meetings reviewed the global top ten evaluated the performance of PwC and the effectiveness of the external high-risk projects and the Key Risk Indicators. The meeting also audit process in 2017 and discussed certain improvement areas discussed the introduction of Strategic Pursuit Committees, replacing (for both PwC and the Company). the Global Tender Boards. In October 2018, the new Chief Risk Officer presented the Company’s updated risk universe, the Arcadis Risk and During the July Committee meeting, PwC’s half-year review report was Control (ARC) framework. The meeting also discussed, and reported discussed. PwC’s key financial reporting risks for 2018 and its audit to the Supervisory Board on, the improved Arcadis Risk Assurance findings, both at mid-year and at year-end, were aligned to the focus Program. This program aims to assess the effectiveness of both items identified by the Committee and by the Internal Audit the design and the operation of the ARC framework by providing a department. They included exposure to the ALEN investment; revenue continuous annual cycle of 1) planning and scoping, 2) validating of recognition and valuation of (un)billed receivables; implementation of control design, 3) testing of operating effectiveness and 4) reporting a new way of working (Arcadis Way) and the related migration of the and monitoring. The main findings of this annual assessment cycle are IT system; and recoverability of the goodwill of the Company and discussed in the AARC and SB meetings in February of each year. indefinite intangible assets resulting from acquisitions. 156 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Report by the Supervisory Board | Supervisory Board report Throughout the year, the Committee discussed and assessed with PwC Furthermore, the RemCo prepared in the first quarter the performance the progress made regarding its key audit findings. evaluation of the Executive Board members for discussion in the Supervisory Board. Other meeting topics included the granting of Like every year, the Committee frequently reviewed and discussed the bonuses and conditional performances shares to the Executive Board, Company’s quarterly reports on key legal claims and pending litigation, senior management and other key staff, and the 2018 bonus program as well as claims statistics. The Committee also discussed assumptions for the Executive Board and Executive Leadership Team. The RemCo used for impairment testing. The Committee agreed with the value also determined the ranking of Arcadis among the TSR peer group adjustment of €53 million in Q3 based on a re-assessment of the which determines the vesting percentage. Based on the ranking, the business case on ALEN, and impairments end of the year of €40 million, conditional performance shares awarded in May 2015 vested against mainly reflecting re-assessment of the Middle East 0% in 2018. In Q3 and Q4 the RemCo reviewed the Executive Board remuneration policy in line with the agreed principle to review the The Chief Compliance & Privacy Officer regularly updated the Executive Board remuneration policy every two years. The review had a Committee on (potential) integrity issues and related statistics, as well limited scope and focused only on the Shortand Long-Term Incentive as on the status of the Integrity and Compliance program 2018. plans. The outcome of the review and the updated Executive Board remuneration policy will be put forward for resolution in the Annual Also on the agenda were a follow-up presentation by PwC on General Meeting in April 2019. cybersecurity and how the way data is treated in a company is becoming an important trust component. The meeting discussed how the Selection Committee report management of cyber security and privacy risks can be used as an N. Hoek (Chair), R. Markland, D. Goodwin, W.G. Ang opportunity to positively distinct the Company from its peers. The Company’s Chief Information Security Officer presented the meeting In 2018, the Arcadis Selection Committee (ASC) met three times. with the internal perspective, whereby information and information The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief People Officer attended assets play a central role in particular in the Company’s digital strategy. (parts of) a number of these meetings. In the first quarter of 2018, the Committee advised the Supervisory Board on the selection and Remuneration Committee report nomination of the new Chief Financial Officer. The committee R. Markland (Chair), N. Hoek, D. Goodwin, W.G. Ang developed a role profile, taking into account the Arcadis challenges and strategy as well as the Executive Board diversity policy. In the selection In 2018, the Arcadis Remuneration Committee (RemCo) met five times. process both external and internal candidates were considered. The Chief Executive Officer, the Chief People Officer and the Chief Furthermore, the nomination of Mr. M. M. Putnam as a member of the Financial Officer (CFO) were invited to attend (parts of) the meetings. Supervisory Board, replacing Mr. I. Grice (who was not available for In the first quarter, the RemCo agreed on the departure terms for re-appointment), was discussed and agreed taking into account the Mrs. Hottenhuis and agreed on the remuneration for Mrs. S. Kuijlaars profile and the diversity policy for the Supervisory Board. With the who was nominated to be appointed as new CFO. The appointment nomination of Mr. Putnam, the committee aimed to bring extensive of Mrs. S. Kuijlaars was approved by the Annual General Meeting on and deep industry knowledge to the board. 24 April 2018. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 157 Supervisory Board report | Report by the Supervisory Board Relevant documents on our In the third quarter, the committee agreed on the process to be Concluding remarks corporate website followed for selection and (reappointment of Executive Board 2018 was a challenging year. We are pleased though, to see that the 1. Profile Supervisory Board members and the selection of Executive Leadership Team members. Company continues to head into the right direction and we are convinced 2. Diversity Policy for the In the December meeting the committee discussed and agreed on that the strategy for 2018-2020 as presented on 21 November 2017 Supervisory Board the nomination of Mr. M. Lap for re-appointment as member of the is the strategy to get the Company to where it can and should be. 3. Regulation Supervisory Board Supervisory Board which re-appointment will be on the agenda of the Further ocus on the three strategic pillars People & Culture, Innovation 4. Re-appointment schedule AGM in 2019. The succession planning discussion for the Executive & Growth and Focus & Performance, and on the Top 10 priorities will Supervisory Board Board and the Executive Leadership Team was moved to the agenda of drive the realization of the potential of this great Company. 5. Arcadis Remuneration the full Supervisory Board for continuation in the first quarter of 2019. We take the opportunity to reiterate our appreciation for the Committee Charter contributions by former Executive Board members Renier Vree and 6. Arcadis Audit & Risk 2018 financial statements, and dividend Stephanie Hottenhuis as well as former Supervisory Board member Committee Charter The Executive Board has prepared this Annual Integrated Report, Ian Grice through their respective departure dates. We also thank the 7. Arcadis Selection including the 2018 financial statements. PricewaterhouseCoopers, current Executive Board, Executive Leadership Team, managers and all Committee Charter the external auditor, has issued its auditor report which can be of the Arcadis staff worldwide for their continued drive and great work found starting on page 250 of this Annual Integrated Report. throughout the year. We look forward to a good 2019. The members of the Executive Board have issued the statements Amsterdam, the Netherlands, 13 February 2019 www.arcadis.com/en/global/ required under section 5:25c.2.c of the Financial Markets Supervision who-we-are/governance/ Act (Wet op het financieel toezicht). All members of the Supervisory On behalf of the Supervisory Board supervisory-board/ Board and Executive Board signed the 2018 Financial Statements Niek W. Hoek, Chairman in accordance with section 2:101.2 of the Dutch Civil Code (Burgerlijk Wetboek). We recommend that the General Meeting (i) adopts the 2018 Financial Statements, (ii) approve the proposal to distribute a dividend of €0.47 per ordinary share, to be provided in cash or in shares at the option of the shareholder(s), and (iii) discharge the members of the Executive Board for their management of the Company and its affairs during 2018, and the members of the Supervisory Board for their supervision over said management. 158 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Remuneration report | Supervisory Board report Remuneration report The remuneration policy for the Executive Board is determined by the Supervisory Board, based on the advice of the Arcadis Remuneration Committee (‘RemCo’), and aims to attract, motivate and retain qualified executives for an international company of Arcadis’s size and complexity to deliver our business strategy. This report outlines the application of the remuneration policy for the Remuneration for Executive Board members consists of fixed Executive Board in 2018 as well as actual performance in 2018 against remuneration, short-term variable remuneration, long-term variable set performance criteria by means of a market-compliant remuneration remuneration and other benefits, such as a pension scheme. Variable policy. remuneration is an important part of the total package and is based on annual performance criteria that support long-term value creation. Executive board remuneration policy In April 2017, the General Meeting of Shareholders (‘General Meeting’) Arcadis has developed from a multi-local to a leading international adopted the revisions to the remuneration policy for the Executive company with clear focus to create a sustainable future. In order to align Board as proposed by the Supervisory Board, with effective date with Arcadis’ size (in terms of revenues, average market capitalization, 1 January 2017. The revisions made served to ensure continued total assets and number of FTE), geographic and industry scope, and alignment of the remuneration policy for the Executive Board with labor market competition, the remuneration policy is based on a relevant market practice. comparison1 against two reference groups of sixteen companies each. A clear distinction is made between Dutch headquarter companies with Remuneration in line with median level of reference groups significant international activities on the one hand and global industry The remuneration policy for Executive Board members aims to support peer companies on the other hand. In both groups, Arcadis is positioned the business strategy, enhance the link between pay and performance around the median in terms of the average of the aforementioned and align the interests of our Executive Board members with parameters. shareholders’ interests by stimulating share ownership while adopting the highest standards of good corporate governance. 1 T  he benchmark with these reference groups was executed in 2016 by an external vendor, specialized in executive compensation Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 159 Supervisory Board report | Remuneration report Dutch headquarter companies Global industry peer companies Changes in leadership structure Internal pay ratio Aalberts Industries (NL) AECOM (USA) In 2018, Arcadis decided to change its leadership structure to create AkzoNobel (NL) Amec Foster Wheeler (UK) stronger alignment with strategic priorities and improve strategy BAM (NL) Cardo (AUS) execution which change included the introduction of the Executive 32 Boskalis (NL) CBRE (USA) Leadership Team. See page 44 for more information on the new Brunel (NL) Hill International (USA) leadership structure as well as page 127 in the Corporate Governance DSM (NL) Jacobs Engineering (USA) section in this Integrated Annual report. The Executive Board changed 2017: 31 Fugro (NL) Jones Lang LaSalle (USA) into a two-member board consisting of Mr. Oosterveer and Mrs. KPN (NL) Pöyry (FIN) Kuijlaars who succeeded Mr. Vree, who left Arcadis on 1 March 2018. PostNL (NL) RPS Group (UK) Mrs. Kuijlaars was appointed by the General Meeting on 24 April 2018 SBM Offshore (NL) SNC Lavalin (CAN) for a period of four years with the same remuneration package as Mr. TKH Group (NL) Stantec (CAN) Vree had as former CFO for Arcadis. Mr. Ritter and Mrs. Hopkins resigned Tom Tom (NL) Sweco (Sw) from the Executive Board on 11 March 2018 and joined the Executive Randstad (NL) Tetra Tech (USA) Leadership Team as of 11 March 20184. Refresco (NL) Worley Parsons (AUS) Vopak (NL) WS Atkins (UK) Fixed remuneration Wolters Kluwer (NL) WSP Global (CAN) In 2018, the fixed compensation for the Executive Board has not changed. The following annual fixed remuneration levels applied to The remuneration policy aims to align Arcadis with the market median (former) members of the Executive Board (as set by the General of both reference groups on Total Direct Compensation (the sum of Meeting in April 2017): fixed remuneration, short-term variable remuneration and long-term variable remuneration). Annual fixed remuneration CEO (P. Oosterveer) €660,000 Internal pay ratio CFO5 (S. Kuijlaars)/former CFO (R. Vree)6 €475,000 When drafting the remuneration policy for the Executive Board, Arcadis Member Executive Board (former member S. Hottenhuis)7 €440,000 takes into account the pay ratio within the organization. Member Executive Board (former member S. Ritter)8 €440,000 Member Executive Board (former member M.A. Hopkins)9 US$672,000 2  verage employee compensation is based on total A For 2018, Arcadis has a pay ratio of 32, implying that the CEO pay is 5 C  FO compensation as disclosed above compared to the consolidated Financial Statements is normalized personnel costs and the average number of as if our CFO was employed for a full year full-time employees over two years excluding CEO 32 times the average pay within the organization. The Arcadis internal 6 Former CFO compensation as disclosed above compared to the consolidated Financial Statements is normalized as if our former CFO was employed for a full year as disclosed in note 8 of the Consolidated financial statements on page 188 and as stated in the pay ratio is calculated by dividing the total CEO compensation by the 7 Former EB member compensation as disclosed above compared to the consolidated Financial Statements 5-year summary on page 262 average employee compensation 2,3. is normalized as if our former EB member was employed for a full year 3 In light of transparency and clarity, Arcadis applies 8 Former EB member compensation as disclosed above compared to the consolidated Financial Statements a methodology to calculate the internal pay ratio is normalized as if our former EB member was employed for a full year that is IFRS-driven (i.e. linked to Arcadis’ Notes to 9 Former EB member compensation as disclosed above compared to the consolidated Financial Statements the consolidated Financial Statements) The internal pay ratio of 2018 has slightly increased compared to the is normalized as if our former EB member was employed for a full year 4 Mrs. Hottenhuis resigned from the Executive pay ratio of 2017, which was 31. Board as of 11 March 2018 and left Arcadis on 15 August, 2018 For 2019 no raises in annual fixed remuneration are foreseen. 160 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Remuneration report | Supervisory Board report Short-term variable remuneration In 2018, the threshold performance of a minimum operating EBITA margin The short-term variable remuneration ranges from 0% to 85% of required for the payment of the individual financial criteria was achieved. the fixed remuneration, with 50% payout when targets are met. The short-term variable remuneration is paid fully in cash in line Over performance year 2018, the bonus percentage is based on the with the remuneration policy. following: Short-term variable remuneration as Performance criteria In % percentage of fixed remuneration in 2018 In order to support the Company’s strategy, the financially driven Criterion Weight Minimum At target Maximum criteria determine 75% of the short-term variable remuneration, Earnings per share 25 0 12.5 21.25 reflecting the Company’s financial priorities, while the non-financial Return on invested capital 25 0 12.5 21.25 criteria determine 25% of the remuneration. Individual financial target: 25 0 12.5 21.25 CEO: organic growth In % (all operating Segments) Criterion Weight Other members: Financial criteria 75 organic growth Segments Collective financial criteria: 50 CFO: free cash flow Earnings per share 25 Non-financial criteria 25 0 12.5 21.25 Return on invested capital 25 Total 100 0 50 85 Individual financial criteria10: 25 CEO: organic growth (all operating Segments) In 2018, the performance of Executive Board members against the CFO: free cash flow targets set for EPS, ROIC, Organic Growth and Free Cash Flow was Other Members: organic growth (Segment) as follows: Non-financial criteria 25 Strategy implementation In % 2018 Performance on financial criteria People development Criterion Pay-out as % Pay-out as % of fixed Role modeling behavior of target remuneration11 Health & Safety EPS 0% 0% Total ROIC 0% 0% 10 A minimum threshold Arcadis EBITA % was set for payout on the individual targets Organic Growth (Mr. P. Oosterveer) 104% 12.9% Free Cash Flow (Mrs. S. Kuijlaars) 170% 21.25% The short-term variable remuneration targets are pre-set annually by Organic Growth (Mrs. Hopkins) 132% 16.4% the Supervisory Board based on the plan and budget for the respective Organic Growth (Mr. Ritter) 90% 11.25% year, and in light of the strategic aspirations. No payout will be made for 11 The pay-out % are based on a normalized annual fixed salary. The actual pay out percentage for former board members is based on period January 2018 to 11 March 2018 and for the CFO from May to December 2018 below threshold performance. All short-term variable remuneration criteria allow for rewarding excellent performance. Short-term variable Mrs. Hottenhuis received an on target pay-out, see note 49 of the remuneration will not exceed 85% of the fixed compensation. Company financial statements. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 161 Supervisory Board report | Remuneration report Performance against the non-financial targets was assessed by the With respect to the long-term variable remuneration under the Supervisory Board. This was derived from the Company’s strategy and remuneration policy, in April 2018 the Chief Executive Officer of the focused on success in implementing the three pillars of the strategy, Executive Board was granted 87,790 conditional performance shares including our People first strategy, role modeling behavior by living our and the Chief Financial Officer was awarded 63,440 conditional core values and behaviors, and being a Health & Safety steward. The performance shares, including 6,000 conditional shares to compensate outcomes varied by individual (former) Executive Board member and for loss of long-term variable remuneration with her previous employer. ranged between 14% and 19% of fixed remuneration. Peer group and vesting Taking into account the overall performance, bonuses for the CEO and The vesting percentage of the performance shares is conditional CFO were respective 31.8% and 35.3% of fixed remuneration. Bonuses upon the achievement of performance measured as relative Total for the other two (former) EB members for the period 1 January 2018 to Shareholder Return (TSR), which is defined as share price movements 11 March 2018, when they resigned from the EB vary between 24.7% including dividends, assuming dividends are reinvested over three years. and 37.0% of fixed remuneration for that period. The TSR performance of Arcadis is measured against the performance Performance against the set financial targets has been verified by our of direct competitors. The current TSR group is as follows: external auditor. TSR peer group Arcadis (NL) Long-term variable remuneration: performance shares AECOM (USA) The long-term variable remuneration aims to align the interests of the Cardno (AUS) members of the Executive Board with long-term shareholder’s interests. Hill International (USA) Therefore, under the remuneration policy, members of the Executive Jacobs Engineering (USA) Board receive annually conditional performance shares. The conditional Pöyry (FIN) performance shares will vest and become unconditional after three RPS Group (UK) years and are restricted for another two years after vesting. Under the SNC-Lavalin (CAN) remuneration policy, the size of the award continues to be defined as a Sweco (Sw) percentage of fixed salary, with the actual grant being determined by Tetra Tech (USA) this percentage of fixed remuneration and the fair value of the shares Stantec (CAN) awarded. As per our Remuneration policy, in 2018 the following Wood Group (UK) long-term variable percentages applied to create a strong alignment Worley Parsons (AUS) with the shareholder’s interest: WSP Global (CAN) Chief Executive Officer 110% Chief Financial Officer 100% 162 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Remuneration report | Supervisory Board report The position of Arcadis within the peer group, after three years, Retirement and other benefits, contracts determines the final number of conditional performance shares that Retirement benefits vest and becomes unconditional, in accordance with the following table: In 2018, all non-US Executive Board members participated in the Arcadis Netherlands pension plan. This is a collective defined TSR performance incentive table contribution plan with the premium based on the ambition of a pension Position Vesting payment that, under certain conditions, is comparable to an average pay 1 200% scheme with a retirement age of 68 years. The contribution from the 2 175% participants is 6.5% of the pensionable salary (annual base salary minus 3 150% offset) for the salary part below €105,075 (maximum pensionable 4 125% salary under Dutch tax legislation). Executive Board members 5 100% participating in the Arcadis Netherlands pension plan also receive an 6 75% annual cash allowance in line with market practice in the Netherlands 7 50% for the salary part above €105,075. Our US board member received 8 0% €11,000 as pension allowance for the period from 1 January up to and 9 0% including 11 March 2018. 10 0% 11 0% Other benefits 12 0% Executive Board members receive a fixed allowance for expenses, as 13 0% well as other customary fringe benefits, including the use of a company 14 0% car. They may also participate in the Employee Stock Purchase Plan Expecting vesting % 62.5%12 (ESPP) to purchase up to a maximum of €400 per month of Arcadis 12 Expected vesting percentage, assuming each position has an equal chance shares from the Lovinklaan Foundation at a discount (see note 9 of the Consolidated financial statements). In line with best practice, the Vested shares company provides benefits which the Supervisory Board considers Conditional performance shares vested in 2018 appropriate for a global company which needs to attract and retain In April 2018, the conditional performance shares granted in 2015 vested Executive Board members from different parts of the world. against 0% due to the performance of Arcadis in the period 2015 – 2017 resulting in the 12th place for Arcadis in the peer group. Please refer to Management agreements and severance pay the information in the table on page 246 for more information on shares. In line with current Dutch legislation, all Executive Board members work for Arcadis NV under a management agreement: Mr. P. Oosterveer 13 The severance payment that was paid to Mrs. Hottenhuis is in line with the Dutch Corporate Conditional performance shares to vest in 2019 (appointed in 2017) and Mrs. S. Kuijlaars (appointed in 2018) have a Governance Code as well as the terms and conditions of the management agreement Over the period 2016 2018 Arcadis ended on the 14th place of the peer four-year term and a maximum severance pay of one year’s base salary. between Arcadis NV and Hottenhuis. Mrs. group. Therefore, the conditional performance shares that were granted Management agreements with Executive Board members do not Hottenhuis resigned from the Executive Board on 11 March 2018 and left Arcadis on 15 August in 2016 will vest against 0% . Please refer to the information in the table contain provisions on severance payments in case of termination 2018. For the severance payment, please refer to note 49 of the Company financial statement on on page 246 for more information on shares. resulting from a change in control. page 243 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 163 Supervisory Board report | Remuneration report Mrs. Hottenhuis who left in the course of 2018, also worked for In 2017, the General Meeting approved an attendance fee for all Arcadis NV under a management agreement. She received a Supervisory Board members of €2,500 for every visit for meetings that contractual severance payment equal to one year’s base salary13. takes place outside of the country of domicile of a Supervisory Board member and that does not involve intercontinental travel, or €4,000 for Other elements of the remuneration policy every visit for meetings that involves intercontinental travel. No The Dutch Corporate Governance Code contains additional best attendance fee is paid if the meeting takes place in the country of practices regarding executive remuneration. Based on the advice of the domicile of a Supervisory Board member. RemCo, the Supervisory Board is satisfied that it has complied with these additional best practices in 2018. Before setting proposed targets Remuneration of Supervisory Board members is not dependent on for Supervisory Board approval, the RemCo carried out scenario company results. Supervisory Board members are not eligible to receive analyses of the possible financial outcomes of meeting target levels, shares or options as part of their remuneration package. Possible share as well as maximum performance levels, and how they may affect the ownership of Arcadis shares by a Supervisory Board member is meant level and structure of the total remuneration of the members of the as a long-term investment. Executive Board. For more information on remuneration and share ownership of Remuneration overview Supervisory Board members, please refer to notes 49 and 51 of the For more information on remuneration and share ownership of Company financial statements in this report. Executive Board members, please refer to notes 49 and 50 of the Company financial statements in this report. Other information The Company has not granted any loans, advances or guarantees to Remuneration Supervisory Board Executive or Supervisory Board members. The articles of association of The General Meeting determines the remuneration of Supervisory Arcadis NV provide current and former Executive Board members and Board members. The remuneration for Supervisory Board members was Supervisory Board members with an indemnification for all costs and lastly adjusted in 2018, based on a benchmark analysis by an external expenses arising from and against any claim, action or lawsuit related to advisor of remuneration at companies that are in the same labor market actions and/or omissions in their function as Executive Board or reference groups as mentioned before for the Executive Board Supervisory Board members. remuneration. The remuneration of the Supervisory Board members is as follow: On behalf of the Arcadis Remuneration Committee Ruth Markland, Chair In € Chairman Member Yearly fixed remuneration SB 80,000 55,000 Yearly fixed cost compensation SB 3,000 2,000 Membership AARC 12,000 8,000 Membership ASC and RemCo 10,000 7,000 164 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 A new campus in Hong Kong Client: University of Chicago Hong Kong China University of Chicago’s new campus in Hong Kong opened its doors to students in August 2018 and was officially opened by Hong Kong’s Chief Executive in November 2018. Challenge: University of Chicago wanted to open a new campus in Hong Kong. Solution: Arcadis was initially appointed as the University’s Hong Kong local representative and Project Management Consultant, and subsequently provided multi-disciplinary consultancy services including Furniture Fittings and Equipment Coordination and Move Management. Arcadis also managed the engagement of the University’s Operator through our Facilities Management Consultancy Services. Impact: The new campus houses the Booth School of Business’ Executive MBA Program and other University non-degree executive education programs, including free seminars on social innovation. The project site is heritage listed and the design of the new campus is anchored by a three-storey new construction building integrated with existing heritage buildings which will be adaptively reused. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 165 166 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Financial statements 169 Consolidated Income 188 8 Operational costs 219 27 Provisions for other 238 37 Net finance expense statement 188 9 Share-based compensation liabilities and charges 238 38 Intangible assets 191 10 Net finance expenses 220 28 Loans and borrowings 239 39 Property, plant & equipment 170 Consolidated Statement 191 11 Income taxes 222 29 Accounts payable, 239 40 Investments in subsidiaries of comprehensive income 194 12 Earnings per share accrued expenses 239 41 Loans issued to subsidiaries 171 Consolidated Balance sheet 195 13 Intangible assets and other current liabilities and other investments and goodwill 222 30 Capital and financial 239 42 Receivables 172 Consolidated Statement 197 14 Property, plant & equipment risk management 240 43 Shareholders’ equity of changes in equity 199 15 Investments accounted for 231 31 Commitments and 241 44 Provisions using the equity method contingent liabilities 241 45 Deferred tax assets 173 Consolidated Cash flow 202 16 Other investments 232 32 Related party transactions and liabilities statement 203 17 Derivatives 234 33 Events after the balance 241 46 Long-term debt 205 18 Other non-current assets sheet date 241 47 Current liabilities 174 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements 206 19 Trade receivables 242 48 Commitments and 207 20 Contract assets and liabilities 236 Company Balance sheet contingent liabilities 174 1 General information 174 2 Basis of preparation 208 21 Assets classified as held 242 49 Remuneration of EB and for sale 237 Company Income statement SB members 178 3 Changes in accounting policies 209 22 Other current assets 244 50 Interests held 238 Notes to the Company 179 4 Segment reporting 209 23 Cash and cash equivalents financial statements by members of the EB 183 5 Consolidated interests and 209 24 Equity attributable to 238 34 General 247 51 Shares and options held by business combinations equity holders 238 35 Corporate charges to members of the SB 185 6 Revenue 212 25 Non-controlling interests subsidiaries 247 52 Employees 187 7 Other income 212 26 Provisions for employee 238 36 Other operational costs 247 53 External auditor fees benefits and services Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 167 168 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Consolidated Income statement | Financial statements Consolidated Income statement for the year ended 31 December In € thousands Note 2018 2017 Gross revenues 6 3,255,574 3,218,889 Materials, services of third parties and subcontractors (815,651) (782,383) Net revenues1 6 2,439,923 2,436,506 Personnel costs 8,9 (1,886,914) (1,865,613) Other operational costs 8 (354,686) (371,252) Depreciation and amortization 13, 14 (42,600) (39,586) Amortization other intangible assets 13 (22,721) (30,979) Impairment charges 13 (40,386) – Other income 7 5,777 857 Total Operational costs (2,341,530) (2,306,573) Operating income 98,393 129,933 Finance income 10 14,059 12,022 Finance expenses 10 (42,090) (44,229) Fair value change of derivatives 10 920 6,241 Net finance expense 10 (27,111) (25,966) Expected Credit Loss on shareholder loans and corporate guarantees 15 (53,925) – Result from investments accounted for using the equity method 15 (12,692) (11,619) Profit before income tax 4,665 92,348 Income taxes 11 (30,413) (20,481) Result for the period (25,748) 71,867 Result attributable to: Equity holders of the Company (net income) (26,701) 70,804 Non-controlling interests 953 1,063 Result for the period (25,748) 71,867 Earnings per share (in €) Basic earnings per share 12 (0.31) 0.82 Diluted earnings per share 12 (0.31) 0.81 1 N  on-GAAP performance measure. Reference is made to the Glossary Financial & Non-Financial indicators on page 267 for the definition as used by Arcadis The notes on pages 174 to 234 are an integral part of these Consolidated financial statements Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 169 Financial statements | Consolidated Statement of comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December Non-GAAP performance measure In € thousands 2018 2017 In € thousands Note 2018 2017 Other comprehensive income, net of income tax Net income from operations1 Result for the period (25,748) 71,867 Result for the period attributable to equity holders (net income) (26,701) 70,804 Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss: Amortization identifiable intangible assets, net of taxes 17,769 24,473 Exchange rate differences for foreign operations 7,256 (87,729) Goodwill impairment charges, net of taxes 13 40,386 – Exchange rate differences for equity accounted investees (468) (3,984) Valuation changes of acquisition-related provisions, net of taxes 27 (4,754) – Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 94 1,760 M&A costs 1,000 4,035 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss: Expected Credit loss on shareholder loans and corporate guarantees 15 53,925 – Changes related to post-employment benefit obligations 4,858 5,101 One-off pension cost 26 4,242 – Other changes – (2,098) Lovinklaan employee share purchase plan2 9 1,724 1,703 Other comprehensive income, net of income tax 11,740 (86,950) Net income from operations 87,591 101,015 Total Comprehensive income for the period (14,008) (15,083) Net income from operations per share1 (in €) Total comprehensive income attributable to: Basic earnings per share 12 1.01 1.18 Equity holders of the Company (14,882) (16,098) Diluted earnings per share 12 1.01 1.15 Non-controlling interests 874 1,015 1 N  on-GAAP performance measure, to provide transparency on the underlying performance of our business. Reference is made to the Glossary Financial & Non-Financial indicators on page 267 for the definition as used by Arcadis Total Comprehensive income for the period (14,008) (15,083) 2 The Lovinklaan employee share purchase plan is controlled by the Lovinklaan Foundation, and the Company has no influence on this scheme. Accordingly, the Company treats the related share-based expenses as non-operational The notes on pages174 to 234 are an integral part of these Consolidated financial statements 170 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Consolidated Balance sheet | Financial statements Consolidated Balance sheet as at 31 December In € thousands Note 2018 2017 Note 2018 2017 Assets Equity and liabilities Non-current assets Shareholders' equity Intangible assets and goodwill 13 1,054,246 1,074,262 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the Company 24, 43 941,920 977,886 Property, plant & equipment 14 103,578 92,643 Non-controlling interests 25 2,199 2,691 Investments accounted for using the equity method 15 7,756 22,807 Total Equity 944,119 980,577 Other investments 16 637 607 Deferred tax assets 11 36,261 33,310 Non-current liabilities Pension assets for funded schemes in surplus 26 2,040 1,754 Provisions for employee benefits 26 45,848 50,896 Derivatives 17 1,637 3,892 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 27 21,743 26,699 Deferred tax liabilities 11 66,393 66,909 Loans and borrowings 28 386,061 474,429 Other non-current assets 18 26,548 28,921 Derivatives 17 1,115 1,134 Total Non-current assets 1,232,703 1,258,196 Total Non-current liabilities 521,160 620,067 Current liabilities Current assets Contract liabilities (billing in excess of cost) 20 255,581 248,162 Inventories 217 236 Contract liabilities (loss provisions) 20 115,643 114,797 Derivatives 17 10,058 6,088 Current portion of provisions 26, 27 14,955 15,031 Trade receivables 19 583,740 579,135 Corporate tax liabilities 11 35,925 31,753 Contract assets (unbilled receivables) 20 545,492 565,113 Current portion of loans and short-term borrowings 28 202,163 214,266 Corporate tax receivables 11 31,095 25,165 Derivatives 17 9,614 5,418 Other current assets 22 64,055 79,819 Bank overdrafts 23 135 1,805 Assets classified as held for sale 21 377 4,417 Accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities 29 609,257 552,971 Cash and cash equivalents 23 240,815 267,942 Liabilities classified as held for sale 21 – 1,264 Total Current assets 1,475,849 1,527,915 Total Current liabilities 1,243,273 1,185,467 Total Liabilities 1,764,433 1,805,534 Total Assets 2,708,552 2,786,111 Total Equity and liabilities 2,708,552 2,786,111 The notes on pages 174 to 234 are an integral part of these Consolidated financial statements Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 171 Financial statements | Consolidated Statement of changes in equity Consolidated Statement of changes in equity Attributable to equity holders of the Company Share Share Hedging Translation Retained Shareholder’ Non-controlling In € thousands Note capital premium reserve reserve earnings equity interests Total equity Balance at 1 January 2017 1,721 372,560 (3,285) 2,607 625,466 999,069 2,647 1,001,716 Result for the period – – – – 70,804 70,804 1,063 71,867 Other comprehensive income: Exchange rate differences – – – (91,665) – (91,665) (48) (91,713) Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 17 – – 1,561 – – 1,561 – 1,561 Taxes related to effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 11 – – 199 – – 199 – 199 Remeasurements on post-employment benefit obligations 26 – – – – 6,116 6,116 – 6,116 Taxes related to remeasurements on post-employment benefit obligations 11 – – – – (1,015) (1,015) – (1,015) Other changes – – – – (2,098) (2,098) – (2,098) Other comprehensive income, net of income taxes – – 1,760 (91,665) 3,003 (86,902) (48) (86,950) Total comprehensive income for the period – – 1,760 (91,665) 73,807 (16,098) 1,015 (15,083) Transactions with owners of the Company: Acquisitions and transactions with non-controlling interests 25 – – – – – – – – Dividends to shareholders 24 – (21,002) – – (15,476) (36,478) (971) (37,449) Issuance of shares 24 27 20,975 – – – 21,002 – 21,002 Share-based compensation 9 – – – – 10,838 10,838 – 10,838 Taxes related to share-based compensation 11 – – – – 284 284 – 284 Purchase of own shares 24 – – – – (8,343) (8,343) – (8,343) Share options exercised 24 – – – – 7,612 7,612 – 7,612 Total transactions with owners of the Company 27 (27) – – (5,085) (5,085) (971) (6,056) Balance at 31 December 2017 1,748 372,533 (1,525) (89,058) 694,188 977,886 2,691 980,577 Impact of changes in accounting policies 3 – – – – (6,664) (6,664) – (6,664) Balance at 1 January 2018 1,748 372,533 (1,525) (89,058) 687,524 971,222 2,691 973,913 Result for the period – – – – (26,701) (26,701) 953 (25,748) Other comprehensive income: Exchange rate differences – – – 6,867 – 6,867 (79) 6,788 Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 17 – – 160 – – 160 – 160 Taxes related to effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 11 – – (66) – – (66) – (66) Remeasurements on post-employment benefit obligations 26 – – – – 5,793 5,793 – 5,793 Taxes related to remeasurements on post-employment benefit obligations 11 – – – – (935) (935) – (935) Other comprehensive income, net of income taxes – – 94 6,867 4,858 11,819 (79) 11,740 Total comprehensive income for the period – – 94 6,867 (21,843) (14,882) 874 (14,008) Transactions with owners of the Company: Acquisitions and transactions with non-controlling interests 25 – – – – – – (806) (806) Dividends to shareholders 24 – (26,716) – – (13,693) (40,409) (560) (40,969) Issuance of shares 24 32 26,684 – – – 26,716 – 26,716 Share-based compensation 9 – – – – 6,686 6,686 – 6,686 Taxes related to share-based compensation 11 – – – – 101 101 – 101 Purchase of own shares 24 – – – – (10,307) (10,307) – (10,307) Share options exercised 24 – – – – 2,793 2,793 – 2,793 Total transactions with owners of the Company 32 (32) – – (14,420) (14,420) (1,366) (15,786) Balance at 31 December 2018 1,780 372,501 (1,431) (82,191) 651,261 941,920 2,199 944,119 The notes on page 174 to 234 are an integral part of these Consolidated financial statements 172 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Consolidated Cash flow statement | Financial statements Consolidated Cash flow statement for the year ended 31 December In € thousands Note 2018 2017 In € thousands Note 2018 2017 Cash flows from operating activities Cash flows from investing activities Result for the period (25,748) 71,867 Investments in (in)tangible assets 13, 14 (68,764) (59,324) Adjustments for: Proceeds from sale of (in)tangible assets 3,640 5,865 Depreciation and amortization 13, 14 42,600 39,586 Investments in consolidated companies (9,964) (5,141) Amortization other identifiable intangible assets 13 22,721 30,979 Proceeds from sale of consolidated companies 37 5,273 Impairment charges 13 40,386 – Investments in/loans to associates and joint ventures 15 (31,848) (23,998) Income taxes 11 30,413 20,481 Proceeds from (sale of) associates and joint ventures 15 1,923 9,464 Net finance expense 10 27,111 25,966 Investments in other non-current assets and other investments 16, 18 (2,640) (4,869) Expected Credit Loss on shareholder loans and corporate guarantees 15 53,925 Proceeds from (sale of) other non-current assets and other investments 16, 18 5,999 6,553 Result from Investments accounted for using the equity method 15 12,692 11,619 Net cash (used in)/from investing activities (B) (101,617) (66,177) Adjusted profit for the period (EBITDA) 204,100 200,498 Change in Inventories 18 (43) Change in Contract assets and liabilities 31,848 4,733 Cash flows from financing activities Change in Trade receivables 5,583 (11,203) Proceeds from exercise of options 24 2,793 7,612 Change in Accounts payable (6,004) 8,595 Proceeds from issuance of shares 24 – – Change in Net working capital 31,445 2,082 Purchase of own shares 24 (10,307) (8,343) Settlement of financing derivatives 17 3,264 (139) Change in Other receivables 22,111 6,972 New long-term loans and borrowings 28 110 266 Change in Current liabilities 15,617 (4,703) Repayment of long-term loans and borrowings 28 (3,084) (454) Change in Other working capital 37,728 2,269 New short-term borrowings 28 230,000 200,000 Repayment of short-term borrowings 28 (347,345) (213,513) Change in Provisions 26, 27 (9,321) (14,217) Dividends paid (14,290) (17,263) Share-based compensation 9 6,686 10,838 Net cash (used in)/from financing activities (C) (138,859) (31,834) Sale of activities net of cost (AHFS) – (1,756) Change in operational derivatives 89 (393) Settlement of operational derivatives (10) (152) Dividend received – 712 Interest received 15,927 9,888 Net change in Cash and cash equivalents less Bank overdrafts (A+B+C) (26,303) 53,120 Interest paid (37,732) (33,771) Exchange rate differences 846 (46,150) Corporate tax paid (34,739) (24,867) Cash and cash equivalents less Bank overdrafts at 1 January 266,137 259,167 Net cash from operating activities (A) 214,173 151,131 Cash and cash equivalents less Bank overdrafts at 31 December 240,680 266,137 The notes on pages 174 to 234 are an integral part of these Consolidated financial statements Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 173 Financial statements | Notes to the Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated financial statements 1 General information Basis of measurement Arcadis NV is a public company organized under Dutch law. Its statutory seat is The Consolidated financial statements have been prepared on historical cost basis, except Amsterdam and its principal office is located at: for the following items, which are measured at a different basis on each reporting date: •• derivative financial instruments and share-based compensation arrangements, Gustav Mahlerplein 97-103 which are measured at fair value; 1082 MS Amsterdam •• net defined benefit (asset)/liability, which is measured at the fair value of plan assets The Netherlands less the present value of the defined benefit obligation; •• contingent consideration assumed in a business combination, which is measured Arcadis NV and its consolidated subsidiaries (‘Arcadis’, ‘the Group’ or ‘the Company’) at fair value; and is the leading global Design & Consultancy firm for natural and built assets. Applying •• financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, which are measured at fair value. deep market sector insights and collective design, consultancy, engineering, project and management services, the Company works in partnership with clients to deliver exceptional For more detailed information on the measurement basis reference is made to the and sustainable outcomes throughout the lifecycle of their natural and built assets. significant accounting policies as included in the relevant notes to the Consolidated financial statements. In accordance with Articles 2:379 and 414 of the Dutch Civil Code, the list of subsidiaries and investments accounted for using the equity method is filed with the Chamber of Basis of consolidation Commerce in Amsterdam, the Netherlands. The Consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Arcadis NV and its subsidiaries, and the Company’s interests in jointly controlled entities and associates. 2 Basis of preparation Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealized gains and losses or income Statement of compliance and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the The Consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Consolidated financial statements. Unrealized gains arising from transactions with Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and in conformity associates and joint ventures are eliminated against the investment to the extent of with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. The Company financial statements have the Company’s interest in the investee. Unrealized losses are eliminated in the same been prepared using the option of article 2:362 of the Dutch Civil Code, meaning that the way as unrealized gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment. accounting principles used are the same as for the Consolidated financial statements. Comparative figures The Consolidated financial statements were authorized for issue by the Executive Board No material events occurred that resulted in an amendment of the comparative figures and Supervisory Board on 13 February 2019. The Consolidated financial statements as due to changes in accounting policies or errors. IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 are applied modified presented in this Annual Integrated Report are subject to adoption by the General Meeting retrospectively, with no restatement of the 2017 closing balance but adjustments to the of Shareholders, to be held on 25 April 2019. 2018 opening balance (see note 3). 174 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements | Financial statements Foreign currencies Accounting estimates and management judgements Functional and reporting currency The preparation of the Consolidated financial statements requires management to make The Consolidated financial statements are presented in euros, which is the Company’s judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies functional and reporting currency. All amounts shown in the financial statements are in and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses as well as the thousands of euros unless otherwise stated. Items included in the financial information information disclosed. This includes: of each of Arcadis’ entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic •• Trade receivables see note 19; environment in which the entity operates (the functional currency). If the functional •• Taxation see note 11; currency of a (foreign) subsidiary, joint venture or associate is not the euro, foreign currency •• (Goodwill) impairment testing – see note 13; exchange differences arising from translation are recognized as translation differences •• Investments accounted for using equity method and related (off balance sheet) in Other comprehensive income, and presented in the Translation reserve in equity. guarantees – see note 15; •• Contract assets (unbilled receivables) and contract liabilities (billing in excess of cost) – Foreign currency transactions see note 20; Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency of entities •• Provisions – see notes 26 and 27; and using the foreign exchange rate at transaction date. The functional currency of the foreign •• Capital and financial risk management – see note 30. entities is in general the local currency. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency of the entity using the exchange The key accounting estimates and judgements in preparing the Consolidated financial rates at the balance sheet date. statements are further explained in the relevant notes to the Consolidated financial statements. In general, the judgements, estimates and assumptions are based on marketExchange rate differences are included in profit or loss. Non-monetary assets and liabilities information, knowledge, historical experience and other factors that management believes that are measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated into the functional to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates. currency at the exchange rate when the fair value was determined. Non-monetary items that are measured based on historical cost in a foreign currency are translated at the Judgements, estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. exchange rate at the date of the transaction. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognized in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected. Foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including Goodwill and fair value adjustments Impairment arising on acquisitions, are translated to euros at exchange rates at the reporting date. The carrying amounts of the assets of Arcadis, other than Contract assets and liabilities, The income and expenses of foreign operations are translated into euros using average Deferred tax assets and Financial instruments, are reviewed at each reporting date to exchange rates, approximating the foreign exchange rates at transaction date. determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If such indication exists, then the assets recoverable amount is estimated. Goodwill and other assets that have an indefinite Foreign currency differences are recognized in Other comprehensive income, and presented useful life are tested annually for impairment, and when an impairment trigger is identified. in the Translation reserve in Equity. For subsidiaries not wholly owned, the relevant proportionate share of the translation difference is allocated to the Non-controlling For impairment testing, assets are grouped together into the smallest group of assets interests. When a foreign operation is disposed of, in part or in full, the relevant amount in that generates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash the Translation reserve is transferred to profit or loss as part of the gain or loss on disposal. inflows of other assets or cash-generating units (CGUs). Goodwill arising from a business combination is allocated to CGUs or Groups of CGUs that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 175 Financial statements | Notes to the Consolidated financial statements The recoverable amount is the greater of the fair value less costs to sell and value in use. Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities In assessing the value in use, estimated future cash flows are discounted to present values Financial assets and liabilities are offset and reported as a net amount in the balance sheet using a discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognized amounts and there is an and the risks specific to the asset. An impairment loss is recognized whenever the carrying intention to settle on a net basis or realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. amount of an asset or its CGU exceeds its recoverable amount. The legally enforceable right must not be contingent on future events and must be enforceable in the normal course of business and in the event of default, insolvency Impairment losses are recognized in profit or loss. Impairment losses recognized with or bankruptcy of the Company or the counterparty. regard to CGUs are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to CGUs and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit on a Cash flow statement pro-rata basis. The Cash flow statement has been prepared using the indirect method. Cash flows in foreign currencies have been translated into euros using average exchange rates, approximating An impairment loss of goodwill is not reversed. Regarding other assets, an impairment the foreign exchange rate at transaction date. Exchange rate differences on cash items loss can be reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the are shown separately in the Cash flow statement. Receipts and payments with respect recoverable amount. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s to income tax and interest are included in the Cash flows from operating activities. carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, The cost of acquisition of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, and other investments, net of depreciation or amortization, if no impairment loss had been recognized. insofar as it was paid for in cash, is included in Cash flows from investing activities. Acquisitions or divestments of subsidiaries are presented net of cash balances acquired Financial instruments or disposed of, respectively. Cash flows from derivatives are recognized in the Cash flow Non-derivative financial assets statement in the same category as those of the hedged item. Financial assets include trade receivables, other receivables and loans and borrowings. Loans, receivables, and deposits are recognized on the date they are originated. All other Recent accounting developments financial assets are recognized initially on trade date when the Company becomes a party On 1 January 2018 several new standards, amendments to standards and to the contractual provisions of the instrument. Financial assets are derecognized when interpretations became effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January the rights to receive cash flows from the financial assets have expired or have been 2018. The impact of changes in accounting policies on the opening balance of the transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of Company is disclosed in note 3. For the impact of new standards not yet effective ownership. reference is made in the next table. From 1 January 2018, all financial instruments are initially measured at fair value plus or minus, in the case of a financial asset not at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs. The Group classifies its financial assets as those to be measured subsequently at fair value (either through Other comprehensive income or through profit or loss) or those to be measured at amortized cost. The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired. Management determines the classification of the financial assets at initial recognition, based on the business model for managing the assets and the contractual terms of the cash flows, and assesses the designation at each reporting date. The Group has applied IFRS 9 retrospectively, but has elected not to restate comparative information. As a result, the comparative information provided continues to be accounted for in accordance with the Group’s previous accounting policy. 176 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements | Financial statements Standard IFRS 16 Leases Implementation date 1 January 2019, with early adoption permitted Endorsed by the EU Yes Impact IFRS 16 replaces the existing guidance in IAS 17 ‘Leases’ and significantly changes how Arcadis, as lessee, accounts for its operating lease contracts from 1 January 2019. The operating leases, related to buildings, lease cars and other (IT) assets, will be recognized on the balance sheet as a right to use the asset and a financial liability will be recognized for the future rental payment obligation. Currently the operating leases are presented off-balance sheet (see note 31). Lease arrangements with a term shorter than one year or related to an asset of low value (< €5,000) will be exempted from recognition. In 2018, Arcadis implemented accounting software to make the lease calculations, determined the incremental borrowing rates to be used at 1 January 2019, and collected the relevant data points from all the lease contracts. The Company is currently in the final stage to validate all lease data and expects the following impact: •• Assets and liabilities of the Group increase with the net present value of future lease payments, in the range of €290 to €330 million for 2019. See note 31 for the undiscounted lease commitments as at 31 December 2018 •• Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) increases as the rental lease payments will be presented as depreciation and net finance expense rather than operational cost, in the range of €70 to €85 million for 2019 (EBITA €8 to €11 million for 2019) •• Operating cash flows increase and investing and financing cash flows decrease as the lease payments will no longer be considered as operational, in the range of €64 to €70 million for 2019 •• No current tax impact, as the deferred tax asset and liability related to the right of use asset and liability will be recognized for the same amount •• No significant impact of the activities of Arcadis as a lessor, as these are not material Arcadis has elected to apply the ‘modified retrospective approach’, and as such the right-of-use assets will be recognized at the transition date as an amount equal to the respective lease liability, using the incremental borrowing rate. The company will not restate comparative amounts for the year prior to first adoption. For comparison purposes Arcadis will disclose in its trading updates during 2019 comparative figures based on IAS17. IFRS 16 impacts the bank covenants; the Interest Coverage ratio is already lease-adjusted and for the leverage ratio a consent request to the lenders of the Company will be prepared in the first half of 2019 to adjust the ratio for the impact of IFRS 16. In the credit facilities refinanced in January 2019 (see note 33) this has already been catered for as IFRS 16 is deemed to be inapplicable and the definition of financial indebtedness explicitly excludes operating leases. Standard IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments Implementation date 1 January 2019, with early adoption permitted Endorsed by the EU Yes Impact IFRIC 23 clarifies the accounting for uncertainties in income taxes. The interpretation will be implemented by Arcadis from 1 January 2019 to the determination of taxable profit (tax loss), tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits and tax rates, when there is uncertainty over income tax treatments under IAS 12. When Arcadis considers it probable that tax authorities accept a tax treatment it will be treated as such in the income tax filings. When it is not considered probable that a particular tax treatment is accepted, Arcadis uses the most likely amount or the expected value of the tax treatment. Arcadis substantially completed its impact assessment. Based on the existing uncertain tax positions at 31 December 2018 the Company expects no material impact of applying the interpretation. The cumulative effect of initially applying the interpretation, if any, will be recognized in Shareholder’s equity of 1 January 2019, without adjusting comparative figures. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 177 Financial statements | Notes to the Consolidated financial statements 3 Changes in accounting policies Arcadis applied the clarification in IAS 28.14A, although not endorsed yet. The Expected As from 1 January 2018, IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 were adopted without restating comparative Credit Loss model is applied to loans that form part of the Net investment, before information. The impact of the new standards is recognized in the opening balance sheet recognizing its share of losses from application of the equity method on these loans. of 1 January 2018. To measure the Expected Credit Losses, the positions have been grouped based on the The table below summarizes the adjustments recognized for each individual account. shared credit risk characteristics and days past due. As Contract assets and liablities have Accounts that were not affected by the changes have not been included. As a result, substantially the same risk characteristics as Trade receivables, the Company concluded the sub-totals and totals disclosed cannot be recalculated from the numbers provided. that the loss rates for Trade receivables are a reasonable approximation of the loss rates The adjustments are explained in more detail by IFRS standard below. for Contract assets and liabilities. All Loss Given Defaults have been determined at 100%. Impact Impact In summary, the loss allowance for Trade receivables and Contract assets and liabilities as In € thousands 31 Dec 2017 IFRS 9 IFRS 15 1 Jan 2018 at 1 January 2018 was determined as follows: Non-current assets Investments accounted for using the equity method 22,807 (885) – 21,922 More than More than More than Deferred tax assets 33,310 548 1 82 33,940 30 days 90 days 120 days In € thousands Current past due past due past due Current assets Expected loss rate1 0.15% 0.10% 0.23% 0.59% Trade receivables 579,135 (1,080) – 578,055 Gross carrying amount 397,721 63,769 13,825 96,472 Contract assets (unbilled receivables) 565,113 (179) (309) 564,625 Expected Credit Loss 592 65 32 569 Current liabilItiies 1 Weighted average loss rate for the Group. Loss rates (in a range of 0.1% -2.0%) have been applied to individual positions Accounts payable, accrued expenses and other 552,971 4,841 – 557,812 current liabilities Shareholders' equity For changes in Expected Credit Losses during 2018 see notes 15, 19 and 20. Total equity attributable to equity holders of the Company 977,886 (6,437) (227) 971,222 IFRS 15 impact of adoption 1 T  he impact reported in the Interim Financial Statements 2018 has been revised (with €1.2 million) for changes in the assessment of tax deductibility of the Expected Credit Loss on the corporate guarantees Following an impact analysis performed, and which was finalized during 2018, the Company concluded that the impact of IFRS 15 is limited. The analysis led to the following IFRS 9 impact of adoption insights on the five step model framework in the standard: On 1 January 2018 (the date of initial application of IFRS 9), the Company assessed which business models apply to the financial assets held by the Group and has classified its Step 1 Identify the contract with the customer financial instruments into the appropriate IFRS 9 categories. As a result of this no Arcadis had stringent requirements in its accounting policies on the existence of reclassifications needed to be recognized. In addition, the Company concluded that there is agreements with customers before contract assets and related revenues are recognized, no impact on the Company’s hedge accounting policy. and which are in line with IFRS 15. When considering whether a contract (either in writing or verbal) is approved and the customer is committed to its obligation, contractual terms The opening balance is only impacted by the Expected Credit Losses (ECL), for which a and conditions, experience with the customer and local laws and regulations are taken simplified approach has been used based on a lifetime expected loss allowance for Trade into account. receivables (individually non-impaired items) and Contract assets and liabilities. For the Net investment in ALEN and related corporate guarantees a Probability of Default (PD) of 5.75% has been applied as at 1 January 2018, resulting in a €0.9 million opening balance adjustment in the Investments accounted for using the equity method and €4.8 million opening balance in Other current liabilities. 178 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements | Financial statements Step 2 Identify the performance obligations in the contract 4 Segment reporting Arcadis manages its project at the level of significant components within a contract, or in more detail. The way of working under IAS 11 and IAS 18 facilitated the application of IFRS 15. Only for a limited number of contracts the Company concluded that multiple instead of single performance obligations needed to be recognized under IFRS 15, resulting in an An operating segment is a component of the Company that engages in business activities opening balance adjustment of €0.3 million on Contract assets in the Americas segment. that can result in revenue and expenses, including revenues and expenses related to transactions with other components of the same Company. Where Arcadis acted (for individual performance obligations) as a principal under the previous standards it concluded that it still acts as a principal under IFRS 15. The operating segment reporting follows the internal reporting used by the Executive Board of the Company, to manage the business, assess the performance based on the available Step 3 Determine the transaction price financial information and to allocate the resources. The most important performance Arcadis had stringent thresholds for components in its accounting policies that are in line measure is EBITA (earnings before interest, tax, amortization of identifiable intangible assets, with the IFRS 15 criteria on variable considerations (e.g. bonuses and incentives) and scope and impairment charges) as management believes this is key in evaluating the results of changes (e.g. variation orders). The implementation of IFRS 15 therefore did not result in the segments relative to other companies that operate within the same industry. However, an opening balance adjustment following changes in the determination of the transaction the Executive Board also receives information about the segment’s revenue and assets. price of work in progress at 31 December 2017. Inter-segment pricing is determined on an arm’s length basis. Segment results, assets Step 4 Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contracts and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can Arcadis generally allocates the transaction price to separate performance obligations using be allocated on a reasonable basis. the expected costs plus a margin, which may include management estimate and judgment. The application of IFRS 15 has not resulted in an opening balance adjustment specifically relating to this step in the model. The information used by management to monitor progress, and for decision-making about operational matters, is at operating segment level. The Company has a global network Step 5 Recognize revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation based on home market positions, and operates in a local-to-local market, which enables it Inherent to the type of business, Arcadis’ customers generally benefit over time from to maintain the relationships with clients and to understand the local market conditions. customer specific services. From consultancy and program, project and cost management As a result, the geographic basis of the operating companies is the basis in determining services the customer directly benefits. For design and engineering work the customer the operating segments, whereby those geographical areas with economic and operating either controls the asset as it is created or enhanced, or it does not have an alternative similarities are aggregated into one operating segment. This does not apply to CallisonRTKL, use to Arcadis but standard terms and conditions in contracts secure the Company’s right which has been identified as a separate operating and reportable segment, due to the to payment for performance completed to date. The identified revenue that qualified for nature of its services and being active in a global market. recognition at a point in time is limited, see note 6. Following the requirements of the standard, additional disclosures have been added to the internal reporting for external disclosure purposes. See note 6 for these disclosures. The new standard did not result in amended internal disclosures to management, other than what is disclosed in the Segment reporting note (see note 4). Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 179 Financial statements | Notes to the Consolidated financial statements Following IFRS 8, the Company has the following segments as at 31 December 2018: Operating segment Reportable segment Americas Americas (Americas) Europe & Middle East Europe & Middle East (EME) Asia Pacific Asia Pacific (APAC) CallisonRTKL CallisonRTKL Geographical information Geographical information differs from the segment information in this note due to CallisonRTKL, which is included as a separate reportable segment, but is geographically represented in all the geographical regions listed below. Net revenues by origin (In)tangible assets In € millions 2018 2017 2018 2017 Americas 904 907 471 457 Europe & Middle East 1,160 1,144 497 520 Asia Pacific 376 386 190 190 Total 2,440 2,437 1,158 1,167 Major customers The Company has no customers that account for more than 10% of total annual revenues. 180 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements | Financial statements Corporate and Total unallocated Total In € millions unless otherwise stated Americas EME APAC CallisonRTKL Eliminations segments amounts consolidated 2018 Timing of revenue recognition: At a point in time 36.6 260.6 0.2 8.1 − 305.5 − 305.5 Over time 1,149.9 1,131.8 375.1 293.3 − 2,950.1 − 2,950.1 External Gross revenues 1,186.5 1,392.4 375.3 301.4 − 3,255.6 − 3,255.6 Inter-segment 2.6 9.5 4.6 4.7 (21.4) − − − Total Gross revenues 1,189.1 1,401.9 379.9 306.1 (21.4) 3,255.6 − 3,255.6 Materials, services of third parties and subcontractors (433.7) (268.6) (48.5) (86.3) 21.4 (815.7) − (815.7) Net revenues1 755.4 1,133.3 331.4 219.8 − 2,439.9 2,439.9 Operating costs (690.2) (1.048.2) (299.5) (195.2) − (2,233.1) (8.5) (2,241.6) Other income 0.1 3.0 2.6 0.1 − 5.8 − 5.8 Depreciation and amortization (9.7) (13.4) (8.6) (6.4) − (38.1) (4.5) (42.6) EBITA1 55.6 74.7 25.9 18.3 − 174.5 (13.0) 161.5 Amortization other intangible assets (1.5) (12.1) (6.2) (3.2) − (23.0) 0.3 (22.7) Goodwill impairment charges (6.5) (33.9) − − − (40.4) − (40.4) Operating income 47.6 28.7 19.7 15.1 − 111.1 (12.7) 98.4 Net finance expense (17.4) (0.0) (2.0) 0.1 − (19.3) (7.8) (27.1) Expected Credit Loss on shareholder loans and corporate guarantees2 − − − − − − (53.9) (53.9) Result from investments accounted for using the equity method2 − 0.6 − − − 0.6 (13.3) (12.7) Segment profit before income tax 30.2 29.3 17.7 15.2 − 92.4 (87.7) 4.7 Income taxes (1.6) (19.2) (9.3) (6.0) − (36.1) 5.7 (30.4) Result for the period 28.6 10.1 8.4 9.2 − 56.3 (82.0) (25.7) Non-controlling interests − (1.0) − − − (1.0) − (1.0) Net income 28.6 9.1 8.4 9.2 − 55.3 (82.0) (26.7) Operating EBITA1 58.7 83.5 27.1 20.4 − 189.7 (12,5) 177.2 Net income from operations1 89.3 52.8 13.8 12.8 − 168.7 (81.1) 87.6 Total assets 807.4 1,068.1 468.5 280.6 − 2,624.6 84.0 2,708.6 Investments accounted for using the equity method2 0.1 6.4 − 1.3 − 7.8 − 7.8 Other financial assets 16.9 8.6 0.4 2.7 − 28.6 0.1 28.7 Total liabilities 491.2 360.4 128.2 109.4 − 1,089.2 675.2 1,764.4 Total capital expenditures 13.9 11.9 15.3 8.0 − 49.1 19.6 68.7 Total number of employees3 6,981 12,213 5,249 1,676 − 26,119 209 26,328 1 Non-GAAP performance measure. Reference is made to the Glossary Financial & Non-Financial indicators on page 267 to 269 for the definition as used by Arcadis 2 In 2018 the net investment in ALEN has been transferred to Corporate, see note 15, and is internally reported as a separate segment 3 As at 31 December, excluding temporary staff Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 181 Financial statements | Notes to the Consolidated financial statements Corporate and Total unallocated Total In € millions unless otherwise stated Americas EME APAC CallisonRTKL Eliminations segments amounts Consolidated 20171 External Gross revenues 1,166.5 1,343.3 389.0 320.1 − 3,218.9 − 3,218.9 Inter-segment 3.5 12.9 5.1 6.9 (28.4) – − – Total Gross revenues 1,170.0 1,356.2 394.1 327.0 (28.4) 3,218.9 − 3,218.9 Materials, services of third parties and subcontractors (421.6) (249.7) (44.7) (94.8) 28.4 (782.4) − (782.4) Net revenues2 748.4 1,106.5 349.4 232.2 − 2,436.5 − 2,436.5 Operating costs (701.3) (1,020.1) (313.1) (204.8) − (2,239.3) 2.4 (2,236.9) Other income 0.1 (0.1) 0.7 0.1 − 0.8 0.1 0.9 Depreciation and amortization (11.2) (11.6) (7.9) (6.6) − (37.3) (2.3) (39.6) EBITA2 36.0 74.7 29.1 20.9 − 160.7 0.2 160.9 Amortization other intangible assets (1.5) (15.8) (10.3) (3.4) − (31.0) – (31.0) Impairment charges – – – – − – – – Operating income 34.5 58.9 18.8 17.5 − 129.7 0.2 129.9 Net finance expense (23.8) 2.0 (0.7) (0.2) − (22.7) (3.3) (26.0) Result from investments accounted for using the equity method (12.3) 0.8 – (0.1) − (11.6) – (11.6) Segment profit before income tax (1.6) 61.7 18.1 17.2 − 95.4 (3.1) 92.3 Income taxes 6.5 (13.0) (11.3) (3.9) − (21.7) 1.3 (20.4) Result for the period 4.9 48.7 6.8 13.3 − 73.7 (1.8) 71.9 Non-controlling interests – (1.1) – – − (1.1) – (1.1) Net income 4.9 47.6 6.8 13.3 − 72.6 (1.8) 70.8 Operating EBITA2 47.2 84.5 29.7 23.8 − 185.2 1.2 186.4 Net income from operations2 6.6 63.5 13.2 17.9 − 101.2 (0.2) 101.0 Total assets 796.9 1,161.7 469.7 287.1 − 2,715.4 70.7 2,786.1 Investments accounted for using the equity method 15.6 6.0 – 1.2 − 22.8 – 22.8 Other financial assets 21.8 8.0 0.7 2.7 − 33.2 – 33.2 Total liabilities 531.0 493.7 180.2 112.0 − 1,316.9 488.6 1,805.5 Total capital expenditures 11.7 15.9 15.4 3.3 − 46.3 13.0 59.3 Total number of employees3 6,616 12,090 5,612 1,642 − 25,960 202 26.162 1 Excluding the impact of changes in accounting policies, see note 3 2 Non-GAAP performance measure. Reference is made to the Glossary Financial & Non-Financial indicators on pages 267 to 269 for the definition as used by Arcadis 3 As at 31 December, excluding temporary staff 182 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements | Financial statements 5 Consolidated interests and business combinations Subsidiaries Goodwill at acquisition date is measured as the fair value of the consideration transferred plus Subsidiaries are all companies over which the Company has control. Control over an entity the recognized amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree less the net recognized exists when the Company is exposed to, or has right to, variable returns from its involvement amount (fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control commences until the date The consideration transferred does not include amounts related to the settlement of on which control ceases. pre-existing relationships. Such amounts are recognized in profit or loss. Loss of control Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity Upon the loss of control, the assets and liabilities, non-controlling interests and other securities incurred in connection with the business combination, are expensed. components of equity related to the subsidiary are derecognized. Any profit or loss arising on the loss of control is recognized in profit or loss. If a non-controlling interest in the Contingent consideration payable is recognized at fair value at the acquisition date. subsidiary is retained, such interest is measured at fair value at the date control is lost. If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it is not remeasured and settlement is Subsequently, it is accounted for as an equity-accounted investee or as an available-for-sale accounted for within equity. Otherwise, subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent financial asset, depending on the level of influence retained. consideration are recognized in profit or loss. Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at acquisition date, The nature of business of the Arcadis subsidiaries listed on the next page is similar, which is the date on which control is transferred to the Company. except for CallisonRTKL (as described in note 4). They provide comprehensive knowledgebased consultancy, design, engineering and management services in the expertise areas IFRS 3 establishes the following principles in relation to the recognition and measurement of of infrastructure, water, environment and buildings. items arising in a business combination: • Recognition principle: Identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and non-controlling Arcadis NV indirectly holds 100% of the ordinary shares of all these subsidiaries, but interests in the acquiree are recognized separately from goodwill. Acquired intangible assets does not hold direct interests itself as a result of the intermediate holding structure must be recognized and measured at fair value in accordance with the principles if it is within the Group. All subsidiaries are included in the financial consolidation. The proportion separable or arises from other contractual rights, irrespective of whether the acquiree had of the voting rights held directly by the parent company does not substantially differ recognized the asset prior to the business combination occurring. from the proportion of ordinary shares held. • Measurement principle: All assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured at acquisition-date fair value. This, for example, means that for contingent At 31 December 2018, the total non-controlling interest amounted to €2.2 million liabilities arising in a business combination the requirements of IAS 37 do not apply; (2017: €2.7 million), and is as such not material for the Group. contingent liabilities are measured at fair value. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 183 Financial statements | Notes to the Consolidated financial statements The main consolidated companies as at 31 December 2018 are listed below: On 27 July 2018, Arcadis acquired all shares in IBUe GmbH, a people engineering consultancy for environment and energy. With this acquisition Arcadis strenghtened Name of subsidiary Country of incorporation its position as a partner in the field of transmission networks in Germany. The total Americas consideration for the business combination amounted to €0.6 million. Arcadis US, Inc. United States of America Arcadis Logos S.A. Brazil The provisional net identifiable assets acquired amounted to €0.1 million and the goodwill to €0.5 million. Due to the limited size of IBUe, no material Purchase Price Allocation (PPA) Europe & Middle East adjustments are expected in 2019. Arcadis Consulting Middle East Ltd. United Kingdom Arcadis LLP United Kingdom The acquisition accounting for E2 ManageTech, acquired by Arcadis in July 2017, has been Arcadis Consulting (UK) Limited United Kingdom completed in the first half of 2018 without any measurement-period adjustments. The Arcadis Nederland BV Netherlands acquisition was not material for the Group. Arcadis Deutschland GmbH Germany Arcadis France S.A.S. France There are no other material changes in consolidated interests in 2018 and thus no further Arcadis Belgium NV Belgium disclosures are provided in this note. For Assets classified as held for sale see note 21. Asia Pacific 2017 Arcadis Asia Ltd. Hong Kong On 26 July 2017, Arcadis acquired all shares in E2 ManageTech for a total consideration of Arcadis Australia Pacific Holdings Pty Ltd. Australia US$15.3 million, including a contractual after-payment of US$0.5 million and a maximum earn-out of US$6.0 million (based on the financial performance of the company). CallisonRTKL CallisonRTKL, Inc. United States of America On 31 August 2017, Arcadis sold its interest in the Czech Infrastructure business. This resulted in a loss of €1.9 million, which is recognized as part of Other income of 2017. Changes in consolidated interests Furthermore, in 2017 Arcadis processed the sale of its interest in Brunei, including 2018 Utamacon Sdn Bhd, JBPUSdn Bhd and partnership Arcadis Brunei. On 2 January 2018, Arcadis acquired all shares in SEAMS, a UK based software and analytics firm. Together with SEAMS, Arcadis will be able to provide clients with a unique Deferred consideration blend of technical and asset knowledge combined with advanced analytics. The contractual after-payments and earn-outs for acquisitions are disclosed below. Initial Discount 2018 2017 The total consideration for the business combination amounted to £11.4 million In € thousands recognition effect/Interest Total Total (€12.8 million), of which £7.9 million (€8.9 million) was paid on completion and £3.5 million Balance at 1 January 6,844 1,117 7,961 4,074 (€3.9 million) is recognized as deferred consideration. This includes a £1.2 million Acquisitions 3,900 – 3,900 5,251 (€1.4 million) contractual after-payment and a £2.3 million (€2.5 million) earn-out. Interest accrual – 506 506 319 In addition an employment linked consideration has been agreed with a maximum of Releases (1,266) – (1,266) – £4.2 million (€4.6 million) to be paid in the next two years. The net identifiable assets Payments and redemptions (2,025) (376) (2,401) (1,111) acquired amounted to £3.8 million (€4.3 million) and goodwill to £7.6 million (€8.6 million). Exchange rate differences 37 (113) (76) (572) The acquisition accounting has been completed in 2018. Balance at 31 December 7,490 1,134 8,624 7,961 184 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements | Financial statements An amount of €5.2 million (2017: €6.5 million) of deferred consideration is reported as other long-term debt under ‘Loans and borrowings’ (see note 28). An amount of In the comparative period, revenue was recognized when the significant risks and rewards €3.4 million (2017: €1.5 million) is due within one year and reported as ‘Other current of ownership had been transferred to the customer, the outcome of the transaction could liabilities’ (see note 29). be measured reliably, when it was probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction would be collected, and the stage of completed could be measured. The stage of At 31 December 2018, the deferred consideration relating to acquisitions prior to 2018 completion was also measured by actual costs incurred in relation to total estimated costs. amount to €4.5 million, and relates to E2 Manage Tech (2017) and Estudos Téchnicos e Projectos ETEP Ltda (2012). Contract costs Contract costs include the costs to fulfil a contract, such as direct labor, costs of materials, The release of after payments of €1.3 million is recognized in ‘Other income’ (see note 7). services of third parties and subcontractors, and costs that are explicitly chargeable to the customer under the contract. They are recognized as an asset in Contract assets and liabilities, 6 Revenue if they are expected to be recovered. Costs to obtain a contract are only recognized as an asset in Contract assets and liabilities if they are incremental and expected to be recovered. They are recognized on a systemic basis Revenue is recognized by the Group following the five step model in IFRS 15, consisting of consistent with the recognition of costs to fulfill a contract. 1) identification of the contract 2) identification of the performance obligations in the contract Loss provisions 3) determination of the transaction price Estimates of project management are used to assess the progress and estimated outcome of a 4) allocation of the transaction price to performance obligations in the contract, and performance obligation. When it becomes probable that the total expected costs to complete 5) recognition of revenue all performance obligations in a contract exceed the total transaction price (consideration) of these performance obligations, a loss provision is recognized for the lower of the unavoidable Revenue is measured based on the consideration specified in a contract with a customer and costs and the costs of termination. excludes amounts collected on behalf of third parties (e.g. VAT). It includes initial amounts agreed in the contract plus any variations in contract work and variable consideration, to the Loss provisions are separately disclosed as a Contract liability following the implementation of extent that it is highly probably that its inclusion will not result in a significant revenue reversal IFRS 15, whereas in previous periods these were part of the Work in progress balance. in the future when the uncertainty has been subsequently resolved. Financing component The Group recognizes revenue when it transfers control over a product or service to a Arcadis generally does not have any significant contracts where the period between the customer. For performance obligations that are transferred over time, revenues and costs are transfer of the promised goods or services to customer and the payment by the customer, as recognized in profit or loss in proportion to the percentage of completion of the transaction at contractually agreed, exceeds one year. If applicable, the transaction prices is adjusted for the reporting date. The percentage of completion is measured by actual (labor) costs incurred in time value of money. relation to total estimated (labor) costs (input method). In the Group’s view this best reflects the value delivered to the customer in a business that mainly uses human and intellectual Payments of customers after the agreed payment term are covered by the accounting policy capital (of its employees) for completion of the performance obligations towards the customer. on Trade receivables, see note 19. For performance obligations that are transferred at a point in time, revenues and costs are recognized in profit or loss when the customer receives the ability to direct the use of the asset and substantially obtains all the benefits of it. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 185 Financial statements | Notes to the Consolidated financial statements In addition to the operating segments, the Executive Board also monitors certain financial Agent versus principal information based on four areas of expertise. The revenues for each of these areas are For each performance obligation the Group assesses whether the nature of Arcadis’ as follows: commitment is to provide the goods and/or services itself, or to arrange for those good(s) In € millions 2018 2017 and/or service(s) to be provided by another party. Arcadis assesses whether it controls the Gross Gross specified good(s) and/or service(s) before it is transferred to the customer. revenue revenue Infrastructure 739 773 Arcadis is typically a principal in case of subcontracted work, as Arcadis is primarily responsible Water 406 415 for fulfilling the promise to provide the specified good(s) and/or service(s) and bears primary Environment 838 821 responsibility for it meeting customer specifications, and has discretion in establishing the price Buildings 1,273 1,210 towards the customer. Total 3,256 3,219 When Arcadis acts as an agent, only the fee/commission is recognized on a net basis in For revenue by reporting segment and geography see note 4. Gross revenues. Timing of revenue recognition Gross versus net revenues The timing of revenue recognition in 2018 was as follows: Gross revenues consist of external revenues net of value-added tax, rebates and discounts and In € millions 2018 after eliminating sales within the Group. Net revenue is a non-GAAP performance measure, At a point in time 306 which represents revenue generated by own staff. It is a sub-total calculated as Gross revenue Over time 2,950 minus Materials, services of third parties and subcontractors, which are project-related costs of Total revenues 3,256 materials and services charged by third parties, including cost of subcontractors. Contract balances Disaggregation of revenues The Group has recognised the following assets and liabilities related to contracts with Gross revenues arise from the following major categories: customers: In € thousands 2018 2017 In € thousands 2018 Revenues from services 2,564,058 2,589,003 Other non-current assets 1,523 Construction contract revenue 686,333 629,886 Trade receivables 583,740 Revenue from licenses 5,183 −1 Contract assets (unbilled receivables) 545,492 Total revenues 3,255,574 3,218,889 Other current assets 52 1 Not measured and reported in 2017 as separate category as it was immaterial Contract liabilities (billing in excess of costs) (255,582) Contract liabilities (loss provisions) (115,643) Revenues from services rendered represent fee income receivable in respect of services Other current liabilities provided during the period. Construction contracts include the rendering of services, Total 759,582 which are directly related to the construction of assets, contracts for the destruction or restoration of assets, and the restoration of the environment following the demolition of assets. Revenues from licenses represent fee income receivable in respect of allowing The Other non-current assets relate to long-term retentions. The Expected Credit Loss customers using Arcadis’ software, and mainly relate to Europe & Middle East. allowance following the adoption of IFRS 9 is included in the Contract assets (unbilled receivables) balance, see note 20. 186 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements | Financial statements Contract costs 7 Other income The Contract assets balance includes an amount of €0.4 million for incremental costs to obtain a contract. The practical expedient of paragraph 94 of IFRS 15, stating that those costs can be expensed when incurred if the amortization period is one year or less, is not applied. Other income includes results that arise from events or transactions that are clearly distinct from the ordinary activities of the Company. Gains or losses on the sale of assets are recognized Transaction price remaining performance obligations as part of Other income. The table below includes revenue expected to be recognized in the future related to performance obligations that are (partially) unsatisfied at the reporting date. The practical In € thousands 2018 2017 expedient of paragraph 121 of IFRS 15 is applied, and the table therefore does not disclose Book gain/(loss) on sale of assets 1,297 2,094 information about remaining performance obligations that have original expected Results from investments (384) 118 durations of one year or less. The amounts therefore differ from the contracted backlog. Release of after-payments 1,266 – Other 3,598 (1,355) In € thousands 2019 2020 2021 After 2021 Total Total Other income 5,777 857 Expected revenue from (partially) 1,084,356 336,899 96,257 292,310 1,809,822 unsatisfied performance obligations with original expected The book gain/(loss) on the sale of assets includes, amongst others, the gain on the sale of duration of > 1 year a building in Germany, which was classified as Asset held for sale at 31 December 2017. The result from investments includes the fair value loss recognized on Other investments (see note 16). The release of after-payments relates to an australian acquisition made before 2017. In 2018, the category ‘Other’ included €0.5 million of government grants (2017: €0.2 million) and several individually non-significant results of, amongst others, insurance refunds and indirect tax claims. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 187 Financial statements | Notes to the Consolidated financial statements 8 Operational costs 9 Share-based compensation All employee-related costs as well as non-project-related out-of-pocket expenses, The Company operates share-based incentive plans. The fair value of share-based compensations are recognized as operational cost as incurred. at grant date under the Arcadis long-term incentive plan is recognized as an employee expense, with a corresponding increase in equity, over the vesting period. The amount recognized as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of awards for which the related service and In € thousands 2018 2017 non-market performance conditions are expected to be met, such that the amount ultimately Salaries and wages 1,454,052 1,431,516 recognized as expense is based on the actual number of awards meeting these vesting conditions. Social charges 156,937 152,989 Pension and early retirement charges 68,312 71,171 The fair value of the granted shares is measured using a Monte Carlo simulation model. Other personnel costs (including temporary labor) 207,613 209,937 Measurement inputs include the share price on measurement date, exercise price Total Personnel costs 1,886,914 1,865,613 of the instrument, the expected volatility, weighted average expected life of the instrument and the risk-free interest rate. In € thousands 2018 2017 Occupancy 103,127 110,567 As the fair value is amortized over the vesting period, the costs are recognized in the Income Travel 59,772 54,556 Statement. The amortization costs are adjusted for effects of cancelled and forfeited grants. Office related 88,424 98,337 The vesting and exercise of rights to acquire shares may be conditional to performance Audit and consultancy services 36,541 34,604 conditions and other conditions, as set by the Supervisory Board. Insurances 17,315 20,197 Marketing and advertising 7,587 6,668 Other 41,920 46,323 Long-term incentive plans Total Other operational costs 354,686 371,252 To stimulate the realization of long-term Company goals and objectives, Arcadis NV uses Long-Term Incentive Plans (LTIPs). The outstanding options and conditional Share-based payment charges in scope of IFRS 2 are recognized in Salaries and wages. ­performance shares at 31 December 2018 relate to the LTIPs from 2005, 2010 and 2014. The average number of contract employees in 2018 was 26,419 (2017: 26,075). Since 2014, securities under the LTIPs are solely granted in the form of Restricted Share In 2018, ‘Other’ includes amongst others the impact of changes in provisions for trade Units (RSUs) and represent an equal number of ordinary shares, subject to meeting the receivables of €10.2 million (expense), restructuring provision of €8.4 million (expense) applicable vesting conditions. The RSUs will be converted into ordinary shares on the and litigation provisions of €5.9 million (income) (see note 27). vesting date, and are delivered as soon as practical thereafter. Arcadis NV 2005 and 2010 Long-Term Incentive Plans Options and RSUs annually granted to members of the Executive Board and selected senior executives were conditional and had a vesting period of three years. Vesting was dependent on performance criteria set forth in advance. The granting of such options and RSUs took place each year on or about the second day after the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, whereby the exercise price for the options matched the closing price of Arcadis NV shares on the day of the grant. In 2013, the last awards under the 2010 plan were granted. 188 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements | Financial statements Arcadis NV 2014 Long-Term Incentive Plan To prevent dilution, (a portion of) the shares required to meet the obligations from In 2014, the Supervisory Board approved the continuation of the Arcadis NV 2010 Long-Term exercising LTIPs can be purchased by the Company (instead of issuing new shares), Incentive Plan in the form of the Arcadis NV 2014 Long-Term Incentive Plan (2014 LTIP). with due consideration to the Company’s balance sheet, in particular available freely The revised Plan was approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders in May 2014. distributable reserves and available cash. Alternatively, shares may be issued, whereby it is intended to limit this to 1% of the number of issued shares. The 2014 LTIP provides for a maximum of 10,000,000 shares or options to be allocated during a five-year period, all of which may be granted as ‘qualified’ options in accordance Outstanding options with Section 422 of the United States Internal Revenue Code 1986. Such ‘qualified’ options The number and weighted average exercise price of the share options under the 2005 and may be granted only to employees of the Company. 2010 Arcadis LTIPs are as follows: Number of Weighted average options exercise price (in €) Options and shares granted are conditional in nature and depend on, amongst others, attaining a performance measure after three years. The performance measure is Total Balance at 1 January 2017 3,666,567 16.16 Increase/(decrease) by performance measure – – Shareholder Return (TSR), defined as stock price appreciation plus dividend yield. Exercised (561,984) 13.81 Expired (403,409) 20.32 To date only RSUs have been granted under the 2014 LTIP. Cancelled (194,312) 15.98 Each year, a three-year cycle begins, whereby achievements are measured at the end Balance at 31 December 2017 2,506,862 16.03 Increase/(decrease) by performance measure – – of the vesting date against a peer group of companies of comparable size and breadth. Exercised (190,170) 13.74 Arcadis’ position in the peer group determines whether the options and RSUs granted Expired (68,621) 19.12 earlier become unconditional. See the ‘Remuneration Report’ for more information. Cancelled (72,241) 16.79 The following table shows the indexation on measured performance applicable to the Balance at 31 December 2018 2,175,830 16.09 number of RSUs at date of vesting under the 2014 LTIP that may become unconditional at the end of each three-year period depending on Arcadis’ relative position in comparison The weighted average share price at exercise date in 2018 was €18.08 (2017: €17.89). to the peer group, and subject to continued employment. The number of outstanding options at 31 December 2018 is as follows: RSUs that vest for RSUs that vest for Share price at Outstanding Exercised Expired Cancelled Outstanding In % management senior executives Year of issue grant date 1 January 2018 in 2018 in 2018 in 2018 31 December 2018 Position against peer group 2007 €20.23 6,300 − (6,300) − − First 200 150 2008 €13.77 51,251 (46,250) (5,001) − − Second 175 125 2009 €12.06 321,082 (41,260) (950) (3,680) 275,192 Third 150 125 2010 €14.33 205,968 (14,696) (125) − 191,147 Fourth 125 100 2010 €16.84 21,500 (5,000) − − 16,500 Fifth 100 100 2011 €16.18 270,729 (13,956) − (1,900) 254,873 Sixth 75 75 2011 €16.48 79,957 − (3,400) (21,893) 54,664 Seventh 50 50 2011 €14.06 210,200 (5,100) (6,100) (2,000) 197,000 Eighth − 50 2012 €14.72 355,085 (32,419) (16,000) 306,666 Ninth − 50 2012 €15.74 433,463 (31,489) (2,268) (8,749) 390,957 Tenth − 25 2013 €20.96 541,327 − (44,477) (18,019) 478,831 Eleventh − 25 2013 €18.26 10,000 − − − 10,000 Twelfth to fourteenth − − Total 2,506,862 (190,170) (68,621) (72,241) 2,175,830 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 189 Financial statements | Notes to the Consolidated financial statements The weighted average exercise price of the share options exercisable at 31 December 2018 The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is calculated by taking the is €16.09 (2017: €16.03). granted RSUs within a calendar year multiplied by the fair value of the RSUs at grant date. This amount is expensed over a three year period, whereby the costs recognized in a year Outstanding Restricted Share Unit (RSUs) also take into account cancellations and forfeitures. In 2018, the following number of RSUs have been granted under the 2014 LTIP: Average LTIP costs recognized in 2018 Number of Grant Vesting Share price at fair value at Costs are spread over the vesting period, and included in ‘Salaries and wages’ (see note 8). RSUs date date grant date grant date1 In 2018, an amount of €5.1 million (2017: €9.2 million) is included for the share-based ex-dividend Annual grant 697,522 26 April 2018 date 2021 €15.75 €11.85 compensation granted to employees in the period 2016 2018. This is excluding a July and ex-dividend €1.7 million expense relating to the Employee Share Purchase Plan, see below. Additional grants 5,615 September 2018 date 2021 €15.192 €17.40 1 2 Average fair value at grant date of RSUs for management and key staff Average share price at grant date Employee Share Purchase Plan (Lovinklaan Foundation) The Company facilitates an Employee Share Purchase Plan (ESPP), also called the Global Share Plan (GSP), that allows employees to periodically purchase shares in the Company The fair value was determined using a Monte Carlo simulation model, which takes into at a set discount. Shares and discounts are made available by the Lovinklaan Foundation. account the market conditions expected to impact Arcadis’ TSR performance in relation The ESPP has been implemented in a number of countries where the Company is located. to the peer group, and the assumptions used for the largest series of RSUs granted were: The personal investment per employee is maximized at €400 per month. 2018 2017 At 31 December 2018, 3,436 employees participated in the plan (2017: 3,706). Expected dividend yield (in %) 2.94 2.64 The cost included in the Company’s financial statements amounted to €1.7 million Risk-free interest rate (in %) 0.02 (0.05) (2017: €1.7 million). As the ESPP is controlled by the Lovinklaan Foundation and Expected volatility (in %) 41.26 32.95 the Company has no influence on this scheme, the related share-based expenses Expected life of RSUs (in years) 3 3 are treated as non-operational and excluded from Net Income from Operations. The expected volatility (for the 2018 grant) is calculated based on the share price movements of the 36 months prior to grant date. The annual charge to profit or loss is adjusted for estimated forfeitures, if any, and these estimated forfeitures are revised if the number of RSUs expected to vest differs from previous estimates. The total outstanding RSUs at 31 December 2018 is as follows: Total amount to be Outstanding Decrease by Cancelled/ Outstanding expensed over the Share price at 1 January Granted performance Vested forfeited 31 December Year of issue Granted Unconditional in vesting period (in €) grant date 2018 in 2018 measure 2018 in 2018 in 2018 2018 2015 (1 January) 90,000 2018 2,082,600 €24.93 52,604 – – – (52,604) – 2015 (15 May) 565,670 2018 14,045,586 €27.15 450,298 – (407,807) – (42,491) – 2016 (27 April) 901,530 2019 5,297,987 €14.30 766,339 – – – (79,431) 686,908 2017 (28 April) 1,085,815 2020 17,471,310 €15.91 1,064,215 – – – (138,074) 926,141 2018 (26 April) 697,522 2021 8,265,635 €15.75 – 697,522 – – (25,709) 671,813 2018 (July September) 5,615 2021 97,710 €15.19 – 5,615 – – – 5,615 Total 2,333,456 703,137 (407,807) – (338,309) 2,290,477 190 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements | Financial statements 10 Net finance expenses Net interest expenses in 2018 amounted to €22.9 million (2017: €23.7 million), and included interest income from notional cash pools of €7.8 million (2017: €6.1 million) and other interest income of €6.2 million (2017: €5.9 million). Interest expenses consisted of €25.0 million on loans and borrowings (2017: €25.9 million), €8.3 million related to Net finance expenses comprises finance income, finance expenses and the fair value change notional cash pools (2017: €6.2 million), and €3.6 million of other interest expense of derivatives at fair value through profit or loss. Finance income comprises interest income (2017: €3.6 million). on funds invested and finance expenses comprise interest expense on borrowings, and the unwinding of discount on provisions and contingent consideration. 11 Income taxes Finance income and finance expenses are recognized in profit or loss, using the effective interest method. The fair value changes of derivatives comprise the fair value changes on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, as far as these relate to financing items in the Income taxes comprise current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognized in profit or loss, Company. These fair value changes are partially offset by the foreign currency gains and losses. except to the extent that the tax arises from items recognized in other comprehensive income, directly in equity or from a business combination. Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis as either finance income or finance expense if it concerns exchange rate results on financing items. Exchange rate Current tax results on operating items are included in Other operational costs (see note 8). Current tax is the expected tax payable on taxable income for the year and adjustments to tax payable related to previous years. It is measured using the tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date. The difference between income tax recognized in profit or loss and income tax paid in the cash flow statement differs primarily due to deferred tax recognized In € thousands 2018 2017 on temporary differences and payment of income tax occurring after the reporting date. Interest income 14,059 12,022 Finance income 14,059 12,022 Deferred tax Finance expense (36,933) (35,740) Deferred tax is recognized using the balance sheet method and it is not recognized for: Foreign exchange differences on financial liabilities (5,157) (8,489) • the initial recognition of goodwill; Finance expenses (42,090) (44,229) • the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit Fair value changes of derivatives 920 6,241 or loss; and Total (27,111) (25,966) • investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future. The Net finance expenses were slightly higher than last year, mainly due to higher floating interest rates in the United States, which was partially compensated by a lower net debt. Measurement of deferred tax is based upon tax rates enacted or substantially enacted expected to be applied in the years in which the temporary differences are expected to reverse. Arcadis utilizes notional cash pools, in which debit and credit balances both attract Deferred taxes are not discounted. interest income and expense. In 2018, interest income on cash pools was €7.8 million (2017: €6.1 million) and interest expense on cash pools was €8.3 million A deferred tax asset is recognized for unused tax losses, tax credits and deductible temporary (2017: €6.2 million). The interest income and interest expense from cash pools in differences, to the extent that it is probable that future profits will be available against which the comparative figures of 2017 have been restated to reflect all notional cash pools they can be utilized. Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable in operation. that the related tax benefit will be realized. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 191 Financial statements | Notes to the Consolidated financial statements Income tax recognized in profit or loss: Effective tax rate reconciliation The effective corporate income tax rate (income taxes divided by profit before income tax, In € thousands 2018 2017 mainly excluding total result from Investment in ALEN) is 42.7% (2017: 19.7%). For 2018 Current tax expense the effective tax rate was mainly impacted by non-deductible goodwill impairment Current year 42,531 33,318 charges of €40.4 million, excluding these impairments the effective tax rate is 27.2%. Adjustments for previous years (7,535) (1,733) Furthermore, the effective tax rate was impacted by among others the geographical mix of Total current tax expense 34,996 31,585 income, non-deductible expenses and provision-to-return accruals relating to prior years. Deferred tax expense Origination and reversal of temporary differences (8,983) (5,255) In % and € thousands 2018 (%) 2018 2017 (%) 2017 Adjustments for previous years 5,447 1,950 Corporate tax rate in the Netherlands 25.0 17,820 25.0 25,992 Changes in tax rates 226 (11,656) Adjustment corporate income tax rates other countries 2.7 1,945 5.4 5,665 (De)recognition of deferred tax assets (1,273) 3,857 Weighted average corporate income tax rate 27.7 19,765 30.4 31,657 Total deferred tax expense (4,583) (11,104) Non-deductible expenses/(income) 19.0 13,578 6.3 6,500 Total income taxes expense 30,413 20,481 Adjustments for previous years (2.9) (2,088) 0.2 217 Other (1.1) (842) (17.2) (17,893) At balance sheet date the corporate tax receivable amounted to €31.1 million and the Effective tax rate1 42.7 30,413 19.7 20,481 corporate tax liability amounted to €35.9 million. During 2018, the Company paid taxes 1  Taxes on income divided by Income before taxes, excluding results from Investment accounted for using the equity method and the Expected Credit Loss on Shareholder Loans and Corporate Guarantees for a total amount of €34.7 million (2017: €24.9 million). The higher amount of taxes paid was mainly caused by higher preliminary tax assessments, partly caused by lower tax loss compensation. 192 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements | Financial statements Deferred tax The movement in deferred tax balances during the year 2018 was as follows: Recognized in Other Exchange Net balance at Net balance at Impact of Impact of Net balance at Recognized in comprehensive rate 31 December In € thousands 31 December 2017 IFRS 9 IFRS 15 1 January 2018 profit or loss income and Equity Acquisitions differences 2018 Assets Liabilities Intangible assets and goodwill (42,531) – – (42,531) (125) – – (4,626) (47,282) 848 48,130 Property, plant & equipment (193) – – (193) (817) – – (878) (1,888) 1,739 3,627 Contract assets and liabilities (24,063) – 82 (23,981) 2,679 – – (1,416) (22,718) 3,598 26,316 Accrued expenses 20,853 – – 20,853 874 – – 939 22,666 23,384 718 Derivatives 66 – – 66 – (66) – – – – – Share-based compensation 654 – – 654 93 – – (102) 645 645 – Deferred compensation 3,762 – – 3,762 413 – – 322 4,497 4,497 – Net operating losses 2,365 – – 2,365 1,694 – 737 (585) 4,211 4,211 – Provisions 3,459 – – 3,459 (91) (935) – 1,966 4,399 4,422 23 Others 2,029 548 – 2,577 (137) – (569) 3,467 5,338 6,599 1,261 Deferred tax assets/liabilities (33,599) 548 82 (32,969) 4,583 (1,001) 168 (913) (30,132) 49,943 80,075 Offsetting – – – – – – – – – (13,682) (13,682) Net deferred taxes (33,599) 548 82 (32,969) 4,583 (1,001) 168 (913) (30,132) 36,261 66,393 The movement in deferred tax balances during the year 2017 was as follows: Recognized in Other Net balance at Recognized in comprehensive Exchange rate Net balance at In € thousands 1 January 2017 profit or loss income and Equity Acquisitions differences 31 December 2017 Assets Liabilities Intangible assets and goodwill (64,011) 16,313 – – 5,167 (42,531) 7,869 50,400 Property, plant & equipment (426) 583 – 2 (352) (193) 1,888 2,081 Contract assets and liabilities (36,738) 9,523 – (618) 3,770 (24,063) 1,909 25,972 Accrued expenses 24,310 207 – (2) (3,662) 20,853 22,965 2,112 Derivatives (132) – 199 – (1) 66 66 – Share-based compensation 517 – – – 137 654 528 (126) Deferred compensation 5,010 (183) – – (1,065) 3,762 3,762 – Net operating losses 9,269 (7,724) – 550 270 2,365 2,365 – Provisions – 1,154 (1,015) – 3,320 3,459 3,459 – Others 13,478 (8,769) – (32) (2,648) 2,029 5,292 3,263 Deferred tax assets/liabilities (48,723) 11,104 (816) (100) 4,936 (33,599) 50,103 83,702 Offsetting – – – – – – (16,793) (16,793) Net deferred taxes (48,723) 11,104 (816) (100) 4,936 (33,599) 33,310 66,909 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 193 Financial statements | Notes to the Consolidated financial statements The majority of the exchange rate differences on deferred tax balances does not impact 12 Earnings per share the Income statement and is recognized in Other comprehensive income, as part of the ‘Exchange rate differences’ line. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to the equity right to set of current tax against current tax liabilities and when the deferred tax assets holders of the Company by the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the and liabilities relate to the same taxation authority and the same taxable entity. period, excluding ordinary shares purchased by the Company and held as treasury shares (i.e. shares purchased to cover share/option plans). Diluted earnings per share is calculated At 31 December 2018, the gross amount of net operating losses, amounting to based on the basic earnings per share and using the weighted average number of shares €19.8 million (2017: €11.9 million), for which a Deferred tax asset has been recognized and options outstanding during the period as far as these have a potential dilutive effect, expires as follows: i.e. when the exercise price of these options is lower than the share price. The average number of potentially diluted shares is based on the average share price in the period on the Euronext Net Net operating Amsterdam Stock Exchange and the options that were in the money. Total net operating losses losses Deferred tax asset in € thousands operating losses not recognized recognized recognized 2019 1,916 1,068 848 232 2020 3,340 3,250 90 27 For calculating the earnings per share, the following numbers of average shares are used: 2021 2,181 2,181 0 0 Number of shares 2018 2017 2022 773 773 0 0 Average number of issued shares 88,411,719 86,904,123 2023 6,583 6,583 0 0 Average number of treasury shares (1,287,985) (1,026,843) >2023 3,866 1,718 2,148 564 Total average number of ordinary outstanding shares 87,123,734 85,877,280 Unlimited 87,984 71,222 16,762 3,388 Average number of potentially dilutive shares – 1,959,235 Total 106,643 86,795 19,848 4,211 Total average number of diluted shares 87,123,734 87,836,515 For the net operating losses recognized, management is of the opinion that it is probable that these losses will be compensated by future taxable profits. An amount of Of the outstanding options at 31 December 2018, none were in the money and also €86.8 million (2017: €90.4 million) relating to Net operating losses was not recognized exercisable (2017: 1,959,235). Exercising options may lead to dilution. To avoid dilution as at the balance sheet date. much as possible, Arcadis repurchases its own shares, which are reissued at the moment options are exercised. The total earnings of the Group and the earnings per share are as follows: In € thousands 2018 2017 Net income (26,701) 70,804 Net income from operations1 87,591 101,015 1 N  on-GAAP performance measure, to provide transparency on the underlying performance of our business. Reference is made to the Glossary Financial & Non-Financial indicators on page 267 for the definition as used by Arcadis In € 2018 2017 Earnings per share/Diluted earnings per share Net income (0.31) / (0.31) 0.82 / 0.81 Net income from operations1 1.01 / 1.01 1.18 / 1.15 1 N  on-GAAP performance measure, to provide transparency on the underlying performance of our business. Reference is made to the Glossary Financial & Non-Financial indicators on page 267 for the definition as used by Arcadis 194 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements | Financial statements Other Intangibles 13 Intangible assets and goodwill intangible under In € thousands Goodwill assets Software development Total Cost 999,389 305,434 79,212 29,319 1,413,354 Accumulated amortization – (175,702) (67,288) – (242,990) Goodwill At 1 January 2017 999,389 129,732 11,924 29,319 1,170,364 Goodwill arises from business combinations and represents the excess of the cost of the Additions – – 5,217 13,350 18,567 acquisition over the Company’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities Acquisitions of subsidiaries 9,723 1,679 (1) – 11,401 and contingent liabilities of the acquired company. Goodwill in respect of equity accounted Disposals – – (1,203) – (1,203) investees is included in the carrying amount of the investment. Goodwill is measured at cost Amortization charges – (30,979) (5,486) – (36,465) less accumulated impairment losses. Impairment charges – – – – – Reclassifications – (88) 14,446 (14,345) 13 Other intangible assets Exchange rate differences (79,098) (8,485) (818) (16) (88,417) Other intangible assets mainly consist of customer relationships, trade names and expected Movement 2017 (69,375) (37,873) 12,155 (1,011) (96,104) profits in the backlog of acquired companies at the acquisition date. Measurement of Cost 930,014 281,797 79,997 28,309 1,320,117 Other intangible assets acquired in a business combination involves the use of estimates Accumulated amortization – (189,938) (55,917) – (245,855) for determining the fair value at acquisition date. This mainly relates to expected profits in At 31 December 2017 930,014 91,859 24,080 28,309 1,074,262 the backlog of the acquired companies, the customer lists at the acquisition date and the Additions – – 4,925 20,903 25,828 trade name value. The fair value is based on discounted cash flows expected to be received Acquisitions of subsidiaries 9,103 1,443 2,290 – 12,836 from these indentifiable intangible assets. Subsequently, the assets are amortized over the Disposals – – (385) (85) (470) estimated useful life. The amortization is recognized in profit or loss on a straight-line basis. Amortization charges – (22,721) (9,126) – (31,847) The amortization methods and useful lives, as well as residual values, are reassessed annually. Impairment charges (40,386) – – – (40,386) Reclassifications – – 2,193 (3,988) (1,795) Software Exchange rate differences 16,017 (249) 50 – 15,818 Software is measured at cost less accumulated amortization and impairment losses. Movement 2018 (15,266) (21,527) (53) 16,830 (20,016) Software has a finite life and is amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated Cost 914,748 268,269 79,517 45,139 1,307,673 useful life. The amortization methods and useful lives, as well as residual values, are Accumulated amortization – (197,937) (55,490) – (253,427) reassessed annually. Subsequent costs are recognized in the carrying amount of Software At 31 December 2018 914,748 70,332 24,027 45,139 1,054,246 only when it increases the future economic benefits. All other expenditures are recognized in profit or loss as incurred. In 2018, a reclassification of €1.8 million has been made to Property, plant and equipment. Estimated useful lives The amortization charge for Intangible assets is recognized in the following line items in The estimated useful lives of Goodwill and Intangible assets varies according to their the Consolidated income statement: respective categories, as shown below. In € thousands 2018 2017 Category Years Amortization Other intangible assets 22,721 30,979 Goodwill Not amortized Depreciation and amortization 9,126 5,486 Software 0.5 10 Other intangible assets 3 10 Intangibles under development Not amortized (yet) Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 195 Financial statements | Notes to the Consolidated financial statements Average (net) Operating Pre-tax Terminal Goodwill In % revenue growth EBITA margin discount rate growth rate For annual impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to Cash-Generating Units (CGUs). North America 2.2% 7.8% 8.0% 8.9% 0.6% The CGU is the lowest level within the Group at which Goodwill is monitored for internal Latin America 7.4% 3.9% 4.1% 13.3% 1.8% management purposes. Continental Europe 1.1% 7.5% 7.9% 8.9% 0.1% United Kingdom 2.1% 8.3% 8.5% 8.4% 0.3% Goodwill capitalized was assigned to our CGUs as follows: Middle East 1.3% 6.2% 6.5% 8.4% 1.1% Asia 1.4% 7.3% 9.3% 9.7% 1.1% In € thousands 2018 2017 Australia Pacific 3.2% 10.0% 11.4% 9.7% 0.9% North America 255,997 245,467 CallisonRTKL 0.7% 8.7% 9.4% 0.7% Latin America – 6,756 Continental Europe 76,086 75,717 United Kingdom 230,359 224,378 The key assumptions included in the 2017 test for each CGU are disclosed below. Middle East 59,563 93,990 Asia 86,191 83,332 Average (net) Operating Pre-tax Terminal In % revenue growth EBITA margin discount rate growth rate Australia Pacific 54,938 55,726 North America 3.7% 7.5% 9.0% 11.1% 0.9% CallisonRTKL 151,614 144,648 Latin America 7.0% 4.0% 8.2% 13.2% 2.0% Total Goodwill 914,748 930,014 Continental Europe 0.2% 6.7% 8.0% 9.2% 0.2% United Kingdom 6.8% 8.5% 9.0% 8.7% 0.5% Impairment testing for cash-generating units containing goodwill Middle East 2.2% 6.5% 8.6% 8.9% 1.1% The recoverable amount of Goodwill for impairment testing purposes is based on a value Asia 3.5% 8.5% 9.5% 9.6% 1.0% in use calculation, which is complex and judgmental. The calculations use cash flow Australia Pacific 6.2% 10.4% 11.4% 9.7% 0.9% projections based on historical performance, our plan for 2019 as approved by the CallisonRTKL 2.1% 9.1% 9.5% 10.6% 1.0% Executive Board and projections for 2020 2023, after which a terminal value was used at an average rate of 0.6% (2017: 0.8%), being the difference between local and the Eurozone inflation forecasts. The weighted average pre-tax discount rate was 9.0% (2017: 10.0%) and has been determined by iterative computation so that the value in use determined using pre-tax The key assumptions used in the projections are: cash flows and a pre-tax discount rate equals the value in use determined using post-tax •• (Net) revenue growth: based on experience and market analysis; cash flows and a post-tax discount rate. The weighted average post-tax discount rate used •• Operating EBITA margin development: based on historical performance, plan 2019 and is 6.9% (2017: 7.3%), which includes country specific premiums when applicable. management’s long-term projections; and •• Weighted average cost of capital (WACC): based on the market participants view on Observations from impairment testing rates of return demanded for investments equivalent to those in the Company. The outcome of the Goodwill impairment test calculation at 31 December 2018 revealed that the recoverable amount of the Company decreased compared to prior year. The The business plans include management’s estimate about the level and timing of the recoverable amount for all CGUs, except Latin America and Middle East, exceeded the execution of (the improvement of) operating performance and margins. In line with carrying amount. previous years, for impairment testing purposes a more prudent outlook and phasing has been taken into account for the development of revenues and margins. The applied For Latin America, an impairment charge of €6.5 million has been recognized in 2018. This assumptions in the test are included in the next table. reflects our future business expectations in Latin America, where in Brazil the post-electoral economic sentiment is positive but concrete measures and progress is yet to come. 196 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements | Financial statements For Middle East, an impairment charge of €33.9 million has been recognized in 2018. 14 Property, plant & equipment This reflects our future business expectations in the Middle East as a result of the decision to be more selective and de-risk the portfolio. The total impairment loss on Goodwill recognized in 2018 amounts to €40.4 million. Property, plant & equipment is measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. Costs include expenditures that are directly attributable to the The impairment test and sensitivity analysis around the key assumptions have indicated acquisition of the assets. sufficient headroom for all other CGUs and as such a reasonably possible change in any of the assumptions would not cause the recoverable amount to be less than the carrying value. Subsequent costs are recognized in the carrying amount of Property, plant & equipment if it Based on both quantitative and qualitative factors management has concluded that for is probable that future economic benefits will be obtained. The costs of day-to-day servicing those CGUs an impairment is not necessary. of property, plant & equipment are expensed as incurred. The expected future cash flows used in the goodwill impairment analysis are based on Depreciation, based on the cost of an asset less its residual value, is recognized in profit management’s estimates. Events in our end-markets as well as the financial markets and or loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life. The estimated useful life the overall economy may have an adverse impact on the estimated future cash flows of of Property, plant & equipment vary according to their respective categories, as shown the Group. in the table hereafter. Other intangible assets Category Years Land Not depreciated The carrying amounts recognized in the Consolidated balance sheet for Other intangible Buildings 30 40 assets are as follows: Furnitures and fixtures 5 10 In € thousands 2018 2017 (IT) equipment 3-5 Customer relationships 65,474 80,793 Property, plant & equipment under development Not depreciated (yet) Trade names 3,908 4,583 Backlog 146 5,214 Depreciation methods and useful life, as well as residual values, are reassessed annually. Other 804 1,269 When parts of an item of Property, plant & equipment have different useful life, they are Total Other intangible assets 70,332 91,859 accounted for as separate items (major components) of Property, plant & equipment. During 2018 and 2017, no changes were made in the useful life, amortization methods Gains on the sale of an item of Property, plant & equipment are determined by comparing or the residual values of the Other intangible assets. the proceeds from disposal with the carrying amount of Property, plant & equipment and are recognized within Other income in the Consolidated income statement. Losses on the Software and Intangibles under development sale of an item of Property, plant & equipment are recognized within Other operational costs Investments in Software mainly relate to the implementation of harmonized systems, in the Consolidated income statement. which is part of the implementation of the Arcadis Way. In 2018 an amount of €25.8 million was invested in Software and Intangibles under development. The Intangibles under development of €45.1 million are related to the development of software not yet in use (2017: €28.3 million), and are not yet amortized. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 197 Financial statements | Notes to the Consolidated financial statements Property, plant & equipment The determination of impairment of Property, plant & equipment involves the use of Land and Furnitures (IT) under In € thousands buildings and fixtures Equipment development Total estimates. The recoverable amount is determined by discounting the estimated future cash Cost 16,496 160,937 118,606 1,061 297,100 flows to present value using a discount rate that reflects the current market assessments of Accumulated depreciation (5,285) (98,082) (93,306) – (196,673) the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. The identification of impairment At 1 January 2017 11,211 62,855 25,300 1,061 100,427 indicators, as well as the estimation of future cash flows, discount rates and the determination Additions 1,000 22,500 15,208 2,048 40,756 of the fair value for the assets requires management to make significant judgements. Acquisitions/(divestments) (965) 21 (251) (103) (1,298) Disposals (2,462) (1,663) (147) (391) (4,663) Leased assets Assets held for sale (2,170) – – – (2,170) Leases in which the Company is the lessee and assumes substantially all the risks and rewards Reclassifications (1,636) 606 3,681 (494) 2,157 of ownership are classified as financial leases. Upon initial recognition the leased asset is Depreciation charges (1,166) (17,604) (15,330) – (34,100) measured at an amount equal to the lower of its fair value and the present value of the Exchange rate differences (540) (5,892) (1,916) (117) (8,465) minimum lease payments. Leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term Movement 2017 (7,939) (2,032) 1,245 943 (7,783) and their useful life unless it is reasonably certain that the Company will obtain ownership Cost 7,042 135,403 98,749 2,004 243,198 by the end of the lease term. Accumulated depreciation (3,769) (74,580) (72,206) – (150,555) At 31 December 2017 3,273 60,823 26,543 2,004 92,643 Other leases are operating leases, and such leased assets are not recognized in the Additions 1,899 21,077 13,660 6,300 42,936 Company’s balance sheet. See note 31 for the off balance sheet commitments. Acquisitions/(divestments) – – 1,011 44 1,055 Disposals (401) (2,643) (914) (58) (4,016) Assets held for sale – – – – – During 2018, no changes were made in the useful lives, depreciation methods Reclassifications 954 2,937 (555) (587) 2,749 and the residual values of Property, plant & equipment elements. Depreciation charges (1,602) (17,430) (14,441) – (33,473) Exchange rate differences 12 1,240 198 234 1,684 At 31 December 2018, the carrying amount of Property, plant & equipment financed Movement 2018 862 5,181 (1,041) 5,933 10,935 by financial leases was nil (2017: nil). At 31 December 2018 and Cost 6,777 136,834 91,511 7,937 243,059 31 December 2017, no properties were registered as security for bank loans. Accumulated depreciation (2,642) (70,830) (66,009) – (139,481) At 31 December 2018 4,135 66,004 25,502 7,937 103,578 In 2018, a reclassification of €1.8 million has been made from Intangible assets, and €1.0 million from Other provisions (relating to a dilapidation provision). 198 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements | Financial statements 15 Investments accounted for using the equity method Investments in associates and joint ventures The nature of business of the Group’s associates and joint ventures is similar. They provide comprehensive knowledge-based consultancy, design, engineering and management services in the area of infrastructure, water, environment and buildings. The most Joint arrangements significant investments in associates and joint ventures are listed below together with the Investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint ventures or joint operations. Group’s balance sheet impact and share in profit of loss. The classification depends on the contractual rights and obligations, rather than the legal structure of the joint arrangement. Place of business/ Associate/ % of ownerShip % of ownership Name of entity country of incorporation joint venture interest 2018 interest 2017 • Joint ventures are joint arrangements in which the Group has joint control, whereby the Arcadis Logos Energia S.A. Brazil Associate 49.99% 49.99% Group has rights to the net assets of the arrangement, rather than rights to its assets and Geodynamique et Structure S.A. France Associate 48.68% 48.68% obligations for its liabilities. Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method, Asset Rail B.V. Netherlands Associate 40.00% 40.00% where interests in joint ventures are initially recognized at cost, including transaction cost. CARE/RTKL Ltd Saudi Arabia Joint venture 45.00% 45.00% Subsequently the Group’s share of the profit or loss and movements in other comprehensive Stroomdal I Netherlands Joint venture 33.30% 33.30% income are included in the Consolidated financial statements, whereby the calculation is TECHT Ltd United Kingdom Joint venture 50.00% 50.00% based on the Group’s accounting policies. When the Group’s share of losses in a joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in a joint venture, the Group does not recognize further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture. Loans to The movement in associates and joint ventures in the Consolidated balance sheet is joint ventures are carried at amortized cost less any impairment losses. as follows: • Joint operations are joint arrangements whereby the parties that have joint control of Joint Joint Associates Associates ventures ventures Total Total the arrangement have rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating In € thousands 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 to the arrangement. Joint operations are accounted for the Group’s direct rights to Balance at 31 December 19,827 21,746 2,980 2,984 22,807 24,730 the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of the joint operations and its share of Impact IFRS 9 (885) − − − (885) − any jointly held or incurred assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. These are combined Balance at 1 January 18,942 21,746 2,980 2,984 21,922 24,730 on a line-by-line basis with corresponding items in the Group’s financial statements. Share in result by Arcadis (12,766) (11,878) 74 259 (12,692) (11,619) Acquisitions − − − − − − Associates Investments 31,964 23,998 11 53 31,975 24,051 Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but no control over Divestments (2,050) (9,518) − − (2,050) (9,518) financial and operating policies. Significant influence is presumed to exist when the Group Received dividends − (604) − (108) − (712) holds more than 20% of the voting power of the entity. Associates are accounted for using Reclassifications − (141) − − − (141) the equity method from the date that significant influence commences until the date that Expected Credit loss (30,932) − − − (30,932) − significant influence ceases. Initially, investments in associates are recognized at cost, including Exchange rate differences (469) (3,776) 2 (208) (467) (3,984) transaction cost. Goodwill identified on the acquisition of the associate is included in the Balance at 31 December 4,689 19,827 3,067 2,980 7,756 22,807 carrying amount of the investment. The Consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share of the net profit or loss and The balance sheet positions in associates includes loans to Arcadis Logos Energia S.A. other comprehensive income of the associates, after adjustments to align the accounting (ALEN), which are considered part of the Net investment in ALEN. There are no other loans policies with those of the Group. The application of the equity method is applied to loans to associates or joint ventures outstanding as at 31 December 2018. that form part of a Net investment. Loans to associates are carried at amortized cost less any expected credit losses. The Group applies the Expected Credit Loss model to loans that form The joint ventures have share capital consisting solely of ordinary shares, which are held part of the Net investment, before recognizing its share of losses from application of the equity indirectly by the Group, and are non-listed shares. As such there is no available quoted method on these loans. market price for the shares. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 199 Financial statements | Notes to the Consolidated financial statements At 31 December 2018, the Group has no contingent liabilities relating to interests As a result of IFRS 9, an Expected Credit Loss was recognized in the opening balance of in joint ventures (2017: nil). €0.9 million on the Net investment and €4.8 million on the corporate guarantees provided to lenders of ALEN and its investments. The latter is presented as a ‘Other liability’, see notes Material associates 3 and 29. Arcadis Logos Energia S.A. (ALEN) is a material associate, which holds investments in several energy assets in Brazil. For more details on the activities of ALEN see page 118 Net investment of this report. Arcadis’ equity investment includes 49.99% of share capital, representing 49.99% of voting rights. The other 50.01% of share capital and voting rights are held by Logos Holding S.A. The share capital of ALEN solely consists of ordinary shares, which are not listed and as On the level of shareholders decisions are taken by a simple majority of shares, except for such there is no quoted market price available for the shares. The country of incorporation certain decisions (e.g. sale of substantial part of the business) whereby 2/3 majority of or registration, which is also the principal place of the business, is Brazil. shares are required. Arcadis has no control over ALEN, as the Group does not direct the relevant activities. The equity investment in and shareholder loans to ALEN are part of the Net investment, to Arcadis does not have the majority of existing voting rights, potential voting rights are at which the equity method is applied. The movement in the Net investment in ALEN was as 31 December 2018 not substantive and also special relationships do not result in power. follows: The funding provided to ALEN is to ensure that the development of the energy assets Shareholder Net and the subsequent sale can be completed successfully, not to exercise power over ALEN. In € thousands Equity loans investment As such ALEN was not consolidated under the application of IFRS 10. At 31 December 2017 (13,848) 29,237 15,389 Impact IFRS 9 – (885) (885) Net exposure Balance at 1 January 2018 (13,848) 28,352 14,504 The Group’s net exposure relating to ALEN as at 31 December 2018 relates to its: Reclassification 13,848 (13,848) – •• Equity investment Share in result by Arcadis – (13,285) (13,285) •• Debt investment via shareholder loans New loans and accrued interest – 31,837 31,837 •• Corporate guarantees provided to lenders of ALEN Redemptions – – – Expected Credit loss – (30,932) (30,932) The positions of Arcadis relating to ALEN are summarized as follows: Exchange rate differences – (2,124) (2,124) At 31 December 2018 – – – In € thousands Note 31 Dec 2018 1 Jan 2018 31 Dec 2017 Equity investment – (13,848) (13,848) Until December 2018 the shareholder loans had no maturity date and an interest rate based Shareholder loans – 29,237 29,237 on the daily average of overnight interbank loans in Brazil (CDI), being a floating rate, and a Impact IFRS 9 (net investment) 3 – (885) – fixed spread ranging from 4.5% to 5.5% per annum . Net investment in ALEN – 14,504 15,389 Impact IFRS 9 (corporate guarantees) 3,29 (27,834) (4,841) – In December 2018 the shareholder loans were transferred from Arcadis Logos S.A. to the On balance sheet exposure (27,834) 9,663 15,389 corporate holding company that also owns the equity interest. At the same time the interest Off-balance sheet guarantees 87,137 84,002 84,002 on the shareholder loans was reduced to nil, with the consent of ALEN, to stop accruing Net exposure 59,303 93,665 99,391 further interest payable in ALEN and related withholding taxes, as it is expected that ALEN will not be able to repay this to Arcadis in the future. The maturity date of the loans were The net exposure decreased significantly in 2018, mainly due to the recognition of Arcadis’ changed to December 2019. share in the losses of ALEN and expected credit losses on the shareholder loans and corporate guarantees. Due to the accounting for the shareholder loans based on the equity method, the classification of the shareholder loans has not changed as a result of the amended loan conditions. 200 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements | Financial statements ALEN balance sheet and income statement Logos Holding S.A. has provided a counter guarantee to Arcadis, secured by a right of The tables below summarize the balance sheet and income statement of ALEN, reflecting pledge of Logos Holding’s shares and voting rights in ALEN. Arcadis is able to exercise this the amounts presented in the financial statements of the associate on a 100%-basis, right when Arcadis is requested to pay out under the guarantees provided to the lenders where applicable adjusted for differences in accounting policies between the Group of ALEN and Logos Holding S.A. cannot pay Arcadis its share. This was however neither and the associate. applicable nor expected as at 31 December 2018 as the lenders of ALEN did not make use of the guarantees received. In € thousands ALEN 2018 2017 Due to the provided corporate guarantees Arcadis is exposed to the risk of ALEN running Current assets 2,670 7,244 into financial difficulty that might trigger a default on debt that would, in turn, result in Non-current assets 60,655 66,107 the relevant lenders claiming repayment from Arcadis for the full amount of the Total assets 63,325 73,351 guarantees provided. Current liabilities 106,414 55,280 The next table summarizes the movements in the corporate guarantees provided by Non-current liabilities 15,231 45,773 Arcadis. Based on the re-assessment of the business case and the related valuation an Total liabilities 121,645 101,053 expected credit loss of €27.8 million is recognized at 31 December 2018 on these Net assets (58,320) (27,702) guarantees, see note 29. The opening balance liability amounted to €4.8 million (see note 3), an additional €23.0 million was recognized in profit or loss of 2018. The Current liabilities at 31 December 2018 include €49.8 million of loans from external In € millions 2018 2017 lenders, which mature in different tranches during 2019. The current liabilities also include Corporate guarantees at 1 January 84 76 €55.1 million of shareholder loans from Arcadis to ALEN, which are in the accounts of NeW guarantees 19 34 Arcadis itself fully impaired as at 31 December 2018. Repayments (7) (14) In € thousands ALEN Exchange rate differences (9) (12) 2018 2017 Corporate guarantees at 31 December 87 84 Revenues 653 808 The new guarantees in 2019 relate primarily to new loans for the investments in the plant Post-tax profit or loss (34,128) (29,631) of one of ALEN’s affiliates and accrued interest. Arcadis recognized operational losses to the level of the Net investment at 1 January 2018; Developments in 2018 further losses were recognized as an impairment on the shareholder loans. Progress continued to be made in 2018 by ALEN in the completion of the energy assets. Reference is made to page 118 of this report for further details. Guarantees The shareholders in ALEN, Logos Holding S.A. and Arcadis, provided corporate guarantees to the lenders of ALEN for loans to ALEN and its affiliates. The total amount of guarantees provided by Arcadis at 31 December 2018 was €87 million (2017: €84 million), of which €63 million was related to bank loans provided to ALEN (2017: €68 million) and €24 million to bank loans provided to affiliates of ALEN (2017: €16 million). Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 201 Financial statements | Notes to the Consolidated financial statements In summary the following result on ALEN has been recognized in the Consolidated income 16 Other investments statement: In € thousands 2018 2017 Share in result by Arcadis (13,285) (12,315) Other investments relate to interests in companies over which the Group has no Result from investments accounted for using the equity method (13,285) (12,315) significant influence nor control. Other investments are accounted for at fair value through profit or loss. Impairment on shareholder loans (31,817) – Remeasurement Expected Credit Loss on shareholder loans and corporate guarantees (22,108) – Expected Credit loss on shareholder loans and corporate guarantees (53,925) – In € thousands 2018 2017 Balance at 1 January 607 656 Total result from investment in ALEN (67,210) (12,315) Investments 1,047 115 Divestments – (160) Impairment (1,017) – A re-assessment of the business case of ALEN was prepared in Q3 2018, following delays in Exchange rate differences – (4) the completion of these assets, lower than expected market prices for the gas, and delays Balance at 31 December 637 607 in signing off-take contracts for the delivery of the gas. In the trading update of Q3 2018 it was announced that this led to €53.9 million of impairments and expected credit losses in addition to the operational loss recognized to date of €10.4 million, thus totaling a loss of In 2018, the Company invested via Techstars in innovative start-ups that aim to €64.3 million in the first three quarters of the year. In Q4 an additional loss of €2.9 million transform the natural and built environment in line with Arcadis’ long-term vision ‘to shape has been recognized. The amount of €53.9 million is adjusted in Net income from the cities of the future’. Due to the highly uncertain cash flow forecasts an impairment loss operations, see page 181. of €1.0 million has been recognized in ‘Other income’. In Q4 2018 an independent third party verified the business case, resulting in Arcadis’ conclusion that no further credit losses are expected on ALEN and its affiliates. The valuation is based on a value in use calculation, which is complex and judgmental. Sensitivity testing has been performed and taken into account in management’s conclusion. A 1% change in sales prices for gas and energy has an estimated impact of R$7 million (€1.6 million) on the value-in-use. A 1% change in the landfill gas supply volume has an estimated impact of R$1 million (€0.2 million) on the value-in-use. The transaction value of investments of ALEN could differ from the outcomes of the value in use calculations. 202 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements | Financial statements 17 Derivatives General At inception of the hedge, the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged The Company uses derivatives in order to hedge the exposure to foreign exchange risks and item is documented – including the risk management objectives, strategy in undertaking the interest rate risks arising from operational, financing and investment activities. Derivatives hedge transaction, the hedged risk – and, in case of hedge accounting, the methods that will include forward foreign exchange rate contracts, foreign exchange swaps and interest be used to assess the effectiveness of the hedge. Both at the hedge inception and at each rate derivatives. The Company does not hold or issue derivatives for trading purposes. reporting date, the Company makes an assessment whether the derivatives used are highly Hedge accounting is applied for cash flow hedges related to forecasted transactions and effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items. fair value hedges. The economic relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item is, Measurement and recognition amongst others, determined based upon matching notional amounts, a minimal fair value All derivative financial instruments are initially recognized at fair value. Attributable of the hedging instrument at inception, matching the underlying hedged risk (interest transaction costs are recognized in profit or loss when incurred. Subsequently, derivatives benchmark rate or currency pair), matching repricing and payment dates and an assessment are measured at fair value derived from market prices of the instruments or valuation of the likelihood of default of the hedging counterparty. Sources of ineffectiveness can, techniques, with the fair value changes recognized in profit or loss, unless hedge accounting amongst others, be driven by movements in the credit spread of Arcadis and the relevant is applied. A gain or loss on remeasurement to the fair value of the interest rate derivatives is hedging counterparty, mismatch of payment flow frequencies, mismatch of interest recognized in profit or loss under fair value change of derivatives. The fair value changes of conditions such as interest floors and possible changes to the critical terms of the economic forward foreign exchange contracts are recognized in operating income. The carrying values relationship. of the derivatives are recognized in the balance sheet as derivatives, which can be classified as current or non-current assets or liabilities, depending on the maturity of the contracts. When a derivative ceases to be highly effective or in case of early redemption of the hedged item, hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively. When a cash flow hedge relationship Hedge accounting is terminated, the fair value changes deferred in the hedging reserve in equity are released For a cash flow hedge of a forecasted transaction, the transaction should be highly to profit or loss under the fair value change of derivatives only when the hedged transaction probable to occur and should present an exposure to variations in cash flows that could is no longer expected to occur. Otherwise these will be released to profit or loss at the same ultimately affect reported profit or loss. In specific cases hedge accounting is applied time as the hedged item. for cash flow hedges. In that case, the effective part of the fair value changes of those derivatives is deferred in Other comprehensive income and presented in the hedging Fair value reserve in Equity. The hedging reserve includes the cash flow hedge reserve and the costs of A fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or would be paid to transfer hedging. Changes in the fair value of the currency basis since the inception of the hedging a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. relationship will be deferred into a separate component of Other comprehensive income. The fair value of derivatives is determined by using valuation models that incorporate The amount recognized in Other comprehensive income as a cash flow hedge reserve is various inputs, such as forward interest rate curves and the credit worthiness of released to the related lines in profit or loss at the same time as the hedged cash flows counterparties. The methods and assumptions used to estimate the fair value are affect profit or loss. Any ineffective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivatives is consistent with the prior year. included in profit or loss immediately. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 203 Financial statements | Notes to the Consolidated financial statements The fair value of derivatives held by the Company as at the balance sheet date is presented Effects of hedge accounting on the financial position and performance in the table below: In € thousands 2018 Assets Liabilities Total Interest rate swaps In € thousands 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Notional amount 36,000 Interest rate derivatives: Maturity date 2022 Current – – – – – – Hedge ratio 1:1 Non-current 1,637 3,892 1,115 1,134 522 2,758 Change in fair value of oustanding hedging instruments (1,031) Foreign exchange derivatives: Change in value of hedged item used to determine hedge effectiveness 693 Current 10,058 6,088 9,614 5,418 444 670 Ineffectiveness 338 Non-current – – – – – – Total 11,695 9,980 10,729 6,552 966 3,428 Interest rate swaps Notional amount 40,000 See note 30 for the Corporate Treasury policy and the valuation techniques used for the Maturity date 2023 measurement of derivatives. The Corporate Treasury department is consulted by operating Hedge ratio 1:1 companies for alignment of hedge accounting with the Company’s treasury policy Change in fair value of oustanding hedging instruments (2,443) guidelines and assisted with documentation of the hedge relationship, derivatives Change in value of hedged item used to determine hedge effectiveness 1,692 valuations and effectiveness testing. Ineffectiveness 243 During 2018, the Company held for a notional amount of €81.5 million During 2018, the Company also hedged currency exposures related to transactions in (2017: €81.5 million) floating to fixed interest rate swaps to hedge interest rate currencies other than the functional currency for subsidiaries in Belgium, Hong Kong, the risk of €81.5 million of long-term variable loans outstanding, and applied hedge Netherlands, United Kingdom and United States of America by way of foreign exchange accounting to €36.0 million of these interest rate derivatives. forward rate contracts in order to minimize volatility in the operating income of these subsidiaries due to changes in exchange rates. In addition, foreign currency corporate The market value of these derivatives at 31 December 2018 was €1.1 million negative balance sheet positions arising due to foreign currency receivables and loan balances were (2017: €1.3 million negative). In addition, the Company has €40.0 million of fixed to hedged by way of foreign exchange forward rate contracts and foreign exchange swaps. floating cross currency swaps to manage the currency and interest rate risk of a subsidiary. The market value of these derivatives ultimo 2018 was €1.6 million positive The movements in fair value of the derivatives are shown in the table below. (2017: €3.8 million positive), and hedge accounting is also applied for these derivatives. In € thousands 2018 2017 Balance at 1 January 3,428 (4,446) Acquisitions 95 – Changes in Income statement 1,336 7,028 Changes through Other comprehensive income (424) 907 Cash settlement derivatives (3,351) (61) Exchange rate differences (118) – Balance at 31 December 966 3,428 204 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements | Financial statements The change in fair value of derivatives recognized in profit or loss is €0.8 million positive 18 Other non-current assets (2017: €6.6 million positive) together with foreign exchange results of €5.9 million negative (2017: €8.1 million negative) also flowing through profit or loss. Hence the overall profit or loss effect of foreign exchange contracts and derivatives amounts to €5.0 million negative (2017: €1.5 million negative). Other non-current assets are non-derivative financial assets, and include long-term receivables (due for settlement after one year). Long-term receivables are initially recognized Hedging reserve at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequently these assets are The total (after-tax) amount included in Other comprehensive income, on the line hedging held at amortized cost, using the effective interest method and net of any impairment losses. reserve within equity, can be specified as follows: In € thousands 2018 2017 In € thousands 2018 2017 Interest rate derivatives (2,221) (1,627) Balance at 1 January 28,921 30,683 Foreign exchange derivatives (classified as cash flow hedges) 269 102 Acquisitions/(divestments) 1,138 (671) Cost of hedging reserve 521 – New receivables 2,590 4,754 Total (1,431) (1,525) Received (5,979) (4,611) Reclassification to short-term (488) – Other changes and exchange rate differences 366 (1,234) Balance at 31 December 26,548 28,921 Other non-current assets include long-term receivables of €11.0 million (2017: €13.6 million) related to the deferred compensation plan in the United States of America operating company, see note 26 for further details. The remaining amount consists of various other long-term receivables such as rental deposits, judicial deposits and retentions. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 205 Financial statements | Notes to the Consolidated financial statements 19 Trade receivables Ageing of Trade receivables 2018 2017 Gross Provision Provision Gross Provision In € thousands receivables1 bad debt ECL receivables1 bad debt Trade receivables include amounts billed to customers for work performed but not yet Not past due 324,533 (2,348) (302) 297,247 (2,241) paid by the clients, and which are expected to be collected within a year after reporting Past due 0 30 days 106,072 (1,193) (60) 109,363 (754) date. Trade receivables are initially measured at fair value, which normally represents the Past due 31 60 days 48,280 (475) (23) 41,396 (381) consideration the Company expects to receive within the payment term (invoice amount Past due 61 120 days 37,481 (1,055) (37) 39,475 (1,184) excluding costs collected on behalf of third parties, such as sales taxes). Subsequently Trade Past due 121 364 days 49,566 (7,661) (78) 53,273 (5,247) receivables are measured at the consideration expected to be collected. More than 365 days past due 77,503 (47,713) (253) 94,122 (46,907) Total 643,435 (60,445) (753) 634,876 (56,714) The Company uses the Expected Credit Loss (ECL) model. Trade receivables are reviewed for 1 Excluding receivables from associates collectability on a case-by-case basis at regular intervals. If a Trade receivable is considered credit impaired (e.g. the customer has failed to make a payment when contractually due) The improvement in the trade receivables overdue more than one year is due to strong the expected loss is determined as the difference between the carrying amount and the collections of positions in amongst others the Middle East. Early January 2019 the recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the present value of expected future cash Company also collected €21 million of Trade receivables for a significant position past due flows discounted at the effective market interest rates. more than 120 days at 31 December 2018. A simplified approach is applied that uses a lifetime expected loss allowance to recognize Individual assessments, in combination with the fact that the actual write-offs of Trade losses for possible impairment of Trade receivables that are not individually impaired yet. receivables in recent years did not cause us to expect that the provision should be The Expected Credit Loss is recognized in Other operational costs. significantly higher, resulted in the conclusion that the provision for bad debt is sufficient to cover for Trade receivables for which there is objective evidence of an impairment. In € thousands 31 Dec 2018 1 Jan 2018 31 Dec 2017 Provision for Trade receivables Trade receivables 643,435 634,876 634,876 The total provision for Trade receivable includes the Expected Credit Loss for individually Provision for trade receivables (individually impaired bad debt) (60,445) (56,714) (56,714) non-impaired items due to the implementation of IFRS 9 as of 1 January 2018. To apply Provision for trade receivables (Expected Credit Loss) (753) (1,080) – the simplified approach Arcadis grouped the Trade receivables by country and the days Receivables from associates 1,503 973 973 past due. The expected loss rate is based on the country risk. Total Trade receivables 583,740 578,055 579,135 In summary, the loss allowance for Trade receivables as at 31 December 2018 was The opening balance adjustment is due to the implementation of IFRS 9, see note 3 for determined as follows: further details. More than More than More than 30 days 90 days 120 days Of the total gross Trade receivables, less than 5% is subject to a so-called ‘paid-when-paid’ In € thousands Current past due past due past due clause. They are classified as current as Arcadis expects to collect the amounts within Expected loss rate1 0.08% 0.06% 0.12% 0.46% one year. Gross carrying amount 427,064 68,993 15,268 71,696 Expected Credit Loss 361 43 18 331 Further information about Arcadis’ exposure to credit risk is included below and in note 30. 1 Weighted average loss rate for the Group, based on individual positions in countries and the applicable PDs 206 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements | Financial statements The remeasurement of Expected Credit Loss, being the difference between the opening 20 Contract assets and liabilities and closing balance provision, is recognized in ‘Other operational costs’ and amounted to €0.3 million. See the table below and note 3 for further details on the opening balance impact. When revenue (cost for contract work performed to date plus recognized profits) exceeds The total provision for bad debt and Expected Credit Loss developed in 2018 as follows: the progress billings, the surplus is shown as a Contract asset (unbilled receivables). When progress billings exceed the revenue (cost for contract work performed to date plus In € thousands recognized profits), the balance is shown as a Contract liability (billing in excess of cost). Balance at 31 December 2017 56,714 Recognized loss provisions are separately presented as Contract liability (loss provisions). Impact IFRS 9 1,080 Contract assets and liabilities are generally also referred to as Work in progress. Balance at 1 January 2018 57,794 Acquisitions/(divestments) 932 Contract assets and liabilities are subject to the Expected Credit Loss (ECL) model. Arcadis Additions charged to profit or loss 25,619 applies a simplified approach that uses a lifetime expected loss allowance to recognize Release of unused amounts (15,141) losses for possible impairment, in line with the accounting for Expected Credit Loss on Trade Remeasurement Expected Credit Loss (327) receivables. The Expected Credit Loss is recognized in Other operational costs. Utilizations (8,672) Exchange rate differences 993 For further details on the recognition of Contract assets and liabilities see the revenue Balance at 31 December 2018 61,198 accounting policy in note 6. The balances of Contract assets and Contract liabilities (including loss provisions) are as follows: 2018 2017 Contract Contract Net Contract Contract Net In € thousands assets liabilities position assets liabilities position Cumulative revenue 5,734,783 3,166,842 8,901,625 5,652,622 2,997,587 8,650,209 Loss provisions – (115,643) (115,643) – (114,797) (114,797) Expected Credit Loss allowance (93) – (93) – – – Billings to date (5,189,198) (3,422,423) (8,611,621) (5,087,509) (3,245,749) (8,333,258) Total 545,492 (371,224) 174,268 565,113 (362,959) 202,154 Advances received and retentions held by clients reported as part of Contract assets and liabilities amount to: In € thousands 2018 2017 Amount of advances received 425 3,605 Amount of retentions held by clients 1,559 1,286 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 207 Financial statements | Notes to the Consolidated financial statements Advances received relate to advanced payments which are received on projects not yet 21 Assets classified as held for sale started. Retentions relate to amounts retained by clients which will be paid to the Company after successful completion of the contract. The outstanding retentions recognized as part of the Contract assets and liabilities are expected to be collected within a year; an amount of €1.5 million of retentions have been recognized as ‘Other non-current In accordance with IFRS 5, non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as ‘held for assets’ (see note 6). sale’ when the following criteria are met: • Management is committed to a plan to sell; Expected Credit Loss allowance • The asset is available for immediate sale; An Expected Credit Loss allowance has been recognized for Contract assets. The same loss • An active programme to locate a buyer is initiated; rates have been applied as on Trade receivables (see note 19), as substantially the same • The sale is highly probable within twelve months of classification as held for sale; risk characteristics apply for the same type of contracts. In the Company’s view this is a • The asset is being actively marketed for sale at a sales price reasonable in relation to its reasonable approximation. fair value; • Actions required to complete the plan indicate that it is unlikely that plan will be The Expected Credit Loss allowance developed in 2018 as follows: significantly changed or withdrawn. In € thousands Immediately prior to classification as held for sale, the assets or groups of assets are Balance at 31 December 2017 – measured at carrying value. Subsequently, assets and disposal groups classified as held for Impact IFRS 9 179 sale are valued at the lower of book value or fair value less disposal costs. Assets held for sale Balance at 1 January 2018 179 are not depreciated. Remeasurement Expected Credit Loss (86) Exchange rate differences – Balance at 31 December 2018 93 Following a portfolio analysis performed it was decided at the end of 2018 to dispose of an Asian business unit (in operating segment Asia Pacific), which is expected to be sold The remeasurement of €0.1 million (income), being the difference between the opening in 2019. The business unit is non-material and included in the Assets held for sale as at and closing balance allowance, is recognized in ‘Other operational costs’ and is due to a 31 December 2018. The fair value less costs to sell is estimated €0.2 million lower than combination of changes in loss rates and a lower net positions at 31 December 2018. the carrying amount; this loss is recognized in 2018. Assets held for sale recognized as at 31 December 2017 included the beneficial ownership in the subsidiaries in Brunei and a building in Germany. The sales took place in 2018 and the results are recognized respectfully as a €1.8 million loss (in 2017) and a €1.4 million gain (in 2018) in Other income (see note 7). 208 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements | Financial statements 22 Other current assets The average effective interest rate earned on cash during 2018 was 1.1% (2017: 1.0%). At 31 December 2018, €204.7 million of Cash and cash equivalents was freely available (2017: €157.8 million). Other current assets are initially recognized at fair value plus any directly attributable Restricted cash amounting to €36.1 million is mainly composed of cash balances held in transaction costs. Subsequently these assets are held at amortized cost, using the effective China, India and Brazil and some joint venture accounts held globally (2017: €108.5 million, interest method and net of any impairment losses. based on the ability to repatriate local cash balances within five working days). Arcadis has control over these balances, however, repatriation may be limited due to local regulatory requirements or restrictions. The cash in Mozambique has been repatriated in 2018. In € thousands 2018 2017 Other receivables 26,242 38,960 Due to local legal requirements, in some regions cash balances cannot be included in the Prepaid expenses 37,813 40,859 global cash pooling structures. In line with industry practice, Arcadis considers cash to be Balance at 31 December 64,055 79,819 restricted if the Company is unable to repatriate cash within a defined period via either dividends, intercompany loans or settlement of intercompany invoices. Other receivables are non-trade receivables and include, among others, deposits, claims to be received, interest to be received and short-term loans/prepayments to personnel. At 31 December 2018, no Cash and cash equivalents and Bank overdrafts have been Prepaid expenses mainly include prepayments of IT contracts, rent and insurances. offset (2017: nil). 23 Cash and cash equivalents 24 Equity attributable to equity holders Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits maturing within Share capital three months from the acquisition date, and used by the Company in managing its Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the short-term commitments. For cash flow reporting purposes bank overdrafts are included issuance of ordinary shares and rights to acquire shares are recognized as a deduction of in Cash and cash equivalents. equity, net of any tax effects. Cash and cash equivalents and Bank overdrafts are offset to the extent the offsetting Priority shares and preference shares are classified as equity since these are noncriteria have been met, which include the legally enforceable 'right to set off' and the redeemable, or only redeemable at the Company’s option. Dividends on these shares are intention to settle on a net basis. recognized as distributions within equity. Repurchase of shares Cash and cash equivalents at the balance sheet date can be specified as below. When share capital is repurchased, the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs net of any tax effects, is deducted from equity. Repurchased shares (treasury shares) In € thousands 2018 2017 are presented as a deduction from total equity. When treasury shares are sold or reissued, Bank and cash 232,851 250,680 subsequently any amount received is recognized as an increase in equity, and the resulting Deposits 7,964 17,262 surplus or deficit on the transaction is transferred to/from retained earnings. Balance at 31 December 240,815 267,942 Bank overdrafts used for cash management purposes (135) (1,805) Dividends Cash and cash equivalents less bank overdrafts 240,680 266,137 Dividends are recognized as a liability in the period in which they are declared. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 209 Financial statements | Notes to the Consolidated financial statements Issued and Authorized paid-up •• Investments (including entering into participations) for an amount equal to at In € share capital capital least 25% of the shareholders’ equity. 2018 Ordinary shares (120,000,000, nominal value €0.02) 2,400,000 1,780,306 Pursuant to the articles of association of the Priority Foundation, the Board of the Cumulative preferred (protective) shares (150,000,000, nominal value €0.02) 3,000,000 – Stichting Prioriteit Arcadis NV consists of twenty (20) board members (with one vacancy Cumulative financing preferred shares (30,000,000, nominal value €0.02) 600,000 – at 31 December 2018): seven (7) members of Arcadis’ Supervisory Board, two (2) members Priority shares (600, nominal value €0.02) 12 12 of Arcadis’ Executive Board, one (1) member of the Executive Leadership Team and ten (10) Total as at 31 December 6,000,012 1,780,318 members from the Board of Stichting Bellevue (a foundation established in Arnhem, whose board members are appointed by and from the international employees of the Group). The development of the number of shares issued/outstanding during 2018 and 2017 is presented in the table below. Cumulative Preferred (Protective) Shares Currently no cumulative preferred (protective) shares have been issued. However, Total issued an option agreement to acquire such shares has been entered into between Stichting Number of shares Ordinary shares Priority shares Treasury stock shares Preferente Aandelen Arcadis NV (the ‘Preferred Stock Foundation’) and Arcadis NV under At 1 January 2017 84,792,172 600 1,274,696 86,067,468 that agreement. The Preferred Stock Foundation has been granted the right to acquire Shares issued (stock dividend) 1,340,343 – – 1,340,343 protective shares up to a maximum equal to the number of outstanding shares at the date Repurchased shares (419,042) – 419,042 – in question (call option). Exercised shares and options 749,585 – (749,585) – At 31 December 2017 86,463,058 600 944,153 87,407,811 The Board of the Preferred Stock Foundation consists of four persons appointed by the Shares issued (stock dividend) 1,608,094 – – 1,608,094 Board itself, after prior approval of the Executive Board of Arcadis NV. The Chairman Repurchased shares (580,958) – 580,958 – (or another member) of the Supervisory Board and the CEO (or another member of the Exercised shares and options 221,133 – (221,133) – Executive Board) will be invited to attend the board meetings of this foundation. This will At 31 December 2018 87,711,327 600 1,303,978 89,015,905 not apply if a decision is to be made on the exercise of the option right or the exercise of voting rights on acquired shares. Outstanding shares At 31 December 2017 86,463,058 600 944,153 87,407,811 Cumulative financing preferred shares At 31 December 2018 87,711,327 600 1,303,978 89,015,905 Since 2002, the Articles of Association of Arcadis NV include the possibility to issue cumulative financing preferred shares. Currently, no such shares have been issued. Priority shares Total number of outstanding priority shares at 31 December 2018 is 600. During 2018, Agreements with shareholders no preferred (protective) shares or financing preference shares were issued or outstanding. The Articles of Association of Stichting Lovinklaan stipulate that their Articles of Association cannot be amended without prior approval of Stichting Prioriteit Arcadis NV. The priority shares have been issued since 1987 and are all held by Stichting Prioriteit In a separate agreement between Stichting Prioriteit Arcadis NV and Stichting Lovinklaan Arcadis NV; a foundation with its corporate seat in Arnhem. Special rights under the it is stipulated that prior approval of Stichting Prioriteit Arcadis NV is required for any Articles of Association of Arcadis NV linked to these priority shares concern decision resolution concerning the disposal or transfer of shares in Arcadis NV if, as a result of such making related to, among others: resolution the number of shares held by Stichting Lovinklaan will drop below 12,000,000 •• The issuance, acquisition and disposal of shares in the Company; (number of shares held at 31 December 2018: 15,988,735). •• Amendments to the Articles of Association; •• The dissolution of the Company and the filing for bankruptcy; •• The entry into or termination of long-term cooperative ventures of substantial significance; and 210 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements | Financial statements Issuance of shares Issued Repurchased Reissued The General Meeting decides, with the approval of the Supervisory Board and Stichting Year 1 January shares shares shares 31 December Prioriteit Arcadis NV, about the issuance of shares or grant of rights to acquire shares. 2014 73,183,008 8,287,112 (1,500,000) 2,069,474 82,039,594 The General Meeting can also delegate its authority to issue shares, or part thereof, 2015 82,039,594 813,946 (1,500,000) 1,952,611 83,306,151 to the Executive Board. As long as any such delegation stands, the General Meeting 2016 83,306,151 2,143,932 (1,000,000) 342,089 84,792,172 cannot decide to issue. During 2018, a total of 1,608,094 shares were issued to distribute 2017 84,892,172 1,340,343 (419,042) 749,585 86,463,058 to those shareholders that opted to receive their dividend in the form of shares 2018 86,463,058 1,608,094 (580,958) 221,133 87,711,327 (stock dividend) (2017: 1,340,343). Share premium Purchase of shares Share premium represents the premium paid in excess of the par value of shares at the time As mandated by the General Meeting of Shareholders and with approval from the of the issuance of new shares or exercise of share options. Supervisory Board and Stichting Prioriteit Arcadis NV, the Executive Board may purchase fully paid-up shares in Arcadis NV. The mandate is not needed in case the shares are Translation reserve purchased to be transferred to employees. As a result of its Long-Term Incentive Plan(s) or Translation reserve (a statutory reserve) comprises all foreign exchange differences arising related arrangements, Arcadis needs to provide shares to persons working for Arcadis. The from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations. In 2018, €6.9 million intention is to minimize dilution by purchasing (a portion of) the shares needed for such was added to the Translation reserve (2017: €91.7 million deducted). Long-Term Incentive Plan(s) (or related arrangements), as opposed to issuing new shares. In 2018, no shares were issued to cover for obligations in relation to the vesting of RSUs or Hedging reserve the exercise of options (2017: nil). The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet The following numbers of shares were repurchased over the past five years: occurred. In 2018, €0.1 million was added to the Hedging reserve, including a tax effect of Price at time of €0.1 million (2017: €1.8 million negative and €0.2 million, respectively). Year Number of shares purchase (in €) 2014 1,500,000 25.77 to 28.02 Retained earnings 2015 1,500,000 25.16 to 31.15 The Executive Board proposes, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, which part of 2016 1,000,000 11.38 to 17.75 the profit shall be reserved. The remaining part of the profits shall be at the disposal of the 2017 419,042 17.42 to 19.91 General Meeting of Shareholders and may be distributed as dividend. The holder of the 2018 580,958 16.61 to 20.06 priority shares is entitled to a dividend of 5% of the par value of the priority shares, prior to any dividend distribution being made. On these shares no further distributions shall be made. The repurchased shares are to cover for the vesting/exercise of shares and options granted. The cash equivalent of the temporary repurchased shares has been deducted from Profit allocation Retained earnings. For the fiscal year 2018, the Executive Board, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, proposes to add the full loss for the period to Retained earnings. From the Retained Of the purchased shares, a total number of 221,133 has been placed back in the market earnings an amount of €41.2 million is proposed as dividend, which represents a dividend through the exercise of options in 2018 (2017: 749,585). Net proceeds included in Equity of €0.47 per outstanding ordinary share (2017: €0.47). Of the total Retained earnings, an amounted to €2.8 million (2017: €7.6 million). amount of €74.2 million of legal reserves is restricted in distribution (2017: €36.4 million). See note 43 of the Company financial statements for further details. At 31 December 2018, the number of repurchased shares in stock (treasury stock) amounted to 1,303,978 (2017: 944,153). The number of outstanding ordinary shares over the past five years developed as follows: Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 211 Financial statements | Notes to the Consolidated financial statements 25 Non-controlling interests 26 Provisions for employee benefits Non-controlling interests represent the net assets which are not held by the Company The majority of the pension plans of the Group qualify as defined contribution pension plans. and are presented within total equity in the Consolidated balance sheet as a separate However, the Group also operates a number of defined benefit pension plans. category. Profit or loss and each component of Other comprehensive income are attributed to the equity holders and to the non-controlling interests. Defined contribution pension plans For defined contribution pension plans, the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity, which are charged to profit or loss in the period during which services are provided by The movements in non-controlling interests are specified below. employees. The Group’s legal or constructive obligation is limited to the contributions paid into the plans. Prepaid contributions are recognized as an asset to the extent that Arcadis has the In € thousands 2018 2017 unconditional right to cash refunds or reduction in future payments. Balance at 1 January 2,691 2,647 Share in profit for the year 953 1,062 Defined benefit pension plans Dividends to non-controlling shareholders (560) (970) Some of the pension plans qualify as defined benefit pension plans. For these plans, the costs Acquisitions/(divestments) (806) – are recognized as personnel costs and financing costs in profit or loss. The amount charged Exchange rate differences (79) (48) to personnel costs is the cost of accruing pension benefits promised to employees over the Balance at 31 December 2,199 2,691 year, plus the costs of individual events such as past service benefit changes, settlements and curtailments (such events are recognized immediately in profit or loss). At 31 December 2018, the non-controlling interests mainly consist of: •• Arcadis and Towell Sdn. Bhd. (25%) (2017: 25%) The amount charged to financing costs is the net interest expense calculated by applying the •• Hyder Middle East Limited International Company (30%) (2017: 30%) liability discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset. Any differences between the •• Hyder & Solaiman Elkhereiji Engineering Consultants (30%) (2017: 30%) expected interest on assets and the return actually achieved, and any changes in the liabilities •• Gerenciamento Nacala Ltda (40%) (2017: 40%) over the year due to changes in assumptions or experience within the plans, are recognized •• Arcadis CED Project Service Bureau BV (45%) (2017: 45%) immediately in profit or loss. The majority of the defined benefit pension plans are funded with plan assets that have been segregated in a trust or foundation. These plans are subject to regular actuarial review by external actuaries, using the projected unit credit method. The defined benefit pension plan on the balance sheet comprises the present value of the defined benefit pension obligation and the fair value of plan assets. The present value of the obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds (or suitable alternative where there is no active corporate bond market) that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and with maturity dates approximating to the terms of the related pension obligations. Remeasurements arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity in Other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. Past-service costs are recognized immediately in profit or loss. 212 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements | Financial statements The table below provides a summary of the total provision for employee benefits at the The pension costs include a one-off impact for defined benefit plans in the UK, following balance sheet date. the judgment in a GMP equalization case end of October 2018 that states that pension scheme trustees are obliged to adjust the excess payable under schemes in order that the In € thousands Asset side Liability side Total 2018 total benefits received by male and female members with equivalent age, service and Defined benefit pension plans 2,040 34,789 32,749 earnings histories are equal. The impact on the EC Harris Group Pension Scheme and Acer Other deferred compensation plans – 17,288 17,288 Group pension scheme is estimated at €4.2 million, which is recognized as an expense in Total provisions for employee benefits 2,040 52,077 50,037 ‘Personnel costs’ in 2018. Non-current 2,040 45,848 43,808 Defined benefit pension plans Current – 6,229 6,229 Description of plans Total 2,040 52,077 50,037 The defined benefit pension plans of the Group are either career average, final salary or hybrid plans. In addition, there is a termination indemnity plan for Arcadis Middle East, which pays out a single lump sum at exit (regardless of age, service or reason for exit). In € thousands Asset side Liability side Total 2017 Defined benefit pension plans 1,754 39,586 37,832 The two main defined benefit pension plans are in the UK, being the ‘EC Harris Group Other deferred compensation plans – 17,465 17,465 Pension Scheme’ and the ‘Acer Group Pension Scheme’ (formerly Hyder), which account Total provisions for employee benefits 1,754 57,051 55,297 for approximately 7% of the total defined benefit liability (2017: 16%). The remaining liability is due to the termination indemnity plan in Arcadis Middle East (formerly Hyder) Non-current 1,754 50,896 49,142 (40% of the total defined benefit liability as at 31 December 2018) and other individually Current – 6,155 6,155 immaterial defined benefit pension plans within the Group (53% of the total defined Total 1,754 57,051 55,297 benefit liability as at 31 December 2018). Pension costs recognized in profit or loss The EC Harris Group Pension Scheme has been closed for future accruals since The total pension costs recognized in 2018 and 2017 were as follows: 31 January 2011, whereas the Acer Group Pension Scheme was closed for future accruals since 30 April 2011. Both plans are funded plans. The other defined benefit pensions plans In € thousands 2018 2017 are mainly active and funded plans. Total defined benefit pension plans 9,660 2,222 Total defined contribution pension plans and other deferred compensation plans 58,857 69,396 Governance Total pension costs 68,517 71,618 The majority of the defined benefit pension plans are established as independent foundations or similar entities, with operations governed by local regulations and The pension expenses of defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans are practice in each country. Boards of Trustees, which consist of employer and employee recognized in the following line items in the Consolidated income statement: representatives, are generally required to act on behalf of the plan’s stakeholders and perform periodic reviews on the solvency of the funds in accordance with local laws In € thousands 2018 2017 and regulations. They are responsible for administering the plan assets and for defining Personnel costs 68,312 71,171 the investment strategy. Finance expenses 205 447 Total pension costs 68,517 71,618 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 213 Financial statements | Notes to the Consolidated financial statements In € thousands 2018 2017 Investment strategy The investment strategy of the Group in respect of the funded plans is implemented Present Fair value Present Fair value value of of plan value of of plan within the framework of the various local requirements of the countries where the obligation assets Total obligation assets Total plans are based. The objective is to control the risks and maintain an appropriate balance EC Harris Group Pension Scheme (ECH) 96,945 98,985 (2,040) 103,859 105,613 (1,754) between the risks and the long-term returns. Therefore, the investments are well Acer Group Pension Scheme (AGPS) 212,447 208,249 4,198 227,377 219,648 7,729 diversified and managed within the asset-liability matching (ALM) frameworks of ME Termination Indemnity Plan (HME) 13,013 – 13,013 12,421 – 12,421 the funds. Within these frameworks the objective is to match assets to the pensions Other defined benefit pension plans 17,578 19,436 obligations by investing in long-term fixed interest securities with maturities that match Total defined benefit pension plans 32,749 37,832 the benefit payments as they fall due and in the appropriate currency. Specification defined benefit pension plans The movement in the defined benefit pension plans is as follows: The table below provides a summary of the classification of the defined benefit pension In € thousands 2018 2017 plans at 31 December. Balance at 1 January 37,832 50,397 Acquisitions – – Additions 8,650 5,132 Amounts used (1,032) (875) Pension plan changes to net asset position (13,711) (13,465) Exchange rate differences 1,010 (3,357) Balance at 31 December 32,749 37,832 Non-current 32,722 37,754 Current 27 78 Total 32,749 37,832 The table on the next page provides a summary of the changes in the defined benefit obligations and the fair value of the plan assets for the UK (A and B), Arcadis Middle East (C) and the other defined benefit pension plans (D). It also provides a reconciliation of the funded status of the plans to the amounts recognized in the Consolidated balance sheet. 214 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements | Financial statements In € thousands ECH AGPS AME Other Total Balance at 1 January 2017 3,309 15,147 14,006 17,935 50,397 Current service cost 36 – 2,218 Interest expense/(income) 47 381 349 Subtotal 83 381 2,567 2,947 5,978 Remeasurements: Return on plan assets excluding amounts included in interest expense/(income) (1,402) (7,411) – (Gain)/loss from change in financial assumptions 5,376 11,074 (130) (Gain)/loss from change in demographic assumptions (4,731) (9,377) – Experience (gain)/loss (1,206) 799 744 Total remeasurement (1,963) (4,915) 614 1,721 (4,543) Exchange rate differences (61) (504) (1,251) (1,542) (3,358) Contributions by employer (3,122) (2,380) – (4,266) (9,768) Benefit payments from plans – – (3,515) 2,641 (874) Balance at 31 December 2017 (1,754) 7,729 12,421 19,436 37,832 Current service cost 31 – 2,156 Interest expense/(income) (70) 167 331 One-off equalization cost 565 3,677 – Subtotal 526 3,844 2,487 2,873 9,730 Remeasurement: Return on plan assets excluding amounts included in interest expense/(income) 5,976 9,392 – (Gain)/loss from change in financial assumptions (7,200) (14,858) 401 (Gain)/loss from change in demographic assumptions 1,818 (947) 94 Experience (gain)/loss 621 1,566 934 Total remeasurement 1,215 (4,847) 1,429 (3,590) (5,793) Exchange rate differences 23 (32) 333 687 1,011 Contributions by employer (2,050) (2,496) – (4,453) (8,999) Benefit payments from plans – – (3,657) 2,625 (1,032) Balance at 31 December 2018 (2,040) 4,198 13,013 17,578 32,749 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 215 Financial statements | Notes to the Consolidated financial statements (A) EC Harris group pension scheme (ECH) Sensitivity analysis The calculation of the defined benefit obligation is sensitive to, amongst others, Plan assets allocation the discount rate, rate of inflation and changes in the mortality assumptions. All invested assets shown in the table below are quoted. Change in Change in In %/€ thousands assumptions pension liability In € thousands/% 2018 % 2017 % Discount rate 0.5% 8,900 Equities 10,662 11 7,295 7 Rate of inflation 0.5% 4,500 Fixed income 64,275 65 61,163 58 Life expectancy one-year increase 3,800 Property and real estate 6,022 6 5,389 5 Hedge funds – – 16,053 15 Cash 6,606 7 4,890 5 The sensitivity analysis as disclosed in the 2017 financial statements was as follows: Other 11,420 11 10,823 10 Total at 31 December 98,985 100 105,613 100 Change in Change in In %/€ thousands assumptions pension liability Discount rate 0.5% 10,700 Actuarial assumptions Rate of inflation 0.5% 5,100 The principal actuarial assumptions at the reporting dates are: Life expectancy one-year increase 4,500 In % 2018 2017 Defined benefit liability and employer contributions Discount rate 2.90 2.55 The Company expects €1.6 million in contributions to be paid to the plan in 2019. Pension revaluation in deferment 2.50 2.55 The estimated net pension costs to be recognized in the Consolidated income statement in Pension increases 2.50 3.60 2.50 3.65 2019 amounts to €51,000 positive. An amount of €81,000 relates to net interest charges Retail price index inflation 3.50 3.55 (credit) and €30,000 to service costs/operating charges. The estimated weighted average Consumer price index inflation 2.50 2.55 duration of the defined benefit obligation is around 18 years. The discount rate is based on yields on UK AA-rated high quality corporate bonds, (B) Acer Group Pension Scheme (AGPS) with durations comparable to the duration of the pension plan’s liabilities. Based on the assumptions described in this note, these payments have an average duration Plan assets allocation of twenty years. All invested assets shown in the table below are quoted. In € thousands/% 2018 % 2017 % Demographic assumptions regarding future mortality are based on published statistics Equities 50,828 24 70,632 32 and mortality tables. The current life expectancy (in years) underlying the values of the Fixed income 65,453 32 70,773 32 liabilities in the defined benefit plans are as follows: Property and real estate 6,926 3 6,781 3 In years 2018 2017 Hedge funds 69,763 34 65,172 30 Male/female currently aged 65 22.3 / 24.3 22.4 / 24.4 Cash 15,279 7 6,290 3 Male/female reaching age of 65 in 20 years 24.0 / 26.1 24.2 / 26.2 Total at 31 December 208,249 100 219,648 100 216 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements | Financial statements Actuarial assumptions Defined benefit liability and employer contributions The principal actuarial assumptions at the reporting dates are: The Group has agreed that it will aim to eliminate any pension plan deficit within the next ten years. Therefore, funding levels are monitored on an annual basis. In % 2018 2017 Discount rate 2.90 2.55 The Company expects €2.2 million in contributions to be paid to the plan in 2019. Pension increases 2.20 3.30 2.20 3.35 The estimated net pension costs to be recognized in the Consolidated income statement Retail price index inflation 3.50 3.55 in 2019 amounts to €0.1 million net interest costs and nil service costs/operating charges. Consumer price index inflation 2.50 2.55 The estimated weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is around 18 years. The discount rate is based on yields on UK AA-rated high quality corporate bonds, with durations comparable to the duration of the pension plan’s liabilities. Based (C) Arcadis ME End of service benefits (AME) on the assumptions described in this note, these payments have an average duration of 18 years. Plan assets There is no local regulation that requires a level of funding of the plan, therefore no assets Demographic assumptions regarding future mortality are based on published statistics have been set aside to fund these arrangements. and mortality tables. The current life expectancy underlying the values of the liabilities in the defined benefit plans are as follows: Actuarial assumptions The principal actuarial assumptions at the reporting date are: In years 2018 2017 Male/female currently aged 65 22.4 / 24.4 22.5 / 24.5 In % 2018 2017 Male/female reaching age of 65 in 20 years 24.1 / 26.2 24.3 / 26.3 Discount rate 3.80 3.25 Salary increases (expected, per annum) 3.50 2.00 Sensitivity analysis The calculation of the defined benefit obligation is sensitive to, amongst others, As there is no deep market in corporate bonds within the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) the discount rate, rate of inflation and changes in life expectancy. In 2018, the sensitivity region and the limited number of government bonds available do not provide an adequate analysis was as follows: reference, the discount rate is based on the US AA-rated corporate bond market as a proxy. Change in Change in The payments have an average duration of four years. In %/€ thousands assumptions pension liability Discount rate 0.5% 18,900 Demographic assumptions for mortality, withdrawal, and retirement are used in Rate of inflation 0.5% 11,100 determining the liability. Because of the nature of the benefit, which is a lump sum payable Life expectancy one-year increase 7,800 on exit due to any cause, a combined single decrement rate has been used. The retirement age used for the actuarial valuations is as follows: The sensitivity analysis as disclosed in the 2017 financial statements was as follows: In years 2018 2017 % change in Change in Male/female Saudi Arabia 60 / 55 60 / 55 In %/€ thousands assumptions pension liability Male/female other countries 65 / 65 65 / 65 Discount rate 0.5% 22,500 Rate of inflation 0.5% 12,400 Life expectancy one-year increase 9,000 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 217 Financial statements | Notes to the Consolidated financial statements Sensitivity analysis The movement in the other deferred compensation is as follows: The calculation of the liability of AME is sensitive to the discount rate and salary increases. In € thousands 2018 2017 In 2018, the sensitivity analysis was as follows: Balance at 1 January 19,436 22,772 % change in Change in Acquisitions – (15) In %/€ thousands assumptions liability Additions 672 162 Discount rate 0.5% 400 Amounts used/released (2,960) (1,375) Salary increases 0.5% 400 Exchange rate differences 140 (2,108) Balance at 31 December 17,288 19,436 The sensitivity analysis as disclosed in the 2017 financial statements was as follows: Non-current 11,086 13,359 % change in Change in Current 6,202 6,077 In %/€ thousands assumptions liability Total 17,288 19,436 Discount rate 0.5% 1,500 Salary increases 0.5% 1,500 Deferred salaries The deferred salaries mainly include a plan for deferred compensation of our operating Defined benefit liability and employer contributions company in the United States. Management of this operating company can elect not to The Company expects €2.1 million of service costs and €0.5 million of interest costs to have its salary paid out, but rather invested in a fund by the Company, and is offered be recognized in the Consolidated income statement in 2019. The estimated weighted a choice of three different portfolio types: risk averse, neutral and risky. The risk is the average duration of the defined benefit obligation is around four years. responsibility of the participants. The related assets are included in note 18 for an amount of €11.0 million (2017: €13.6 million). (D) Other defined benefit pension plans The other defined benefit pension plans are individually immaterial and mainly relate Future jubilee payments to France, Germany and the UK. No detailed disclosures for these individual plans are An amount of €2.6 million is recognized for future jubilee payments based on the provided. For the movement in the balance sheet position of these other defined benefit current agreements in the collective labor agreements and the related staff levels pension plans in total we refer to the table on the right. (2017: €2.1 million). Other deferred compensation plans Other The other deferred compensation plans consist of the following balances: Other deferred compensation includes €3.6 million of long service leave provisions in Australia, where employees are entitled to long service leave after a certain number of In € thousands 2018 2017 years of continuous service. The time allowance and conditions of entitlement are set out Deferred salaries 10,988 13,600 in legislation, and vary by territory. An amount of €2.7 million is expected to be paid within Future jubilee payments 2,600 2,160 one year after the balance sheet date (2017: €2.7 million). Other 3,700 3,676 Balance at 31 December 17,288 19,436 218 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements | Financial statements 27 Provisions for other liabilities and charges Restructuring Provisions for restructuring include costs related to certain staff compensation and costs directly related to the existing plans to execute restructurings, mainly in Continental Europe. A provision is only recognized once the decision to execute said restructuring has been Provisions are recognized when there is a present obligation (legal or constructive) taken, its costs can be reasonably and fairly estimated, and its intended execution has been as a result of a past event, a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation, announced. Existing plans currently include reduction of staff capacity in certain parts of and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the the Company that are expected to be executed in the coming year. obligation. Provisions are measured at net present value, taking into account the timing of the cash outflows. The discount rate used reflects the current market assessments of the Litigation time value of money and the risks specific to the liability. Unwinding of the discount is Clients of Arcadis sometimes claim, justified or not, that they are not satisfied with the recognized as a finance expense (see note 10). services provided by the Company. While the outcome of these claims cannot be predicted with certainty, management believes that, based on (external) advisors and information The amounts recognized as provisions reflect management’s best estimate of the received, the provisions of €16.9 million (2017: €23.9 million) are the best estimate of the expenditures required to settle the present obligations at the balance sheet date or to potential financial risk and whether or not that risk is covered by the insurance policies. transfer it to a third party at that time. These insurance policies include a global professional liability insurance and in addition, local insurance in a number of countries. In general, these insurance policies have a selfinsured retention and a maximum pay-out level. In € thousands Restructuring Litigation Other Total Balance at 1 January 2017 6,657 28,071 9,407 44,135 Outstanding litigation (including the provisions, defense costs and reimbursement Acquisitions/(disposals) (56) − 142 86 coverage) is reviewed periodically and revisions are made when necessary. Since the Additions 8,067 3,970 2,625 14,662 outcome cannot be predicted with certainty and settlement of claims could take several Amounts used (10,715) (2,891) (1,304) (14,910) years, final settlement could differ from this best estimate. Release of unused amounts (553) (3,965) (2,731) (7,249) Reclassifications 877 − (387) 490 The movement in the litigation provision in 2018 includes a release of €5.7 million of Exchange rate differences (42) (1,269) (329) (1,640) acquisition-related claims (€4.8 million net of tax) (2017: nil). The remainder relates to Balance at 31 December 2017 4,235 23,916 7,423 35,574 various individually non-material claims. Acquisitions/(disposals) (21) 148 6 133 Additions 8,843 3,853 2,058 14,754 Further information ordinarily required by IAS 37 has not been disclosed on the grounds Amounts used (7,703) (747) (628) (9,078) that it can be expected to seriously prejudice the outcome of the disputes. Release of unused amounts (404) (9,750) (1,110) (11,264) Reclassifications (40) (242) 1,095 813 Other Exchange rate differences 43 (279) (227) (463) The category other provisions mainly relates to provisions for warranties and onerous Balance at 31 December 2018 4,953 16,899 8,617 30,469 rental contracts. The provisions are based on the obligation that the Company has with counterparties involved and the estimated cash out flows. No individual items within the Non-current 1,524 12,821 7,398 21,743 other provisions are material and the Company expects that the other provisions will be Current 3,429 4,078 1,219 8,726 substantively used within one to five years. Total 4,953 16,899 8,617 30,469 In 2018, a reclassification has made for a dilapidation provision to Property, plant and equipment. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 219 Financial statements | Notes to the Consolidated financial statements 28 Loans and borrowings The movement in non-current loans and borrowings is as follows: In € thousands 2018 2017 Balance at 1 January 474,429 700,464 New debt 110 266 Interest-bearing debts are measured at amortized cost, in which the difference between Accrued interest 239 226 the proceeds and repayments over time is charged to profit or loss over the duration of the Redemptions (3,779) (454) debts. The portion of long-term debt that has to be repaid within one year after the balance From non-current to current liabilities (3,620) – sheet date is presented as the current portion of long-term debt under current liabilities. Acquisitions (deferred consideration) 3,900 5,140 From long-term to current position other long-term (97,468) (184,632) Debt securities and issued and subordinated liabilities are recognized on the date they Exchange rate differences 12,250 (46,581) are originated. All other financial liabilities are recognized on the trade date at which the Balance at 31 December 386,061 474,429 Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. Non-derivative financial liabilities include loans and borrowings, bank overdrafts and trade and other payables. Initially these liabilities are recognized at fair value plus directly attributable Aggregate maturities of non-current loans and borrowings are as follows: transaction costs. Subsequently these financial liabilities are measured at amortized cost In € thousands 2018 2017 using the effective interest method. 2019 – 104,180 2020 133,385 127,874 Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Group’s cash 2021 97,907 91,608 management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of 2022 114,793 110,790 the statement of cash flows. 2023 39,976 39,977 After 2023 – – Fair value, which is determined for disclosure purposes, is calculated based on the present Balance at 31 December 386,061 474,429 value of future cash flows, discounted at the Company specific market rate of interest at that reporting date. The movement in short-term debts and current portion of long-term debts is as follows: In € thousands 2018 2017 Loans and borrowings at 31 December are as follows: Balance at 1 January 214,266 55,279 In € thousands Interest rates between 2018 2017 New debt 230,000 200,000 Bank loans 1.3% 5.0% 202,163 194,427 Redemptions (347,345) (213,513) Loan notes issued to financial institutions 1.7% 5.1% 380,793 445,841 Acquisitions (deferred consideration) – 20 Financial lease contracts 3.0% 4.0% 100 85 From long-term to current position other long-term 97,468 183,701 Other long-term debt1 3.0% 6.9% 5,168 7,262 Exchange rate differences 7,774 (11,221) Short-term borrowings 1.0% 5.0% – 41,080 Balance at 31 December 202,163 214,266 Total loans and borrowings 588,224 688,695 Current2 202,163 214,266 Non-current 386,061 474,429 Total 588,224 688,695 1 Including retentions and expected after-payments not due within one year, amounting to €5.2 million (2017: €6.5 million) 2 Excluding after-payments for acquisitions, see note 5 220 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements | Financial statements Interest rates Debt covenants The interest rate ranges for the total loans and borrowings are as follows: The debt covenant for the above mentioned long-term debt facilities states that the average net debt to EBITDA ratio is not to exceed the maximum ratio of 3.0, which is In % 2018 2017 confirmed to the group of banks twice a year. At 31 December 2018, the average net debt 0% 4% 255,784 519,101 to EBITDA ratio calculated in accordance with agreements with the banks is 2.0 (2017: 2.3), 4% 7% 332,440 169,594 see also note 30. Balance at 31 December 588,224 688,695 Weighted average interest rate1 3.8% 3.2% With effect from 31 December 2013, a lease-adjusted interest coverage ratio is also 1 On interest-bearing debt (including the interest effect of swaps applicable in which EBITDA to Relevant Net Finance Expense (Net Finance Expense plus Operating Lease Expense) must exceed 1.75. At 31 December 2018, this ratio calculated Fair value in accordance with agreements with lenders is 2.6 (2017: 2.4). The fair value of the Company’s loans and borrowings has been estimated based on quoted market prices for the same or similar loans or on the current rates offered to Credit facilities the Company for debt with similar maturities, and is estimated at €587.4 million The total short-term credit facilities amount to €438.5 million, which include all (2017: €648.6 million). uncommitted loans and bank guarantee facilities with financial institutions of which €177.5 million has been used as at 31 December 2018 (2017: €429.6 million and Bank loans (Term loans) €204.1 million respectively). At 31 December 2018 the long-term bank loans (Term loans) became nil, as the amount of €202.2 million (2017: €214.2 million) is maturing in 2019 and therefore presented as The Company has short-term uncommitted debt facilities of €121.8 million with relationship short-term. End of January 2019 it has been refinanced, see note 30 and 33. banks and two bank guarantee facilities totaling €61.6 million (2017: €120.8 million and €52.8 million respectively). These short-term facilities are used for the financing of working The long-term debt includes US$110.0 million in fixed rate 5.1% US Private Placement capital and general corporate purposes of the Company. Notes with a maturity in 2021 and Schuldschein debt consisting of €210.0 million and US$83 million fixed notes maturing in 2020, 2022 and 2023. By the end of the year 2018, the total amount of bank guarantees and letters of credit that were outstanding under the €61.6 million guarantee facilities amounted to €31.5 million At 31 December 2018, €81.5 million of floating rate bank debt has been converted by (2017: €34.5 million). Additionally, there were other outstanding guarantees and letters of way of interest rate swap into EUR fixed rate debt, at a rate of approximately 0.5%. credit amounting to €143.0 million (2017: €167.1million). The weighted average remaining lifetime of the swap is 2.2 years. See note 17 for further disclosures on derivatives. The €300 million Revolving Credit facility matures in December 2022. No changes were made to this loan facility and the debt covenants remain unchanged and consistent with all other debt components. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 221 Financial statements | Notes to the Consolidated financial statements 29 Accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities 30 Capital and financial risk management Arcadis’ activities expose the Company to a variety of financial risks, including (A) credit risks, (B) liquidity risks, and (C) market risks. Other current liabilities are non-derivative financial liabilities, which are initially recognized at These risks are inherent to the way the Company operates as a multinational with locally fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequently these financial liabilities operating subsidiaries. The Executive Board is responsible for the design and functioning of are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. the internal risk management systems. The day-to-day risk management activities related to the financial risk management are carried out by Arcadis Corporate Treasury, in line with the guiding principles of the Treasury Policy, as approved by the Executive Board. In € thousands Note 2018 2017 Accounts payable 235,545 237,190 Arcadis’ Audit and Risk Committee oversees how management monitors compliance Accrued expenses 40,698 34,271 with the Company’s risk management policies and procedures, and the Arcadis control Payables to employees 140,311 126,282 framework. It also reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation Taxes and social security contributions 81,311 69,539 to the risks faced by the Company. After-payments relating to acquisitions 5 3,456 1,499 Payables to associates 639 535 (A) Credit risks Provision for Expected Credit Loss on corporate guarantees 15 27,834 – Credit risk arises from receivables from customers as well as cash balances and fair values of Other liabilities 79,463 83,655 derivatives with financial counterparties (e.g. banks). The credit risk on customers is Balance at 31 December 609,257 552,971 influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer. Arcadis usually invoices clients for services according to the progress of the work. If clients refuse or are unable to Of the total accounts payable approximately 50% is subject to a so-called ‘paid-when-paid’ meet their contractual payment obligations, the Company may not have sufficient cash to clause. The expectation is that all accounts payable will be paid within the normal course satisfy its liabilities and its growth and continued operations could be adversely impacted. of business and are therefore classified as short-term liabilities. Further information about Arcadis’ exposure to liquidity risk is included in note 30. The key objective of the Company’s counterparty credit risk management is to minimize the risk of losses as a result of failure of an individual counterparty that could negatively impact For further details on the provision for Expected Credit Loss on corporate guarantees the Company’s results. Arcadis aims to centralize cash balances with banks that have also see note 15. The opening balance adjustment due to IFRS 9 amounted to €4.8 million provided committed credit facilities to the Company in order to reduce counterparty risk. (see note 3), and the remeasurement of €23.0 million is recognized in ‘Expected Credit Loss on corporate guarantees’ (see note 15). The exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis at local entity and at group level. Normally Arcadis only deals with counterparties that have a sufficiently strong Other liabilities include various accrued liabilities, such as to be paid occupancy costs, credit rating. Where possible, Arcadis uses credit ratings provided by external credit insurance costs and interest costs. rating agencies, thus monitoring creditworthiness in order to reduce the related credit risk. Furthermore, Arcadis strongly focuses on clients by strengthening the commercial relationship. Through systematic account management we aim to build long-term relationships with selected multinational and key national/local clients. We already have a relationship with the majority of our multinational clients for more than five years. New customers are analyzed individually for creditworthiness before services are offered. 222 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements | Financial statements The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. There are various reasons for delays in payments that result in past due amounts and At balance sheet date, the maximum exposure to credit risk was: impact Days Sales Outstanding (DSO). Arcadis has overdue receivables which are generally considered collectible and for which the risk of impairment is remote. Especially for our In € thousands Note 2018 2017 larger projects the following areas are addressed in our ongoing Working Capital program Financial assets: as part of the Arcadis Way: Trade receivables 3, 19 583,740 579,135 •• Customers may uphold payments that are due in accordance with invoicing timing Contract assets (unbilled receivables) 3, 20 545,492 565,113 schedules until a further milestone in a project is reached, thereby not formally adhering Other receivables 22 26,242 38,960 to agreed payment schedules but not disputing the invoice. Other non-current assets 18 26,548 28,921 •• Receivables on larger projects often consist of multiple elements of which individual Derivatives 17 11,695 6,088 minor items may be disputed, require further clarification or documentation and that Loans to associates and joint ventures 15 – 27,442 upholds the payment of the total invoiced amount. 1,193,717 1,245,659 •• As business practice, or as part of our contracts, it is common that when Arcadis is Cash and cash equivalents less bank overdrafts 23 240,680 266,137 a sub-contractor, we only get paid when our customers get paid by the ultimate client Total 1,434,397 1,511,796 the so called ‘paid-when-paid principle’. Trade receivables Amounts due at 31 December 2018 subject to the ‘paid-when-paid principle’ are disclosed Trade receivables are presented net of a provision for expected credit losses. The credit risk in note 19. Further details on how Arcadis uses this principle to manage working capital is is measured and analyzed on a local level at regular intervals, taking into consideration, disclosed in the section on liquidity risk. amongst others, the financial situation of the debtor and ageing of receivables. Expected losses are determined in line with IFRS 9, see note 19. Other receivables and non-current assets Other receivables and Other non-current assets are monitored for expected credit losses. The ageing of Trade receivables and the provision for Trade receivables at reporting date They do not contain impaired assets and are not past due. is disclosed below and in note 19. The ageing of receivables has led to the recognition of (expected) credit losses and calibration of assumptions as included in the Goodwill Loans to associates and joint ventures impairment test. Loans to associates and joint ventures are subject to credit risk. A significant loss has been recognized in 2018 on the loans to Arcadis Logos Energia S.A. (ALEN), see note 15 for The movement schedule for the provision for Trade receivables is included in note 19. further details. 2018 2017 Cash and cash equivalents Gross Provision Provision Gross Provision The credit risk of Cash and cash equivalents is the risk that counter parties are not able In € thousands receivables1 bad debt ECL receivables1 bad debt to repay amounts owed to Arcadis upon request of Arcadis. The objective of the Company Not past due 324,533 (2,348) (302) 297,247 (2,241) is to minimize credit risk exposure in Cash and cash equivalents by investing in liquid Past due 0 30 days 106,072 (1,193) (60) 109,363 (754) securities and entering into transactions involving derivative financial instruments only Past due 31 60 days 48,280 (475) (23) 41,396 (381) with counterparties that have sound credit ratings and good reputation. The related risk Past due 61 120 days 37,481 (1,055) (37) 39,475 (1,184) is monitored on an ongoing basis both at local entity and corporate level. The Company Past due 121 364 days 49,566 (7,661) (78) 53,273 (5,247) keeps approximately 82% (2017: 78%) of its cash reserves at our core banks and only More than 365 days past due 77,503 (47,713) (253) 94,122 (46,907) invests in liquid securities with counterparties that have an investment grade rating from Total 643,435 (60,445) (753) 634,876 (56,714) Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s or Fitch. Management monitors these ratings and does not 1 Excluding receivables from associates expect any such counterparty to fail to meet its obligations in the short-term. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 223 Financial statements | Notes to the Consolidated financial statements Guarantees and letters Lines of credit The Company provided bank guarantees and letters of credit amounting to €174.5 million The Company maintains the lines of credit as summarized in the table below. outstanding as at 31 December 2018 (2017: €201.6 million). In addition, Arcadis NV has provided financial guarantees to banks for a maximum amount of €234.9 million In millions 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 (2017: €197.4 million) to support local financing facilities. For an overview of all Type Interest/fees Available Utilized Available Utilized off-balance sheet commitments, including guarantees, see note 31. Term loan US$LIBOR US$202.5 US$202.5 US$202.5 US$202.5 Term loan EURIBOR €24.5 €24.5 €24.5 €24.5 See note 15 for further details on the guarantees provided by Arcadis to the lenders of Revolving Credit Facility EURIBOR €300.0 €0.0 €300.0 €40.0 Arcadis Logos Energia S.A. (ALEN) and the related Expected Credit Loss. No Expected Committed facilities EURIBOR €35.0 €0.0 €35.0 €0.0 Credit Loss is recognized on other guarantees. Uncommitted multi-currency facilities Floating €121.8 €0.0 €120.8 €0.0 US Private Placement notes 5.1% US$110.0 US$110.0 US$110.0 US$110.0 (B) Liquidity risks US Private Placement notes 5.0% – – US$90.0 US$90.0 Liquidity risk is the risk that Arcadis will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they Schuldschein notes Fixed/floating €210.0 €210.0 €210.0 €210.0 fall due. The primary objective of liquidity management is providing for sufficient cash and Schuldschein notes Fixed/floating US$83.0 US$83.0 US$83.0 US$83.0 cash equivalents to enable Arcadis to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and Guarantee facility 0.3% 0.65% €61.6 €31.5 €50.0 €31.6 stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to Arcadis. Other (loans) Various €77.6 €3.1 €61.1 €2.5 Our Treasury Policy supports this principle by stating that the Company aims to have no Other (loans and guarantees) Various €177.5 €143.0 €197.6 €169.9 more than 33% of total fixed debt to be refinanced in any one year. An amount of US$202.5 million and €24.5 million of committed Term Loans were to Neither the aged (un)billed receivables of individual customers, nor the profile customer mature in June and September 2019. The process to refinance this debt has been finalized receivable portfolio of CGUs, impose a significant threat to the Company’s liquidity end of January 2019 by signing a new credit facility agreement for the following: planning. •• US$87.5 million Term Loan with a maturity in 2024 •• €24.5 million Term Loan with a maturity in 2024 Over the course of the year, considerable fluctuations occurred in the working capital •• US$115 million Revolving Credit Facility (RCF) with a maturity in 2024 (with two needed to finance operations. The Company strives to have a good liquidity position at one-year extension options) all times, strictly controlling working capital by optimizing billing and collection and consequently maintaining a healthy (lease-adjusted) interest coverage and net debt to Contractual obligations EBITDA ratio. The following tables describe our commitments and contractual obligations for the following five years and thereafter. The other long-term debt obligations are our cash To manage working capital, but only if legally allowed and commercially possible, Arcadis debt service obligations. Operating lease obligations are the non-cancellable future agrees with part of its sub-contractors so-called ‘paid-when-paid’ clauses. This means that minimum rental payments required under the operating leases that have initial or Arcadis is in such instances better able to match the cash inflows from debtors with the remaining non-cancellable lease terms in excess of one year at 31 December 2018, cash outflows to suppliers, as the timing of the payment of the supplier is dependent on together with any further terms for which Arcadis has the option to continue to lease the collection of our receivable on a client. This could however be impacted by contractual the asset, with or without further payment, it is reasonably certain that the Arcadis clauses and/or local laws and regulations that limit the maximum extension of payment will exercise the option. to a moment before Arcadis gets paid by its client. In case of non-payment by the debtor Arcadis still has to fulfil its obligations towards the supplier under a ‘paid-when-paid’ clause. No collateral has been pledged for liabilities or contingent liabilities. Accounts payable at 31 December 2018 subject to the ‘paid-when-paid principle’ are disclosed in note 29. The expectation is that all accounts payable will be paid within the normal course of business and are therefore classified as short-term liabilities. 224 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements | Financial statements In € thousands Total < 1 year 1 ‑ 3 years 4 ‑ 5 years > 5 years Contractual obligations at 31 December 2018: Operating lease obligations 356,180 82,367 127,175 68,135 78,503 Capital (finance) lease obligations − − − − − Guarantees on behalf of associates 87,137 87,137 − − − Foreign exchange contracts: Outflow 1,002,797 1,002,797 − − − Inflow (1,005,722) (1,005,722) − − − Interest rate swaps: Outflow 1,060 396 548 116 − Inflow (529) (222) (259) (48) − Cross Currency swaps: Outflow 53,852 1,864 3,708 48,280 − Inflow (45,118) (1,029) (2,042) (42,047) − Deferred consideration 8,624 3,456 5,168 − Interest 33,163 16,736 15,929 1,673 (1,175) Other long‑term liabilities 582,954 202,163 226,703 154,088 Short-term bank debt − − − − − Accounts payable 235,545 235,545 − − − Total 1,309,943 625,488 376,930 230,197 77,328 Contractual obligations at 31 December 2017: Operating lease obligations 332,910 93,048 142,744 67,014 30,104 Capital (finance) lease obligations 9 9 − − − Guarantees on behalf of associates 84,002 84,002 − − − Foreign exchange contracts: Outflow 724,281 724,281 − − − Inflow (724,102) (724,102) − − − Interest rate swaps: Outflow 1,456 396 712 348 − Inflow (770) (227) (392) (151) − Cross Currency swaps: Outflow 55,661 1,814 3,713 3,708 46,426 Inflow (46,142) (1,024) (2,047) (2,047) (41,024) Deferred consideration 7,820 6,987 833 − − Interest 45,732 17,786 21,762 6,335 (151) Other long‑term liabilities 641,079 173,177 225,592 202,398 39,912 Short-term bank debt 41,080 41,080 − − − Accounts payable 237,190 237,190 − − − Total 1,400,206 654,417 392,917 277,605 75,267 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 225 Financial statements | Notes to the Consolidated financial statements In € thousands in EUR in US$ in GBP in CNY in BRL in AED (C) Market risks At 31 December 2018 Market risk includes currency risk (C1) and interest rate risk (C2) and comprises the risk Trade receivables 3,576 36,789 2,654 1,620 − 1,460 that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates will affect Cash and cash equivalents 1,923 30,138 1,151 1,639 − − Arcadis’ income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments. The objective of Derivatives 24,453 111,881 69,641 (5,208) (3,984) (28,035) market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within Loans and borrowings (24,453) (108,309) (67,486) 3,078 4,033 30,945 acceptable parameters. Accounts payable (1,876) (20,215) (2,561) (211) − − Balance exposure 3,623 50,284 3,399 918 49 4,370 (C1) Currency risk The key objective of the Company’s foreign exchange transaction exposure At 31 December 2017 management is aimed at the active management of foreign exchange exposures by Trade receivables 9,887 32,355 976 − 5,962 1,957 Corporate Treasury to reduce and limit the adverse effects of exchange rate changes Cash and cash equivalents 5,220 26,327 1,963 − 2,272 (1,494) on the Company’s profitability. Derivatives 24,453 116,455 30,520 (21,997) 8,913 (39,971) Loans and borrowings (70,511) (115,159) (30,520) 22,331 (8,907) 38,539 Trade and financing transactions in non-functional currencies Accounts payable (59,208) (35,762) (2,484) − (753) − The subsidiaries of Arcadis mainly operate in local markets, and as such both sales invoices and purchase invoices are mainly denominated in local currencies. In some instances Balance exposure (90,159) (24,216) 455 334 7,487 (969) however, invoices are in the functional currency of the counter party, which results in a currency exposure for the subsidiary. The exposure to foreign exchange risk on sales and The below exchange rates were applied in the year. costs denominated in another currency than the respective functional currencies of the 2018 2017 subsidiaries is very limited. Only in limited cases e.g. for material transactions, the company In € Average Year-end Average Year-end enters into forward foreign exchange contracts in order to hedge these transaction risks. US Dollar (US$) 0.85 0.87 0.89 0.83 Pound Sterling (GBP) 1.13 1.11 1.14 1.12 Interest on borrowings is denominated in currencies that match the cash flows generated Chinese Yuan Renminbi (CNY) 0.13 0.13 0.13 0.12 by the underlying operations of the Company, primarily the euro and US dollar. Brazilian Real (BRL) 0.23 0.23 0.28 0.25 United Arab Emirates Dirham (AED) 0.23 0.24 0.24 0.23 The Company has an exposure to positions in the Consolidated balance sheet in foreign currencies which are different than respective functional currencies of the subsidiaries. Arcadis uses derivatives in order to manage market risks associated with changes in foreign For the main currencies the following positions per currency (translated in euros) were exchange rates as well as interest rates. All transactions are carried out in accordance with included in the Consolidated balance sheet. the Company’s Treasury policy. The Company seeks to apply hedge accounting where possible to manage volatility in profit or loss. Most foreign exchange forward transactions outstanding at year-end are due to mature in 2019. Sensitivity analysis currency risks Foreign currency sensitivity analyses are performed by applying an expected possible volatility of a currency, assuming all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant. All monetary assets and liabilities of the Company at year-end are revalued, which results in a hypothetical impact on net income and equity as summarized below. 226 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements | Financial statements 2018 2017 The Company has €81.5 million of floating to fixed interest rate swaps with a fixed rate of Impact on Impact on Impact on Impact on In € millions net income equity net income equity approximately 0.5% and these will mature between 2020 and 2022. 10% change euro against the US dollar 2.1 46.9 2.9 42.4 10% change euro against the Pound Sterling 1.9 76.8 1.9 56.9 The Company has €40.0 million of fixed to floating cross currency swaps to manage 10% change euro against the Brazilian Real 0.3 7.8 1.7 5.4 currency risk and interest rate risk in accordance with the Treasury Policy. All material balance sheet positions have been hedged with foreign exchange contracts. The Treasury Policy states that the fixed portion of the net debt ratio should be at least The translation risk relating to subsidiaries with a functional currency other than their own 40% to protect against increases in interest rates as well as providing some certainty on denominated currency are not hedged. expectations for interest expense in profit or loss. Arcadis has been compliant with this aspect of the Treasury Policy during 2018. (C2) Interest rate risks The Company manages interest rate risks by financing fixed assets and part of current Sensitivity analysis Interest rate risk assets with shareholders’ equity and long-term debt. The remainder of current assets is Interest rate sensitivity analyses are performed by applying an expected possible volatility financed with short-term debt including revolving bank credits with variable interest rates. of interest rates, assuming all other variables remain constant. All interest-bearing liabilities Based on our interest risk profile, financial instruments were used during the year to cover of the Company at year-end are revalued, which results in a hypothetical impact on the part of the interest rate risk on long-term financing. This risk is applicable to long-term pre-tax profit for the year and equity as summarized below. debt, short-term debt and bank overdrafts in the Consolidated balance sheet amounting to €583.2 million at year-end 2018 (2017: €684.0 million). 2018 2017 Impact on Impact on pre-tax profit Impact on pre-tax profit Impact on In € millions for the year equity for the year equity Ten basis-points change to interest rate 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 227 Financial statements | Notes to the Consolidated financial statements Capital risk management In € millions Note 2018 2017 Arcadis’ objectives when managing capital are to safeguard Arcadis’ ability to continue Long-term loans and borrowings 28 386.1 474.4 as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other Current portion of loans and borrowings 28 202.2 214.3 stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure that optimizes its cost of capital. Bank overdrafts 23 0.1 1.8 Total debt 588.4 690.5 The Company sets the amount of capital in proportion to risk. The Company manages Less: cash and cash equivalents 23 (240.8) (267.9) the capital structure and makes adjustments to it based on changes in economic Net debt 347.6 422.6 conditions and the risk characteristics of the underlying assets. The capital structure Less: non-current portion deferred consideration 5 (5.2) (6.5) can be altered by adjusting the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital Net debt according to debt covenants 342.4 416.1 to shareholders, or issue new debt or shares. From time to time, Arcadis purchases its own shares, which are used as hedging for the transfer of shares under the Arcadis’ EBITDA according to debt covenants1 205.8 202.5 share option program. 1  BITDA adjusted for share-based compensation and acquisition effects, in accordance with debt covenants E Non-GAAP performance measure, to provide transparency on the underlying performance of our business (reference is made to the Glossary Financial & Non-Financial indicators on pages 267 to 269 for the definition as used by Arcadis) Consistent with the debt covenants agreed with the banks, the Company monitors capital on the basis of the average Net Debt to EBITDA ratio. This ratio is calculated as interestRatios bearing debt minus cash and cash equivalents divided by EBITDA. EBITDA is calculated 2018 2017 as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization. Net debt to EBITDA1 (at year-end net debt) 1.7 2.1 Net debt to EBITDA1 ratio according to debt covenants 2.0 2.3 (at average net debt, Total Leverage Ratio) There were no changes in Arcadis’ approach to capital management during the year. EBITDA to relevant Net finance expense ratio (lease adjusted interest 2.6 2.4 The Company and its subsidiaries are not subject to external capital requirements, coverage ratio) other than debt covenants as disclosed in the notes to these financial statements. 1  on-GAAP performance measure, to provide transparency on the underlying performance of our business (reference is made to the N Glossary Financial & Non-Financial indicators on pages 267 to 269 for the definition as used by Arcadis) During 2018, Arcadis’ strategic goal on financing, which was unchanged from 2017, was to maintain a net debt to EBITDA ratio not exceeding 2.0 in order to secure access The ratios as disclosed above are calculated based on the definition as agreed with and to finance at a reasonable cost. The financing goal is to maintain a net debt to EBITDA aligned between the different providers of committed credit facilities. The calculation of ratio of 1.0 2.0 times. the average net debt to EBITDA ratio is based on the average net debt of Q2 and Q4. Thoughout 2018, Arcadis complied with all bank covenants. Bank covenants Bank covenants applicable to Arcadis include the Total Leverage ratio (maximum 3.0) Going concern assumption and the lease-adjusted Interest Coverage ratio (minimum 1.75). These ratios are included Management has assessed the going concern assumption, also in light of the refinancing in the next table. of the Term loans maturing in 2019 (see page 224). The refinancing has been secured end of January 2019, see notes 30 and 33. A sensitivity analysis has been performed, taking into account amongst others the refinancing of ALEN (see note 15) and the current plans and cash flow forecasts, and resulted in the conclusion that there is no material uncertainty related to events and conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. 228 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements | Financial statements Fair value The fair values of financial assets and liabilities together with the carrying amounts recognized in the Consolidated balance sheet, are as follows: Carrying value per IFRS 9 category1 Fair value Fair value Out of through through Other Carrying Scope Amortized Profit comprehensive In € thousands amount IFRS 7 cost or Loss income Total Fair value At 31 December 2018 Investments in associates and joint ventures 7,756 7,756 Other investments 637 − − 637 − 637 637 Other non-current assets 26,548 − 26,548 − − 26,548 26,548 (Un)billed receivables: Trade receivables 583,740 − 583,740 − − 583,740 583,740 Contract assets (unbilled receivables) 545,492 − 545,492 − − 545,492 545,492 Derivatives 11,695 − − 12,069 (374) 11,695 11,695 Cash and cash equivalents 240,815 − 240,815 − − 240,815 240,815 Total Financial assets 1,416,683 7,756 1,396,595 12,706 (374) 1,408,927 1,408,927 Loans and borrowings: Non-current 386,061 − 386,061 − − 386,061 386,066 Current 202,163 − 202,163 − − 202,163 201,370 Derivatives 10,729 − − 10,459 270 10,729 10,729 Contract liabilities (billing in excess of cost) 255,581 − 255,581 − − 255,581 255,581 Contract liabilities (loss provision) 115,643 − 115,643 − − 115,643 115,643 Accounts payable 235,545 − 235,545 − − 235,545 235,545 Bank overdrafts and short-term bank debts 135 − 135 − − 135 135 Total Financial liabilities 1,205,857 − 1,195,128 10,459 270 1,205,857 1,205,069 1 Applicable from 1 January 2018 Fair value hierarchy The financial instruments carried at fair value are analyzed by valuation method, using the following levels: •• Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; •• Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and •• Level 3: inputs for the assets or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). All financial instruments carried at fair value within the Company are categorized in Level 2. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 229 Financial statements | Notes to the Consolidated financial statements Carrying value per IAS 39 category Loans and Fair value Fair value Out of receivables/ through through Other Carrying Scope other Profit comprehensive In € thousands amount IFRS 7 liabilities or Loss income Total Fair value At 31 December 2017 Investments in associates and joint ventures 22,807 22,807 Other investments 607 − 607 607 607 Other non-current assets 28,921 − 28,921 − − 28,921 28,921 (Un)billed receivables: Trade receivables 579,135 − 579,135 − − 579,135 579,135 Contract assets (unbilled receivables) 565,113 − 565,113 − − 565,113 565,113 Derivatives 9,980 − − 9,196 784 9,980 9,980 Cash and cash equivalents 267,942 − 267,942 − − 267,942 267,942 Total Financial assets 1,474,505 22,807 1,441,718 9,196 784 1,451,698 1,451,698 Loans and borrowings: Non-current 474,429 − 474,429 − − 474,429 476,509 Current 173,186 − 173,186 − − 173,186 173,088 Derivatives 6,552 − − 5,347 1,205 6,552 6,552 Contract liabilities (billing in excess of cost) 248,162 − 248,162 − − 248,162 248,162 Contract liabilities (loss provision) 114,797 114,797 − − 114,797 114,797 Accounts payable 237,190 − 237,190 − − 237,190 237,190 Bank overdrafts and short-term bank debts 42,885 − 42,885 − − 42,885 42,885 Total Financial liabilities 1,297,201 − 1,290,649 5,347 1,205 1,297,201 1,299,183 The fair value of forward exchange contracts is based on quoted market prices at the For loans and receivables fair value is determined for disclosure purposes based on balance sheet date, being the present value of the quoted forward price. Those quotes are the present value of future principal and interest cash flows, discounted at the Company tested for reasonableness by discounting estimated future cash flows based on the term specific market rate of interest at reporting date. For financial leases the market rate and maturity of the contract, using market interest rates. of interest is determined by reference to similar lease agreements. The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated by discounting estimated future cash The fair value of trade and other receivables is estimated as the present value of future flows based on the terms and maturity of each contract and using market interest rates cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest at reporting date. Due to the shortfor a similar instrument at measurement date. These calculations are tested for term character of the receivables, the fair value equals the carrying value. reasonableness by comparing them with bank valuations. 230 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements | Financial statements 31 Commitments and contingent liabilities Where possible the length of contracts being renewed is reduced in order to generate some flexibility for the future. During the year ended 31 December 2018, €92 million was recognized as an expense in Leases in which the Company does not assume substantially all the risks and rewards are profit or loss with regard to operating leases (2017: €103 million). classified as operating leases. For operating leases, lease payments (excluding costs for services such as insurance and maintenance, which are expenses as incurred) are recognized Guarantees as an expense on a straight-line basis unless another systemic basis is representative of Arcadis has issued corporate guarantees as security for credit facilities and bank guarantee the time pattern of the user’s benefit, even if the payments are not on that basis. facilities. Bank guarantees are, amongst others, issued in relation to projects, advances received, tender bonds or lease commitments to avoid cash deposits. Bank guarantees issued Guarantees are accounted for as a contingent liability until such time it becomes probable for project performance can be claimed by clients where Arcadis fails to deliver in line with that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee. the agreed contract. In such cases, the liability of the bank should be no greater than the original liability on Arcadis and where the failure to perform arose due to an error or omission Contingent liabilities are possible or present obligations of sufficient uncertainty that it does by Arcadis, the claim would be covered by the professional indemnity insurance cover. not quality for recognition as a provision (see note 27), unless it is assumed in a business combination (see note 5). Contingent liabilities are reviewed continuously to assess whether The tables below summarize the outstanding corporate and bank guarantees, including the an outflow of resources has become probable. Arcadis Logos Energia S.A. (ALEN) related guarantees (see note 15). They reflect only items that have been drawn or utilized that are not already shown on the balance sheet. Corporate Summary of commitments In € millions guarantees Bank guarantees Eliminations1 Total Debt facility financing 129.2 − (30.4) 98.8 In € thousands 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Bank guarantee financing 93.7 174.5 (53.9) 214.3 Less than 1 year 82,367 93,048 Other 12.1 − (12.1) − 1 5 years 195,310 209,758 Balance at 31 December 2018 234.9 174.5 (96.4) 313.0 More than 5 years 78,503 30,104 1 T  o avoid double-counting and the overstatement of contingent obligations, only one instance of any off-balance sheet item is reported, Operating lease contracts 356,180 332,910 e.g. if Arcadis NV has provided a corporate guarantee for a local bank guarantee facility, any claim for payment by a client on an outstanding bank guarantee can only be honored once. Included in these eliminations is also the liability already recognized for the expected credit loss on the guarantees issued in relation to ALEN (see note 15) Bank guarantees 174,475 201,591 Corporate guarantees 234,942 176,445 Corporate In € millions guarantees Bank guarantees Eliminations1 Total Eliminations (96,377) (92,443) Debt facility financing 108.6 − (24.6) 84.0 Guarantees 313,040 285,593 Bank guarantee financing 55.2 201.6 (55.2) 201.6 Other 12.6 − (12.6) − Other commitments 21,541 34,118 Balance at 31 December 2017 176.4 201.6 (92.4) 285.6 Total 690,761 652,621 1  o avoid double-counting and the overstatement of contingent obligations, only one instance of any off-balance sheet item is reported, T e.g. if Arcadis NV has provided a corporate guarantee for a local bank guarantee facility, any claim for payment by a client on an outstanding bank guarantee can only be honored once Operating leases The Company’s operating lease arrangements mainly relate to contracts for leased cars, The increase in corporate guarantees is due to increased corporate guarantees for bank buildings and IT assets. Car leases typically run for a period of three to five years, lease guarantee financing, additional ALEN related guarantees (see note 15) and exchange rate contracts for buildings in many instances run for a period between four to ten years, and differences. On 31 December 2018, only a part of the local bank guarantee facilities and the operating leases of IT assets run for a period between two to four years. local debt facilities have been used. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 231 Financial statements | Notes to the Consolidated financial statements Other commitments 32 Related party transactions The other commitments include the service part of a long-term global IT outsourcing contract, which runs for a remaining period of three years. Contingent liabilities A related party is a person or an entity that is related to the Group. These include both Litigation people and entities that have, or are subject to, the influence or control of the Group The Company is involved in various legal and regulatory claims and proceedings as (e.g. key management personnel). Transactions with related parties are accounted for in a result of its normal course of business, either as plaintiff or defendant. Management accordance with the requirements of relevant IFRSs and take into account the substance ensures that these cases are firmly defended. In some of these proceedings, claimants as well as the legal form. allegedly claim amounts for project contract breaches that are significant to the Consolidated financial statements. General All legal and regulatory claims and proceedings are assessed on a regular basis. In The related parties of the Company comprise subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities, consultation with in-house and external legal counsels, management regularly evaluates associates, temporary partnerships, Stichting Lovinklaan, Stichting Bellevue, Stichting facts and circumstances of those claims and, based on the analysis of possible outcomes of Prioriteit Arcadis NV, Stichting Preferente Aandelen Arcadis NV, Stichting Pensioenfonds litigation and settlements, provisions are accrued for. Provisions are accrued for only where Arcadis Nederland (SPAN, liquidated on 30 June 2018), the members of the Executive Board, management believes it is probable that Arcadis will be held liable, the amount is the Executive Leadership Team and the Supervisory Board. reasonably estimable, and the claim has not been insured. These provisions are reviewed periodically and adjusted if necessary to the extent that cash outflow of related proceedings In accordance with article 2:379 and 414 of the Dutch Civil Code, the list of subsidiaries, is probable, including defense costs and reimbursements by our insurance policies. joint ventures, and associates is filed with the Chamber of Commerce in Amsterdam. Since the ultimate disposition of asserted claims and proceedings cannot be predicted Transactions with subsidiaries with certainty, final settlement can differ from this estimate and could require revisions The financial transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries comprise operational to the estimated provision, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s project related transactions, financing transactions and other transactions in the normal balance sheet, profit or loss, and cash flows for a particular period. course of business activities. Transactions within the Group are not included in these disclosures as these are eliminated in the Consolidated financial statements. Tax Arcadis operates in a high number of jurisdictions, and is subject to a variety of taxes Transactions with joint arrangements per jurisdiction. Tax legislation can be highly complex and subject to changes and The Group has entered into transactions on an arm’s length basis through joint interpretation. Therefore Arcadis is exposed to varying degrees of uncertainty and arrangements during the year 2018. Total revenues from joint arrangements amounted significant judgement is required in determining the global tax position. The Company to €166.0 million (2017: €102.8 million). accounts for its income taxes on the basis of its own internal analyses supported by external advice. The Company continually monitors its global tax position including Transactions with associates changes in tax laws or interpretations of such laws. Whenever uncertain tax positions arise, The Group has entered into transactions with the associates, see note 15 and the table the Company assesses the potential consequences and recognizes liabilities depending on on page 199. the strength of the Company’s position and the resulting risk of loss. Transactions with key management personnel The Executive Board of Arcadis NV is key management personnel as defined in IAS 24. For the composition of the Executive Board in 2018 see note 49 and page 242. 232 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements | Financial statements In March 2018, Arcadis also introduced the Executive Leadership Team (ELT) which In July 2018, the pensions have been transferred to Het Nederlandse Pensioenfonds, an consists of the CEO and the CFO, together with six executives and the Chief People Officer. independent foundation acting as a general pension fund for multiple employers. Arcadis For the composition and the dates of members joining the ELT see page 123. has its own ‘circle’ whereby participants share risks with each other. Het Nederlandse Pensioenfonds is not a related party as defined in IAS 24. The ELT focuses on delivering on all of the components of the strategic plan, with clear accountability and a strong focus on improving execution on all of the projects. Each In 2018, the transactions between Arcadis and SPAN comprised of the transfer of pension member of the ELT is also considered key management personnel as defined in IAS 24. premiums and cost charges, which amounted to €11.8 million (2017: €22.8 million). At year-end 2018, the amount due to SPAN was nil (2017: nil). In addition, the Company The table below specifies the total remuneration of key management personnel , for the contributed €2.1 million (2017: €3.1 million) to the plan of EC Harris, €2.5 million to the period that they were either an Executive Board or Executive Leadership Team member in plan of Hyder (2017: €2.5 million), and €4.5 million to other defined benefit plans 2018, and for remuneration received in the capacity of key management personnel. (2017: €4.1 million), see note 26. Comparative figures of the ELT are not applicable. For comparative figures of the Executive Board only see note 49 of the Company financial statements. Transactions with Lovinklaan Foundation Stichting Lovinklaan (Lovinklaan Foundation) is one of the main shareholders of Arcadis. In € thousands 2018 The board of the Foundation consists of Arcadis employees. At 31 December 2018, the Salary 3,275 Foundation had an interest of 18.2% in Arcadis NV (2017: 18.2%). The Foundation has an Bonus 1,462 Employee Stock Purchase Plan/Global Share Plan (see note 8), in place which allows Pension compensation 515 Arcadis employees to purchase Arcadis shares from the Foundation with a discount, which Pension 74 is funded by the Foundation (€1.7 million in 2018, see note 8). The Company has no LTIP expense 2,318 involvement in executing the plan, besides processing payments from employees to the Termination benefit 461 foundation through the salary system of the Company. Total 8,105 In 2010, Arcadis and UN-Habitat launched a global partnership under the name Shelter, For disclosures on (former) Executive Board and Supervisory Board remuneration, and aimed at improving quality of life in rapidly growing cities around the world. Arcadis their interests held in the Company see notes 49, 50 and 51 of the Company financial contributes with employees, expertise and skills to this initiative. The Lovinklaan statements. Foundation supports the initiative. Actual contribution over 2018 amounted to €0.4 million (2017: €0.4 million). In 2018 (and 2017), no transactions involving conflicts of interest for key management personnel occurred which were material to the Company. In addition, the Company has Lovinklaan Foundation supports the Quest program and the Global Shapers program not granted any loans, advances or guarantees to key management personnel. within Arcadis. The programs are initiatives to collect and exchange knowledge and expertise amongst Arcadis employees and to accelerate the implementation of strategic Transactions with post-employment benefit plans projects of Arcadis and as such, contributes to the Arcadis strategy of international Main post-employment benefit plans are Stichting Pensioenfonds Arcadis Nederland collaboration and global business lines. In 2018, 105 employees (2017: 100) participated (SPAN, liquidiated on 30 June 2018) and the pension funds of EC Harris (ECH) and in the Global Shapers program. The contribution for Global Shapers amounted Hyder (AGPS). €0.4 million. In addition, Arcadis received €0.8 million funding for the Quest program as well as €0.1 million for the Roots of Arcadis. The Foundation also contributed in SPAN was an independent foundation responsible for the administration of the pension 2018 €0.4 million to the program Expedition DNA. rights under the existing pension plan for Dutch employees. The pension plan was a collective defined contribution plan with a premium based on the ambition of a pension During 2018 and 2017, no other financial transactions apart from the above mentioned payment that, under certain conditions, is comparable to an average pay scheme with took place between the Foundation and the Company, except for the dividends on a retirement age of 67 years. the shares. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 233 Financial statements | Notes to the Consolidated financial statements A summary of transactions with related parties (excluding Key Management Personnel) in the financial year is disclosed in the table below: Transactions with Transactions with postTransactions with associates joint arrangements employee benefit plans Other In € millions 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Sales (to) 13.6 11.0 166.0 102.8 – – 1.1 1.0 Purchase (from) 3.7 2.0 10.7 1.2 – – 0.1 0.1 Loans (to) 31.8 27.4 – – – – – – Receivables (from) 1.5 0.5 13.0 14.0 0.2 – 0.4 – Payables (to) 0.6 0.2 6.6 1.0 – – 0.2 – Dividends received (from) – – – – – – – – Provision for bad debts related to outstanding balances 0.1 – 1.1 0.8 – – – – Related expenses to these bad or doubtful debts 0.1 – 0.2 – – – – – Provision for outstanding loan balances 31.8 – – – – – – – Transfer of pension premiums and cost changes – – – – 21.5 28.5 – – Contributions – – – – 9.0 – 4.5 1.8 Transactions with other related parties 33 Events after the balance sheet date In 2018, Arcadis NV contributed €62,000 to Stichting Preferente Aandelen Arcadis NV (the ‘Preferred Stock Foundation’) (2017: €60,000) and €1,000 to Stichting Prioriteit Arcadis NV (the ‘Priority Share Foundation’) (2017: €1,000). See note 24 for further information on these foundations. A subsequent event is a favorable or unfavorable event, that occurs between the reporting date and the date that the financial statements are authorized for issue. Events after the reporting date that provide evidence of conditions that existed at the reporting date are adjusted within the financial statements. Events that are indicative of a condition that arose after the reporting date of a material size or nature are disclosed below. An amount of US$202.5 million and €24.5 million of committed Term Loans were to mature in June and September 2019. The process to refinance this debt has been finalized on end of January 2019 by signing a new credit facility agreement for the following: • US$87.5 million Term loan with a maturity in 2024 • €25 million Term loan with a maturity in 2024 • US$115 million Revolving Credit facility (RCF) with a maturity in 2024 (with two one-year extension options) There were no other material events, that would have changed the judgement and analysis by management of the financial condition of the Company at 31 December 2018, or the result for 2018. 234 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Company financial statements Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 235 Financial statements | Company Balance sheet Company Balance sheet as at 31 December before allocation of profit In € thousands Note 2018 2017 In € thousands Note 2018 2017 Assets Equity and liabilities Non-current assets Shareholders’ equity Intangible assets 38 55,857 41,143 Share capital 1,780 1,748 Property, plant & equipment 39 855 682 Share premium 372,501 372,533 Investments in subsidiaries 40 1,358,526 1,389,493 Hedging reserve (1,431) (1,525) Loans issued to subsidiaries and other investments 41 227,253 210,433 Translation reserve (82,191) (89,058) Deferred tax assets 45 679 704 Other legal reserves 74,225 36,426 Derivatives – – Retained earnings 603,737 586,958 Total Non-current assets 1,643,170 1,642,455 Undistributed profits (26,701) 70,804 Total Shareholders' equity 24, 43 941,920 977,886 Current assets Derivatives 9,415 5,328 Non-current liabilities Receivables 42 244,154 224,179 Provisions 44 11,976 1,500 Corporate income tax receivable 8,884 – Deferred tax liabilities 45 – 393 Cash and cash equivalents 18,570 23,167 Long-term debt 46 419,775 380,897 Total Current assets 281,023 252,674 Derivatives 1,115 1,134 Total Non-current liabilities 432,866 383,924 Current liabilities Current portion of provisions 44 256 125 Derivatives 8,685 4,567 Bank overdrafts 47 – 1,805 Short-term borrowings 47 – 40,000 Corporate income tax payable – 3,708 Trade and other liabilities 47 540,466 483,114 Total Current liabilities 549,407 533,319 Total Assets 1,924,193 1,895,129 Total Equity and liabilities 1,924,193 1,895,129 The notes on pages 238 to 247 are an integral part of these Company financial statements 236 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Company Income statement | Financial statements Company Income statement for the year ended 31 December In € thousands Note 2018 2017 Corporate charges to subsidiaries 35 98,565 79,411 Total Corporate income 98,565 79,411 Personnel costs 52 (39,138) (31,274) Other operational costs 36 (21,122) (17,719) Depreciation and amortization 38, 39 (4,447) (2,201) Total Operational costs (64,707) (51,194) Operating income 33,858 28,217 Finance income 9,446 12,630 Finance expenses (24,043) (5,827) Fair value change of derivatives 4,586 (10,525) Net finance expense 37 (10,011) (3,722) Profit before income tax 23,847 24,495 Income taxes 177 1,077 Net income subsidiaries (50,725) 45,232 Result for the period (26,701) 70,804 The notes on pages 238 to 247 are an integral part of these Company financial statements Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 237 Financial statements | Notes to the Company financial statements Notes to the Company financial statements 34 General 37 Net finance expense Unless stated otherwise, all amounts are rounded in thousands of euros. The Company The net finance expense includes income and expenses relating to intercompany loans. financial statements have been prepared using the option of article 2:362 of the Dutch Foreign exchange differences on financial liabilities are part of the finance expenses. Civil Code, meaning that the accounting principles used are the same as for the Consolidated financial statements. Foreign currency amounts have been translated, 38 Intangible assets assets and liabilities have been valued, and net income has been determined, in accordance Intangibles under In € thousands Software development Total with the principles of valuation and determination of income presented in note 2 of the Cost 14,329 26,081 40,410 Consolidated financial statements. Accumulated depreciation (9,837) − (9,837) at 1 January 2017 4,492 26,081 30,573 In the Company financial statements, subsidiaries of Arcadis NV are accounted for Additions − 12,667 12,667 using the equity method. The presentation of the Balance sheet slightly deviates from Reclassification 12,439 (12,439) − the requirements of Dutch law (e.g. name conventions), in order to achieve optimal Depreciation charges (2,097) − (2,097) transparency between the Consolidated financial statements and the Company Movement 2017 10,342 228 10,570 financial statements. Cost 26,718 26,309 53,027 Accumulated depreciation (11,884) − (11,884) 35 Corporate charges to subsidiaries At 31 December 2017 14,834 26,309 41,143 Corporate charges to subsidiaries include items such as headquarter support service fees, Additions – 19,030 19,030 royalty fees, and license fees. It includes ‘true-ups’ for the previous year, which have been Reclassification 3,199 (3,199) – calculated and settled in 2018 following the final 2017 results. Depreciation charges (4,316) – (4,316) Movement 2018 (1,117) 15,831 14,714 36 Other operational costs Cost 29,917 42,140 72,057 In € thousands 2018 2017 Accumulated depreciation (16,200) – (16,200) Occupancy 1,110 1,570 At 31 December 2018 13,717 42,140 55,857 Travel 1,715 1,593 Office related 696 303 The Intangibles under development of €42.1 million (2017: €26.3 million) are mainly Audit and consultancy services 9,998 5,596 related to Software not yet in use. Insurances 519 8,385 Marketing and advertising 695 554 Other 6,389 (282) Total 21,122 17,719 238 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Notes to the Company financial statements | Financial statements 39 Property, plant & equipment 41 Loans issued to subsidiaries and other investments In € thousands Furniture and fixtures In € thousands 2018 2017 Cost 2,435 Balance at 1 January 210,433 223,110 Accumulated depreciation (1,650) Loans issued to subsidiaries 112,285 93,252 at 1 January 2017 785 Redemptions (96,366) (88,620) Additions 1 Investments − − Acquisitions of subsidiaries − Exchange rate differences 901 (17,309) Disposals − Balance at 31 December 227,253 210,433 Depreciation charges (104) Movement 2017 (103) As Arcadis NV applies the same valuation principles in the Company financial statements Cost 2,436 as those applied in the Consolidated financial statements, IFRS 9 is also applicable to Accumulated depreciation (1,754) intercompany loans and receivables. The assessment of the Expected Credit Loss did not At 31 December 2017 682 result in a material impact on the Company financial statements. To have consistency Additions 304 between the Consolidated and standalone equity no loss has been recorded, which is in Acquisitions of subsidiaries – line with the clarification as provided by the Raad voor de Jaarverslaggeving (RJ) that a Disposals – reversal of the Expected Credit Loss can be included in the carrying amount of the loans. Depreciation charges (131) Movement 2018 173 Noted is that Arcadis NV has control, directly or indirectly, over all the subsidiaries it Cost 2,740 granted loans and can convert these into equity if needed. In 2018 no loans have been Accumulated depreciation (1,885) converted into equity. At 31 December 2018 855 42 Receivables 40 Investments in subsidiaries In € thousands 2018 2017 In € thousands Receivables from subsidiaries and associates 236,711 211,809 Balance at 31 December 2017 1,389,493 1,434,963 Other receivables 7,443 12,370 Impact of changes in accounting policies (6,664) − Balance at 31 December 244,154 224,179 Balance at 1 January 2018 1,382,829 1,434,963 Share in income of subsidiaries (50,725) 45,232 The Receivables from subsidiaries and associates mainly relate to short-term financing by Capital contributions 5,292 40,672 means of current accounts. Capital repayments − (46,261) Other changes 5,363 3,909 Arcadis applied the simplified approach under IFRS 9 to its intercompany current Reclassification to provision for negative equity of investments (10,476) − receivables and concluded that the Expected Credit Loss is immaterial. See note 19 of the Exchange rate differences 5,291 (89,022) Consolidated financial statements for further details on the simplified approach and note Balance at 31 December 2018 1,358,526 1,389,493 41 on the treatment of the Expected Credit Loss on intercompany positions in the Company financial statements. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 239 Financial statements | Notes to the Company financial statements 43 Shareholders’ equity Share Share Hedging Translation Other legal Retained Undistributed In € thousands capital premium reserve reserve reserve earnings profits Total Balance at 1 January 2017 1,721 372,560 (3,285) 2,607 49,884 511,428 64,154 999,069 Net income − − − − − − 70,804 70,804 Exchange rate differences − − − (91,665) − − − (91,665) Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges, net of income taxes − − 1,760 − − − − 1,760 Remeasurements on post-employment benefit obligations, net of income taxes − − − − − 5,101 − 5,101 Other changes − − − − − (2,098) − (2,098) Other comprehensive income, net of income taxes − − 1,760 (91,665) − 3,003 − (86,902) Total comprehensive income for the period − − 1,760 (91,665) − 3,003 70,804 (16,098) Transactions with owners of the Company: Dividends to shareholders − (21,002) − − − − (15,476) (36,478) Addition to other (statutory) reserves − – – – (13,458) 62,136 (48,678) – Issuance of shares 27 20,975 – – – – – 21,002 Share-based compensation, net of income taxes − – – – – 11,122 – 11,122 Purchase of own shares − – – – – (8,343) – (8,343) Share options exercised − – – – – 7,612 – 7,612 Total transactions with owners of the Company 27 (27) – – (13,458) 72,527 (64,154) (5,085) Balance at 31 December 2017 1,748 372,533 (1,525) (89,058) 36,426 586,958 70,804 977,886 Impact of changes in accounting policies − − − ⁻ − (6,664) − (6,664) Balance at 1 January 2018 1,748 372,533 (1,525) (89,058) 36,426 580,294 70,804 971,222 Net income − − − − − − (26,701) (26,701) Exchange rate differences − − − 6,867 − − − 6,867 Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges, net of income taxes − − 94 − − − − 94 Remeasurements on post-employment benefit obligations, net of income taxes − − − − − 4,858 − 4,858 Other comprehensive income, net of income taxes − − 94 6,867 − 4,858 − 11,819 Total comprehensive income for the period − − 94 6,867 − 4,858 (26,701) (14,882) Transactions with owners of the Company: Dividends to shareholders − (26,716) − − − − (13,693) (40,409) Addition to (utilization of) other (statutory) reserves − − − − 37,799 19,312 (57,111) − Issuance of shares 32 26,684 − − − − − 26,716 Share-based compensation, net of income taxes − − − − − 6,787 − 6,787 Purchase of own shares − − − − − (10,307) − (10,307) Share options exercised − − − − − 2,793 − 2,793 Total transactions with owners of the Company 32 (32) − − 37,799 18,585 (70,804) (14,420) Balance at 31 December 2018 1,780 372,501 (1,431) (82,191) 74,225 603,737 (26,701) 941,920 240 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Notes to the Company financial statements | Financial statements The total Legal reserves include the Hedging reserve, Translation reserve and Other 46 Long-term debt legal reserves and are non-distributable. The other legal reserves relate to earnings In € thousands 2018 2017 retained by subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, as well as internally developed Loans from group companies 250,794 212,413 software. For information on shares purchased to cover the Company’s option plans, Loan notes issued to financial institutions 168,981 168,484 see note 24 of the Consolidated financial statements. Balance at 31 December 419,775 380,897 For further details on the opening balance impact due to changes in accounting policies see note 3 of the Consolidated financial statements. In 2020, an amount of €70 million of the loan notes issued to financial institutions is due. The remaining amount is due after 2020. 44 Provisions 47 Current liabilities In € thousands 2018 2017 Balance at 1 January 1,625 2,298 In € thousands 2018 2017 Additions 10,626 125 Bank overdrafts − 1,805 Deductions because of use (19) (798) Short-term borrowings − 40,000 Release of unused amounts − − Suppliers 7,856 9,996 Balance at 31 December 12,232 1,625 Payables to group companies 517,374 462,181 Other liabilities 15,236 10,937 Current 256 125 Balance at 31 December 540,466 524,919 Non-current 11,976 1,500 Balance at 31 December 12,232 1,625 The payables to group companies mainly relate to the internal cash pool. The short-term borrowings of €40 million drawn on the Revolving Credit Facility (RCF) as at 31 December The provisions of Arcadis NV relate to claims and litigations for an amount of €1.5 million 2017 have been repaid in 2018. Refer to note 28 and 30 of the Consolidated financial (2017: €1.5 million); the remainder is related to restructuring. An amount of €10.5 million statements for further information on Arcadis’ lines of credit. is added to the provision for negative equity of a direct subsidiary of the Company, in accordance with article 2:403 paragraph 1 of the Dutch Civil Code. 45 Deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax Deferred tax In € thousands assets liabilities Total Balance at 1 January 2017 704 (393) 311 Additions/deductions − − − Changes recognized directly in equity/OCI − − − Balance at 31 December 2017 704 (393) 311 Additions/deductions 368 − 368 Changes recognized directly in equity/OCI − − − Reclassification (393) 393 − Balance at 31 December 2018 679 − 679 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 241 Financial statements | Notes to the Company financial statements 48 Commitments and contingent liabilities 49 Remuneration of EB and SB members Commitments and contingent liabilities As parent company of the fiscal unity in the Netherlands, the Company is severally Remuneration of Executive Board members liable for the corporate income tax and value added tax liabilities of the fiscal unity. In 2018, an amount of €4.5 million (2017: €6.4 million) was charged to the Company for The companies that form part of the Arcadis NV tax group account for their tax position remuneration of the current and former Executive Board members, including pension based on their own taxable result. The tax charge is settled with the Company based charges and the LTIP expense. on the finalized tax return. As reflected in the ‘Remuneration report’ and the table on page 159, a number of 151,230 At the end of 2018, the Company had commitments for rent and lease obligations conditional (performance) shares were granted to Executive Board members as variable amounting to €9.7 million (2017: €13.4 million). Additionally, the Company entered remuneration (2017: 283,110). into long-term service commitments relating to the global IT outsourcing contract of €21.5 million (2017: €33.8 million). For an explanation of the Remuneration Policy, see the ‘Remuneration Report’ included in this Annual Integrated Report on pages 159 to 164. Guarantees & short-term facilities Arcadis NV has pledged a limited number of guarantees for the short-term credit and The Executive Board consisted of the following members in 2018: guarantee facilities that are available for use to its operating companies. The total Name Function Period Changes in the year amount available under these facilities is €183.5 million of which €31.5 million is used at the balance sheet date (2017: €173.6 million of which €34.5 million was used). Peter Oosterveer CEO 1 Jan 31 Dec 2018 In addition to this amount, Arcadis NV has corporate guarantees for an amount of Renier Vree CFO 1 Jan 1 March 2018 Resigned as CFO and left Arcadis €234.9 million available (2017: €176.4 million). Sarah Kuijlaars CFO 24 April 31 Dec 2018 Appointed as new CFO by the AGM Stephanie Hottenhuis EB member 1 Jan 11 March 2018 Left Arcadis on 15 August 2018 For a total overview of all off-balance sheet guarantees provided by Arcadis NV or its Stephan Ritter EB member 1 Jan 11 March 2018 Joined the ELT on 11 March 2018 subsidiaries see note 31 of the Consolidated financial statements. Mary Ann Hopkins EB member 1 Jan 11 March 2018 Joined the ELT on 11 March 2018 The remuneration in the tables on the next page is for the period that each person was part of the Executive Board. It includes all remuneration that has been expensed during the year and which was received in the capacity of Executive Board membership. Remuneration received in the capacity of Executive Leadership Team member is included in the disclosure on key management personnel remuneration in note 32 of the Consolidated financial statements. 242 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Notes to the Company financial statements | Financial statements Overview of remuneration of Executive Board members in 2018 Conditional (performance) shares Pension LTIP Termination In € thousands Salary Bonus1 compensation Pension expense2 benefit3 Total 2018 Number Value4 Peter Oosterveer 660 210 167 17 728 – 1,782 87,790 1,089 Sarah Kuijlaars 326 115 57 12 175 – 685 63,4405 787 Total current Board members 986 325 224 29 903 – 2,467 151,230 1,876 Renier Vree 79 – 14 3 190 – 286 – – Stephanie Hottenhuis 85 55 15 3 165 461 784 –6 –6 Stephan Ritter 85 21 12 3 302 – 423 –6 –6 Mary Ann Hopkins 108 40 11 – 396 – 555 – 6 –6 Total former Board members 357 116 52 9 1,053 461 2,048 – – 1 The bonus is based on the results achieved in 2018, this bonus will be paid in 2019 2 The LTIP expense relates to the charge to the Income statement in the year based on the plans granted in the preceding 36 months 3 The payment is made in accordance with the remuneration policy, and includes €21,000 of Dutch pseudo final tax levy (‘pseudo eindheffing’) payable by Arcadis 4 This amount is charged over a three-year period to the Company’s income statement and only includes the expense for grants received in the capacity of Executive Board member 5 No grant received in 2018 in the capacity of Executive Board member Overview of remuneration of Executive Board members in 2017 Conditional performance shares Pension LTIP Termination In € thousands Salary1 Bonus2 compensation Pension expense3 benefit Total 2017 Number Value4 Peter Oosterveer 448 307 99 20 324 – 1,199 87,790 1,459 Renier Vree 535 305 83 25 531 – 1,480 57,440 955 Stephanie Hottenhuis 440 255 76 23 362 – 1,156 39,910 663 Stephan Ritter 440 301 64 23 362 – 1,190 39,910 663 Mary Ann Hopkins 598 424 60 – 288 – 1,370 58,060 965 Total current Board members 2,461 1,592 382 91 1,867 – 6,395 283,110 4,705 1 Salary of Peter Oosterveer represents eight months of salary in 2017. Salary of Renier Vree includes four months temporary gross supplement of €15,000 per month for fulfilling the interim CEO role, as described further in this note 2 The bonus is based on the results achieved in 2017, this bonus was paid in 2018 3 The LTIP expense relates to the charge to the Income statement in the year based on the plans granted in the preceding 36 months 4 This amount is charged over a three-year period to the Company’s Income statement 5 A number of 6,000 shares has no performance condition, see the 'Remuneration report' on page 159 of this Annual Integrated Report Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 243 Financial statements | Notes to the Company financial statements Remuneration of Supervisory Board members 50 Interests held by members of the EB At year-end 2018, the Supervisory Board consisted of seven members (2017: seven). The interests held in the share capital of Arcadis NV by members of the Executive Board were: The joint fixed remuneration for 2018 amounted to €0.6 million (2017: €0.6 million), specified as follows: Number of shares Arcadis NV Current EB members 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Peter Oosterveer 15,000 − In € thousands 2018 2017 Sarah Kuijlaars 3,250 − Niek W. Hoek 105 105 Deanna Goodwin 80 81 Ruth Markland 81 79 Number of conditional (performance) shares Arcadis NV1 Current EB members 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Ian M. Grice 1 29 68 Peter Oosterveer 175,580 87,790 Michael Putnam2 61 − 1 Sarah Kuijlaars 63,440 − J.C. Maarten Schönfeld 73 73 Michiel Lap 84 67 Number of conditional performance shares Arcadis NV1 Wee Gee Ang2 84 57 Former EB members 31 December 20182 31 December 2017 George R. Nethercutt 1 − 29 Renier Vree 31,845 109,440 1 Ian M. Grice resigned from the Supervisory Board on 24 April 2018; George R. Nethercutt resigned on 26 April 2017 Stephanie Hottenhuis 29,754 74,910 2 Michael Putnam was appointed as member of the Supervisory Board on 24 April 2018; Wee Gee Ang was appointed on 26 April 2017 Stephan Ritter 57,410 74,910 Mary Ann Hopkins 98,060 98,060 1 Amounts are based on granting 100% of the reference numbers, with maximal extension to 200% (see note 9). For the description of the LTIP plan, please refer to the paragraph ‘Long-term variable remuneration’ on page 188 of this Annual Integrated Report 2 Balance only includes conditional performance shares received in the capacity of Executive Board member, see also the table on page 245 244 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Notes to the Company financial statements | Financial statements In 2018, the aggregate numbers of stock options (1) and conditional performance shares (2) held by (former) members of the Executive Board are as follows: Share price at grant Outstanding at Increase/(decrease) by Outstanding at Stock options (1) Granted in date (in €) 1 January 2018 performance measure Vested in 2018 Exercised in 2018 Expired in 2018 31 December 2018 Expiration date Renier Vree 2010 14.33 80,414 – – – – 80,414 14-05-2020 2011 16.18 16,660 – – – – 16,660 19-05-2021 2012 15.74 23,334 – – – – 23,334 17-05-2022 2013 20.96 20,000 – – – – 20,000 09-05-2023 140,408 – – – – 140,408 Stephanie Hottenhuis 2008 13.03 5,000 – – (5,000) – – 09-05-2018 2009 10.91 2,800 – – – – 2,800 09-05-2019 2010 14.33 6,535 – – – – 6,535 14-05-2020 2011 16.18 4,998 – – – – 4,998 19-05-2021 2012 15.74 23,334 – – – – 23,334 17-05-2022 2013 20.96 20,000 – – – – 20,000 09-05-2023 62,667 – – (5,000) – 57,667 Stephan Ritter 2013 20.96 20,000 – – – – 20,000 09-05-2023 20,000 – – – – 20,000 Total stock options 223,075 – – (5,000) – 218,075 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 245 Financial statements | Notes to the Company financial statements Share price at grant Outstanding at Increase/(decrease) by Outstanding at Conditional performance shares (2) Granted in date (in €) 1 January 2018 Granted in 2018 performance measure Forfeited in 2018 31 December 2018 Vesting date Peter Oosterveer 2017 15.91 87,790 – – – 87,790 ex-dividend date 2020 2018 15.75 – 87,790 – – 87,790 ex-dividend date 2021 87,790 87,790 – – 175,580 Sarah Kuijlaars 2018 15.75 – 6,000 – – 6,000 ex-dividend date 2020 2018 15.75 – 57,440 – – 57,440 ex-dividend date 2021 – 63,440 – – 63,440 Total current EB members 87,790 151,230 – – 239,020 Renier Vree 2015 24.83 26,000 – (26,000) – – 26-04-2018 2016 14.30 26,000 – – (10,111) 15,889 ex-dividend date 2019 2017 15.91 57,440 – – (41,484) 15,956 ex-dividend date 2020 109,440 – (26,000) (51,595) 31,845 Stephanie Hottenhuis 2015 24.83 17,500 – (17,500) – – 26-04-2018 2016 14.30 17,500 – – (4,375) 13,125 ex-dividend date 2019 2017 15.91 39,910 – – (23,281) 16,629 ex-dividend date 2020 74,910 – (17,500) (27,656) 29,754 Stephan Ritter 2015 24.83 17,500 – (17,500) – – 26-04-2018 2016 14.30 17,500 – – – 17,500 ex-dividend date 2019 2017 15.91 39,910 – – – 39,910 ex-dividend date 2020 74,910 (17,500) – 57,410 Mary Ann Hopkins 2016 14.30 40,000 – – – 40,000 ex-dividend date 2019 2017 15.91 58,060 – – – 58,060 ex-dividend date 2020 98,060 – – – 98,060 Total former EB members 357,320 – (61,000) (79,251) 217,069 Total conditional performance shares 445,110 151,230 (61,000) (79,251) 456,089 246 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Notes to the Company financial statements | Financial statements 51 Shares and options held by members of the SB 53 External auditor fees and services Members of the Supervisory Board hold no Arcadis shares and/or options. In accordance with article 2:382a of the Dutch Civil Code the following table details the aggregate fees billed by our external auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants NV, 52 Employees including the foreign offices of PricewaterhouseCoopers of the last two fiscal years for At 31 December 2018, Arcadis NV had 138 full-time employees (2017: 132). various services: For information on the RSUs and options granted to employees of Arcadis NV Type of services provided (in € millions) 2018 2017 excluding members of the Executive Board as meant by article 2:383d paragraph 1 Audit fees 3.4 3.5 of the Dutch Civil Code, see note 9 to the Consolidated financial statements. Audit-related fees 0.3 0.4 Tax fees − − Personnel costs for Arcadis NV consisted of the following: Other non-audit fees − − In € thousands 2018 2017 Total 3.7 3.9 Salaries and wages 18,321 13,098 Social charges 1,407 1,208 Audit-related fees consist of fees for services that are traditionally performed by Pension and early retirement charges 669 779 the external auditors. In addition to the statutory audit of Arcadis NV, Other personnel costs (including temporary labor) 18,741 16,189 PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants NV was engaged by the Supervisory Board Total personnel costs 39,138 31,274 to perform specific agreed upon procedures. Of the total fees billed an amount of €1.0 million relates to PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants NV (2017: €1.0 million) and the remainder to its foreign offices. Amsterdam, the Netherlands, 13 February 2019 Executive Board Supervisory Board Peter Oosterveer Niek Hoek Sarah Kuijlaars Michiel Lap Maarten Schönfeld Ruth Markland Michael Putnam Deanna Goodwin Wee Gee Ang Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 247 Other information 249 Other information 250 Independent auditor’s report 259 Assurance report of the independent auditor 261 Other financial data 262 Five-year summary 264 Segment information 265 Company addresses 267 Glossary financial & non-financial indicators Other ­information | Other information Other ­information Profit allocation Special rights to holders of priority shares Article 27 of the Articles of Association stipulates, among other things, that the Executive The priority shares are held by Stichting Prioriteit Arcadis NV. The Board of the Board, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, shall annually decide which part Stichting Prioriteit Arcadis NV consists of twenty (20) board members (with one vacancy of the profit shall be allocated to the reserves. The remaining part of the profit shall at 31 December 2018): seven (7) members of Arcadis’ Supervisory Board, two (2) members be at the disposal of the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. of Arcadis’ Executive Board, one (1) member of the Arcadis’ Executive Leadership Team, and ten (10) members from the Board of Stichting Bellevue (a foundation established in The loss attributable to the equity holders of the Company over fiscal year 2018 amounts Arnhem, whose board members are appointed by and from the international employees to €26.7 million. The Executive Board, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, of Arcadis). Each board member has one vote whereby in the event of a vacancy, the proposes to deduct an amount of €67.9 million from the retained earnings and to present number of votes that can be exercised by the Executive Board and Executive Leadership for approval to the General Meeting of Shareholders its proposal to distribute a dividend Team members together with the Supervisory Board members shall equal the number of amount of €41.2 million from the retained earnings, which represents a dividend of €0.47 votes that can be exercised by the employee members. Stichting Prioriteit Arcadis NV has per ordinary share, at the option of the respective shareholder(s) in cash or in the form of special statutory rights, which includes approval of the amendment of the Articles of shares. Association of Arcadis NV, and certain other topics, which have been described in note 24 of the Consolidated financial statements. Audit and Risk Committee policies and procedures The Audit and Risk Committee has adopted a charter that details the duties and responsibilities of the Audit and Risk Committee. These duties and responsibilities include, amongst other things, reviewing and overseeing the financial and operational information provided by Arcadis to its shareholders and others, systems of internal controls, financial risk management, accounting and financial reporting processes, the independence, qualifications and performance of the external auditor of Arcadis and the performance of the internal audit function. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 249 Other information | Independent auditor’s report Independent auditor’s report To: the General Meeting and Supervisory Board of Arcadis NV The financial reporting framework applied in the preparation of the financial statements is EU-IFRS and the relevant provisions of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code for the Consolidated financial statements and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code Report on the financial statements 2018 for the company financial statements. Our opinion In our opinion: The basis for our opinion • Arcadis NVs Consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards financial position of the Group as at 31 December 2018 and of its result and cash on Auditing. We have further described our responsibilities under those standards in flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting the section ‘Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements’ of our report. Standards as adopted by the European Union (EU-IFRS) and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate Dutch Civil Code; to provide a basis for our opinion. • Arcadis NVs Company financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Company as at 31 December 2018 and of its result for the year then Independence ended in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. We are independent of Arcadis NV in accordance with the European Regulation on specific requirements regarding statutory audit of public interest entities, the ‘Wet toezicht What we have audited accountantsorganisaties’ (Wta, Audit firms supervision act), the ‘Verordening inzake de We have audited the accompanying financial statements 2018 of Arcadis NV, Amsterdam onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assuranceopdrachten’ (ViO – Code of Ethics for (‘the Company’). The financial statements include the Consolidated financial statements of Professional Accountants, a regulation with respect to independence) and other relevant Arcadis NV together with its subsidiaries (‘the Group’) and the Company financial statements. independence requirements in the Netherlands. Furthermore, we have complied with the ‘Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants’ (VGBA – Code of Ethics for The Consolidated financial statements comprise: Professional Accountants, a regulation with respect to rules of professional conduct). • the Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2018; • the following statements for 2018: the Consolidated income statement and the Our audit approach Consolidated statements of comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows; Overview and context and Arcadis NV is a global design & consultancy firm for natural and built assets. The Group • the notes, comprising significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. is comprised of several components and therefore we considered our group audit scope and approach as set out in the section ‘The scope of our group audit’. We paid specific The Company financial statements comprise: attention to the areas of focus driven by the operations of the Group, as set out below. • the Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2018; • the Company income statement for the year then ended; As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks • the notes, comprising the accounting policies applied and other explanatory information. of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, we considered where management made important judgements, for example, in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. 250 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Independent auditor’s report | Other information In note 2 of the Consolidated financial statements, the company describes the areas of The outline of our audit approach was as follows: judgement in applying accounting policies and the key sources of estimation uncertainty. Given the higher inherent risk of material misstatement of project revenue recognition, Materiality valuation of contract assets and valuation of goodwill, we considered these to be key audit • Overall materiality: €5.1 million. matters as set out in the section ‘Key audit matters’ of this report. Furthermore, we identified the valuation of Arcadis’ shareholder loans to associate Arcadis Logos Energia Audit scope (‘ALEN’) and the corporate guarantees issued in relation to the bank loans of ALEN • We conducted audits on 11 components and Materiality and its underlying investments as key audit matter because of the judgment required. performed specified procedures on 2 components. • Site visits were conducted to locations in These items all involve making assumptions and considering future events that are the Netherlands, United States, United Kingdom, inherently uncertain. Middle East and to associate ALEN in Brazil. • Audit coverage: 77% of consolidated revenue, 81% of consolidated total assets and 72% Other areas of focus, that were not considered as key audit matters were the continued of consolidated profit before tax. roll-out of the Arcadis Way, which mainly relates to the migration of local ERP systems Audit Scope to the central Oracle ERP system for several components, the application of the new Key audit matters accounting standards IFRS 9 and 15 and the impact assessment of IFRS 16 (which has • Project revenue recognition and valuation of contract assets. been disclosed in note 2 of the financial statements). • Valuation of goodwill. • Valuation of Arcadis’ shareholder loans to We ensured that the audit teams both at group and at component levels included the ALEN and the corporate guarantees issued appropriate skills and competences which are needed for the audit of a listed client in in relation to the bank loans of ALEN and its Key audit underlying investments. the global design & consultancy industry. We therefore included specialists in the areas matters of IT audit, forensics, treasury, share based payments and income tax and experts in the areas of valuations and actuaries in our team. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 251 Other information | Independent auditor’s report Materiality We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed sufficient work to The scope of our audit is influenced by the application of materiality, which is further be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account explained in the section ‘Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements’. the management structure of the Group, the nature of operations of its components, the accounting processes and controls, and the markets in which the components Based on our professional judgement, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for of the Group operate. In establishing the overall group audit strategy and plan, materiality, including the overall materiality for the financial statements as a whole as set we determined the type of work required to be performed at the component level out in the table below. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to by the group engagement team and by each component auditor. determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and to evaluate the effect of identified The group audit primarily focussed on the significant components of Arcadis NV which misstatements, both individually and in aggregate, on the financial statements as a whole include group entities in the Netherlands, United Kingdom, Australia and the Unites and on our opinion. States. We subjected five components in these countries to audits of their complete financial information, as those components are individually financially significant to the Overall group materiality €5.1 million (2017: €4.7 million). group. Additionally, we selected five components for audit procedures to achieve Basis for determining materiality We used our professional judgement to determine overall materiality. As a basis for our judgement, we used 4.6% of profit before tax, appropriate coverage on financial line items in the Consolidated financial statements. adjusted for Expected Credit Loss on shareholder loans and corporate Two component were subject to specific risk-focussed audit procedures as they include guarantees; Result from investments accounted for using the equity method and Impairment charges. significant or higher risk areas. Rationale for benchmark applied We used profit before tax as the primary benchmark, based on our analysis of the common information needs of users of the financial statements. In total, in performing these procedures, we achieved the following coverage on the On this basis, we believe that profit before tax is an important metric for the financial performance of the company. financial line items: As the 2018 result includes several one off items, we have adjusted Revenue 77% the profit before tax for the financial statement line items Credit loss on shareholder loans and corporate guarantees, Result from investments Total assets 81% accounted for using the equity method and Impairment charges. Profit before tax 72% Component materiality To each component in our audit scope, we, based on our judgement, allocate materiality that is less than our overall group materiality. The range of materiality allocated across components was between None of the remaining components represented more than 4% of total group revenue €0.4 and €4.3 million. Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall group materiality. or total group assets. For those remaining components we performed, among other things, analytical procedures to corroborate our assessment that there were no significant We also take misstatements and/or possible misstatements into account that, risks of material misstatements within those components. in our judgement, are material for qualitative reasons. The group engagement team performed the audit work for Arcadis NV. For the other We agreed with the Supervisory Board that we would report to them misstatements components in scope we used component auditors who are familiar with the local laws identified during our audit above €250,000 (2017: €245,000) and reclassifications and regulations to perform the audit work. above €1 million (2017: €1 million) as well as misstatements below these amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. Where component auditors performed the work, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in their audit work to be able to conclude whether we had obtained The scope of our group audit sufficient appropriate audit evidence as a basis for our opinion on the Consolidated Arcadis NV is the parent company of a group of entities. The financial information financial statements as a whole. of this group is included in the Consolidated financial statements of Arcadis NV. 252 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Independent auditor’s report | Other information We issued instructions to the component teams in our audit scope. These instructions However, because of the characteristics of fraud, particularly those involving sophisticated included among others our risk analysis, materiality and scope of the work. We explained and carefully organised schemes to conceal it, such as forgery, deliberate failure to record to the component audit teams the structure of the group, the main developments that transactions and collusion, our audit might not detect instances of material fraud. are relevant for the component auditors, the risks identified, the materiality levels to be applied and our global audit approach. We had individual calls with each of the in-scope Our risk assessment component audit teams during the year including upon the conclusion of their work. We obtained an understanding of the entity and its environment, including the entity’s During these calls, we discussed the significant accounting and audit issues identified internal control. We made enquiries of relevant executives, directors (including internal by the component auditors, the reports of the component auditors, the findings of audit, legal, compliance, human resources and regional directors) and the Supervisory their procedures and other matters, which could be of relevance for the Consolidated Board. In addition, we considered other external and internal information. As part of our financial statements. process of identifying fraud risks, we evaluated fraud risk factors with respect to financial reporting fraud, misappropriation of assets and bribery and corruption. Fraud risk factors The group engagement team visits the component teams and local management on are events or conditions, which indicate an incentive or pressure, an opportunity, or an a rotational basis and taking into account the significance of individual components attitude or rationalisation to commit fraud. We, together with our forensic specialists, to the group. In the current year, the group audit team visited the component auditors evaluated the fraud risk factors to consider whether those factors indicated a risk of in the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, the United States, Middle East and the associate material misstatement due to fraud. ALEN located in Brazil. For each of these locations we reviewed selected working papers of the component auditors. As in all of our audits, we addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Executive Board, The group engagement team performed the audit work on the group consolidation, executive leadership team and other members of management that may represent financial statement disclosures and a number of complex items at the head office. a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. In our risk assessment we also considered These included, goodwill impairment testing, accounting for derivative financial the potential impact of performance based bonus schemes which the company has instruments and share based payments. The group team also performed testing in place at certain components. over the central ERP system. Furthermore, Arcadis NV is a global company, operating in multiple jurisdictions. By performing the procedures above at components, combined with additional procedures Therefore, we considered the risk of bribery and corruption as a result of operations in at group level, we have been able to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence countries with an above average risk profile according to the Transparency International on the Group’s financial information, as a whole, to provide a basis for our opinion on the corruption perception index. We updated our understanding of the internal controls that financial statements. Arcadis has in place to address and manage the risk of bribery and corruption when doing business in higher risk territories. These procedures included assessing the design and Our focus on fraud existence of the Arcadis General Business Principles, template agent contracts and vendor Our objectives due diligence procedures. As part of our risk assessment we gained an understanding of We assess and respond to the risk of fraud in the context of our audit of the financial the comprehensive governance structure as detailed in section ‘Governance & Compliance’ statements. In this context and with reference to the sections on responsibilities in this of the Annual Report. As part of this understanding, we also reviewed internal audit report, our objectives in relation to fraud are: reports and followed up on the outcome of compliance reports (including complaints • to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements and whistleblowers). due to fraud; • to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate audit responses; and • to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 253 Other information | Independent auditor’s report Our response to the risk of fraud Key audit matters We evaluated the design and the implementation and, where considered appropriate, Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most tested the operating effectiveness of internal controls that mitigate fraud risks. In addition, significance in the audit of the financial statements. We have communicated the key we performed procedures, which include journal entry testing and evaluating accounting audit matters to the Supervisory Board. The key audit matters are not a comprehensive estimates for bias (including retrospective reviews of prior year’s estimates). In particular, reflection of all matters identified by our audit and that we discussed. In this section, our procedures consisted of evaluating key estimates and judgements as well as data we described the key audit matters and included a summary of the audit procedures analysis to identify high-risk journal entries. Where we identified instances of unexpected we performed on those matters. journal entries or other risks through our data analytics, we performed additional audit procedures to address each identified risk. These procedures also included testing of We addressed the key audit matters in the context of our audit of the financial statements transactions back to source information. as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon. We do not provide separate opinions on We considered the possibility of fraudulent or corrupt payments made through third these matters or on specific elements of the financial statements. Any comments or parties and conducted detailed procedures on third party vendors in high-risk jurisdictions. observations we made on the results of our procedures should be read in this context. Our procedures included verifying whether commission payments were at arm’s length. Due to the nature of the Group’s activities, we recognise that certain key audit matters We also incorporated elements of unpredictability in our audit in all regions. which we reported in our independent auditor’s report on the financial statements 2017 are continuing to be significant in the audit of the financial statements and therefore may We considered the outcome of our other audit procedures and evaluated whether not change significantly year over year. As compared to prior year, we have not identified any findings were indicative of fraud. If so, we reevaluate our assessment of fraud risk new key audit matters. We removed last year’s key audit matter related to management and its resulting impact on our audit procedures. override of controls considering the absence of significant findings in the last three years. We refer to the three key audit matters in the next paragraph of this report, which are all examples of our approach related to areas of higher risk due to accounting estimates where management makes significant judgements. 254 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Independent auditor’s report | Other information Key audit matter How our audit addressed the matter Project revenue recognition and valuation of contract assets We performed substantive audit procedures on individually significant projects as well as high-risk Refer to notes 6, 19 and 20 of the financial statements projects. In addition, we took a sample over the remaining population to ensure sufficient coverage We consider this a key audit matter since project revenue recognition and the valuation of contract over all projects. assets are significant to the financial statements based on the quantitative materiality and because of the degree of management judgement involved. These substantive procedures focused on assumptions applied by Arcadis to determine the cost to complete. The procedures included obtaining evidence to support applied hourly rates and Management applies judgement to determine the cost to complete for contracts, which is the basis reconciling changes in budgets to supporting evidence such as contract modifications. We also for revenue recognition and contract asset valuation, as well as for assessing provisions for lossdiscussed the progress of the projects with the respective project managers and management making contracts. of the operating companies. Also the valuation of contract assets requires significant management judgement in determining With regards to the above average ageing and magnitude of the contract assets in the Middle recoverability, especially in the Middle East region, considering the above average ageing and the East region, specific attention has been given to the collection and valuation of five contracts with magnitude of the contract assets. significant contract assets. We have discussed management’s position papers for these projects during our Middle East site visit with the responsible project managers, the contract solutions team and the regional CFO and CEO. We have obtained supporting documentation, which included support for contract modifications, correspondence with the client and minutes confirming the status of negotiations with the client. The Company’s disclosures concerning the contract assets and the related risks such as credit risk in note 19 to the Consolidated financial statements have also been assessed and are considered adequate. Valuation of goodwill Our audit procedures included, an assessment of assumptions applied in the model, testing of Refer to note 13 of the financial statements the inputs to the model, assessing the disclosure note, testing mathematical accuracy of the We focused on this area given the magnitude of the goodwill balance (€915 million as at goodwill impairment model and a reconciliation of the model to the five year forecasts and long 31 December 2018) and because the Executive Board’s assessment of the ‘value in use’ of the group’s term strategic plans that were approved by senior management. Our valuation experts supported eight Cash Generating Units (CGUs) is subject to estimation uncertainty. This involves significant us in the evaluation of the discount rate as well as other assumptions and methodologies used. judgement about the future revenue growth, operating EBITA margin, and the discount rates applied in cash flow forecasts. We have challenged the assumptions applied by management, especially for the sensitive CGUs. This was done by, amongst others, comparing the assumptions to the historic performance of the For the Middle East CGU, an impairment charge of €33.9 million was recognized in 2018. company, local economic developments, development of the book-to-bill ratio, contract backlog This reflects management’s decision to be more selective and de-risk the portfolio. and industry outlook. We also have taken into account the sensitivity of the value in use to changes in the respective assumptions. Based on our procedures performed, we consider management’s key For the Latin America CGU, an impairment charge of €6.5 million has been recognized in assumptions to be reasonable. 2018, reflecting Arcadis’ future business expectations in Latin America. After this impairment, there is no remaining goodwill balance for this CGU. Note 13 to the Consolidated financial statements discloses the key assumptions applied bymanagement for goodwill impairment testing. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 255 Other information | Independent auditor’s report Key audit matter How our audit addressed the matter Valuation of Arcadis’ shareholder loans to ALEN and corporate guarantees issued in relation ALEN is one of the components in our group audit. We have visited the ALEN associate in Brazil to the bank loans of ALEN and its underlying investments in order to obtain a better understanding of its business, underlying investments, assess the risks Refer to note 15 of the financial statements involved and status of the plants. As part of this visit we met with local management as well as Arcadis Logos Energia (‘ALEN’) is a 49.99% owned Brazilian associate in the Arcadis group. the component audit team. The company’s activities relate to developing gas-to-gas and gas-to-power energy plants through its equity investments. These plants are still under construction or in a start-up phase, and do not ALEN was in our group audit scope to test the results from this associate and assess the carrying yet generate positive cash flows. amounts of its assets. We consider Arcadis’ main exposure to be its shareholder loans to ALEN and the corporate guarantees issued by Arcadis in relation to the bank loans of ALEN and its underlying ALEN’s investments in the assets are financed by shareholder loans from Arcadis (€55.1 million) investments. and external bank loans. Arcadis NV has issued corporate guarantees in relation to the bank loans of ALEN and its underlying investments to the amount of €87.1 million (2017: €84.0 million). In accordance with IFRS 9, the expected credit loss on shareholder loans and guarantees is based on external market information for expected credit losses. We evaluated if this aligned with a third party Arcadis is exposed to the risk of ALEN running into financial difficulty that might trigger a default valuation report. on bank loans that would, in turn, result in the relevant banks claiming repayment from Arcadis for the full amount of the guarantees provided. Significant judgement is applied in the Company’s We discussed the business plans and the third party valuation report with management and assessment of the analysis of potential credit losses. challenged the main assumptions of the business case. These assumptions include, amongst others, the level of investments required to complete the assets, the market potential of the businesses During 2018, Arcadis has reassessed its business case for ALEN, considering noted delays in the (including distribution agreements, volumes and customer contracts) and the future extension of construction process and obtaining signed customer contracts, increasing costs and assumed lower related concessions. Furthermore, our valuation experts assisted us in evaluating the adequacy of contract prices. Based on these insights, it was concluded that ALEN will likely not get in a position the applied valuation methodology, the discount rate applied and assessed sensitivities of the model. to repay its shareholder loans to Arcadis and fully repay the external bank loans. An external valuator supported the valuation of the updated business cases. Consequently, Arcadis recognized expected We also read the minutes of ALEN’s board meetings and inspected the bank loan agreements of credit losses for the shareholder loans to ALEN (€29.7 million) and the corporate guarantees issued ALEN and its underlying investments covered as part of the corporate guarantees, amongst others (€22.1 million). to identify any specific bank covenants or agreements that could trigger the banks to call the corporate guarantees. Based on our procedures performed, we consider management’s assumptions underlying the valuation of Arcadis’shareholder loans and corporate guarantees in relation to ALEN not unreasonable. 256 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Independent auditor’s report | Other information Report on the other information included in the annual report Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit In addition to the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon, the Annual Responsibilities of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board Integrated Report contains other information that consists of: for the financial statements • introduction; The Executive Board is responsible for: • Executive Board report; • the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance • the Supervisory Board report; and with EU-IFRS and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code; and for • the other information pursuant to Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. • such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due Based on the procedures performed as set out below, we conclude that the other to fraud or error. information: • is consistent with the financial statements and does not contain material misstatements; As part of the preparation of the financial statements, the Executive Board is responsible • contains the information that is required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. for assessing the company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Based on the financial reporting frameworks mentioned, the Executive Board should prepare the financial We have read the other information. Based on our knowledge and understanding obtained statements using the going-concern basis of accounting unless management either intends in our audit of the financial statements or otherwise, we have considered whether the to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. other information contains material misstatements. The Executive Board should disclose events and circumstances that may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going concern in the financial statements. By performing our procedures, we comply with the requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and the Dutch Standard 720. The scope of such procedures was The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the company’s financial reporting process. substantially less than the scope of those performed in our audit of the financial statements. Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements The Executive Board is responsible for the preparation of the other information, including Our responsibility is to plan and perform an audit engagement in a manner that allows the directors’ report and the other information in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the us to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence to provide a basis for our opinion. Dutch Civil Code. Our audit opinion aims to provide reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. Reasonable assurance is a high but Report on other legal and regulatory requirements not absolute level of assurance, which makes it possible that we may not detect all Our appointment misstatements. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered We were appointed as auditors of Arcadis NV on 13 May 2015 by the Supervisory Board to be material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to following the passing of a resolution by the shareholders at the annual meeting held on influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements. 13 May 2015. Our appointment has been renewed annually by shareholders representing a total period of uninterrupted engagement appointment of 4 years. Materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on our opinion. No prohibited non-audit services To the best of our knowledge and belief, we have not provided prohibited non-audit A more detailed description of our responsibilities is set out in the appendix to our report. services as referred to in Article 5(1) of the European Regulation on specific requirements regarding statutory audit of public interest entities. Amsterdam, 13 February 2019 Services rendered PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants NV The services, in addition to the audit, that we have provided to the company and its Original has been signed by J.E.M. Brinkman RA controlled entities, for the period to which our statutory audit relates, are disclosed in note 53 to the financial statements. Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 257 Other information | Independent auditor’s report Appendix to our auditor’s report on the financial statements 2018 Considering our ultimate responsibility for the opinion on the Consolidated financial of Arcadis NV statements, we are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group In addition to what is included in our auditor’s report, we have further set out in this audit. In this context, we have determined the nature and extent of the audit procedures appendix our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements and explained for components of the group to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give what an audit involves. an opinion on the financial statements as a whole. Determining factors are the geographic structure of the group, the significance and/or risk profile of group entities or activities, The auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the group operates. We have exercised professional judgement and have maintained professional On this basis, we selected group entities for which an audit or review of financial information scepticism throughout the audit in accordance with Dutch Standards on Auditing, or specific balances was considered necessary. ethical requirements and independence requirements. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free We communicate with the Supervisory Board regarding, among other matters, the from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Our audit consisted, planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any among other things of the following: significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. In this respect, • Identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, we also issue an additional report to the Audit and Risk Committee in accordance with whether due to fraud or error, designing and performing audit procedures responsive Article 11 of the EU Regulation on specific requirements regarding statutory audit of to those risks, and obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide public-interest entities. The information included in this additional report is consistent a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from with our audit opinion in this auditor’s report. fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the intentional override of internal control. We provide the Supervisory Board with a statement that we have complied with • Obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control. independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. • Evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management. From the matters communicated with the Supervisory Board, we determine those matters • Concluding on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current of accounting, and based on the audit evidence obtained, concluding whether a material period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s uncertainty exists related to events and/or conditions that may cast significant doubt report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material in extremely rare circumstances, not communicating the matter is in the public interest. uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report and are made in the context of our opinion on the financial statements as a whole. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern. • Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and evaluating whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. 258 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Assurance report of the independent auditor | Other information Assurance report of the independent auditor To: the Executive Board and Supervisory Board of Arcadis NV Assurance report on selected financial and non-financial indicators We have reviewed these indicators in the accompanying Annual Integrated Report 2018 of in the Annual Integrated Report 2018 Arcadis NV, Amsterdam for 2018. All other information in the Annual Integrated Report 2018 is not in scope of this engagement. Therefore, we do not report or conclude on this Our Conclusion other information. Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the indicators marked with symbol of Arcadis NV are not prepared in all material respects, in The basis for our conclusion accordance with Arcadis NVs reporting criteria. We conducted our assurance engagement, in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standard 3000A ‘Assurance engagements, other than audits or reviews of historical What we have reviewed financial information (attestation-engagements)’ (‘Assurance-opdrachten anders dan The object of our assurance engagement concerns selected financial and non-financial opdrachten tot controle of beoordeling van historische financiële informatie (attestindicators marked with symbol included in section ‘2018 at a glance’ of the Annual opdrachten)’). This assurance engagement is aimed to provide limited assurance. Our Integrated Report 2018 of Arcadis NV (hereafter: ‘the indicators’). responsibilities under this standard are further described in the section ‘Our responsibilities 1. Number of employees (headcount as at 31 December) for the assurance engagement’ of our report. 2. Voluntary turnover rate (as % of total staff) 3. Females in total workforce (as % of total staff) We believe that the assurance information we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to 4. Employee engagement score (on a scale of 0-4) provide a basis for our conclusion. 5. Total Recordable Case Frequency (TRCF, per 200,000 work hours) 6. Arcadis Way implementation progress (as % of net revenues) Independence and quality control 7. Organic revenue growth Global Key Clients (net revenues) We are independent of Arcadis NV in accordance with the ‘Code of Ethics for Professional 8. Organic revenue growth (net revenues) Accountants, a regulation with respect to independence’ (‘Verordening inzake de 9. Gross revenues (in € millions) onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assurance-opdrachten’ ViO) and other relevant 10. Net Income from Operations per share (in €) independence requirements in the Netherlands. Furthermore we have complied with the 11. Dividend per share (proposed, in €) ‘Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, a regulation with respect to rules of 12. Net Income from Operations (in € millions) professional conduct’ (‘Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants’ -VGBA). 13. Operating EBITA margin (as % of net revenues) 14. Net Working Capital (as % of gross revenues) We apply the ‘Detailed rules for quality systems’ (‘Nadere voorschriften kwaliteitssystemen’) 15. Days Sales Outstanding (DSO) and accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including 16. Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, 17. Net debt to EBITDA ratio (average) professional standards and other applicable legal and regulatory requirements. 18. Free Cash Flow (in € millions) Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 259 Other information | Assurance report of the independent auditor Criteria for our assurance engagement Procedures performed Arcadis NV developed its reporting criteria, which are disclosed together with the detailed We have exercised professional judgement and have maintained professional scepticism information on the reporting scope and reporting process and methods in section throughout the assurance engagement, in accordance with the Dutch Standard 3000A, ‘Glossary financial & non-financial indicators’. We consider the reporting criteria to be ethical requirements and independence requirements. relevant and appropriate for our review. Our main procedures include: Responsibilities for the indicators and the assurance engagement • Evaluating the appropriateness of the reporting criteria used, their consistent application Responsibilities of the Executive Board and Supervisory Board and related disclosures in the indicators. The Executive Board of Arcadis NV is responsible for the preparation of the indicators in • Obtaining an understanding of the reporting processes for the indicators, including accordance with the Arcadis NVs reporting criteria, including the identification of the obtaining a general understanding of internal control relevant to our review. intended users and the criteria being applicable for the purposes of the intended users. • Identifying areas of the indicators with a higher risk of misleading or unbalanced information or material misstatement, whether due to fraud or errors. Designing and The Executive Board is also responsible for such internal control as it determines is performing further assurance procedures aimed at determining the plausibility of the necessary to enable the preparation of the indicators that is free from material indicators responsive to this risk analysis. These procedures consisted amongst others of: misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. – Interviewing relevant staff responsible for providing the information for the indicators, and responsible for carrying out internal control procedures on the indicators and the The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the company’s reporting process on consolidating of the indicators; the indicators. – Determining the nature and extent of the review procedures for the group components and locations. For this, the nature, extent and/or risk profile of these components are Our responsibilities for the assurance engagement decisive; Our responsibility is to plan and perform the assurance engagement in a manner that – Obtaining assurance information that the indicators reconcile with underlying records of allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate assurance evidence for our conclusion. the company; – Reviewing, on a limited test basis, relevant internal and external documentation; Our conclusion aims to provide limited assurance. The procedures performed by obtaining – Performing an analytical review of the data and trends of the indicators. a limited level of assurance are aimed at determining the plausibility of information and • Evaluating the consistency of the indicators with the other information in the Annual are less extensive than those performed in obtaining reasonable assurance in an assurance Integrated Report 2018, which is not included in the scope of our review. engagement. The performed procedures in this context consisted mainly of gathering • Evaluating the disclosure, presentation and assertions made to the indicators in the information from officers of the entity and applying analytical procedures set out in Annual Integrated Report 2018; relation to the information included in the indicators. The assurance obtained in assurance • To consider whether the indicators as a whole, including the disclosures, reflects the engagements aimed at providing limited assurance is therefore significantly lower than the purpose of the reporting criteria used. assurance obtained in assurance engagements aimed at providing reasonable assurance. Amsterdam, 13 February 2019 Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error and are considered to be material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants NV decisions of users taken on the basis of the indicators. The materiality affects the nature, Original has been signed by J.E.M. Brinkman RA timing and extent of our assurance procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on our conclusion. 260 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Other financial data | Other information Other financial data Quarterly financial data 2018 2017 In € millions unless otherwise stated Quarter 1 Quarter 2 Quarter 3 Quarter 4 Quarter 1 Quarter 2 Quarter 3 Quarter 4 Gross revenues In the quarter 767 819 808 862 818 830 766 805 Cumulative 767 1,586 2,394 3,256 818 1,648 2,414 3,219 In the quarter 24% 25% 25% 26% 25% 26% 24% 25% Cumulative 24% 49% 74% 100% 25% 51% 75% 100% Net revenues In the quarter 599 621 613 607 628 628 585 595 Cumulative 599 1,220 1,833 2,440 628 1,256 1,841 2,437 In the quarter 25% 25% 25% 25% 26% 26% 24% 24% Cumulative 25% 50% 75% 100% 26% 52% 76% 100% EBITA In the quarter 37.2 42.2 42.9 39.2 42.2 38.2 40.0 40.5 Cumulative 37.2 79.4 122.3 161.5 42.2 80.4 120.4 160.9 In the quarter 23% 26% 27% 24% 26% 24% 25% 25% Cumulative 23% 49% 76% 100% 26% 50% 75% 100% Operating EBITA1 In the quarter 43.1 44.9 45.4 43.8 46.7 43.8 45.1 50.8 Cumulative 43.1 88.0 133.4 177.2 46.7 90.5 135.6 186.4 In the quarter 24% 25% 26% 25% 25% 23% 24% 27% Cumulative 24% 49% 75% 100% 25% 49% 73% 100% 1 Excluding acquisition, restructuring and integration-related costs Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 261 Other information | Five-year summary Five-year summary People & Culture Innovation & Growth 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Employee engagement Organic Revenue growth Total number of employees at 31 December 27,354 27,327 27,080 26,947 28,139 Organic revenue growth (net revenues, in %) 3% 1% -4% 0% 1% Average total number of employees 27,545 27,208 27,178 27,622 22,964 Book-to-bill ratio (net revenues) 0.97 1.02 0.94 0.93 1.02 Total number of FTEs in GECs at 31 December 2,475 2,593 2,019 1,298 1,017 Organic revenue growth Global Key Clients (net revenues, in %) 10% 17% 6% 9% 6% Total Number of FTEs at 31 December (incl. GECs) 25,996 25,909 25,594 25,630 26,956 Organic revenue growth Global Cities (net revenues, in %) 11% 6% 14% 10% n/a Employee engagement score (scale 0 4) 3.10 3.03 – 3.07 3.07 Innovation and digitilization Talent management & learnings and development % of revenues using BIM level 2 34% – – – – Voluntary turnover rate (as % of total staff) 15.6% 14.6% 15.0% 15.0% 12.5% Arcadis Way implementation progress (as % of net revenues) 33% 31% 3% – – Identified leadership potential rate (retention %) 69% 94% 90% 72% – Energy and emissions carbon footprint per FTE (in metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalents) Diversity and inclusion Auto transport 0.99 1.21 1.29 1.25 1.32 Females in total workforce (as % of total staff) 37% 37% 36% 35% 35% Air transport 0.81 0.83 0.90 0.88 0.98 Health and safety Public transport 0.18 0.19 0.18 0.17 0.16 Total Recordable Case Frequency (TRCF) 0.18 0.26 0.26 0.29 0.33 Office energy use 1.01 1.11 1.13 1.26 1.42 Lost Time Case Frequency (LTCF) 0.06 0.11 0.10 0.13 0.15 Total carbon footprint 2.98 3.34 3.50 3.56 3.88 Business ethics Environmental non-compliance Employees passing Code of Conduct training (in %) 98% 97% 94% 92% 94% # of identified environmental non-compliances 0 0 – – – Number of AGBP alleged breaches (including near misses) 77 76 99 105 58 Climate change Investigated AGBP alleged breaches 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% % of revenues that relate to relevant SDGs 80% – – – – Tax policies and compliance As some of the above KPIs are newly defined, some previous years comparatives are not available Group Effective Tax Rate over past five years 25.9% – – – – Privacy (and personal data protection) Number of appointed privacy officers in the year 12 10 – – – Risk management framework Number of internal audits conducted in the year 24 24 32 35 23 Client experience Client experience score 45 – – – – 262 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Five-year summary | Other information Focus & Performance In € millions unless otherwise stated 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Direct economic value generated Gross revenues 3,256 3,219 3,329 3,419 2,635 Net revenues 2,440 2,437 2,468 2,597 2,016 Direct economic value distributed Earnings per share (in €) (0.31) 0.82 0.76 1.19 1.23 Dividend per share (in €) 0.47 0.47 0.43 0.63 0.60 Profit & loss performance Operating EBITA 177.2 186.4 175.5 250.3 202.9 Operating EBITA margin (in %) 7.3% 7.6% 7.1% 9.6% 10.1% EBITDA 204.1 200.5 207.4 247.4 206.7 Net income from operations 87.6 101.0 90.9 137.2 123.6 Balance sheet performance Net working capital (in %) 15.1% 16.9% 17.5% 17.1% 17.4% Days Sales Outstanding (DSO) 80 88 91 84 83 Return on invested capital (ROIC) 4.7% 7.3% 6.8% 9.3% 13.7% Year-end net debt to EBITDA ratio 1.7 2.1 2.3 1.9 2.0 Average net debt to EBITDA ratio 2.0 2.3 2.5 2.2 1.5 Cash flow performance Free cash flow 149.0 97.7 80.0 120.6 103.4 As some of the above KPIs are newly defined, some previous years comparatives are not available Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 263 Other information | Segment information Segment information Amounts in € millions (Rounding may impact totals) 2018 2017 Amounts in % 2018 2017 Gross revenues Segment mix (gross revenues) Europe & Middle East 1,392 1,337 Europe & Middle East 43 42 Americas 1,186 1,175 Americas 36 37 Asia Pacific 375 387 Asia Pacific 12 12 CallisonRTKL 301 320 CallisonRTKL 9 10 Total 3,256 3,219 Total 100 100 Net revenues Segment mix (net revenues) Europe & Middle East 1,133 1,113 Europe & Middle East 46 46 Americas 755 751 Americas 31 31 Asia Pacific 331 344 Asia Pacific 14 14 CallisonRTKL 220 229 CallisonRTKL 9 9 Total 2,440 2,437 Total 100 100 EBITA EBITA margin Europe & Middle East 68.4 74.0 Europe & Middle East 6.0% 6.7% Americas 51.7 36.0 Americas 6.8% 4.8% Asia Pacific 24.2 30.1 Asia Pacific 7.3% 8.7% CallisonRTKL 17.3 20.8 CallisonRTKL 7.9% 9.1% Total EBITA 161.5 160.9 Total 6.6% 6.6% Non-recurring1 15.6 25.5 Total Operating EBITA 177.2 186.4 Operating EBITA2 Operating EBITA margin Europe & Middle East 77.4 84.3 Europe & Middle East 6.8% 7.6% Americas 54.9 47.5 Americas 7.3% 6.3% Asia Pacific 25.4 30.7 Asia Pacific 7.7% 8.9% CallisonRTKL 19.4 23.9 CallisonRTKL 8.8% 10.4% Total Operating EBITA 177.2 186.4 Total 7.3% 7.6% 1 Acquisition, restructuring, integration-related costs and changes in acquisition-related litigation provisions 2 Operating EBITA is EBITA adjusted for non-recurring costs 264 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Company addresses | Other information Company addresses Head Office Regional offices Arcadis NV Continental Europe United Kingdom North America CEO Peter Oosterveer Austria Poland Arcadis UK Canada Gustav Mahlerplein 97-103 Phone +43 1 717 28 435 Phone +48 22 203 20 00 Phone +44 20 78 12 20 00 Phone +1 905 614 1978 1082 MS Amsterdam info-at@arcadis.com info-pl@arcadis.com UKenquiries@arcadis.com Canada.info@arcadis.com The Netherlands Phone +31 20 201 10 11 Belgium Romania CallisonRTKL Puerto Rico info@arcadis.com Phone +32 2 505 75 00 Phone +40 21 312 26 99 Phone +44 20 73 06 04 04 Phone +1 787 777 40 00 Internet www.arcadis.com info@arcadisbelgium.be info@arcadis-ro.com info@callisonrtkl.com ausinternet@arcadis-us.com Czech Republic Slovakia United States Phone +420 226 207 800 Phone +421 905 279 067 Phone +1 720 344 35 00 info-cz@arcadis.com info-sk@arcadis.com ausinternet@arcadis.com France Spain CallisonRTKL Phone +33 (0)1 46 23 77 77 Phone +34 91 766 00 33 Phone +1 410 537 6000 infofrance@arcadis.com infospain@arcadis.es info@callisonrtkl.com Germany Switzerland Phone +49 61 51 38 80 Phone +41 44 732 92 92 info-de@arcadis.com info-ch@arcadis.com Italy The Netherlands Phone +39 02 00624665 Phone +31 88 426 12 61 info@arcadis.it info@arcadis.nl Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 265 Other information | Company addresses Latin America Asia Middle East Australia Pacific Brazil China Singapore Bahrain Australia Phone +55 11 31 17 31 71 Phone +86 21 6026 1300 Phone +65 62 22 38 88 Phone: +973 17 564 755 Phone: +61 289079000 contato@arcadis.com info-cn@arcadis.com arcadissg@arcadis.com middleeast@arcadis.com aus@arcadis.com Chile Hong Kong Taiwan Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Phone +56 2 23 81 60 00 Phone +852 2830 3500 Phone +886 2 27 01 54 45 Phone +966 12 604 4700 info.cl@arcadis.com info-hk@arcadis.com info-tw@arcadis.com middleeast@arcadis.com Peru India Thailand Oman Phone +511 652 24 65 Phone +91 80 41 23 91 41 Phone +66 2 253 14 38 Phone +968 2452 3060 info.pe@arcadis.com info-in@arcadis.com info-th@arcadis.com middleeast@arcadis.com Mexico Indonesia Vietnam Qatar Phone +52 555 563 5283 Phone +62 21 739 75 50 Phone +84 8 38 23 82 97 Phone +974 4424 5000 info@callisonrtkl.com info-id@arcadis.com info-vn@arcadis.com middleeast@arcadis.com Malaysia CallisonRTKL United Arab Emirates Phone +60 3 2106 8000 Phone +86 21 61 57 28 00 Phone +971 4 423 39 00 info-my@arcadis.com info@callisonrtkl.com middleeast@arcadis.com Philippines CallisonRTKL Phone +63 2 811 29 71 Phone +971 4 590 5600 info-ph@arcadis.com info@callisonrtkl.com 266 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Glossary financial & non-financial indicators | Other information Glossary financial & non-financial indicators Arcadis requested its external auditor to provide limited assurance on a selection of financial and non-financial indicators included in this Annual Integrated Report. The selected indicators that fall within the scope of limited assurance by our external Unless described otherwise, the scope of the indicators is based on Arcadis NV and its auditor are summarized on the ‘2018 at a glance page’ on page 4 and 5 as marked with consolidated subsidiaries ('Arcadis', 'the Group' or 'the Company'). Arcadis aims to increase the symbol, further, these indicators are to be found throughout this Annual the assurance scope for information in the Annual Integrated Report in coming years. Integrated Report. These indicators are amongst the most material indicators for For a description of the definitions of these indicators (and some others used in this Annual Arcadis. (See page 250 for the Assurance report of the independent auditor, which Integrated Report) please refer to the section here below, and on the next page. included details on the scoping and outcomes.) Indicator Definition People & Number of employees Employees expressed in number of individuals at the balance sheet date. Employees are defined as individuals that Culture are in an employment relationship with Arcadis, according to national law or its application Employee engagement score The average result of the engagement index questions that are part of the employee engagement survey ‘Your Voice’, measured from 0-4 and 4 being the top grade. The engagement index questions consist of nine questions that are consistent over years Voluntary turnover rate Voluntary termination of employees (see definition above) divided by the average number of employees during the period. A termination is voluntary when the decision for termination is made by the employee Identified leadership potential rate Retention rate of employees who are considered to have top-level potential (A&B level) Females in total workforce Number of women employed at Arcadis as % of total employees Total Recordable Case Frequency (TRCF) The number of recordable injuries or illness per 200,000 working hours. An injury or illness is recordable if it is work-related and is medical according to the US occupational safety and health administration (OSHA) rules Lost Time Case Frequency (LTCF) The number of lost-time injuries or illness per 200,000 working hours Employees passing Code of Conduct training Percentage of employees that have passed the AGBP training and test. This training and test have the objective of increasing awareness of potential conflicts and dilemmas, guiding employees to make ethical decisions Number of AGBP alleged breaches (including near misses) Number reported integrity issues related to the Arcadis General Business Principles Investigated AGBP alleged breaches Number of investigated integrity issues relating to the Arcadis General Business Principles Group Effective Tax Rate over the past five years Weighted average Effective Tax Rate (ETR) over the past five years. ETR: Taxes on income divided by Income before income taxes, excluding Results from investments accounted for using the equity method and the Expected Credit Loss on shareholder loans and corporate guarantees Number of appointed privacy officers (in the year) Number of appointed privacy officers in the period by Arcadis Number of internal audits (in the year) Number of internal audits performed in a calendar year. The objective is to assess the operating effectiveness of business controls and provide recommendations to remediate identified risks that could potentially impact the realization of strategic objectives Client experience score Client satisfaction shown in a Net Promotor and Client Loyalty Score Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 267 Other information | Glossary financial & non-financial indicators Indicator Definition Innovation & Organic revenue growth Year-on-year Net revenue change minus contributions from acquisitions in that period plus contributions of Growth divestments in the previous period, minus exchange rate differences, and adjusted, if applicable, for nonrecurring items. Book-to-bill ratio Period net order-intake in Net revenues divided by the period Net revenues Organic revenue growth Global Key Clients Organic Net revenue growth generated by our Global Key Clients program compared to last year. The Global Key Clients is a set of clients that is determined by Arcadis based on multiple criteria set by the Executive Board. The Global Key Clients for the year are determined before the year starts Organic revenue growth Global Cities Organic Net revenue growth generated by our Global Cities program compared to last year % of revenues using BIM level 2 The Net revenue of Architecture or Design & Engineering projects, where more than one project discipline creates or collaboratively manages object-based information in a predefined way to have a single source of truth. Object-based is where a data set represents a physical real-world assets characteristic in a reusable form Arcadis Way implementation progress Total of Net revenues for the year of the cumulative regions and/or countries that have migrated on to the Oracle software as part of Arcadis Way, divided by total Net revenues for the Arcadis Group Arcadis’ carbon footprint The amount of greenhouse gases produced by Arcadis' employees measured in metric tons of carbon dioxide per full time equivalent (FTE) Number of identified environmental non-compliances Number of incidents in which Arcadis failed to meet environment related laws, regulations and standards in the execution of projects for clients % of revenues that relate to relevant SDGs The percentage of total Net revenues that relate to SDGs deemed relevant for Arcadis 268 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Glossary financial & non-financial indicators | Other information Indicator Definition Focus & Gross revenues The gross inflow of economic benefits during the period arising in the course of ordinary activities. Gross revenues Performance of Arcadis consist of external revenues net of value-added tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the Arcadis Group Net revenues Gross revenues minus materials, services of third parties and subcontractors, which are project-related costs of materials and services charged by third parties, including cost of subcontractor. Net revenues entails revenues produced by the activities of Arcadis own staff Dividend per share Dividends issued by Arcadis for every outstanding ordinary share EBITA Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, and Amortization divided by Impairment of goodwill and/or identifiable assets EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization divided by Impairment of goodwill and/or identifiable assets Operating EBITA EBITA excluding restructuring, integration, and acquisition related costs Operating EBITA margin Operating EBITA as percentage of net revenues Net Income from Operations Net income before non-recurring items (e.g. valuation changes of acquisition-related provisions, M&A costs, expected credit loss on shareholder loans and corporate guarantees and one-off pension costs), the impairment/amortization of goodwill/identifiable assets, and share-based compensations related to the Lovinklaan Foundation share purchase plan Net Income from Operations per share Net Income from operations in the year, divided by the average number of ordinary shares in the year Net Working Capital Sum of Contract assets (unbilled receivables), Inventories and Trade receivables minus Accounts payables, Contract liabilities (billing in excess of costs) and Contract liabilities (loss provisions) Net Working Capital as % of gross revenues Net working capital/Gross revenues of last three months of the year * 4 Days Sales Outstanding (DSO) (Trade receivables + Unbilled receivables Billings in excess of cost Loss provision) x 91 days)/Gross revenues of last three months of the year Return on invested capital (ROIC) The sum of earnings before interest after taxes and income from associates divided by average group equity, amortized goodwill and net debt Net debt to EBITDA ratio (average) Average net debt ultimo for the year/EBITDA. A measure of a Company’s ability to pay off its incurred debt. This ratio gives the investor the approximate amount of time that would be needed to pay off all debt, excluding interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization Free cash flow Cash flow from operating activities minus (dis)(in)vestments in (in)tangible assets Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 269 Other AARC: Arcadis Audit and Risk Defined Benefit: When the benefit Operating income: Earnings before Committee. on retirement from a pension fund interest and taxes. to its participants is fixed. ARC: Arcadis Risk & Control Order intake: The amount of new Framework. Defined Contribution: When the value projects for which contracts have been of the contribution to the pension fund signed or orally agreed on, expressed in ASC: Arcadis Selection Committee. made by the company is fixed. gross or net revenue. Advanced Management Program: ELT: Executive Leadership Team Peer group: Group of listed companies Internal training program for that is comparable to Arcadis both in Arcadis managers. Goodwill: The difference between the size and activity. costs of an acquisition over the fair value AGBP: Arcadis General Business of the identifiable net assets acquired. Percentage-of-completion: Principles. A set of working ethics for Method to recognize revenue and our employees. IFRS: International Financial expenses in an Income statement Reporting Standards. in proportion to the percentage Backlog: Value of signed orders in of completion of the contract. the portfolio to be filled, expressed Impairment test: An assessment on as gross or net revenue. the value of an asset in use, whereby Proxy solicitation: Means to estimated future cash flows are provide shareholders the opportunity CGUs: Cash Generating Units. discounted to reflect market conditions to vote without being present at the and the risks specific to the asset. shareholders meeting. Cash Flow Operating Activities: Profit for the period adjusted for Net cash position: Cash and cash RemCo: Arcadis Remuneration non-cash items and cash flow equivalents minus Bank overdrafts. Committee. from working capital. Net debt: Interest bearing debt minus Total shareholder return: Stock price all cash and cash equivalents. appreciation plus dividend yield. 270 Arcadis Annual Integrated Report 2018 Enquiries and acknowledgments Contact for more information Jurgen Pullens Director Investor Relations Email: Jurgen.Pullens@arcadis.com Cell phone: +31 6 51 59 94 83 Joost Slooten Disclaimer Director Sustainability & External affairs Statements included in this Annual Integrated Report that are not historical facts Email: Joost.Slooten@arcadis.com (including any statements concerning investment objectives, other plans and objectives of Cell phone: +31 6 27 06 18 80 management for future operations or economic performance, or assumptions or forecasts related thereto) are forward-looking statements. These statements are only predictions Publication and are not guarantees. Actual events or the results of our operations could differ Arcadis NV materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Forwardlooking statements are typically identified by the use of terms such as ‘may’, ‘will’, ‘should’, Writing and editing ‘expect’, ‘could’, ‘intend’, ‘plan’, ‘anticipate’, ‘estimate’, ‘believe’, ‘continue’, ‘predict’, ‘potential’, or Group Reporting – Micha Ris, Laura van Oorschot the negative of such terms and other comparable terminology. Investor Relations – Jurgen Pullens, Christine Disch Marketing & Communications – Jochem Binst, Monika Grabek The forward-looking statements are based upon our current expectations, plans, Sustainability & External affairs – Joost Slooten estimates, assumptions, and beliefs that involve numerous risks and uncertainties. Assumptions relating to the foregoing involve judgments with respect to, among other Concept, design and DTP things, future economic, competitive, and market conditions and future business decisions, DartGroup, Amsterdam, the Netherlands all of which are difficult or impossible to predict accurately and many of which are beyond our control. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking Printing statements are based on reasonable assumptions, our actual results and performance Tuijtel, Hardinxveld-Giessendam, the Netherlands could differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Arcadis NV Gustav Mahlerplein 97-103 1082 MS Amsterdam, the Netherlands Tel +31 20 201 10 11 Fax +31 20 201 10 03 E-mail ir@arcadis.com Internet www.arcadis.com Chamber of Commerce Amsterdam, the Netherlands Trade registry no. 09051284 VAT nl 0062.93.700.B.01
