Communication On Progress for 2018 Contents 1 Support for the UNGC · ·· ·· ·· ·· ·· ·· ·· ·· ·· ·1 2 Human Resource Management · ··2 3 Socially Responsible Financing · ··4 4 Ethical Managemenet · ·· ·· ·· ·· ·· ··· ·· ·· ·· ·6 [ WE SUPPORT FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT ] 1 Suppor for the UNGC Since established in 1954, KDB has financed the development of Korea's pillar industries and served as a market safety net, fulfilling its policy roles and contributing to the growth of the Korean economy and the financial sector. With one of the core missions being supporting development, KDB recognizes the importance of the efforts to carry out its business to enhance the sustainability of the public and the private sectors as well as the markets they work in, and to achieve positive development outcomes. KDB joined the UN Global Compact in 2007 and has supported the Compact’s ten principles in respect to human rights, labor rights, the protection of the environment and anti-corruption. In supporting the principles, KDB is committed to making the UN Global Compact and the principles a part of its strategy, culture and business operations, and to engaging in collaborative projects that advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Sustainable Development Goals. KDB has been promoting and disseminating the concept of sustainable development in local and overseas markets to help its partners and borrowers achieve their development goals such as reducing poverty, and engaging in environmental and climate protection. KDB will continue its commitment and make best efforts to implement the principles. Lee, Dong Gull Chairman & CEO Korea Development Bank 1 [ WE SUPPORT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS & LABOR ] 2 Human Resource Management KDB seeks to recruit forward-looking global talent driven by passion and determination, and also possessing the qualifications and sense of ethics needed to lead the development of the Korean financial industry. Fair and Competency-driven Recruitment KDB hires new employees every year in order to respond effectively to the ever-changing economic and business environments, and to strengthen its organizational competencies. We ensure equal opportunity and fairness in our recruitment process by adopting ‘blind recruitment’ practices. Recruitment is driven above all by job competencies, with an emphasis on a candidate’s basic capabilities and organizational fit within the financial industry. KDB hired 63 new employees in 2018, all of whom had undergone a multi-dimensional evaluation at each stage of the hiring process in line with National Competency Standards (NCS). We significantly increased the proportion of new employees with technological background, including big data, ICT, and biotech. These talented new recruits will take the lead in shaping the future of Korean industries in the era of the 4th Industrial Revolution. Strengthening Job Competencies We segment job functions at KDB into 172 categories with the aim of maximizing organizational competencies through enhancement of individual job competencies. We support employees in their individual development through a wide range of personalized Career Development Programs (CDPs) which are divided into exploration, development, and master phases. Employees in the exploration phase can improve their skills in their own job functions while also gaining experience within other areas. Subsequently, more support is given to employees to help them further develop their expertise as they move towards the master phase. 2 [ WE SUPPORT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS & LABOR ] For specialized job positions requiring higher level of expertise, positions are filled through competitive in-house recruitment process. In 2018, we recruited staff for positions in project finance, regional development, shipping and aviation finance, credit review, risk management, and industry analysis & assessment. We also operate an open position system which emphasizes the importance of expertise, and imbues our organizational culture with added vitality. In 2018, we proceeded with in-house and external recruitment to hire qualified experts in three areas — retirement pension consulting, management strategy, and bancassurance & fund sales — and thus continued our efforts to secure experts in each area. Programs for Development of Global Talent KDB offers its employees a wide array of opportunities to develop their expertise and pursue knowledge in their own specific areas of interest. The Bank’s career development roadmap consists of three-phase training courses for each of its 24 job functions, and a variety of in-house training courses are offered covering key areas including loans, deposits, and F/X transactions. In addition, we enable our employees to continue their education anytime and anywhere by providing online courses through the KDB e-Campus, in partnership with professional training institutions. KDB also runs a range of overseas programs aimed at developing global talent. We offer training programs to nurture regional specialists in countries with strong growth potential such as Indonesia and Vietnam, where we are seeking future business opportunities. Moreover, employees are dispatched to overseas networks in New York, London, and Singapore for on-the-job training and are offered a variety of foreign language training courses before and after work. 3 [ WE SUPPORT FOR ENVIRONMENT ] 3 Socially Responsible Financing KDB maintains a keen interest in fostering future growth engines, pursuing the balanced growth of companies of various sizes and regions, expanding public infrastructure, and improving the environment, while providing socially responsible financial products and services. Climate Change Project Development Seminar KDB addressed the climate change issue by hosting the Climate Change Project Development Seminar (cohosted by KDB and KEPCO) in March 2018, and invited a number of climate change-related companies, including KEPCO and academic experts. At the Seminar, we shared information on KDB’s roles as an Implementing Entity of Green Climate Fund (GCF). Following up on this seminar, we will build a system of seamless cooperation with both major climate change project participants and academic experts, and actively facilitate more KDB-GCF co-financing projects. KDB Climate Finance Forum 2018 KDB hosted the KDB Climate Finance Forum in October 2018, and invited companies and organizations involved in climate change projects, including the Ministry of Economy and Finance, GCF, and Hanwha Energy. At the forum, we shared detailed information about the measures we have put in place to enhance accessibility to GCF funds, and our experience in and strategies for implementing climate change projects. There was a panel discussion with participation from KDB, KEPCO, and K-SURE to discuss how to expand the financial fundamentals for climate change projects in developing countries. This forum has helped us to build close ties with major climate change project stakeholders. Going forward, KDB plans to be more active in climate change projects including new and renewable energy sector. Korea’s first green bond (in KRW) Leveraging the experience gained in 2017 by issuing a foreign currencydenominated green bond, KDB issued Korea’s first KRW-denominated green bond, worth KRW 300 billion with 3-year maturity at an annual coupon of 4 [ WE SUPPORT FOR ENVIRONMENT ] 2.35%, in May 2018, targeting institutional investors interested in socially responsible investment (SRI). KDB allocated 5.3% of the net proceeds to solar power projects and 94.7% to double track railway projects. Except for one project still under construction (expected to be complete by December 2024), all funded projects are currently in operation. Once all the projects are operating, the total reduction in CO2 emissions is expected to be 201,515tons per annum, of which, given KDB’s participation, our contribution will be an annual 16,589 tons, or 528 tons per KRW 1 billion of proceeds (details in the table below). The issuance of a KRW-denominated green bond is expected to increase interest in SRI in the domestic market, and will promote green finance by attracting financial resources muchneeded to counter climate change. Environmental impacts Energy Generation Reduction of CO2 emissions1) (tCo2/year) Sector Capacity(MWh) Contribution of Per KRW 1 billion of or Line Length(Km) By Project KDB green bonds the Bank’s proceeds Solar Power 200MWh 18,725 5,318 334 7.8Km 92,932 929 119 Double track 12.8Km 20,928 2,553 19 railway 20.8Km 68,930 7,789 56 Total 201,515 16,589 528 1) Key methodologies for the measurement of CO2 emissions •“Methodology for the Assessment of Project GHG Emissions and Emission Variations” (European Investment Bank, 2014) •“Projected Costs of Generating Electricity” (International Energy Agency, 2015) •“Large-scale Methodology: High speed passenger rail systems” (United Nations) Sound environmental and social risk management KDB, as the only Equator Principles Financial Institution(EPFI) in Korea, recognizes the importance of ensuring that the projects we finance are developed in a manner that is socially responsible and reflects sound environmental management practices. Adopted by the Bank in 2017, the Equator Principles (EPs) serve as a baseline and framework for determining, assessing, and managing environmental and social risk in project-related transactions. We are fully committed to implementing the EPs through our Environmental and Social (E&S) Review and Management Guideline that sets out the Bank’s objectives, standards, and procedures for managing environmental and social risks in the projects. In 2018, our dedicated E&S team conducted internal environmental and social reviews on project finance and project-related corporate loan transactions that fell within the scope of the Equator Principles. 5 [ WE SUPPORT FOR ANTI-CORRUPTION ] 4 Ethical Management Driven by a strict sense of ethics and a commitment to ensuring protection for our customers and other stakeholders, everyone at KDB puts ethical management at the center of its corporate culture. Compliance KDB practices ethical management by continuously realigning its anti-corruption infrastructure and running a wide range of programs to promote its code of conduct. Effective training on ethics for employees is provided to boost ethical awareness, and a culture of ethical management has taken root to cultivate a transparent and fair workplace. In 2018, the Korean government set out stricter requirements for the public sector to restore integrity and comply with high ethical standards that meet the expectations of the general public. Against this backdrop, KDB stepped up the following efforts. Firstly, we further improved our infrastructure for anti-corruption and integrity. Our Code of Conduct was significantly improved through a BOD resolution, and the scope of the Executive Pledge of Ethics, which was previously taken only by the Chairman, Vice-Chairman, and Auditor, was expanded to include Executive Directors in order to increase the sense of responsibility and integrity of the top management. Secondly, KDB expanded its anti-corruption and integrity programs to spread a culture of integrity. Each department undertook voluntary integrity implementation and participated in a bank-wide contest for integrity policy suggestion. Moreover, branches and employees with high ethical performance were awarded. Lastly, in accordance with strengthened anti-money laundering supervision standards, KDB has implemented relevant measures, such as more detailed ‘know your customer (KYC)’ due diligence and stricter rules on Suspicious Transaction Reporting (STR). We have also improved our abilities to counter cryptocurrency money laundering, and reviewed anti-money laundering systems at our overseas branches. Moreover, in response to the resumption of U.S. sanctions on Iran and strengthened sanctions on North Korea in 2018, we have thoroughly implemented the sanctions into our everyday business for full compliance. 6 [ WE SUPPORT FOR ANTI-CORRUPTION ] Major compliance management programs Programs Details Voluntary integrity implementation Encourages employee participation in establishing integrity & integrity policy suggestion contest policy and identifying areas vulnerable to corruption Ethics awards for Provides incentives to branches and employees with high branches and employees ethical standards Requires employees engaging in loan business to report on Securities report system their securities accounts and transaction details biannually Requires employees engaged in specific job functions defined Financial investment product trade in the Capital Markets Act to report on their buying and selling report system of financial investment products monthly or quarterly Cryptocurrency possession Requires employees engaging in cryptocurrency business to report system report their possession of cryptocurrency biannually Report system for Requires employees to report outside lecture requests tied to outside lecture requests their job functions or influences Clean Report Center / Prohibits solicitation and acceptance of gifts exceeding No Gift Campaign specified amounts Builds a report system for unfair demands or treatment to Gapjil1) Report Center fellow employees or people outside the Bank Requires employees to report on unlawful solicitation from Solicitation report system fellow employees and people outside the Bank Compliance self-check system Checks the compliance status of all employees biannually Whistleblowing system Ensures whistleblowers’ anonymity and rewards them Mandates registered directors to maintain integrity in job Executive Pledge of Ethics performance Code of Conduct Pledge Mandates new hires to comply with the Code of Conduct Provides trainings to new employees and employees engaged Ethics training in job functions vulnerable to corruption Conducts monitoring on compliance reports, self-inspection reports Compliance monitoring from branches, and monthly compliance training results 1) Abuse of power by someone against a person in a weaker position 7 [ WE SUPPORT FOR ANTI-CORRUPTION ] Consumer Protection KDB continuously strives to improve its consumer protection systems based on its core value of protecting the rights of financial consumers, which is especially important given the recent trend in Korea towards strengthened protection for financial consumers. KDB has established a consumer protection process for each phase of the life of a financial product from development to sales and post-sales. We regularly examine across all phases for any factor that may impinge on consumer rights in order to prevent improper or incomplete product sales. The product development and sales departments co-operate by sharing information on recent consumer protection issues through the Financial Consumer Protection Council. As a result of these efforts, KDB earned ‘Excellent’ ratings across all categories from the ‘Evaluation of Consumer Protection Status’ by the Financial Supervisory Service in 2018. We have also systematized our complaint handling system to improve customer satisfaction. We have set up an SMS-based notification service as part of the complaint handling procedure in order to address complaints more promptly, while also striving to reduce the number of complaints by analyzing the cause of the most frequent complaints, providing training on handling complaints, and distributing a checklist for complaints prevention. Moreover, we conduct in-house customer satisfaction surveys to enhance employee awareness, thereby improving levels of consumer satisfaction. KDB makes the utmost effort to protect the personal information of its customers. We have established detailed standards for the handling of personal information and regularly check on the implementation of these standards. As a result, KDB earned an ‘Excellent’ rating from the assessment of its personal information protection system by the Ministry of the Interior and Safety in 2018. We also operate electronic financial fraud prevention and monitoring systems to protect consumers from voice phishing. 8 [ WE SUPPORT FOR ANTI-CORRUPTION ] 2018 Milestones and performance for consumer protection Milestones Performance • (Planning & Development Stage) Reviewed consumer right infringement Established a consumer when developing and revising products and services protection system for • (Sales Stage) Prevented incomplete sales by providing appropriate information each life phase of a on key product features and risks financial product • (After-sales Stage) Improved consumer protection levels through on-site reviews of consumer protection status • Collected diverse customer opinions through the Voice of Customer(VOC) system • Received an ‘Excellent’ rating in the ‘Public-service Customer Index (PSCI)’ Increased customer survey organized by the Ministry of Economy and Finance satisfaction by • Facilitated customer satisfaction(CS) training by taking into account collecting their opinions the results of PSCI survey • Received & handled complaints, and then conducted follow-up checks Disclosed information • Provided up-to-date information and actively responded to information to ensure the public’s disclosure requests right to know • Provided group training to employees in charge of information disclosure • Conducted regular reviews on browsing history and provision history Conducted personal to a third party information protection • Ran a campaign to delete critical personal information files stored on PCs at work activities for customers • Acquired an ‘Excellent’ rating from the assessment of its personal information protection system by the Ministry of the Interior and Safety Conducted monitoring • Improved the electronic financial fraud prevention and monitoring system to prevent losses from • Provided training on preventing voice phishing attacks electronic financial fraud 9 -
