Sustainability Report 2018 ASSA ABLOY meets the most stringent environmental certification ratings at Delos new headquarters at 860 Washington Street in Manhattan. Contents Highlights 2018 CEO statement 1 2 About the report Business context 3 This report, along with additional information available Business model 4 online, describes the Group’s sustainability initiatives and Strategy 6 performance in 2018, and addresses issues that ASSA Performance in 2018 and targets 2020 8 ABLOY has identified as the most important to its stake­ Customer value and sustainable innovation 9 holders. Supply chain 12 As signatory to the UN Global Compact, ASSA ABLOY Manufacturing 15 will submit this report to the UN Global Compact as its People 22 Communication on ­Progress Report 2018. This report has been ­prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Governance 26 Core option (see pages 34–35 for GRI c­ ontent index). GRI content index 34 The data presented in this report has been collected over Reporting principles 36 the calendar year and includes all ASSA ABLOY operations. Auditor’s report 36 For further information regarding the Sustainability Glossary 37 Report and its reporting principles, see page 36. Contacts 37 External recognition and memberships P 2 ASSA ABLOY is included in FTSE4Good, the OMX GES Sustain­ability Sweden PI Index, and in the Kempen SNS SRI Universe. ASSA ABLOY has participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) since 2007. For 2018, the Group received a score of C in the CDP Climate Change Program, and a score of C in the CDP Water Program. In January 2017, ASSA ABLOY became an official regional Sustainability needs to be on top ­partner in the World Green Building Council’s Europe Regional Network. The Network represents a confederation of our agenda of 24 Green Building Councils, eight Regional Partners and The need for sustainable access solutions is continously growing among over 5,000 company members. ASSA ABLOY’s customers. Other important main memberships include: The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise (Svenskt Närings­ liv), The Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences P 8 (IVA), Physical Security Interoperability Alliance (PSIA), The Zigbee Alliance and The Z-Wave Alliance. Environmental performance The Group’s ambition is to reduce the environmental impact and enhance performance while expanding the Group. Sustainability governance P 26 including organizational responsibility and stakeholder engagement ASSA ABLOY in brief #1 SEK 84 billion 48,500 employees Who are we? For whom? The ASSA ABLOY Group is the global leader in access The ASSA ABLOY Group provides access solutions, solutions. The offering covers products and services trusted identifies, entrance automation and service for related to openings, such as locks, doors, gates and institutional and commercial customers, as well as for entrance automation solutions. The Group also has the residential market. The Group has the largest expertise in controlling identities, with keys, cards, tags, installed base of products in the world, with a large mobile and biometric identity verification systems as share of sales in the stable a­ ftermarket. parts of the offering. What do we do? Where are we? Every day, ASSA ABLOY helps billions of people experiThe Group has leading positions in most of Europe, ence a more open world through innovations that North and South America, Asia and Oceania. enable safe, secure and convenient access to physical and digital places. Share of Group sales by region 2018 North America 42% (40) South America 3% (3) Europe 38% (38) Asia 13% (14) Oceania 3% (4) Africa 1% (1) Value creation strategy The Group’s strategic direction is to lead the trend towards the world’s most innovative and well-designed access solutions. Our purpose is to help people feel safe, secure and experience a more open world. Our core values, beliefs and strategic objectives help guide our way. Purpose Financial targets Strategic objectives To every day help people feel safe, secure and experience a more open world Growth through Growth customer relevance Vision 5% To be the leader in providing innovative organic access solutions that help people feel Product leadership safe and secure so that they can experi­ 5% through innovation ence a more open world acquired = Mission 10% Cost-efficiency in • Building sustainable ­shareholder total everything we do value • Providing added value to our ­customers, partners and end-users EBIT • Being a world leading organization Evolution where people succeed • Conducting business in an ethical, 16–17% through people compliant and s­ ustainable way Empowerment Innovation Integrity Core values We have trust We have the We stand up for & beliefs in people courage to change what’s right Highlights 2018 • The Group had a positive development • The Energy intensity has decreased by across a majority of the reporting areas. 5 percent during the year. • The Group’s materiality analysis was updated • By the end of 2018 the Group had 332 during the year with input from employees, Environmental Product Declarations verified customers and suppliers. The result confirms and published. that the Group is working with the right • The Group carried out 1,055 sustainability priorities. audits of suppliers in low cost countries. • The increased focus on Health and Safety has • The Code of Conduct was updated with the paid off and led to a decrease of the injury Group’s global Data protection compliance rate by 11 percent. program. The Code of Conduct will be rolled • The water intensity has decreased by out in 28 languages. 10 percent during the year. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 1 CEO statement Sustainability needs to be on top of our agenda During my first year at ASSA ABLOY I’ve visited many customers, companies and employees around the world. I was excited to learn that the need for sustainable access solutions is continuously growing among ASSA ABLOY’s customers. When it comes to ASSA ABLOY’s sustainability performance, water-based paint. Furthermore, our efficiency programs, we had another good year with substantial improvements in such as the manufacturing footprint and VA/VE (value analysis/ many areas. Within health and safety, both the injury rate value engineering) also made a significant contribution to and the severity of injuries continued to develop in a positive the overall improvements in sustainability in terms of way, where the injury rate decreased by 11 percent. The use reduced consumption of energy and materials. The number of water has been reduced, through further improvements of sustainability audits of suppliers remains at a high level. in efficiency. We have also expanded our portfolio of our During the year we carried out an update of the Group’s energy-harvesting products during the year. materiality analysis, identifying the most important sustaina­ Sustainability is a license to operate, where we continu­ bility areas. Customers, suppliers and employees have been ously work to do more with fewer resources. Efficiency in asked to provide input on our most important areas. I’m terms of the way we use our resources and taking responsi­ pleased to say that the outcome of the updated analysis bility for this are fully integrated into ASSA ABLOY’s pro­ ­confirms that we’re working on the right priorities. cesses and make us a better business. We have evaluated our sustainability program in relation An important driver for product development is the to the UN Sustainable Development Goals and concluded sharply rising demand for sustainable solutions. There is that our work is in line with the UN SDG initiatives. strong growth in investments in green buildings – with cus­ ASSA ABLOY remains committed to the principles of the tomer requirements for energy savings, reduced consump­ UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, the tion of materials, the health aspects for the inhabitants of environment and anti-corruption. This report contains our a building and renewable or recycled materials becoming annual communication on its progress. increasingly important. Finally – a few important words on values, purpose and The various openings of a building can influence up to beliefs. During the year we launched our core values, namely 20 percent of its energy consumption. ASSA ABLOY offers a Empowerment, Innovation and Integrity. The Group’s mis­ growing range of products with environmental declarations, sion is to build sustainable shareholder value, but also to be with a focus on saving energy, as well as reduced consump­ an attractive company to our employees and to conduct tion of materials and other resources used in production. business in an ethical, compliant and sustainable way. For During 2018, the number of EPDs (environmental product me, the employees and the competence they possess are our declarations) increased to 332. Higher sustainability perfor­ most important asset. It is our employees who bring mance from a life cycle perspective is a prerequisite for our everything together. I would like to take this opportunity to development work and is integrated into the product inno­ thank all our employees for the effort they have invested in vation process. We have great sustainable solutions that ASSA ABLOY in 2018 and for making ASSA ABLOY a more make a difference in helping our customers to create a more ­sustainable company. sustainable building. ASSA ABLOY’s five year sustainability program is making Stockholm, 4 February 2019 good progress. Water and energy intensity decreased by 10 percent and 5 percent respectively. The consumption Nico Delvaux of organic solvents continued to decrease by switching President and CEO to more environmentally friendly processes such as using “ASSA ABLOY remains ­committed to the principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. This report contains our annual com­ munication on progress.” 2 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Business context ASSA ABLOY’s business context ASSA ABLOY is the global leader in access solutions. With a global presence comes global responsibility, and part of earning stakeholders’ trust is to manage the material aspects of sustainability throughout ASSA ABLOY’s value chain. Globalization, urbanization, digitization and resource efficiency to further enhance profitability while sustainability reducing its environmental footprint. As the global economy grows, more and more people are better off financially and have a greater need for safety and Engaging with stakeholders security to protect their homes and families. An increasing Stakeholder engagement is key to understanding society’s number of people are moving to cities to find work, with at needs and expectations on ASSA ABLOY and how they can be least 1 billion people expected to make this journey in the met. ASSA ABLOY’s main stakeholder groups are those with a next 10 years. These trends of rising prosperity and urbaniza­ high level of influence, and with whom the company interacts tion are leading to greater investments in advanced doors directly and actively in its day-to-day business – including and access solutions in homes, workplaces, and shopping ­customers, investors and shareholders, employees, suppliers, centers. non-governmental organizations and local communities. At the same time, growing environmental concerns and As stakeholder relationships differ greatly, so too does resource consumption are placing a focus on energy savings. ASSA ABLOY’s engagement approach for particular stake­ Locks, doors, and door-opening solutions have a key role to holder groups. For example, customers are involved in the play in climate-smart buildings. Digitization also provides product development process through the ‘Voice of the enormous potential for smarter security, connected access ­Customer’ customer assessment tools; suppliers are solutions, and management and control of access and engaged through the sustainability audit program; energy consumption. ­employees through day-to-day operations, training, the These trends provide ASSA ABLOY with the conditions for employee survey, and the work council; and the investment good underlying, long-term growth. With the Group’s four com­munity through dialogue on sustainability together main strategic objectives of growth through customer with ­traditional investor relations activities. ­relevance, product leadership, cost efficiency and evolution through people, ASSA ABLOY has demonstrated its ability to Customer relevance identify focus areas for long-term profitable growth. Emerg­ ASSA ABLOY offers solutions that meet customer require­ ing markets, innovation, and product development with a ments for safety, security, convenience and sustainability. focus on electronics, as well as increasing sustainability per­ The solutions need to meet local requirements, rules and formance of ASSA ABLOY products and solutions, provide standards, as well as the need for integration into new or great opportunities. With good cost control and the ongoing existing security systems. streamlining of its processes, the Group is promoting The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) The UN SDGs provide the global community with a roadmap innovative solutions, particularly in buildings. Continuous for how to combat global challenges related to economic, efficiency improvements in production processes reduces social and environmental sustainability. As the global leader ASSA ABLOY’s climate impact and is linked to SDG 13 on in access solutions, ASSA ABLOY’s sustainability work is urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts. aligned with the objectives of the SDGs – with a focus on six Taking responsibility in its operations, ASSA ABLOY has a SDGs in particular. strong focus on efficiency, which is related to SDG 12 on Urbanization and the role of sustainable cities is an responsible production, through a focus on resource effi­ important opportunity for ASSA ABLOY. The business is con­ ciency and waste reduction. The Group’s goal is to reduce tributing to SDG 11 on making cities and human settle­ water intensity, which supports SDG 6 on clean water and ments inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. Everywhere sanitation. Integrating sustainability into the sourcing pro­ ASSA ABLOY operates, the company supports the intention cesses also means ASSA ABLOY contributes to SDG 8 on of SDG 9 on resilient infrastructure, inclusive and sustainable inclusive and sustainable economic growth and decent industrialization and innovation. ASSA ABLOY’s products work, where health and safety is a top priority. themselves can reduce customer climate impacts through ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 3 BUSInESS MODEL Value-creation for all stakeholders Overall strategy Resources External factors The Group’s strategic direction Financial capital • Growing security needs • Urbanization is to lead the trend towards the 48 ,500 employees • Digitization world’s most innovative and in over 70 countries • Automation well­designed access solutions. • Sustainability Strong common processes in Our purpose is to everyday help a decentralized customer­ people feel safe, secure and focused organization experience a more open world. Sustainability is an integrated Our core values, beliefs and part of all business processes strategic objectives help guide within the Group ASSA ABLOY’s our way. Efficient production and most important assembly facilities all over the world activities Strategic objectives: Strategic and cost­effective Marketing, suppliers sales, advisory, service Growth through customer and support relevance Strong brands, patents and well­diversified product port­ Innovation and product Product leadership through folio that meets local regula­ development innovation tions and standards Sourcing, manufacturing, Cost-efficiency in everything Customers all over the world and streamlining of we do with a large installed base processes Acquisitions and Evolution through people integration • Customers • Suppliers and partners • Shareholders and investors • Employees • Society Stakeholders 4 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 BUSInESS MODEL Result Value for stakeholders Overall value-creation Products, services and support Customers: Security • Security, safety and convenience Electromechanical products account for 30 percent of sales • Retained market and product leadership Safety • Sustainable products with environmental Entrance automation account product declaration Convenience for 28 percent of sales Suppliers and partners: • Technological development Mechanical locks account for • Stable partner 26 percent of sales • Earnings and employment • Shareholders and investors: Security doors account for Dividends and capital appreciation 16 percent of sales Employees: • Safe workplace Products launched in the • Professional development and income past three years account for • Ethically, stable and long­term business 27 percent of sales Profitable Society: • Growth growth • Employment • Sustainability • Increased safety and security ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 5 Strategy Strategic direction The strategic objectives guide the ASSA ABLOY Group towards market growth, product leadership, cost-efficiency in everything we do and evolution through people. The strategic objectives and the mission to conduct business in an ethical, compliant and sustainable way form the basis for the company’s sustainability work. As the global leader in access solutions, sustainability is related to suppliers with a particular focus on high-risk sup­ becoming increasingly important in identifying and manag­ pliers. When incorporating new acquisitions, ASSA ABLOY ing business opportunities and fully exploiting ASSA ABLOY’s has established an efficient process that comprehensively brand portfolio across diverse segments. The company’s reviews sustainability-related issues in order to mitigate the expansion is facilitated by a strong brand and good reputa­ risks associated with incorporating new companies and their tion, which are supported by acting responsibly. supply chains. ASSA ABLOY can reduce production costs by considering Risk mitigation in ASSA ABLOY’s own operations, includes the lifecycle environmental impacts of a product through work to ensure that all factories with significant environmen­ more efficient resource use, and by applying the reduce-­ tal impact are ISO 14001 certified. Ongoing activities are reuse-recycle principle. ASSA ABLOY can reduce its environ­ also in place to optimize resource use, including energy, mental impact and increase cost-efficiency by systematically water and waste. In 2017, a new Group-wide Health and exploring ways to reduce production materials, optimize Safety Management System was launched to mitigate opera­ product components, and streamline production as well as tional risks by implementing a set of standardized metrics transport methods. Relevant sustainability aspects are con­ and tools. sidered in business plans, decision-making processes, and The use of the ASSA ABLOY Sustainability Compass is also business principles. crucial to mitigate product-related risks through sustainabil­ ity innovation and embedding sustainability into product Sustainability risk management development. The Compass is ensuring that ASSA ABLOY’s ASSA ABLOY’s long-term risk-management strategy covers next generation of products are more sustainable than the sustainability aspects throughout its the value chain. The previous generation, which mitigates risks for both ASSA company’s supplier audit program helps to manage risks ABLOY and its customers. Sustainability in the value chain me rs Inn ov sto a C u n Sustainability is a driver throughout ASSA ABLOY’s value chain. It is tio an important element in innovation, sourcing, production, employee development, applying ASSA ABLOY’s products and solutions, and in Employees M ark et prese maintaining good relations with external stakeholders. Code of Conduct and Governance in g urc n ce So M anu fa c t u ri n g Innovation New products are evaluated from a life Manufacturing The manufacture of the Group’s prodCustomers ASSA ABLOY’s ambition is to supply cycle perspective. Many recently developed products ucts should be carried out safely and with the lowest high-quality products that fulfill customer requiresave energy as a result of improved insulation and possible environmental impact. ments, have a long life, are manufactured with miniintelligent control of various door-opening solutions. mal use of resources, and have a minimal environmenInnovation is carried out either locally, divisionally, or Market presence ASSA ABLOY is present in more than tal impact throughout their life cycle. End users are shared between the divisions depending on the con70 countries, more than two-thirds of which are in large institutional and commercial customers (within tent and scope. North America and Europe. Wherever ASSA ABLOY health care, education, retail, hospitality, office builddoes business, it follows the Code of Conduct, ings, and industry), small and medium-sized customSourcing Every year the Group purchases a consider­ respects the laws and regulations governing business ers (offices, stores), and the residential market (apartable amount of material, components, and products ethics in the countries in which it operates, and it ments, houses). Examples of distribution channels: from about 8000 direct suppliers around the world at requires all of its partners to do the same. security systems integrators, locksmiths, security a value of more than SEK 26 billion. 48 percent of this installers, building and lock wholesalers, retailers, DIY, value is sourced in low-cost countries. Suppliers in risk hardware and security stores, original equipment areas are evaluated from a sustainability perspective. manufacturers, and door and window manufacturers. China is by far the dominant low-cost country. 6 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Strategy Actions to improve performance Every quarter, ASSA ABLOY reports on, follows up, and evalu­ Each Division has identified its greatest sustainability ates its defined Sustainability KPIs, and a progress update is impacts, and developed an action plan to mitigate these provided to management at different levels in the organiza­ impacts as part of Group-wide 2020 targets. ASSA ABLOY’s tion. This process has resulted in regularly updated and more sustainability management has set the following priorities: ambitious targets for the majority of the follow-up areas – • Targets for all sustainability KPIs, covering all entities and including some KPIs that are now followed up on a monthly the Group. basis. • Coordinated implementation of environmental manage­ ment systems and systematic follow-up. Strategic partnerships • Conduct 80-100 workshops for value analysis and value ASSA ABLOY is a member of various national Green Building engineering (VA/VE) to develop a product optimization Councils around the world, and became a member of the model that reduces environmental impact. World Green Building Council’s Europe regional network in • Increased capabilities for data analysis and benchmarking. 2017. Green Building Council partnerships around the world • Continued focus on sustainable products. allow ASSA ABLOY to further promote the sustainability • Health and safety – implementation of Group approach agenda in the built environment. Working together with and start monitoring additional KPIs. industry-leading companies, the EU commission and the • Improved system support to automatically calculate World Green Building Council, ASSA ABLOY aims to help all audited spend in low-cost countries. stakeholders to reduce the environmental footprint of all • Sales of the portfolio of sustainable products. building types globally. Materiality analysis and sustainability priorities During 2018, ASSA ABLOY performed a materiality analysis based on requirements in the GRI Standards. The purpose was to identify and secure that ASSA ABLOY manages and reports on its significant economic, environmental and social impact ­having a substantive influence on the assessments and decisions of important stakeholders. The outcome of the materiality analysis is a list with significant sustainability topics, which also shape the content of this report. The significant sustainability topics are connected to KPIs reported on a quarterly basis. Significant sustainability topics: • Reduce emissions with global warming potential  Read more on page 16–17 • Resource efficiency  Read more on page 9–10, 15–20 • Sustainable and circular products  Read more on page 9–10 • Creating a culture of diversity  Read more on page 22–23 • Safety, security and convenience for customers  Read more on page tab, 3 • Human capital development  Read more on page 22–25, 32 • Improve health and safety performance  Read more on page 24–25 • Business compliance  Read more on page 28–29, 32 • Sustainable supply chains  Read more on page 12–14 • Responsible acquisitions  Read more on page 33 • Strengthen anti-corruption measures  Read more on page 22,32 See page 30 for more information about the materiality analysis process. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 7 Performance in 2018 Performance in 2018 and targets for 2020 During the year, the Group saw a positive trend across the majority of the reporting areas – including strong improvements in the injury rate and the injury lost day rate, and for water and energy efficiency. The current Group 5-year targets will continue until the end and to share information and best practice between entities. of 2020, and the Group reports its sustainability perfor­ The ASSA ABLOY sustainability reporting system, sustainabil­ mance (certain KPIs) every quarter. With 361 (360) report­ ity database and analysis tool are key elements for tracking ing units, it is important to ensure good awareness of the performance, identifying improvement areas and enabling Group’s sustainability priorities throughout the organization the smooth integration of new units. MATERIAL KPI Target Change Area 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 20181 2015–2020 2015–2018 Environmental KPI Number of entities covered by ISO 14001 certificates and other ­certifiable management systems 101 111 121 124 131 119 125 ● –22 Intensity of greenhouse gas emissions related to energy ­consumption (tons/SEK M) 10.0 9.0 9.5 8.3 8.7 8.2 –20% ● –14% Intensity of greenhouse gas emissions related to chemicals in ­industrial processes (tons/SEK M) 7.6 9.1 6.5 3.1 2.2 2.3 –85% ● –65% Energy intensity (MWh/SEK M) 28.4 27.7 27.3 24.2 23.6 22.3 –20% ● –18% Water intensity (m3/SEK M) 108.9 104.1 97.5 74.6 65.1 58.8 –20% ● –40% Hazardous waste intensity (kg/SEK M) 110.0 109.9 125.2 120.5 122.5 118.9 –20% ● –5% Non-hazardous waste intensity (kg/SEK M) 683 865 928 850 824 754 –20% ● –19% Consumption of chlorinated organic solvents (PER and TRI) (tons) 14.4 1.7 19.0 16.8 19.5 15.6 –85% ● –18% Consumption of other types of organic solvents (tons) 949 1,033 1,255 1,160 945 809 –50% ● –35% Portion of renewable energy 6.9% 7.8% 9.1% 11.7% 11.6% 12.0% 20% ● +2.9 p.p. Social KPI Injury rate (number of injuries per million hours worked) 7.5 6.4 6.7 5.1 4.1 3.7 –55% ● –45% Injury lost day rate (number of lost days related to injuries per million hours worked) 168.2 135.7 136.0 89.2 74.6 67.7 –64% ● –50% Portion of spend in low-cost countries represented by sustainability ­audited suppliers 89% 90% 90% 93% 93% 96% 90% ● +6 p.p. Number of sustainability audits of suppliers in low-cost countries 885 812 890 865 919 1,055 +165 Gender equality3 Level 2: 27% 27% 27% 27% 27% 20% –7 p.p. Portion of females in management positions Level 3: 12% 16% 17% 18% 17% 18% 0 p.p. Level 4: 21% 20% 16% 16% 16% 20% +4 p.p. Level 5: 24% 23% 25% 24% 25% 25% 0 p.p. Level 2–5: 23% 22% 23% 22% 23% 24% 30% ● +1 p.p. ● KPI is on track to being met by the end of 2020 ● Additional work is required to achieve KPI ● KPI is off track and risks not being met 1 For comparable units in 2018. 2 The development is a combination of an increased number of ­certified entities, recently acquired companies with ISO 14001 certification and restructuring activities. 3 The definition of management positions have been revised d ­ uring 2014. 2013 have been restated to be compar­able with 2014. 8 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Customer value and sustainable innovation Sustainable innovation The demand for sustainable access solutions is continuously growing among ASSA ABLOY’s customers, driven by the need for energy savings and the health aspects for the inhabitants of a building. Sustainable innovation is essential to meet those customer needs – ASSA ABLOY therefore uses its sustainable innovation practices to promote sustainability-related design criteria in product development. Sustainable solutions will be an important driver for eco• Internal sustainability awareness nomic and industrial development in the coming decade. The roll out of The Very Green Book and the Green Team ASSA ABLOY is committed to make sustainability an integral Playbook are ongoing throughout the organization. The part of its product innovation. Designing new products that Green Team Playbook help sites to measure efficiency and are sustainable and with relevant transparency documents is sustainability of current operations and develop action one of our core values. plans to reduce energy, water, waste and material use while tracking cost savings. The ambition is to develop a Progress in 2018 standardized sustainable assessment process throughout • Sustainable innovation the Group. The aim is to guide and further promote the Sustainable innovation is about creating a sustainable sustainable culture within ASSA ABLOY. future by designing products that have less impact on the environment or have green attributes that will contribute Growing market for more sustainable and resilient positively to the environment. With this in mind, a task products force was created to support and develop sustainable The demand for more sustainable and resilient ASSA ABLOY innovation ideas and initiatives. products, including environmental and material transpar• Sustainability Compass ency, is fueled by the strong growth in green buildings and The Sustainability Compass is used to assess a variety of more sustainable urban environments around the world. environmental attributes of new products. The roll out of This trend is manifested by the growing use of building susthe compass is high on the agenda and followed up in tainability certification schemes, such as LEED, BREEAM and global KPIs. The Sustainability Compass is an important the Living Building Challenge. The market for green certified part of the mandatory product management training. At buildings is expected to grow significantly faster than the the end of 2018, 75 percent of the Group’s product manmarket in general. agers have been trained. Each division is responsible to Market studies show that almost 70 percent of consumtrain employees involved in the innovation process. Trainers across 60 countries are searching for green products and ing materials are updated on an ongoing basis and are a 55 percent of those are willing to pay more for products and good opportunity to establish a lasting change in culture. services provided by companies committed to a positive • Material lists social and environmental impact. An important element to consider is the materials used. To simplify the material selection process, ASSA ABLOY is Sustainable innovation – a key differentiator working with two lists: one list with materials that should Markets where LEED and BREEAM are being used continue be avoided and another list that provides guidance in the to be markets where sustainable innovation is a key dif­ best choice from a sustainability perspective. ferentiator – particularly in terms of objectives for zero ASSA ABLOY’s restricted materials list for new products energy buildings, chemical use and recyclable solutions. was updated by ensuring alignment with the latest global ASSA ABLOY continues to win projects by being compliant standards, such as the European Union Standards REACH with the highest green building criteria, for example LEED, and RoHS, as well the American standards Prop 65 and BREEM and the Living Building Challenge. Conflict Minerals. Delos is an organization aiming to transform indoor enviThe ASSA ABLOY Materials Reference Sheet works in ronments for people by placing health and wellness at the harmony with the Sustainability Compass and helps center of design. That’s why Delos partnered with ASSA designers to make better environmental choices when ABLOY to help put together a complete door opening soludeveloping new products. Implemented in 2018, the tion for its New York City headquarters: from products with Materials Reference Sheet is a live document with new HPDs and EPDs, in addition to solutions that are energy materials added or removed regularly, much like global ­efficient. standards are managed. The ASSA ABLOY sustainable sales strategy centers on • Third-party verification helping its customers to reduce their environmental footASSA ABLOY is committed to reducing its environmental print by adopting the Group’s expanding line of products impact through smarter products and advanced producwith green attributes. tion methods. The results of these efforts are third-party verified, for example, Environmental Product Declarations (EPDs), Health Product Declarations (HPDs) and declared labels, to add a level of accountability. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 9 Customer value and sustainable innovation ASSA ABLOY’s Sustainability Compass or recycling – to make it easier for customers to compare The Sustainability Compass is integrated into ASSA ABLOY’s products that fulfill the same function. product development process. The compass provides an Focus will continue to shift to the health and wellness of understanding of sustainability-related design criteria dura building’s occupants, with programs such as WELL, Fitwel, ing the development of new products. The goal is to improve and the Living Building Challenge. The building’s footprint the sustainable attributes in the product port­folio. will continue to be considered, especially with the push for The compass includes eight dimensions: raw materials, Zero Net Energy. Building resiliency will also come into view, water, virgin material, end-of-life reusability, recyclability, given natural disaster and climate change conditions. in-life energy consumption, carbon footprint, and financial cost. Each dimension is evaluated from a life cycle perspecFuture possibilities tive and the goal is to have a lower impact than the previous The Internet of Things (IoT) will play a key role in more susproduct. These areas are tracked and communicated among tainable solutions. Devices and systems that are able to talk internal stakeholders involved in product innovation and to each other and report their status will provide opportunidevelopment. ties to dramatically reduce energy consumption through The Sustainability Compass is generated from input from smarter door solutions. For example, ASSA ABLOY door the ASSA ABLOY sustainability products scorecard. The com­sensors that enable low-power standby modes, and can pass has also been integrated into ASSA ABLOY’s standard ­signal to switch off air conditioning and lighting when rooms product design process, which includes the material referare not in use, can be a key feature in smart homes and ence list. ­buildings of the future. Another example is ASSA ABLOY A key challenge for sustainable product innovation is Mobile Access, which allows keyless entry to hotel rooms, identifying the best overall solution. For example, a solution reducing the number of plastic cards. might have excellent green attributes from one perspective, Communication about sustainable products and solubut may be less suitable from another perspective. tions is very important to drive sales in this direction. The Group’s intention is to increase the communication to Environmental and Health Product Declarations ­capture this market opportunity. Customers are increasingly assessing the environmental impact of building materials, and ASSA ABLOY continuously Building Information Modeling advances works to declare products with both Environmental Product sustainability efforts Declarations and Health Product Declarations where appliEnvironmental data about buildings is shared with customcable. In many cases the purchasing decision and path to ers through Building Information Modeling (BIM) objects, achieve LEEDv4 and other certifications are based on inforproduct EPDs and the use of digital collaboration tools. The mation from EPDs. By the end of 2018, the Group had a total digitalization of the built environment continues to accelerof 332 EPDs from all major product groups, representing ate rapidly, and so do the opportunities to create innovative about a third of the Group’s total sales. and unique solutions for customers. Specification is a The information most often requested by customers focused area, where BIM-enabled software tools open the involved: level of recycled content, origin of materials, level door for cloud-based communication. of chemical off-gassing, specific transparency documents ASSA ABLOY leverages this to drive the sales of sustain­ and product ingredients. able products through specification, coordination and the ASSA ABLOY is leading the industry in establishing Prodpromotion of such, in key markets in an effort to reduce uct Category Rules (PCRs) which have resulted in the credioverall environmental footprint. ‘Green attributes’ within ble and uniform comparison of similar products. Through the company’s product portfolio ensures consistency, clarity Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs), product environmental and transparency. Virtual building enables cost and resource impact is mapped from raw material extraction to disposal savings before construction begins. The Sustainability Compass in action: enhancing product performance An ASSA ABLOY team used the Sustainability Compass to develop a low-power panic exit device trim solution to improve life cycle energy performance and Recycled Content reduce overall energy usage, to improve durability and reduce product cost, and to achieve over USD 100,000 (EUR 88,000) cost savings. CHALLENGE: The US market required an energy-­ RESULT: The new Eco ET panic exit device low power efficient panic exit device electrified trim solution electrified trim solution achieved the goals of the cusdesigned to reduce energy use while improving pertomer and market requirements, as well as meeting Carbon Cost formance and durability. The legacy product had used internal requirements, including achieving a 96 perFootprint a solenoid design which consumed a lot of power and cent reduction in energy in use, no cost of quality would often fail in the field, requiring replacements. issues/no product returns, USD 125,000 (EUR 110,000) in annual cost savings, and winning several SOLUTION: The product development team worked industry awards. This solution also expands the ASSA to ensure the product incorporated a sustainable ABLOY Eco family and suite of product offerings, which design using the Sustainable Product Scorecard (SPS) includes mortise locks, magnetic locks, electric strikes Water and Sustainability Compass. Considerations for the and power supplies. design included environmental impacts of lowering Reduce product costs, lowering energy in use requirements, materials, manufacturing process, and reducing total cost of ownership. 10 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Customer value and sustainable innovation Creating customer value through product innovation ASSA ABLOY is committed to promoting sustainable design criteria in the development of its new products, thereby reducing life-cycle costs and creating customer value. The ASSA ABLOY Innovation system and the Global Sustainability Product Council are key components of the company’s product innovation work. Product innovation The Global Sustainable Product Council Based on Lean innovation principles, the ASSA ABLOY InnoASSA ABLOY’s Global Sustainable Product Council brings vation system consists of several modules such as product together representatives from all divisions. Together, this management, customer insight, long-term trends, generagroup shares best practices and technology, and provides tion planning, and project optimization. The system ensures second opinions and reviews on tools and methods of workthat new product concepts are fully evaluated against cusing. Each member leads and coordinates divisional activities tomer needs and sustainability requirements before moving to promote more sustainable product development and on to the engineering design phase. drive culture change throughout the organization. Sustainability is the key driver of innovation These are the five stages companies go through on their path to become sustainable. 1. Viewing 2. Making 3. Designing 4. Developing 5. Creating compliance as value chains sustainable new business next practice­­ opportunity ­sustainable products models ­platforms Stage 1: Viewing compliance as opportunity Stage 4: Developing new business models Compliance becomes a springboard to innovation, forcing A deep understanding of what customers really want allows creativity and outside the box thinking with materials, companies to find new, more sustainable ways to serve ­processes and technologies. them. Stage 2: Making value chains sustainable Stage 5: Creating next practice platforms The entire value chain needs to be looked at, not only By questioning the status quo and going beyond the the raw materials but also the energy and water for the ­obvious, it becomes possible to create the next practice ­processes, and innovative uses for returned products. ­platforms. Stage 3: Designing sustainable products Introspection is necessary to determine which products need to be worked on. Packaging must not be neglected. ASSA ABLOY joins Living Building Challenge Approved Product List CHALLENGE: Sustainable building consultant Integrated Eco Strategy produces a Living Building Challenge Approved Product List – a rigorous performance standard to certify top-performing green building projects. Product approval demands the most basic levels of ingredient disclosure and certifying each ingredient. SOLUTION: A team from ASSA ABLOY Group companies Ceco and ­Curries embarked on a comprehensive product data gathering project, seeking details that included component ingredients, material suppliers’ distance to manufacturing sites, Chemical Abstract Number and weights and percentages of all ingredients. The team contacted manufacturers to obtain details on minute ­proportions of ingredients that were unaccounted for on data sheets. RESULT: Providing the detailed product information put ASSA ABLOY on the approved supplier list for more than a dozen Living Building ­Challenge projects. A comprehensive database documents every component in Ceco and Curries steel door and frame products to ensure they qualify. Architects and project managers can search the database for approved products in various categories and retrieve the environmental product details they need in hours, rather than months. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 11 Supply chain Supply chain management The long-term objective of Group supply chain management is to reduce business risk by further enhancing sustainability performance throughout the value chain. During the year, ASSA ABLOY continued to roll out its Code of Conduct specifically for Business Partners and increased the proportion of Group spend reported through its business intelligence system. Progress in 2018 Supply chain risks and challenges • Continued Business Partner Code of Conduct roll out Ensuring that suppliers fulfill ASSA ABLOY’s requirements 88 percent of direct material supplier sites from low-cost involves ongoing risks and challenges. ASSA ABLOY’s lowcountries and 73 percent of all direct material supplier cost country suppliers continue to pose the greatest supply sites were covered by ASSA ABLOY’s Code of Conduct for chain risks – particularly related to human rights and the Business Partners at the end of 2018 – with the objective environment. The company’s pace of acquisitions and to cover over 95 percent of all direct material supplier expansion into emerging markets is another significant sites by 2020. The Code applies to all partners that provide ­supply chain management challenge and risk area. products or services to the company, such as suppliers, Additional challenges and risk management work include consultants, distributors, agents and other representa­ ongoing efforts to examine supplier environmental manage­ tives, and provides a structured approach to integrating ment systems and encouraging suppliers to perform EPDs, new acquisitions. which are increasingly requested by customers. • Increased Business Intelligence System coverage Data collection is becoming increasingly important as ASSA ABLOY continues to grow. Consequently, the Group has intensified its efforts in this area and 90 percent (85 in 2017) of Group spend is now reported through ASSA ABLOY’s Business Intelligence System. Importantly in 2018, newly acquired businesses were more quickly introduced to ASSA ABLOY’s Business Intelligence System through streamlined processes. SUSTAINABILITY AUDITS OF SUPPLIERS IN SHARE OF PURCHASES IN LOW-COST COUNTRIES LOW-COST COUNTRIES Number % 1,200 60 1,000 50 800 40 600 30 400 20 The share of the Group’s total pur­ 200 10 chases of raw materials, components In 2018, ASSA ABLOY conducted and finished goods from low-cost 0 1,055 (919) sustainability audits. 0 countries was 48 percent 2018. 13 14 15 16 17 18 13 14 15 16 17 18 DISTRIBUTION OF SUPPLIER SPEND NUMBER OF SUPPLIERS Number Asia, 44.3% (42.8) 12,000 Europe, 30.8% (29.9) 10,000 North America, 23.3% (23.8)* South America, 0.9% (2.8)* 8,000 Oceania, 0.5% (0.6) Africa, 0.3% (0.1) 6,000 4,000 Reducing the number of suppliers * Mexico is part of North ­America is important for reducing costs and from 2018, previously South 2,000 improving quality. Active efforts have ­America. reduced the total number of ­suppliers 0 by 27 percent over the past five years. 13 14 15 16 17 18 12 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Supply chain PLANTS IN LOW-COST COUNTRIES Poland Czech Republic Hungary Romania Croatia Bulgaria China Mexico India Colombia Malaysia Chile Brazil South Africa Supply chain risk management Key audit findings in 2018 ASSA ABLOY manages supply chain risks and challenges by • ASSA ABLOY has around 8,000 direct external material continuing to roll out its Business Partner Code of Conduct suppliers – including 3,400 in low-cost countries and to improve the monitoring of supplier compliance. The Code regarded as high risk. ensures a consistent approach to supply chain management, • By the end of 2018, 1,399 of the 1,421 low-cost country and helps to bring new suppliers – particularly in low-cost suppliers audited had satisfied the company’s minimum countries – up to the company’s standards. sustainability requirements – equivalent to 94 percent of During the year, the processes to improve supplier perfor­ ASSA ABLOY’s total spend in low-cost countries. During mance and phase out non-compliant ‘new-business hold’ 2018 the Group got 1,090 new suppliers in highand lowsuppliers were enhanced – to support the risk management cost-countries. During the year, 2.8 percent of those new of low-cost country suppliers. Furthermore, as ASSA ABLOY suppliers were audited, the share of new audits in lowcontinues to phase out hazardous substances, the Group cost countries were 4.2 percent. also audits the supplier use of such chemicals. • One suppliers in low-cost countries were blacklisted and Going forward, the use of third-party auditors will be prevented from doing business with ASSA ABLOY, and 14 increased to complement internal auditing capabilities and put on ‘new-business hold’ by the Group, meaning they help manage supply chain risks. were not eligible for new business from any ASSA ABLOY entity. Supplier sustainability audit program The supplier sustainability audit program focuses on direct According to ASSA ABLOY’s Business Intelligence audit data, material suppliers in low-cost countries in South and Central the most common reasons for blacklisting suppliers are America, Eastern Europe, Africa and Asia, as these are per­ Health and Safety, and environmental issues. Examples of ceived as the greatest risk regions for not complying with Health and Safety issues are unsatisfactory risk documenta­ ASSA ABLOY’s Business Partner Code of Conduct. The Busi­ tion, evacuation drills or information on how to act in emer­ ness Partner Code of Conduct communicates ASSA ABLOY’s gency situations. Inadequate accident statistics, security policies and principles on business ethics, human rights and objectives or machine safety instructions are also common labor standards, health and safety, and the environment to deficiencies. Blacklisted suppliers with environmental issues suppliers. ASSA ABLOY conducts its own supplier audits and may have missing environmental permits, inadequate docu­ due diligence processes to verify compliance. mentation on hazardous waste, or non-existing environmen­ The Business Partner Code of Conduct clearly states that tal risk assessments and improvement action plans. ASSA ABLOY does not accept child labor in its own opera­ tions nor at a business partner. Should however a child be Supply chain management governance found working in its supply chain, ASSA ABLOY requires that Group supply chain management is led by the Sustainability the supplier acts in the overall best interest of the child. The Supply Council, which includes representatives from each Business Partner Code of Conduct does not accept any form division. The council sets supplier sustainability targets, of forced or bonded labor, prisoners or illegal workers. In coordinates activities and follows up on progress. Each addition, the Code reinforces ASSA ABLOY’s support for the ­division is responsible for ensuring its suppliers meet ASSA right to freedom of association and collective bargaining, as ABLOY requirements. well as other working conditions, such as contracts, hours and compensation. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 13 Supply chain Supply chain auditing ASSA ABLOY rates the performance of its suppliers and how they conform to the c­ om­pany’s Business Partner Code of Conduct. Supplier audits Supplier contractual expectations ASSA ABLOY’s audits are designed to assess if suppliers com­ ASSA ABLOY ensures that new suppliers fully understand ply with the company’s Business Partner Code of Conduct in what is contractually expected of them to help avoid risks terms of business ethics, human rights and labor standards, associated with business ethics, human rights, workers’ health and safety, and environmental criteria. Some criteria rights, health and safety, and the environment. in the audit checklist are of such significance that they are known as ‘stoppers’, for example child labor. If a supplier fails to comply with these important standards, they are auto­ matically rated as ‘red’ and put on ‘new-business hold’. If the supplier fails to improve within an agreed time frame, they are blacklisted and their relationship with ASSA ABLOY ter­ minated. There are many reasons why suppliers are black­ listed, but the main reason is an unwillingness to improve THE ASSA ABLOY BUSINESS PARTNER and meet ASSA ABLOY’s demands for improvements. CODE OF CONDUCT The same ASSA ABLOY audit process is always followed, All suppliers are required to comply with the ASSA ABLOY regardless of supplier or auditor, and includes self-assess­ ­Business Partner Code of Conduct, which is based on the ments, on-site initial audits and on-site follow up audits to ­following international standards: verify that the supplier has implemented the agreed action • UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and related plan. UN Conventions • ILO Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning ­Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy Business Intelligence Supply Management System • OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises Divisions submit their supplier audit reports to the Group’s • UN Global Compact Business Intelligence Supply Management System, which • ISO 14001 allows ASSA ABLOY to assess and analyze the performance of its suppliers. The system is used as a basis for procurement The ASSA ABLOY Business Partners Code of Conduct is decisions to identify preferred suppliers and enables ASSA available in 20 languages. ABLOY to monitor several supply chain KPIs. AUDIT PROCESS AND TRAFFIC-LIGHT SYSTEM Long term Supplier development and consolidation Mid term Targets and measurements Supplier risk assessment Supplier On-site audits Supplier development self-assessment Scoring principles Grow Traffic-light system Ongoing Sustainability Fix Supplier quality Follow-up audits Exit The traffic-light system ASSA ABLOY uses a traffic-light system to rate individual suppliers on how they Red – the supplier is not approved. The supplier is put on 'new-business hold', conform to ASSA ABLOY’s Business Partner Code of Conduct. Suppliers are and a ­follow-up audit will be conducted within six months. rated on the following five color-coded system: Green – the supplier is approved. A follow-up audit is done after three years to Red, yellow, orange and purple statuses can be revised based on evidence of verify ­compliance. a corrective action plan, well-documented progress, and firm commitment Yellow, orange, and purple – the supplier is approved on the condition that from the supplier. ­Contracts with suppliers may be terminated in the case it resolves the issues identified in a recent audit within an agreed time frame. of a non-compliance that is not remedied within an agreed time frame. The ­Yellow signifies the fewest number of non-conformities and purple the most. ­contract is automatically terminated if a s­ upplier is rated ‘red’ for longer than A follow-up audit is typically done after one year. six months. 14 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Manufacturing Enhancing environmental performance in operations Improving environmental performance in operations is important for ASSA ABLOY. There is a clear ambition to continuously reduce the environmental impact and enhance performance while expanding the Group. Good progress was made during the year, particularly with ongoing projects to further enhance operational efficiency. Progress in 2018 Products • Operational efficiency projects Risks associated with product impacts and resource con­ Progress was made with various ongoing projects sumption throughout the life-cycle of the product are also throughout the Group to optimize energy, water and important to ASSA ABLOY. When developing new products, waste. ASSA ABLOY uses a tool – the ASSA ABLOY Sustainability • Reduced greenhouse gas emissions Compass – to measure several sustainability aspects. Read The Group’s total greenhouse gas emissions decreased more about how the ASSA ABLOY Sustainability Compass is by 1.1 percent and the related intensity improved by used to mitigate impacts on page 10. Recyclability, is one of 4.2 percent, driven by reduced energy consumption. eight life-cycle focus areas measured by the Sustainability • Continued reduction of coal consumption Compass, which ensures that the end-of-life impacts and The Group’s coal consumption decreased by 62 percent risks are managed in a structured manner. For example, ASSA as several factories in China switched to other sources of ABLOY Americas offer customers the possibility to return energy. Since 2015 the coal consumption has decreased used products for reuse or recycling in order to avoid by 86 percent. ­products being sent to landfill. Environmental risks and challenges Environmental priorities ASSA ABLOY’s continued growth presents significant oppor­ ASSA ABLOY’s environmental priorities are to: tunities for the Group. At the same time, growth in regions • coordinate the implementation of environmental with greater fossil fuel intensive energy mixes as well as ­management systems water scarcity pose potential risks and challenges that must • enhance data analysis and benchmarking be managed. Energy consumption, carbon emissions and • improve water and waste management water consumption are ASSA ABLOY’s most significant envi­ • reduce energy consumption and increase the proportion ronmental impacts. Geographic expansion also requires that of renewable energy environmental risks and challenges associated with trans­ • phase out organic solvents portation must be managed. These priorities are all interlinked and closely related to Environmental risk management ­production and resource efficiency. ISO 14001 ASSA ABLOY mitigates environmental risks by certifying all ASSA ABLOY’s sustainability reporting system collects high factories with significant environmental impact to the ISO quality data to track and analyze the performance of individ­ 14001 environmental management system. In 2017, all enti­ ual entities and divisions. As a decentralized Group – with ties were analyzed to establish which need to be ISO 14001 strategic and operational responsibility at divisional level – certified, and most of the relevant remaining entities will be this systematic approach and the ability to allocate and over­ certified until end of 2022. A variety of ongoing programs see the performance of individual entities is essential. The also work to optimize the use of resources, and mitigate the belief at ASSA ABLOY is that benchmarking and best practice associated risks. The Group has also further developed its sharing within the Group drive progress. restricted materials list that contains materials and sub­ stances that should be avoided in manufacturing processes Environmental compliance and products. Ensuring environmental compliance is essential to maintain ASSA ABLOY’s reputation and the company’s license to oper­ Supply chain ate. Non-compliance could result in issues with the Group’s Environmental performance within the supply chain is stakeholders – including employees, customers, shareholders essential to ASSA ABLOY’s overall risk management. The and the authorities. No significant fines or non-monetary Group has a comprehensive platform to monitor individual sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and supplier risks and performance, in particular through audits regulations occurred during 2018. of low-cost country suppliers. 1055 such audits were con­ ducted in 2018. Additionally, 15 EMEA Division manufactur­ ing sites have been certified as zero-waste to landfill by the organization Carbon Trust, and similar initiatives are being implemented in other parts of the Group. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 15 MAnUfACTURInG Energy consumption and carbon emissions Reducing energy consumption is important to ASSA ABLOY in order to become more sustainable, reduce emissions, cost-effective, and ensure compliance with local regulations. for ASSA ABLOY, carbon emissions are related to energy consumption and materials used in the Group’s manufacturing processes. Performance in 2018 Efficiency projects Operational efficiency activities during the year have: ASSA ABLOY continued to use the energy Kaizen concept in • reduced total energy consumption by 2.5 (3.3) percent its EMEA division to promote continuous improvements in for comparable units. energy efficiency. In general the Kaizen workshops generate • reduced energy consumption by 18,244 MWh for annual energy savings of 5–8 percent of the total energy comparable units. consumption. • reduced energy intensity by 5.5 (6.3) percent for Another efficiency initiative is the ongoing manufacturing comparable units. footprint program. The program consolidates operations – • increased the proportion of energy sourced from renew­ to ultimately provide economies of scale and decrease the able resources – primarily from hydropower, wind and company’s footprint. solar – from 11.6 percent in 2017 to 12.0 percent in 2018. The target is to increase the ratio to 20 percent by the end Phasing out substances with global warming impact of 2020. The total calculated CO2­emissions amounted to 343,230 tons in 2018 of which emissions related to direct and indi­ Energy efficiency at production units rect energy consumption in the Group’s factories and sales As much as 50 percent of energy consumption in large companies correspond to 79 percent of the total emissions. manufacturing units is related to factors independent of pro­ The remaining part of the calculated CO2­emissions is duction volume. The company has reduced its total energy related to different types of chemicals. More than 98 percent consumption by implementing various efficiency projects of these emissions are related to the use of blowing agents in including control systems or technologies for heating, venti­ three factories when producing doors with foam insulation. lation and pressure systems. For example, modern LED­ These production lines will phase out its use in 2019. Quality lighting with occupancy sensors has also been introduced issues have delayed the phase out in one of the factories. in a large number of factories and sales companies. Some ASSA ABLOY complies with the Montreal Protocol and with initiatives can realize significant savings with minimal invest­ country­specific legislation on ozone­depleting substances. ment, such as encouraging employees to switch off machines, equipment and PCs when they are not in use. Intelligent logistics ASSA ABLOY takes steps to streamline and specialize pro­ ASSA ABLOY has been able to reduce the environmental duction of certain products with the purpose of increasing impact of transportation as the Group has expanded. Locat­ efficiency in terms of utilization of machines, equipment and ing assembly facilities close to the customer for example has floor space, as well as allocation of competence. This allows enabled a more flexible and efficient supply of goods. ASSA ABLOY’s production facilities to work at full capacity, The Group uses a database to assess and identify smart while supporting efficient working practices and high stand­ transport solutions with the lowest environmental impact. ards. When old machines and processes are replaced due to The database includes suppliers as well as ASSA ABLOY facto­ age, the new machines typically not only require less space ries and sales companies, and is connected to ASSA ABLOY’s but also use energy more efficiently. central purchasing database. Renewable energy certification in Bulgaria CHALLENGE: ASSA ABLOY’s increasing presence in Eastern European markets is being matched with a strong drive to shift to renewable energy to minimize the amount of greenhouse gas emissions. uses SOLUTION: ASSA ABLOY Mauer Locking Systems in Varna, Bulgaria, has obtained a certificate from its electricity power 100% GREEN supplier, Energo-Pro, to verify that 100 percent of the electricity ENERGY FROM supplied to the company has been generated from renewable sources instead of from fossil fuels. RESULT: The certification confirms that ASSA ABLOY Mauer is working to reduce its environmental footprint, and its contract with Energo-Pro will help the site to achieve a 10 percent saving in its energy costs. 16 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MAnUfACTURInG GEOGRAPHICAL SPLIT Of EnERGY AnD WATER COnSUMPTIOn North South Africa Asia Europe America America Pacific Energy consumption (%) 0.5 23.3 28.0 41.4 4.7 2.0 Water withdrawal (%) 0.8 62.4 13.4 16.1 5.9 1.5 OZOnE-DEPLETInG SUBSTAnCES 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 20182 Ozone­depleting substances in tons of R11 equivalent1 (tons) 27.7 30.3 20.8 8.1 4.8 8.0 1 R11 equivalence measures ozone­depleting potential. The calculation is based on the consumption of HCFC­141b. 2 For comparable units. Total amount of ozone depleting substances in tons of R11 equivalent amounted to 8.0 tons, including units acquired during the year. EnERGY COnSUMPTIOn AnD RELATED CO2 EMISSIOnS 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018¹ Direct energy – Scope 1 – oil (MWh) 31,179 29,231 23,177 23,911 25,965 21,475 – gas (MWh) 200,393 244,785 251,997 251,402 258,857 267,966 – coal (MWh) 86,493 77,695 88,226 48,884 30,711 11,694 – biofuel/biomass (MWh) 3,480 2,201 1,958 3,119 3,706 8,975 Total 321,545 353,912 365,358 327,316 319,239 310,110 Indirect energy – Scope 2 – electricity (MWh) 321,824 347,306 358,983 360,618 375,982 369,893 – district heat (MWh) 47,493 30,877 30,981 28,069 34,567 31,541 Total 369,317 378,183 389,964 388,687 410,549 401,434 TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION2 690,862 732,095 755,322 716,003 729,788 711,544 KPI, Energy intensity3 (MWh/SEK M) 28.4 27.7 27.3 24.2 23.6 22.34 CO2 emissions related to direct energy consumption – Scope 1 (tons) 79,674 84,711 87,994 75,033 71,101 66,818 CO2 emissions related to indirect energy consumption – Scope 2 (tons) 163,204 170,460 174,847 171,067 196,697 193,187 Total greenhouse gas emission related to energy consumption CO2 (tons) 242,878 255,171 262,841 246,101 267,798 260,0045 KPI, Greenhouse gas emissions intensity6 (tons/SEK M) 10.0 9.0 9.5 8.3 8.7 8.27 Greenhouse gas emission related to substances in industrial processes – Calculated CO2 emissions8 (tons) – Scope 1 184,552 241,783 179,395 92,385 68,106 72,0379 – Total CO2 emissions – Scope 1 and 2 427,430 496,954 442,236 338,486 335,904 332,042 KPI, Portion of renewable energy (%) 6.9 7.8 9.1 11.7 11.6 12.0 1 For comparable units. Total energy consumption amounted to 726,952 MWh, including units acquired during the year. 2 The historical numbers have been adjusted with proforma data. 3 Total energy use/value added. 4 For comparable units. Total energy use/value added amounted to 22.5 MWh/SEK M, including units acquired during the year. 5 For comparable units. Total greenhouse gas emission related to energy consumption amounted to 271,024 tons, including units acquired during the year. 6 Greenhouse gas emission related to energy consumption CO /value added. 2 7 For comparable units. Total greenhouse gas emission related to energy consumption/valued added amounted to 8.4 tons/SEK M, including units acquired during the year. 8 Emission factors are based on data published by the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC, 2007). 9 For comparable units. Total calculated CO2­emissions related to substances in industrial processes amounted to 72,206 tons, including units acquired during the year. Energy calculator helps customers make best door choice CHALLENGE: ASSA ABLOY offers a wide range of we compare the energy consumption against an attractive and easy to operate industrial overhead uninsulated overhead sectional door. sectional doors. Customers wanted guidance in which type of overhead sectional door would best meet RESULT: The energy calculator helps the customer their requirements in terms of minimizing energy select which door best suit their specific needs from an use and maximizing energy savings. energy consumption and energy saving perspective. SOLUTION: To help customers to decide which brand of overhead door to choose, we have introduced an energy calculator. The customer provides information about the door configuration, the location of the doors and the number of door openings. The calculator compares three different types of door. The calculations are based on the energy consumption of door and energy losses due to air leakage and air infiltration. To calculate the savings, ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 17 Manufacturing Water and waste management Efforts to reduce water consumption and improve waste management are key parts of reducing ASSA ABLOY’s environmental impact, increasing efficiency and making financial savings. ASSA ABLOY has improved the tracking and management of both water and waste in recent years. Water management c­ onsumption. All discharges are monitored in accordance Water shortage is an increasing concern in many parts of the with local regulations, and all units that manage chemicals are world, and ASSA ABLOY’s ambition is to minimize its water properly licensed and registered with the local authorities. footprint. The company is implementing water recycling Water withdrawal and discharges are being managed in ­systems, and even closed loop systems, to promote water accordance with local rules and regulations. In factories with efficiency. electroplating facilities, the water is used in the different During 2018, water withdrawal decreased by 6.9 percent ­process baths as well as for cleaning. and water intensity by 9.7 percent as a result of improve­ In factories producing doors, the water is typically used ment activities and changed production mix. Water is pri­ for cleaning and removal of protective paper. An increasing marily consumed through painting, plating and cleaning portion of the used water is being recirculated and used processes. Twenty such entities, located mainly in the United again after different water purification methods have been States and China, account for more than 70 percent of the applied. A wide range of technologies are being used across Group’s total water consumption. the Group, technologies such as filtration, sedimentation, In 2018, the Group’s total water withdrawal amounted to flocculation, ion exchange and reverse osmosis. 1,874,000 m³, of which 82 percent was sent to municipal treat­ Water discharges are being measured, calculated or esti­ ment plants after use. Water recirculation in waste­water treat­ mated depending on available sources of information and ment plants improves efficiency, and in 2018 the total amount requirements. Out of the total reported volume, 82 percent of recycled water equated to 18 percent of the total water is measured based on sensor readings, another 4 percent of WATER PERFORMANCE 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Purchased water (1,000 m³) 1,575 1,600 1,565 1,508 1,391 1,563 Water from on-site wells (1,000 m³) 1,063 1,144 1,127 684 616 307 Rainwater (1,000 m³) 4 1 7 9 5 4 Surface water (1,000 m³) 10 6 3 2 0 0 Total water withdrawal (1,000 m³)3 2,652 2,752 2,702 2,203 2,012 1,874¹ KPI, Water intensity (m³/SEK M)3 109 104 98 75 65 592 ¹ For comparable units. Total water withdrawal (1,000 m³) was 1,927, including units acquired during the year. ² For comparable units. Total water intensity amounted to 60 m³/SEK M, including units acquired during the year. 3 The historical numbers have been adjusted with proforma data. { { WATER Water withdrawal Water usage Water discharge BALANCE Sanitary and drinking (37.4%) Municipal pretreated (49.2%) Water purchased (83.4%) Total amount Industrial processes (52.1%) Total amount of water of water Cooling (4.7%) Municipal untreated (33.1%) ­withdrawal: ­discharge: 1,874,000 m3 Other (5.8%) 1,874,000 m3 Water from local wells (16.4%) Other recipients pretreated (3.4%) Recirculated (18%) Other recipients untreated (14.3%) Rain and surface water (0.2%) New Water System Yields Significant Savings CHALLENGE: Ameristar Perimeter Security’s tube and SOLUTION: The mill implemented a closed loop system chemicals used in the wastewater treatment systems, roll mill department in Tulsa, Oklahoma, was concerned that separates the oil for recycling purposes and adjusts completely eliminating two – calcium chloride and ferric about the costs and environmental impact of its water the pH so the water can be reused multiple times. Either chloride. system. The mill used operational process water for coolreverse osmosis water (neutral pH) or city water (higher ing until the suspended solids, pH level and clarity of the pH) is used to make up for evaporation. By using this water rendered it unusable. However, since the leftover approach we can adjust the pH instead of adding chemiwater also contained oil, they could not treat it in the cals and adding cost to the process. existing waste water system. Instead it had to be disposed off-site, which resulted in extra costs and labor RESULT: The closed loop system resulted in reduced related to renting holding containers and then paying for water consumption of more than 30,000 gallons a the disposal, which could run up to $8,000 for each load month with a monthly cost savings of $17,000. In addiof 2,500 gallons of water. tion the closed loop system also reduces reliance on 18 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Manufacturing the volume is calculated for the full reporting period based In 2018, the Group’s total waste generated amounted to on a smaller number of readings at certain points in time. 82,620 (87,572) tons. The amount of hazardous waste was Around 14 percent of the total volume is estimated due to unchanged for comparable units. During 2018 more waste is lack of sensors for measurement. categorized as hazardous waste due to implementation of stricter national rules, e.g. in China. Cutting oil is extensively Accidental discharges filtered and cleaned, to allow it to be reused in manufactur­ There were no major spill incidents in 2018, and two minor ing, and hazardous waste that cannot be reused is properly spill incidents were reported. The cases did not cause disposed of. The intensity value for hazardous waste ASSA ABLOY to exceed permitted levels and were managed decreased by 3.0 percent for comparable units. in accordance with national legislation. ASSA ABLOY has Several companies have reduced their use of packaging improved its relevant internal processes to avoid future materials, switched to less harmful packaging materials and ­incidents. introduced reusable or recyclable containers. Increasing the use of electronic orders and integrating information flows CDP Water across systems has reduced the use of printed documents. ASSA ABLOY achieved the C level on the CDP Water security Various metals are sorted by type to promote recycling, evaluation for 2018. and the ambition is to further reduce the amount of metal waste by optimizing the dimensions of raw materials used. Waste management The Group has a high focus on increasing the portion of Waste represents a substantial cost both in terms of the non hazardous waste being sent for either recycling or resources needed to generate the waste and the cost to energy recovery through incineration. The portion of non ­handle the waste in a proper way. hazardous waste sent to landfill has decreased from 51 per­ ASSA ABLOY works to minimize waste from its manufac­ cent to 46 percent in 2018. Hazardous waste is being sent to turing processes and packaging materials. Several compa­ authorized companies for proper processing, recycling and nies within the Group generate revenue from selling paper, disposal. Available data indicate that at least 9 percent of the cardboard and plastic for recycling rather than paying for the hazardous waste was recycled in 2018. disposal of these materials. RECYCLED METAL 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 20181 Waste metal for recycling (tons) 49,000 54,025 57,632 56,338 58,316 54,822 1 For comparable units. Total amount of waste metal for recycling amounted to 55,795 tons, including units acquired during the year. HAZARDOUS WASTE 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Metal sludge (tons) 537 563 805 873 838 915 Oil for recycling (tons) 295 370 360 421 433 352 Other types of toxic waste (tons) 1,846 1,971 2,304 2,266 2,513 2,521 Total hazardous waste (tons) 2,678 2,904 3,469 3,560 3,785 3,7881 KPI, Hazardous waste intensity (kg/SEK M) 110 110 125 120 122 1192 1 For comparable units. Total amount of hazardous waste was 3,861 tons, including units acquired during the year. 2 For comparable units. Total amount of hazardous waste/value added amounted to 120 kg/SEK M, including units acquired during the year. NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Household incinerated/recycled (tons) 1,938 1,955 1,766 1,838 1,960 3,060 Household deposited (tons) 7,308 9,531 11,208 11,355 11,104 9,855 Paper and cardboard for recycling (tons) 3,833 4,329 4,803 4,447 4,748 4,421 Plastic waste for recycling (tons) 550 1,051 879 768 797 852 Wood waste for recycling (tons) NA 4,224 4,277 4,426 4,854 4,457 Glass for recycling (tons) NA NA NA NA 185 173 Other types of waste (tons) 3,013 1,774 2,787 2,270 1,823 1,193 Total (tons) 16,642 22,865 25,720 25,105 25,471 24,0101 KPI, Non-hazardous waste intensity (kg/SEK M) 683 865 928 850 825 7542 1 For comparable units. Total amount of non-hazardous waste was 24,354 tons, including units acquired during the year. 2 For comparable units. Total amount of non-hazardous waste/value added amounted to 754 kg/SEK M, including units acquired during the year. NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE – DISPOSAL METHOD HAZARDOUS WASTE – DISPOSAL METHOD Recycling/incineration, 54% Recycling, 9% Landfill, 46% Waste to be processed and disposed by authorized companies, 91% ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 19 Manufacturing Organic solvents and surface treatment ASSA ABLOY has reduced the consumption of chlorinated organic solvents through investments in new cleaning technologies, as part of a gradual phase out of such chemicals. ASSA ABLOY uses chlorinated organic solvents such as 14 percent to 809 tons in 2018. Compared to 2015 the ­perchloroethylene (PER) and trichloroethylene (TRI) for the ­consumption has been reduced by 35 percent. The target is ­surface treatment of metals, including degreasing, cleaning to reduce consumption by 50 percent between 2015 and and pretreatment before plating. Surface treatment is 2020, primarily by switching to water or powder-based paint needed to meet high standards of durability, corrosion applications. resistance, quality and finishing. The Group works system­ atically toward eliminating the use of PER and TRI, and CONSUMPTION OF CHLORINATED ORGANIC SOLVENTS most entities have already replaced PER and TRI with less harmful alternatives, such as ultrasonic cleaning and Tons wateror steam-based processes. 30 The total consumption of chlorinated organic solvents 25 decreased by 20 percent for comparable units during 2018. The majority of the use of chlorinated organic solvents is 20 related to acquisitions in recent years. The target is to reduce 15 the consumption of chlorinated organic solvents by 10 85 percent between 2015 and 2020. The Group also uses other types of organic solvents, 5 ­primarily for paint. The total consumption of other types Consumption in companies 0 acquired 2018 of organic solvents for comparable units decreased by 13 14 15 16 17 18 Equipment upgrade saves energy and minimizes pollutants CHALLENGE: ASSA ABLOY’s manufacturing site in ­Zhongshan, China, is a major producer of door hardware. With some of its equipment, especially for die-casting, around 20 years old, the machines needed to be upgraded to minimize pollutants and improve efficiency. SOLUTION: ASSA ABLOY Zhongshan moved its die-casting, polishing and finishing process to new premises in an industrial park. Its state-of-the-art facilities include dust removal and smoke treatment equipment. Its furnace is now heated using natural gas instead of diesel fuel. More­ over, 93 percent of the die-casting machines have been equipped with robots for the picking of parts to reduce manual handling. RESULT: Energy consumption has decreased by 30 percent and the use of natural gas has also significantly reduced the CO2 emissions. Manual handling been reduced by 80 percent, helping to minimize repetitive strain injuries. 20 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Manufacturing Environmental management systems The Group’s objective is for all units with significant environmental impact to have an ISO 14001 certified environmental management system. As new companies are acquired, such systems are gradually introduced if they are not already in place. A total of 121 units had environmental management management systems decreased by 13 to 103 , primarily as a ­systems at the end of the year, covering 77 percent of result of ongoing restructuring activities and consolidation employees in the Group’s factories. For comparable units of number of reporting entities. The target is to certify the number of entities covered by ISO 14001 environmental 4 more factories by the end of 2020. NUMBER OF ENTITIES COVERED BY ISO 14001 CERTIFICATES AND OTHER CERTIFIABLE ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 ISO 14001 75 85 98 110 116 103 Certifiable systems 26 26 23 14 18 16 Total 101 111 121 124 134 1191 Factory employees covered by environmental management systems, % N/A N/A 73 77 79 77 1 The total number of entities covered by ISO 14001 and other certifiable management systems amounted to 121, including units acquired during the year. Water recycling system reduces consumption CHALLENGE: ASSA ABLOY’s manufacturing plant in Rychnov, RESULT: The implementation of the pumping equipment and Czech Republic, uses two galvanic lines for plating the surfaces of recirculating the rinsing water has resulted in a 10 percent reducits products, which have a combined daily water consumption of tion in water consumption as well as a reduction in operating about 100m3. The challenge was to reduce water consumption costs and in the generation of hazardous waste. in the galvanic process. SOLUTION: An investigation was conducted to evaluate the ­different types of technologies available to improve the process. The study found that the most effective solution involved the installation of pumping equipment and pipes, which allowed the water used in the rinsing phase to be reused in other rinsing baths later on in the galvanic process. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 21 People Our employees lead the way People can achieve great things. That is why ASSA ABLOY’s employees are provided with opportunities, responsibilities and the authority to act. The Group’s 48, 500 employees, working in over 70 countries, strive together to keep ASSA ABLOY as the global leader in access solutions. underlines ASSA ABLOY’s commitment to fair employment The human resources framework is based on conditions and labor rights, and takes a clear stand against three foundations: human rights abuses, child labor and forced labor of any • Increase diversity and inclusion kind. A new version of the Code of Conduct with an • Improve talent management e-learning will be launched in 2019. • Improve health and safety Increase diversity and inclusion Promoting a gender equality and diversity strengthens ASSA During the year, ASSA ABLOY lunched core values and beliefs ABLOY’s competitiveness and performance. ASSA ABLOY’s that will be activated throughout the Group in 2019. They Code of Conduct states that gender, nationality, social or form the base for the human resources vision, strategy and ethnic origin, age, religion, physical disability, sexual orienta­ framework that were updated during the year. ASSA ABLOY tion and political opinion must not be the basis for negative also continued to work towards being the Employer of discrimination. The Group is constantly making efforts to Choice. Good progress was also made within the health and increase the diversity of employees participating in leader­ safety area where the injury rate was reduced from 4.1 to ship and development programs. With a world-wide pres­ 3.7 injuries per million hours worked for comparable units. ence ASSA ABLOY promotes diversity to fully draw on the Lost days per injury increased to 18.1. ASSA ABLOY’S health local expertise and dynamics of the individuals available to and safety focus for 2019 is to reduce workplace hazards the company, and work towards a performance culture and to minimize days lost due to workplace injuries. based on diversity of perspective. ASSA ABLOY grows as employees’ diverse perspectives Human resources vision and strategy come together. A diverse workforce with a good understand­ ASSA ABLOY’s human resources vision is to drive and support ing of local markets is integral to ASSA ABLOY’s success and a dynamic and agile business culture that enables our people the Group promotes diversity throughout the organization. to build a world leading organization. While the Group is For example, 28 nationalities are currently represented at global, there is a strong culture of local ownership and the highest management levels. decentralized decision-making where the Group share the same purpose, corporate values and beliefs. Gender balance The human resources strategy is business oriented with With the Group’s Code of Conduct and Gender Diversity a people focus. This means that the Group believes that the ­Policy as a foundation, ASSA ABLOY systematically works right people in the right place is the driving force for growth with gender balance at all levels throughout the Group. and that the right structure and processes add value to the Group-wide gender diversity objectives are set, and the business. The human resources vision, strategy and frame­ actions taken to achieve them are managed and imple­ work give the Group’s employees the authority to act and mented at division level. The Group’s target is to have enable an environment where it is possible to make a differ­ 30 percent of management positions held by women. ence. ASSA ABLOY’s employees have the opportunity to ­Progress is continuously measured. In 2018 the share of learn, grow and achieve results that make a positive impact. ­senior management positions held by women at ASSA ABLOY was 24 (23) percent. During 2018 several female We stand up for what’s right appointments to executive positions were made. ASSA ABLOY must manage social and ethical issues and One of the challenges on the way to the Group’s gender observe high standards of integrity and responsible prac­ balance objectives is ASSA ABLOY’s acquisitions. Women tices. Ethical employee behavior is central to this and is pro­ have been in the minority in several of the companies that moted among employees through the Group-wide ASSA the Group has acquired in the past few years and much effort ABLOY Code of Conduct. The code is a key component of the has been made to make sure Group-level gender objectives ASSA ABLOY induction program, and all employees are are met. expected to follow it from day one. The Code of Conduct Our core values and beliefs Empowerment Innovation Integrity We have trust in people We have the courage to change We stand up for what’s right 22 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 People Recruitment process innovation, employee development and work processes. ASSA ABLOY’s recruitment process is central to achieving a Several areas were highlighted as key strengths; clear and better diversity and gender balance. The Group encourages challenging roles with a strong sense of employee empower­ its managers to engage in employee development and ment, well-functioning health and safety work and a strong develop talent, to ensure that diversity and people develop­ customer focus. ment are considered in high-profile projects and leadership opportunities. ASSA ABLOY’s recruitment policy gives prior­ Continuous development ity to internal candidates provided they have equal qualifica­ ASSA ABLOY strives to attract and retain people with the tions to external applicants. All job vacancies are published right competences and attitude needed for the company’s on the Group’s intranet to encourage internal mobility and continued success. A key part of ASSA ABLOY’s strategy is there are several common programs for increased commit­ local accountability and the Group has nurtured a culture of ment and personal growth. local ownership and decentralized decision-making. In this way, our employees are given unique opportunities. Improving talent management ASSA ABLOY believes in creating an environment that Employee commitment and competence are crucial to ASSA enables employees to make a difference. The Group oper­ ABLOY’s success. The principles of people empowerment, ates on all levels to strengthen internal mobility and crossinnovation and integrity are the core values of the ASSA level development opportunities. To attract external talent ABLOY’s employer brand. The Group believes in creating an ASSA ABLOY has established multiple graduate programs, environment that enables employees to make a difference internships and strong relationships with universities world­ by actively investing in the Group’s employees’ opportuni­ wide. The EMEA Graduate Program has had 102 graduates ties to learn, grow and achieve results that make a positive since 2012 with an average retention rate of 78 percent. impact. ASSA ABLOY’s aim is to create a value-based culture The Group also has a global development process for that promotes and encourages internal mobility, diversity ­senior managers, aimed at ensuring that the Group has the and knowledge sharing, where all employees feel that they expertise it needs to meet future demands. Its foundation are making a contribution. consists of two development programs for selected senior managers: the internally managed MMT (Management Employee participation ­Training) development program, and the IMD “Leading the By offering the Group’s employees an interesting and chal­ Future” program. About 620 of the Group’s senior managers lenging workplace, ASSA ABLOY will continue to grow. Every from 35 countries have participated in the IMD training other year ASSA ABLOY conducts a Group-wide Employee ­program, which is conducted in cooperation with the Swiss Survey. The survey is an important tool to understand how management school IMD in Lausanne. Its aim is to support employees feel about their workplace and role, as well as the implementation of the Group’s strategies, with a focus issues such as professional development, fair treatment and on problem solving and activities based on an analysis of personal engagement. Through the employee engagement ­various case studies. MMT promotes best practice sharing survey the Group’s increases its accountability and transpar­ and facilitates the integration of new employees following ency towards its employees. acquisitions. In 2018, 92 (85) ASSA ABLOY managers The survey for 2018 had a response rate of 87 percent ­participated in one of these two programs. and with overall positive results, specifically concerning AVERAGE NUMBER OF NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT, WOMEN AT DIFFERENT LEVELS OF THE ORGANIZATION EMPLOYEES ­EMPLOYMENT TYPE AND GENDER Percentage of women Number Number % of total Female, % Level 20131 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 50,000 Permanent 45,022 92 30 2 – reports to CEO 27 27 27 27 27 20 Temporary 3,895 8 35 3 – reports to level 2 12 16 17 18 17 17 40,000 Total 48,917 100 30 4 – reports to level 3 21 20 16 16 16 20 5 – reports to level 4 24 23 25 24 25 25 30,000 At the end of 2018, 35 percent of ASSA ABLOY employees Level 2–5 23 22 23 22 23 24 20,000 were covered by collective bargaining. During 2018 the total All employees 31 31 31 31 30 30 1 The definition of management positions was revised in 2014. 2013 have been employee turnover among permanent employees 10,000 recalculated to be comparable with 2014. amounted to 19.1 percent. The labor turnover is influenced by the ongoing manufacturing footprint restructuring activi­ 0 13 14 15 16 17 18 ties. Consolidated information regarding employment type Women Men is not available, however information covering Sweden, ­Germany and the UK, indicate that an average of 94 percent of the employees work full time. AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY REGION NATIONALITIES – ASSA ABLOY’S MANAGEMENT TEAMS Europe, 17,893, 37.0% women Europe excl. Sweden, 38% North America, 12,813, 26.5% women Sweden, 17% Pa South America, 1,940, 4.0% women North America, 20% So Africa, 787, 1.6% women Asia, 17% Asia, 13,952, 28.9% women Africa and Middle East, 2% Af Pacific, 967, 2.0% women South America, 5% As Pacific, 1% No Pacific Sw Asia ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 23 Eu Africa People Improving health and safety Every unit reports on metrics to identify focus areas for ASSA ABLOY works for a workplace free of injuries in all its improvement and to measure progress. Some indicators operations. With a Group-wide safety culture that promotes serve to measure actual performance as they record injuries safe behavior, workplace hazards and risk taking are reduced. that have occurred. As part of the Group­wide approach, The ambition is to strive for an injury free workplace. each unit also reports on leading indicators that help iden­ To encourage a safety culture, all units have site safety tify areas for improvements and preventive action. Through representatives, and all units with more than 50 employees ­continuous work with our health and safety management have their own Health and Safety committees. In 2017 these system, the Group offers its employees a safe place to work entities represent 94 percent of all employees in the Group. and safe physical working con­ditions. ASSA ABLOY’S goal for 2019 is to reduce workplace hazards and minimize days lost Health and safety management system due to workplace injuries, one of the focus areas being a The health and safety management system, launched in drive safe campaign. 2017, covers all business entities with at least 10 employees and all program components at all sites. The system includes Risk management indicators to identify hazards and follow-up training to pre­ Risk management is part of the everyday health and safety vent injuries, as well as safety communications and incident work at all units. It is a central part of improving the working investigation. It involves a Group-wide structured process environment and strengthening the Group’s safety culture. for reporting, documentation and indicators that provide The Group’s Safety Manual builds on ASSA ABLOY’s belief the basis for analysis of safety risks and injuries. that safety is a top priority and everyone’s responsibility, that Since the new management system’s implementation, injuries are preventable, and that safety incidents are oppor­ ASSA ABLOY has seen a steady decrease in the injury rate as tunities to learn from and improve on. A key component is well as in lost days per injury. The individual responsibility is the identification and risk assessment model that can be the foundation of ASSA ABLOY’s approach to health and used in Group-wide operations on all levels. The manual safety and each manager has the responsibility to identify ­provides a coherent framework for implementing, reviewing risks, take proactive actions and facilitate the right behavior. and promoting a consistent approach to the Health and The Group’s system places a strong emphasis on prevention Safety system throughout the Group. It is based on the and showed positive results during the year. Group’s experience and best practice and assists in ­identifying and reducing workplace hazards. Tools and processes in the health and safety management system: • Safety communications • Training – employee health and safety awareness • Safety metrics and reporting • Hazard identification and risk assessment • Incident investigation INJURIES LOST DAYS PER INJURY1 200 10 1 Injury lost day rate in lost days per 25 1 Lost days per injury calculated as million hours worked. total number of lost days in relation 2 Injury rate in injuries per million to total number of injuries. 20 150 8 hours worked. 2 For comparable units. The total lost 3 For comparable units. The total days per injury was 18.3 including 15 units acquired during the year. injury lost day rate was 75, includ­ 100 6 ing units acquired during the year. From 2012, the reporting of inju­ 10 ries and days lost due to injuries 50 4 includes data from ASSA ABLOY 5 entities performing service or installation. Total injury rate was 0 2 3.6 including units acquired ­during 0 13 14 15 16 17 183 13 14 15 16 17 182 the year. Injury lost day rate¹ Lost days per injury¹ Injury rate² 24 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 People Developing a safety-first Targeting zero injuries Encouraging people to culture at SMI for locksmiths talk about workplace CHALLENGE: ASSA ABLOY acquired the Indian lock CHALLENGE: How can you control the ever changsafety maker Shree Mahavir Metalcraft (SMI) in 2017. ing environment that our locksmiths face every day With a workforce of around 1,000 people, its out in the field? With 330 employees, 19 branches, CHALLENGE: HID Global’s headquarters in Austin, employees were not familiar with ASSA ABLOY’s a fleet of 150 service vehicles and clients spread out US, wanted to encourage its employees to be open core values in workplace health and safety and their across the country, Certego Norway employees face and comfortable in talking about improving workconsiderable benefits. numerous risks in new situations every day. The place safety. safety and security of a locksmith is about more SOLUTION: A comprehensive training program of than just ensuring that they have personal protective SOLUTION: HID held a series of workshops over 3,000 hours was the first step of awareness to equipment. There are also risks that exist in this attended by over 150 people. Employees perestablish a health and safety culture at the combusiness that may be overlooked, especially when formed exercises on topics which included: safe pany. Topics included areas such as accident reportthey can be undermined by a sense of over­ behaviors; unsafe dilemmas; hazard improveing, first aid and fire-fighting training, walkway confidence. ments; our relation to risk-taking; and how to have management and general safety-based behavior. a comfortable and effective safety conversation The next phase will be a strict governance to take SOLUTION: . The best way to handle risk is by with your coworkers. action around high-risk behaviors and reporting of embedding the awareness and knowledge within near missrs. every employee to assess each situation and locaRESULT: The workshop taught employees how to tion separately, determining the potential hazards effectively collaborate with their coworkers and to RESULT: SMI’s employees now have a better underand decide whether it is safe enough to work. better understand how communication is the key standing of hazards in the workplace and how to Communication is key, being able to reach the to building an improved safety culture. The exercarry out corrective actions. Incident rates are monemployees in a systematic way with updates, comcises demonstrated the ASSA ABLOY Safety First itored with an action plan to reduce incidents. The mon hazards, safety improvements implemented, culture, helping employees to refine their safety work is a continuous process to create and maintrainings, or any other information is fundamental skills and get comfortable talking to each other tain a safety-aware culture among management for education and the establishment of a safety about unsafe behaviors and hazards. and all employees. ­culture. Also, benchmarking across the nordics is crucial to identify best practice H&S solutions and optimize resources. RESULT: This is a long term work, targeting zero injuries of the workforce. The Safety Dialogue Workshop helps to engage the entire organization to tackle behavior change and reinforce the existing safety culture within the company. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 25 GOVERnAnCE Sustainability governance ASSA ABLOY AB is listed on the nasdaq Stockholm stock exchange, Large Cap. The Swedish Code of Corporate Governance, together with the ASSA ABLOY Code of Conduct form the basis for the Group’s actions, behavior and external communications. Frameworks and responsibilities The Code of Conduct is based on the following: ASSA ABLOY has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact • United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights since 2008. Its affiliation with the UN Global Compact means and associated UN conventions that the Group supports and commits to actively promoting • ILO Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning and respecting the 10 principles on human rights, labor Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy standards, the environment, and anti­corruption in the • United Nations Global Compact Group’s operations and in dealings with external stake­ • OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises holders. As a signatory, ASSA ABLOY is obligated to issue • ISO 14001 environmental management standard a Communication on Progress report annually to the UN Global Compact. This obligation is fulfilled by issuing The full version of the ASSA ABLOY Code of Conduct is this Sustainability Report to the UN Global Compact. available in English, French, German, Spanish, and Chinese, The Board of Directors has the overall responsibility for while a short version is available in 28 languages at: identifying and managing existing and emerging risks. The www.assaabloy.com/code­of­conduct. The full version is Executive Team is responsible for sustainability risk manage­ given to all managers, relevant employees, and union repre­ ment relating to the Group’s strategy, the Code of Conduct, sentatives. The short version is communicated and made and other sustainability policies. The divisions have the oper­ available to all employees. New employees are required to ational responsibility as well as the responsibility to inte­ read the Code of Conduct within three months of joining the grate the sustainability principles into their daily operations. Group, and agree to abide by it and any related policies. ASSA ABLOY respects the laws and regulations of the Code of Conduct countries in which it operates. The Code of Conduct does The Group­wide Code of Conduct covers business ethics, not replace legislation and if the two differ, legislation takes communication, human rights and labor standards, the envi­ precedence. Although if the Code of Conduct sets a higher ronment, and Health and Safety. It provides the framework standard than the existing legislation, the reverse applies. for ASSA ABLOY’s daily operations and dealings with external A new version of the ASSA ABLOY Code of Conduct will be stakeholders. launched during 2019. 28 The Code of Conduct is available in 28 languages. ‫م دونة ق واع‬ säännöt atakelakuan বি বি за пове дение dex nskodex edragscode Conduc t ‫د ال سل وك‬ Eettiset T আ চ রণ Кодекс 行为规范 Etický ko Verhalte G Code of ‫ار املوجز‬ ‫اإلصد‬ rsio gkas সংস্ক রণ версия ná verz e ung rsie corta Lyhy t ve Versi rin সংবষি প্ত Кратка 简化版 Zkráce Kurzfass Korte ve Versión ‫קוד ה‬ e Conduit चार सं हिता onašanja tikai kódex di Cond 動規範 otta 령 ‫התנהגות‬ Code de आ Pravila p E Codice 行 행동 강 ‫מקוצרת‬ ‫גרסה‬ régée iata ab verzija ltozat abbrev Version लघु सं स्करण Skraćena Rövid vá Versione 축약판 Uppförandekod Code of Conduct 1 Kort version 1 1 1 Short version 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 26 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Governance 31 Business Partner Code of Conduct Whistle-blowing ASSA ABLOY’s Business Partner Code of Conduct is based on The Code of Conduct includes a whistle-blowing function. the pillars and frameworks of the Code of Conduct, but is The objective is for cases to be resolved on a local level, how­ adapted to external partners. The Code includes principles ever in 2018, 31 (38) cases were reported through the that apply globally to suppliers, business partners and other whistle-­blowing function and dealt with on a Group-level. The Code of Conduct stakeholders such as third parties acting on behalf of The range of cases demonstrates that the mechanism is used includes a mechanism for ASSA ABLOY and they are all required to comply with it. throughout the organization. whistle-blowing. In 2018, The Business Partner Code of Conduct is available in In 2018, the process for whistle-blowing was further the Group handled 31 (38) 21 languages. streamlined and made more efficient. The process has also cases reported through the been enhanced, and now gathers more detailed information whistle-blowing function. New Code of Conduct e-learning on each reported case. During 2018, the development of a Code of Conduct e-learning module continued. The e-learning will include a Compliance reviews digital quiz to promote dialogue and raise awareness of the To maintain ASSA ABLOY’s standards throughout the organi­ Code of Conduct among employees and what is expected of zation, internal Code of Conduct compliance reviews are them. The roll out of the e-learning is scheduled for the first complemented with third-party audits. These audits focus half of 2019. on working conditions, such as human rights, labor rights, Health and Safety, and compliance. The Group carries out The Compliance Committee one-three audits every year with a focus on the Group’s ASSA ABLOY has a Code of Conduct Compliance Committee, ­manufacturing sites in Africa, Asia, Eastern Europe and South which is chaired by the Group Senior Vice President of America. The units are given specific improvement actions Human Resources. Its members include the Group Head to fulfil, based on the audit results. In 2018, three external of Environmental Sustainability, Group Head of Compliance audit was performed on ASSA ABLOY’s operations in India, and two employee representatives, who are also members Mexico and Chile. of the ASSA ABLOY Board of Directors. Among other things, the members of the committee receives information from ­whistle-blowers and the committee ensures that such ­matters are dealt with appropriately and followed through. The committee meets twice a year. Growing with care As ASSA ABLOY grows organically and through acquisitions, the relocation of production is part of creating a more effi­ cient manufacturing structure. Expanding the business in new regions, often in emerging markets, will remain an important part of the company’s strategy for the foreseeable future. It is important to understand the business context when moving into new regions and integrating new units. At the same time, the Group works to ensure that the busi­ ness is run in line with ASSA ABLOY’s Code of Conduct and beliefs. The ability to grow responsibly promotes ASSA ABLOY’s performance. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 27 GOvERNANCE Organizational responsibility The divisions have operational responsibility for their sustainability work. The work is overseen by the Executive Team and ultimately by the Board of Directors. The Group’s strategy, sustainability objectives and the Code of Conduct form the foundation for the sustainability work. Managing the sustainability agenda responsibility within each division. Each division is also In the ASSA ABLOY Group, sustainability issues are managed responsible for ensuring that current and new suppliers in a systematic and consistent way, mostly at divisional level. understand and comply with ASSA ABLOY’s requirements. Managers for environmental sustainability, supply, and innoAt Group level, performance is monitored via the sustainvation at the Group and divisional levels ensure that the necability reporting process, which includes each company’s essary policies, processes and tools for managing environreporting of material environmental risks and actions to mental issues exist and are implemented. The Human mitigate them. Divisional board meetings address risks, comResources (HR) functions at the Group and divisional levels pliance, performance and other sustainability matters. The have the corresponding responsibility for managing social delegation of responsibility, implementation and follow up is and ethical matters. clearly communicated and the accountability of each person To drive the agenda, five functional sustainability councils and function with a particular responsibility is defined. have been defined. The Group intranet includes two sections that focus on sustainability – one offering general informaMonitoring progress tion for all employees, while the other supports sustainabilASSA ABLOY has a Group-wide database for sustainability ity managers and includes tools, best practices, and access to indicator reporting, which enables data analysis. The datathe sustainability reporting database. Statistical reports and base includes best practices and tools as well as details of scorecards enable all ASSA ABLOY companies to monitor measures taken by the various companies to achieve the their performance and to benchmark themselves against Group’s sustainability targets. All companies and divisions in the Group. the Group can access information from the database to compare progress and trends. In 2018, 361 (360) factories, sales Responsibilities units and offices reported their data in the database. Each division is responsible for managing the Group’s susThe review process is managed by the divisions on a quartainability agenda, identifying and addressing risks and terly basis – typically with detailed follow up discussions with opportunities in the context of their business, as well as the relevant sub-divisions. Overall Group performance is governing the Code of Conduct and related policies. monitored by the Sustainability Council, which tracks the Divisional work and progress is overseen by the Executive performance of individual KPIs, and the results are presented Team, and each factory or business unit has the operational at Group Management meetings. ORGANIZATIONAL RESPONSIBILITY Board of Directors ASSA ABLOY Group Management Divisional Boards Opening Solutions Opening Solutions Opening Solutions Global Technologies Entrance Systems EMEA Americas Asia Pacific Sustainability councils reporting process Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing Sales Unit Sales Unit Sales Unit Sales Unit Sales Unit Sustainable innovation Supply chain integrity Environmental Social and ethical Health and safety 28 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Governance ASSA ABLOY’s councils for reporting back to their organization and for driving The Group Sustainability Council comprises of representaimplementation. tives from Operations, Research and Development and In addition to the Sustainability Council, there are counHuman Resources, including the person responsible for suscils for Innovation, Sourcing, Operations, Human Resources, tainability in each division. The council meets three to four and Health and Safety, whose members include representatimes each year to discuss various sustainability matters tives from the Group and all divisions, which manage susrelated to innovation and production, to define action plans tainability issues related to their business. and set targets. Each participant in the council is responsible COUNCILS AND WORKSTREAMS RELATED TO ASSA ABLOY’S SUSTAINABILITY WORK Sustainable Innovation Supply chain integrity Environmental Social and ethical Health and safety Legal ASSA ABLOY Zeljka Svensson, Stefan Calner, Stefan Tisell, Maria Romberg Ewerth, Maria Romberg Ewerth, Johan Ahlgren, Group Director Global Innovation Director Supply Head of Environmental SVP Human Resources SVP Human Resources Group General Counsel Management Management Sustainability Opening ­Solutions David Moser, Mauro Felice, Antonina Realmuto, Allan Cooper Mauro Felice, Hemma Patel, EMEA VP Product Innovation VP Operations Sustainability Manager Director Human Resources VP Operations General Counsel Opening ­Solutions Amy Vigneux, Jody Paviglionite, Richard Hafersat, Jack Dwyer, Kimberly Cummins, Page Heslin, Americas Director of Sustainable VP Supply Management Director of Strategic VP Human Resources and Human Resources Manager General Counsel Building Solutions Initiatives Administration ASSA ABLOY Berlin Opening ­Solutions Allen Wong, Michael Deng, Michael Deng, Dolores Shore, Dolores Shore, Ivan Lu, Asia Pacific VP Innovation Sustainability Manager Sustainability Manager Global Director Human Global Director Human General Counsel Resources Resources HID Global Jeff Sasse, Joshua Freeman, Jeff Sasse, Michele DeWitt, Jeff Sasse, Mark Camero, Director Global VP Quality and Process Director Global VP Human Resources Director Global General Counsel Sustainability Excellence Sustainability Sustainability Global Solutions Louise Wolfshagen Julie Zhu, Louise Wolfshagen Christophe Sut, Julie Zhu, Gerry Larmeu, Global Quality Assurance VP Operations Global Quality Assurance Executive Vice President VP Operations General Counsel Manager Manager and Head of ASSA ABLOY Global solutions Entrance Systems Mats Nordén, Dan Gren, Tobias Svensson, Jessica Jonasson, Tobias Svensson, Katarina Jarring, CTO Entrance Systems VP Operations Head of Process Excellence VP Human Resources Head of Process Excellence General Counsel Policies Innovation Policy Business Partner Code of Code of Conduct Code of Conduct Code of Conduct Code of Conduct Policy for Intellectual Conduct Environmental HR Policies and Guidelines Health and Safety Policy Anti-bribery Policy Property Supply Management Policy Sustainability Policy Gender Diversity Policy Manual Tax policy* * The Group’s Tax policy is ­coordinated by Group Tax. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 29 Governance Stakeholder engagement and materiality analysis Engagement with a wide variety of stakeholders helps ASSA ABLOY to be aware of societal expectations on the company. Stakeholder engagement also provides the basis for the materiality analysis, which provides a clear understanding of which sustainability topics that are the most significant to ASSA ABLOY and its stakeholders. Stakeholder engagement Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and local com­ ASSA ABLOY’s main stakeholder groups are those with a high munities are engaged through local dialogue when relevant. level of influence and interaction, and with whom the Group interacts directly and actively in its day-to-day business: Materiality analysis In 2013 ASSA ABLOY conducted its first materiality analysis. Customers are becoming increasingly interested in transpar­ The analysis was reviewed in 2015, and again in 2017. During ency and products with improved sustainability perfor­ 2018, ASSA ABLOY performed a materiality analysis based on mance. Environmental and social supply chain transparency requirements in the GRI Standards. Together with selected typically relates to where and how ASSA ABLOY’s products sustainability experts ASSA ABLOY’s Sustainability Council are manufactured, along with details of the materials con­ identified and analyzed the significant impact from sustain­ tained in products, and is addressed by the company’s work ability topics on the outside world. In addition, over 250 with its supply chain. Customer interest in sustainable prod­ stakeholders in the form of customers, suppliers and ucts has emerged from a growing importance of sustainable employees assessed which sustainability topics they per­ cities, buildings and communities. One major focus area is ceive have a substantive influence on their assessments energy efficiency and how ASSA ABLOY’s products can make and decisions in relation to ASSA ABLOY’s business. a contribution. ASSA ABLOY responds to this interest by The materiality analysis highlights the following engaging and collaborating with customers in product ­sustainability topics as the most significant ones: ­innovation and at relevant conferences and events, as well as through its membership of green building organizations Most significant sustainability topics for and initiatives. ASSA ABLOY and stakeholders: • Human capital development Investors and shareholders have become increasingly inter­ • Improve health and safety performance ested in sustainability issues in recent years. ASSA ABLOY • Sustainable and circular products engages with investors and shareholders in both one-to-one • Responsible acquisitions meetings and roundtable discussions on a variety of issues. • Sustainable supply chains These include supply chain management, Code of Conduct • Resource efficiency compliance, M&A due diligence, phase out of hazardous materials, energy consumption and CO2 emissions, health Most significant topic for ASSA ABLOY: and safety, market demand and profitability for sustainable • Reduce emissions with global warming potential products, and solutions and type of whistle blowing cases. Significant topics for ASSA ABLOY and stakeholders: Employees are engaged through annual appraisals, training • Safety, security and convenience for customers and development initiatives, staff meetings, the internal • Responsible acquisitions ­magazine in 17 languages, and the intranet. ASSA ABLOY • Strengthen anti-corruption measures works to improve employee satisfaction across a broad range • Business compliance of areas, and progress is measured in the employee survey. The materiality analysis forms the basis for defining the Supplier and business partner issues are managed through ­Sustainability Report content. supply chain audits and Business Partner Code of Conduct compliance. 30 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Governance Investor statements “With many thousand suppliers, ASSA ABLOY’s audit program demonstrates commitment to a solid revision and monitoring process.” Sustainability is an integrated part of ASSA ABLOY’s products ASSA ABLOY but for the industry sector. My perception is and offerings. Several sustainability challenges have been that improvements can be made in this area. addressed in recently with increased margins as well as inno­ With many thousand suppliers, ASSA ABLOY’s audit vative solutions as an outcome. ASSA ABLOY’s focus on ­program demonstrates commitment to a solid revision and Health and Safety shows that there is a clear strategy to monitoring process. It ensures transparency and access to decrease the proportion of incidents and injuries. information on the suppliers’ sustainability performance. Acquisitions pose a challenge regarding integrating ASSA ABLOY’s sustainability communication sets out an guidelines and company values. ASSA ABLOY’s strategy has ambitious and progressive agenda. Going forward, I expect a Peter Lööw Head of Responsible been successful in incorporating acquired business into more comprehensive climate data disclosure and proactive Investment, Alecta operations, with the support of effective processes and tar­ approach on how ASSA ABLOY assess the potential financial gets. Gender balance is still a key challenge, not only for impacts of climate-related risks of their investments. “We see good progress in how ASSA ABLOY integrates and support acquisitions.” ASSA ABLOY’s presence in high risk countries poses a chal­ ABLOY enables a more sustainable product development as lenge to the organization and ASSA ABLOY has improved the well as more innovative customer solutions. ASSA ABLOY way their suppliers are audited. The number of suppliers has also discloses interesting initiatives regarding the company’s decreased, thus consolidating and minimizing risks. From gender balance and the retention rate of female employees. our perspective ASSA ABLOY has showed improvement in ASSA ABLOY continues to improve and develop their the management of supplier related risks – including risk ­sustainability work. In the future I believe that managing assessments, screening and risk monitoring. Regarding the indirect emissions outside of ASSA ABLOY’s own operations production process there are inherent risks like the use of is crucial, particularly related to investments and transporta­ chemicals and hazardous waste, but my perception is that tion. Finally, I would like to see more information regarding Kristin Wallander ASSA ABLOY’s mitigates the environmental impact well. how ASSA ABLOY’s products contributes to the 2030 Agenda Senior Sustainability Analyst, We see good progress in how ASSA ABLOY integrates and for Sustainable Development. Swedbank support acquisitions. Through successful mergers ASSA “We also see progress regarding diversity and ASSA ABLOY is working toward attracting and retaining competence to increase the gender balance.” ASSA ABLOY’s sustainability activities are integrated into chain. Multiple suppliers mean numerous challenges. business operations. ASSA ABLOY yearly hold dialogue ses­ My perception is that ASSA ABLOY’s processes for auditing sions where investors are presented with their sustainability and monitoring suppliers are clear, efficient and transparent. performance. This year ASSA ABLOY developed and Progress has also been made in the due diligence process launched a people vision, strategy and framework that will and sustainability issues are now incorporated in the acquisi­ be interesting to follow. I welcome that ASSA ABLOY high­ tion process. We also see progress regarding diversity and light the purpose of the business, not solely focusing on the ASSA ABLOY is working toward attracting and retaining financial success. ­competence to increase the gender balance. Anette Andersson Portfolio Manager & ESG I appreciate ASSA ABLOY’s environmental efforts. The Going forward I would like to see a clearer approach to Investment ­Specialist, intent that every developed product must be superior to the the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Investment Management, SEB product it is replacing efficiently work as a driver towards Financial Disclosures as well as to the Sustainable Develop­ more energy efficient solutions. There is also a positive trend ment Goals. in how ASSA ABLOY manages risks related to the supply ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 31 Governance Anti-corruption and other compliance programs ASSA ABLOY has specific global compliance programs and policies within the areas of anticorruption, antitrust, export control and data protection, which supplement and build on the Code of Conduct. In 2018, ASSA ABLOY continued with the implementation of its Data Protection Compliance Program. The process for handling of Code of Conduct cases was further streamlined throughout the Group and the divisional due diligence processes was further strengthened. Progress in 2018 The implementation and further development of the com­ • Data Protection Compliance Program implementation pliance programs are ongoing, and ASSA ABLOY is working The global program is based on both the EU General Data continuously to evaluate and further develop their Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the principles set out ­effectiveness. in the OECD Guidelines on the Protection of Privacy and Transborder Flows of Personal Data. During the year, ASSA Anti-corruption compliance program ABLOY has continued to implement its Data Protection Corruption increases inequality, the cost of doing business Compliance Program throughout the company through and reduces efficiency. ASSA ABLOY works actively to pre­ dialogue with internal stakeholders to ensure understand­ vent corruption in its business. The anti-corruption compli­ ing and commitment by every employee concerned and ance program (the anti-bribery policy) adheres to the strict­ compliance with the Program. est international standards to prevent, detect and respond • Handling of Code of Conduct cases streamlined to potential corruption – and it is constantly evaluated. Risk The process was streamlined and made more comprehen­ assessments, employee training, third-party compliance, sive to ensure that Code of Conduct cases were handled in and reporting are essential components of the anti-corrup­ the same way within the divisions. tion compliance program. The anti-corruption compliance • Further strengthening of divisional due diligence program is available on the external Group website, together ­processes with the Code of Conduct and the Business Partner Code of During the year, the work with further strengthening the Conduct. All relevant ASSA ABLOY employees have received processes to evaluate and screen if third parties can make information on the anti-corruption compliance program sales on ASSA ABLOY’s behalf has continued. Such pro­ and the Code of Conduct. cesses identify where the corruption risk exposure is per­ ASSA ABLOY conducts business worldwide and conse­ ceived to be high and to determine whether such third quently operates in some countries where corruption risks parties should be engaged, and allows actions to be are perceived to be high, according to the Corruption Per­ ­prioritized. ceptions Index published by Transparency International. • Continued roll out of the Business Partner A large part of ASSA ABLOY’s sales is handled through third Code of ­Conduct parties, such as distributors, and the majority of the Group’s The Business Partner Code of Conduct clearly defines anti-corruption efforts are used to ensure that such third ASSA ABLOY’s expectations on its Business Partners and parties acting on behalf of ASSA ABLOY comply with all Business Partners, including inter alia suppliers and ASSA ABLOY’s standards. This is particularly the case in mar­ agents, are required to adhere to the Business Partner kets that are perceived to have a higher level of corruption Code of Conduct. risk exposure, such as emerging markets or countries with a low score on Transparency International’s latest Corruption Compliance overview Perceptions Index. All compliance-related programs, policies and requirements are set by the Group, which also provides supporting tools. Compliance training 22 Each division is responsible for implementing the programs. ASSA ABLOY’s training guidelines stipulate that all new Employees are expected to report any concerns to either employees should receive training on the relevant compli­ their nearest manager, the divisional compliance officer, ance programs within three months, and receive further Group Legal, or through the Code of Conduct whistle-­ training every three years thereafter. Training is conducted blowing function. either through e-learning programs (available for antitrust In 2018 employees in regions where the risk of corruption and anti-corruption), webinars or face-to-face. The anti-corruption The anti-corruption e-learning program is global and is perceived to be higher, such as emerging markets or coun­ e-learning program is tries with a low score on Transparency International’s latest available in 22 languages. The target group for the anti-­ global and available Corruption Perception Index have continued to be in focus. corruption training includes managers as well as sales, in 22 languages. During the year anti-corruption reviews have been con­ ­purchasing and sourcing personnel. ducted in regions where the corruption risk exposure is per­ At the end of 2018, 83 percent (83) of relevant employees ceived to be high. The implementation of the programs is had participated in anti-corruption training. 83 reviewed through the Group’s established process for inter­ nal control in all operating companies and internal audits. In Continued work in 2019 order to ensure compliance with GDPR when it came into The refined model for risk assessment will be further applied force, special focus was given to the follow up of the imple­ at divisional level allowing for actions to be prioritized and mentation of the Data Protection Compliance Program. compliance risks to be identified and mitigated. Special ASSA ABLOY also has a mergers and acquisitions compli­ focus will also be given to conduct anti-corruption reviews in At year-end 2018, ance process as part of the acquisition process. The aim of regions where the corruption risk exposure is perceived to 83 percent of relevant this process is to put any potential issues on the agenda from be high. employees had partici­pated the outset of the acquisition to be able to determine the in anti-corruption training. level of risk at an early stage, as well as to mitigate specific areas of concern. Read more in the Acquisitions section on page 33. 32 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Governance Acquisitions Acquisitions are important to ASSA ABLOY’s growth strategy. They strengthen the Group’s offerings, accelerate innovation, and take the Group into new geographic markets – enabling ASSA ABLOY to meet customer demands more rapidly. 190 Progress in 2018 and critical components. This mapping involves Group • New acquisitions ­Supply Management and aims to identify risks and potential 14 acquisitions were consolidated during the year. synergies. Post-acquisition, associated suppliers are added 20 percent of the acquisitions were in emerging ­markets. to the Group’s supplier database, which is continuously • Finance Integration guidelines and scorecard assessed and audited. ASSA ABLOY has made more The Group-level Finance Integration guidelines that were As part of the acquisition process, ASSA ABLOY is obliged than 190 acquisitions in the introduced during 2017 as an additional check in the first in certain cases to file for antitrust approval. During 2017, last 12 years. 100 days of a new acquisition has been supplemented the company did this in a number of cases when it was with a formal scorecard based process for following up required. that these measures actually have been implemented. The successful integration of acquired companies nor­ • Acquisition post-closing follow up mally take between 6 and 12 months – depending on the A new process for formally following up on all acquisitions type of acquisition and its specific circumstances. after some 15–18 months has been implemented during the year. The follow up focuses both on financial perfor­ Risk management mance and synergies but also on the status of the integra­ ASSA ABLOY has identified the main areas of potential risks tion process. related to acquisitions, all of which are covered by Legal and • Integration manager Operational due diligence. ASSA ABLOY’s Group-wide sus­ The process for appointing a dedicated integration man­ tainability management program – including targets, ager in all acquisitions has been formalized. The integra­ semi-annual reporting, supply chain management, and tion manager shall be appointed already during the acqui­ Group-wide policies – manages risk in the following areas: sition process and be the lead person post-closing for • Significant environmental pollution (soil, ground water, ­managing all integration aspects of the acquired company. and air) • Manufacturing processes that use hazardous substances With more than 190 acquisitions during the last 12 years, • Supplier base in low-cost countries ASSA ABLOY has established an efficient process for bringing • Poor business ethics, including possible Code of Conduct new companies into the Group. This includes reviewing sus­ breaches (labor rights, human rights, corruption, etc.) tainability-related issues, sharing the company’s Code of • Proper permissions Conduct and way of doing business with prospective compa­ • Safety nies, and taking steps to help newly acquired companies raise their standards where necessary. In addition, dedicated action plans are set up when required. Due to the decentralized nature of the ASSA ABLOY Group, divisions are responsible for the entire merger and Compliance process acquisition process, and are resourced accordingly. The ASSA ABLOY’s mergers and acquisitions (M&A) compliance Group provides an overview of company-wide activities, and process aims to ensure that companies – particularly in supports divisions with common compliance guidelines. emerging markets – comply with the company’s standards. ASSA ABLOY prefers to acquire sound companies that The M&A process includes a practical toolkit that provides share the Group’s values and business practices, and the ASSA ABLOY employees involved in the acquisition process success­ful integration of acquired companies is an essential with guidance. It covers the following areas: part of mitigating risks. • Anti-corruption • Antitrust The acquisition process • Export control The Group-wide acquisition process is divided into four • Data protection phases: strategy, assessment, implementation, and integra­ • Environmental, health and safety tion. Each phase has its own predefined activities, decision • Tax processes and documentation requirements. Within these • Human resources phases there are three main due diligence processes that help ASSA ABLOY decide whether to pursue the acquisition, The M&A process aims to put all potential issues on the and what action would need to be taken if the acquisition is agenda from the outset of the acquisition to enable an accu­ completed: rate risk appreciation at an early stage. This allows the due • Financial and tax diligence process to be tailored to specific areas of concern. • Legal – including employment contracts, payment During 2018 the two areas of Data protection and Human ­processes, wages and insurance resources were added to the areas specifically covered in the • Operational – including the use of chemicals and process. ­compliance Post-completion, a thorough program for addressing any identified compliance issues, as well as any Code of Conduct An excessive number of red flags in the Legal and Opera­ related aspects, such as human rights, are to be put in place tional due diligence processes related to sustainability may and implemented. The post-completion review is particu­ mean that the acquisition process is abandoned indefinitely. larly important if insufficient information has been obtained The supplier base of the potential company is also investi­ during the acquisition phase. The M&A compliance guide­ gated – including two supplier categories: large suppliers lines also offer guidance on this process. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 33 GRI content index GRI content index This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. The table below indicates where information can be found: Sustainability Report (unless otherwise stated) or Annual Report (AR). General Disclosures Page Comment/Omission GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 Organizational Profile 102 1 Name of the organization 26 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Flip cover inside, 4–6, 11 102-3 Location of headquarters Backcover 102-4 Location of operations 6, AR 90 102-5 Ownership and legal form 25, AR 108–109 102-6 Markets served Flip cover inside, 6, AR 10–11, 76 102-7 Scale of the organization Flip cover inside, 23, AR 59–60, 76, 82, 90 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 23, 36 Data for employee contract by region and employee type by gender is not available. 102-9 Supply chain 6, 12–14 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain AR 42, 87 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 15 102-12 External initiatives 3, 26 102-13 Membership of associations 7 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2 Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Flip cover inside, 12, 16 Governance 102-18 Governance structure 26, 28 Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 30 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 23 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 30 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 3, 30 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 30–31 Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 36, AR 82 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 30, 36 102-47 List of material topics 30 102-48 Restatements of information 36 102-49 Changes in reporting 36 102-50 Reporting period 36 102-51 Date of most recent report 36 102-52 Reporting cycle 36 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 37 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 37 102-55 GRI content index 34–35 102-56 External assurance 36 34 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 GRI content index Topic-specific Disclosures Topic in ASSA ABLOY’s GRI Standard Disclosure Page Comment/Omission ­Materiality Analysis Economic Anti-corruption 103-1/2/3 Management Approach* 7, 26–27, 28, 30, 32 Anti-corruption GRI 205: Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 32, 33 2016 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption 26, 32 policies and procedures Environmental Energy 103-1/2/3 Management Approach* 6, 7, 8, 15, 16–17, 26–27, 28, 30 Energy GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 16–17, 36 302-3 Energy intensity 17 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 17, 36 Water 103-1/2/3 Management Approach* 6, 7, 8, 15, 18, 26–27, 28, 30 Water GRI 303: Water 2016 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 18 303-3 Water recycled and reused 18 Emissions 103-1/2/3 Management Approach* 6, 7, 8, 15, 16–17, 26–27, 28, 30 Emissions GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 17, 36 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 17, 36 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 16 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 17, 36 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 17 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other 20 Data includes the use of significant air emissions chlorinated organic solvents. Data by nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx) and other significant air emissions is not available. Effluents and Waste 103-1/2/3 Management Approach* 6, 7, 8, 15, 19, 26–27, 28, 30 Water GRI 306: Effluents and 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 18 Waste Waste 2016 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 19 306-3 Significant spills 19 Environmental 103-1/2/3 Management Approach* 7, 15, 26–27, 28, 30 Environmental Compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and 15 ­compliance GRI 307: Environmental regulations Compliance 2016 Supplier Environmental 103-1/2/3 Management Approach* 6, 7, 8, 12–14, 15, 26–27, 28, 30 Procurement Assessment 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental 12–14 practices GRI 308: Supplier criteria Environmental Assessment 2016 Environmental 103-1/2/3 Management Approach* 6, 7, 8, 15, 26–27, 28, 30 Environmental management systems Number of entities covered by ISO 14001 certificates and 21 management other certifiable environmental management systems systems Social Occupational Health 103-1/2/3 Management Approach* 6, 7, 8, 24, 26–27, 28, 30 Occupational health and Safety 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management– 24 and safety GRI 403: Occupational worker health and safety committees Health and Safety 2016 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, 24 Data by gender and region lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related not available. Absenteeism fatalities and occupational diseases not available on Group level. During 2018 different options for simplified data collection will be evaluated. Diversity and Equal 103-1/2/3 Management Approach* 7, 8, 22–23, 26–27, 28, 30 Diversity Opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 23 Data by age groups not available. GRI 405: Diversity and During 2018 different options for Equal Opportunity 2016 simplified data collection will be evaluated. Human Rights 103-1/2/3 Management Approach* 6, 7, 26–27, 28, 30, 33 Acquisitions Assessment 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that 33 GRI: 412 Human Rights include human rights clauses or that underwent human Assessment 2016 rights screening Supplier Social 103-1/2/3 Management Approach* 6, 7, 8, 12–14, 26–27, 28, 30 Procurement Assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 12–14 practices GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 Marketing and Labeling 103-1/2/3 Management Approach* 6, 7, 9, 11, 28, 30 Sustainable GRI 417: Marketing and 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and 9–10 innovation/ Labeling 2016 labeling sustainable products * GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 35 Reporting principles Reporting principles ASSA ABLOY continually works to Calculation principles Changes in reporting management improve reporting transparency, Reported number of employees represent the ASSA ABLOY’s sustainability reporting system number of employed persons by the end of 2018. facilitates the collection of data that is aligned scope, quality and the frequency Reported normalized KPIs are based on curren­ with the Group financial reporting. It also sup­ of information. This is the Group’s cy-neutral monetary values and value added ports sustainability management in all areas of thirteenth Sustainability Report. rather than sales – to minimize the effect of cur­ operations. ASSA ABLOY reports in accordance rency fluctuations and the ongoing restructuring ASSA ABLOY has improved its internal sustain­ with the GRI Standards: Core option. of the Group. By using value added as a measure, ability reporting and analysis capabilities in recent the normalized values are also not affected by the years, which has resulted in restatements of previ­ outsourcing of manufacturing. We believe this ously reported data for water consumption, Reporting units provides a more accurate picture of what is going energy consumption and carbon emissions. The number of entities (factories, sales companies on in the Group. All units report sustainability performance and offices) reporting on sustainability in 2018 ASSA ABLOY uses the CDP’s principle for calcu­ every quarter (internal reporting). has increased from 360 to 361. The data in the lating carbon emissions. The selected method sustainability report represents entities where gives a more relevant calculation on the actual GRI Standards 90 percent of the Group’s employees work. In carbon emissions as it takes into account how The Sustainability Report covers the 2018 report­ terms of manufacturing activities the report is electricity is generated in different countries. ing year and has been developed with guidance estimated to cover entities that represents Electricity emission factors are based on data from a number of standards and with substantial 95 percent of the Groups total manufacturing on electricity production for 2010, as published by input from investors and available rating schemes, activities. The parts of the Group that are not the International Energy Agency (IEA, 2012). These in particular the GRI Standards. This report has ­covered are either related to recently acquired emission factors are used for calculation of emis­ been prepared in accordance with the GRI Stand­ entities or entities with less than 10 employees. sions until end of 2016. In 2017 ASSA ABLOY have ards: Core option. Accordingly, the GRI indicators Joint ventures are included if ASSA ABLOY holds updated the emission factors used to calculate have been chosen to match the material issues majority ownership. Sustainability indicators greenhouse gases from electricity consumption. disclosed on page 30. Omissions or incomplete are reported by companies that have been part The emission factors are based on the most recent data are commented on directly in the GRI index of the Group since at least the end of the first data published by the International Energy Agency on pages 34–35. quarter of 2018. (IEA) and the International Panel on Climate ASSA ABLOY reports its sustainability perfor­ Change (IPCC), and are expressed in CO2 equiva­ mance annually, and the most recent Sustainabil­ lents (CO2e). For Brazil, Canada, United Kingdom ity Report, for 2017, was issued in March 2018. and the United States the emission factors are based on data published by national agencies. External assurance Due to the change in emission factors the ASSA ABLOY has not sought external assurance for CO2e emissions from electricity have increased by the sustainability report of 2018. PwC Sweden has 5 percent. Previous years data have not been performed a GRI check and confirms that ASSA NUMBER OF REPORTING UNITS updated. ABLOY reports in accordance with the GRI Stand­ Number ASSA ABLOY currently only report location ards: Core option. 400 based Scope 2 emissions due to the unavailability 350 of market based data. Communication 300 District heating emission factors are calculated Internally, the Group intranet and sustainability 250 as a weighted average of energy sources for heat reporting database are important tools for com­ 200 production per country, based on data from 2009 munication. Externally, the Group website 150 as published by the International Energy Agency www.assaabloy.com and the annual Sustainability 100 (IEA, 2013). Report communicate to a wider audience. Emission factors for oil, coal and gas are based The Group also presents its sustainability 50 The number of reporting units in the Group has on data published by the United Nations Intergov­ approach to external audiences, such as analysts 0 13 14 15 16 17 18 increased to 361 (360). ernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC, 2006). and investors. Auditor’s report on the statutory sustainability report To the general meeting of the shareholders in ASSA ABLOY AB (publ) AB, accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted ­corporate identity number 556059-3575 auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. Engagement and responsibility It is the board of directors who is responsible for the statutory sustainabil­ Opinion ity report for the year 2018 and that it has been prepared in accordance with A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. the Annual Accounts Act. Stockholm, 4 February 2019 The scope of the audit Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustain­ Bo Karlsson Linda Corneliusson ability report. This means that our examination of the statutory sustainability Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant report is substantially different and less in scope than an audit conducted in Auditor-in-charge 36 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Glossary / Contacts Glossary Contacts BIM Building Information Modeling (BIM), is a Global-warming potential (GWP) A relative Sustainable innovation: method of drawing data-rich 3D objects that pro­ measure of how much heat a greenhouse gas Zeljka Svensson vide a wealth of information on product options traps in the atmosphere. Director, Global Innovation and how the equipment integrates into a building. zeljka.svensson@assaabloy.com Greenhouse gas emissions Gases from the BREEAM BREEAM is a sustainability assessment atmosphere that contribute to the greenhouse Tel: +46 (0) 8 506 485 00 method and rating system for buildings, measur­ effect, for example CO2 and methane. ing a building’s environmental performance dur­ Supply-chain integrity: Indirect energy Electricity and heating. Stefan Calner ing building design, construction and operation. Injury rate Measure of injuries per million hours Director Supply Management CDP Formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure stefan.calner@assaabloy.com worked. Project, CDP is an independent non-profit organi­ Tel: +46 (0) 8 506 485 00 zation compiling the world’s largest database of Injury lost day rate Measure of days lost due to corporate climate change information. CDP har­ injuries per million hours worked. Environmental sustainability: monizes climate change data from local -organi­ ISO 14001 Global certifiable standard for envi­ Stefan Tisell, ASSA ABLOY AB zations from around the world to assist in the ronmental management systems created by the Director Production Processes and development of inter­national carbon reporting International -Organization for ­Standardization. Environmental Sustainability standards. stefan.tisell@assaabloy.com KPI Key Performance Indicator. Carbon footprint CO2 measurement of the Tel: +46 (0) 8 506 485 00 Lean Lean production philosophy is about using impact of human activities on the environment, as few resources as possible. The focus is on justSocial and ethical matters: in terms of the amount of greenhouse gases ­produced. in-time production, which means that materials, Maria Romberg Ewerth, ASSA ABLOY AB parts and products are in the right place at the Executive Vice President and Chief Human CO2 Carbon dioxide. right time. Striving for continuous improvement is Resources Officer Direct energy Energy generated and utilized on an integral part of the Lean philosophy. maria.ewerth@assaabloy.com site from oil, gas, etc. LEED Leadership in Energy and Environmental Tel: +46 (0) 8 506 485 00 EBIT Earnings before interest and tax. Design. Environmental Product Declaration (EPD) is a NGO Non-governmental organization. verified and registered document that communi­ Organic solvents Perchloroethylene and cates transparent and com­parable information ­trichloroethylene. about the life-cycle environ­mental impact of PER Perchloroethylene. products. SRI Socially Responsible Investment. Global Compact UN initiative that encourages companies to apply sustainable and socially TRI Trichloroethylene. responsible principles. Value added EBIT (earnings before income and Global Reporting Initiative, GRI Global guide­ tax) plus total cost for personnel. lines for sustainability reporting. Production: ASSA ABLOY, Hallvarsson & Halvarsson. Photo: ASSA ABLOY’s own photographic library, among others. Print: Göteborgstryckeriet 2019. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 37 The ASSA ABLOY Group is the global leader in access solutions. Every day we help people feel safe, secure and experience a more open world. Imagen Subliminal Meeting the most stringent environmental certification ratings CUSTOMER: Delos is a wellness real estate and technology SOLUTION: In trying to meet the various healthy and envinot only was ASSA ABLOY able to provide this documencompany that is transforming the lives of people around ronmentally sustainable building requirements for each tation, but the products enabled Delos to achieve their the world by creating residential and commercial spaces of the certifications, Delos presented product manufacdesired levels of safety, security and aesthetics, particudesigned to improve health, well-being and performance. turers with a rigorous materials vetting template to deterlarly with the extensive use of glass throughout the facility. mine the material ingredients, attributes and origins of Door and hardware components—including ASSA ABLOY CHALLENGE: As a leading advocate for sustainability in the each product that would be used in the construction proGlass Solutions—used in the headquarters include hollow built environment, Delos wanted its new headquarters at ject. Thanks to its commitment to sustainability, ASSA metal doors and frames from Curries; McKinney hinges; 860 Washington Street in Manhattan to achieve the most ABLOY was well versed in these certification requirements Rockwood strikes; Pemko continuous gaskets and seals; stringent environmental certification ratings. The project and able to comply with the request from Delos. Corbin Russwin mortise locks and decorative levers; has achieved WELL certification, LEED v4 and Living BuildMany products from ASSA ABLOY Group brands have Rixson pivots and door stops; Rockwood flush bolts, ing Challenge Petal Certification. attained transparency documentation, including Health door silencers, levers, cabinet pulls and door pulls; and Product Declarations, Environmental Product DeclaraSecuritron maglocks. tions and Declare labels that determine where a product came from, how it was made, and what is in it. ASSA ABLOY AB Box 70340 SE­107 23 Stockholm Sweden Visiting address: Klarabergsviadukten 90 Tel +46 (0)8 506 485 00 Fax +46 (0)8 506 485 85 Reg. No. 556059­3575 www.assaabloy.com
