CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 FOREWORD Sarah Carpenter Chair, CSR Steering Committee Manager, Business & Human Rights Assent Compliance They say the hardest part of strenuous exercise (I prefer cycling) is just getting out the front door. A healthy business exercise, such as corporate social responsibility (CSR), is no different. As a human rights advocate and regulatory subject matter expert, I help enterprise companies solve unique CSR challenges every day. I know that creating and implementing a company-wide CSR program is difficult work. But in building an initiative at Assent, we had a head start. Assent is one of the fastest-growing companies across the globe, let alone in the Canadian technology landscape. It helps the world’s largest companies and most recognizable brands enhance and improve their CSR performance. As such, Assent attracts and mobilizes a passionate, values-driven workforce. 1 Our employees care deeply about sustainability, human rights and international development, and many have academic credentials in these areas. They act as environmental stewards and ethical citizens in their personal lives, and engage each other on the topics around the water cooler and on internal messaging channels. So when we provided them with the opportunity to participate in our CSR Initiative, the response was strong. During our first reporting year, there were many challenges. Employees balanced their new commitments with the competing priorities and workload typical of a company in a high-growth phase. They also helped define what CSR means at Assent, and have a meaningful impact on their workplace. There were enormous opportunities related to some of Assent’s core offerings: §§ A centralized platform from which we can acquire and manage supplier data. §§ Subject matter expertise on corporate social responsibility. §§ Learning modules developed by certified educators and regulatory experts. At the year’s close, we knew our work implementing an effective CSR strategy at Assent had only begun. And I can share the most valuable insight of this report here, at the front door: The most crucial step in the journey is just that — a start. We are proud of all we have accomplished, and we have laid a foundation for the future. Sarah Carpenter Chair, CSR Steering Committee Assent Compliance // 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 3 TABLE OF CONTENTS FOREWORD............................................................................................................1 LETTER FROM THE CEO...............................................................................5 ABOUT ASSENT..................................................................................................6 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AT ASSENT................ 8 HUMAN RIGHTS.................................................................................................. 9 KEY PROJECT: PREFERRED SUPPLIER PROGRAM..................11 LABOR...................................................................................................................... 13 ENVIRONMENT.................................................................................................. 15 ANTI-CORRUPTION........................................................................................ 18 CONCLUSION.....................................................................................................20 Assent Compliance // 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report LETTER FROM ANDREW WAITMAN, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER To our many stakeholders, The relationship between companies and their supply chains is changing. The world’s largest enterprises are being held responsible for the actions in their extended operations, both by regulators and in the court of public opinion. As a result, they are becoming supply chain educators. They are leveraging their position to influence smaller companies. And they are creating a future where sustainable business is more profitable. Assent is changing, too. With a recent investment of over 160 million Andrew Waitman CAD dollars from Warburg Pincus, we are scaling up fast. We must take Chief Executive Officer measures to maintain our alignment with the values of our enterprise Assent Compliance clients, employees and investors as our operations grow more complex. We also recognize our responsibility to influence our own supply chain. My executive team, along with the board, is trusted to make informed decisions about where to take Assent. When employees took charge of our CSR Initiative, it gave them a greater degree of control over who this company is. They responded to that challenge with the same relentless curiosity and collaborative energy that has propelled Assent to the top of its field. Assent benefits from a team of CSR experts that sit at the heart of our office floor, enriching the organization with sustainable values. And I’ve watched our teams grow and develop through the valuable experience they gain here at Assent, both personally and professionally. On behalf of Assent’s Executive team, I enthusiastically support our commitment to the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles and Sustainable Development Goals. I’m happy with the changes I’ve seen in our operations, and I look to the future of these initiatives with excitement. I look forward to seeing what this partnership can bring to both our organizations, and the world around us, in the years ahead. Andrew Waitman CEO, Assent Compliance 5 ABOUT ASSENT Assent is a global leader in supply chain data Assent has the continued support of world-class management. It combines leading-edge technology investment firms, including Warburg Pincus. In with supply chain expertise, allowing global 2018, Assent completed a Series C financing companies to centralize data management from round with Warburg Pincus for more than 160 a secure platform environment. The company million CAD dollars. This was one of the largest works with a broad team of regulatory subject funding rounds in Canada in 2018, and reinforced matter experts to anticipate and influence the Assent’s position as the clear leader in supply data exchange landscape as companies gain chain data management. transparency into their supply chains. Assent provides its solutions to a network of Assent’s core software offerings include: over 300,000 clients and suppliers, either directly through the platform, or through ancillary tools §§ Supply chain data management platform. such as the Supplier Portal. Typical clients operate §§ Three fully-serviced product suites. in a broad range of industries, including: §§ Secure, offline-compatible audits and inspections manager. §§ Aerospace and defense §§ Database containing over 250 million pieces §§ Automotive of contact and part data. §§ Electronics §§ Online learning management system to §§ Heavy equipment administer regulatory education and training. §§ Medical devices §§ Oil and gas In addition to the learning management system, §§ Retail clients also have access to educational resources §§ Textiles such as eBooks and whitepapers. The majority of Assent’s ecosystem of business partners are based in top-trading countries such as the U.S., China, the UK and Germany. $220M+ FUNDING RAISED èè Greenspring èè Volition èè OTEAF èè Warburg Pincus èè BDC ASSENT PARTNERS Assent Compliance | 525 Coventry Road | Ottawa, ON, Canada 60+40 40+60 GENDER DIVERSITY # OF 60% 40% 427 EMPLOYEES: PRIVATE OWNERSHIP Male Female 7 Assent Compliance purchases goods and services from suppliers around the world to sustain its continuing business success. These purchases range from IT equipment to free meals, drinks, snacks and catered lunches for employees. Every department is stocked with the productivity essentials you would expect from a modern office. As such, most of its spending can be attributed to brands and retailers in these areas. In December 2017, Assent made a commitment to sustainable development in becoming a participant of the UN Global Compact (UNGC). The company created an internal CSR initiative to help promote the UNGC Ten Principles among its employees, and lay the groundwork for a robust program that tracks year-over-year performance through an annual report. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AT ASSENT Assent plays a valuable private sector role in associated UNGC principles and tracking yearbringing efficient and effective transparency to over-year performance through Global Reporting large and complex supply chains, contributing to Initiative (GRI) standards. the CSR programs of our clients and facilitating The working groups benefit from the guidance of efforts to protect workers from human rights Assent’s in-house team of CSR experts, whose abuses. In doing so, the company is a global participation in external initiatives allows them contributor to the UNGC Sustainable Development to share learning with a broad ecosystem of Goals (SDGs). organizations. Assent and the UNGC collaborated To uphold the UNGC principles and goals at often in 2018. As a participant in the UNGC in 2018, Assent, employees across departments signed Assent contributed to the action platforms Decent up to build a CSR Initiative, with leadership from Work in Global Supply Chains, and Peace, Justice Assent’s Regulatory team. In 2018, members and Strong Institutions. Assent also contributed were sorted into three groups: Social, Environment best practices to two UN reports: one a best and Governance. Each working group committed practices document for human rights due diligence, to improving company-wide alignment with and the other a toolkit for internal CSR programs. CSR Steering Committee: Structure & Members Co-Chairs Communications (Social WG) Lead Co-Chairs Chair Executive Lead (Environment WG) Co-Chairs Human Resources (Governance WG) Lead Assent Compliance // 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Assent also collaborated with other organizations on CSR-related data management initiatives in HUMAN RIGHTS 2018. These include: Since Assent was founded, it has both anticipated §§ IPC and supported the global business landscape §§ International Aerospace Environmental in becoming more aware of supply chain risk. It Group (IAEG) participates in associations and collectives that §§ Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) unite the world’s most recognizable brands to find §§ Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI) solutions to common human rights issues. Its core §§ Social & Labour Convergence Project (SLCP) software offerings can perform human rights due §§ Social Responsibility Alliance (SRA) diligence, identify and administer supplier training §§ Automotive Industry Action Group (AIAG) opportunities, and coordinate on-site remediation §§ International Electrotechnical with auditors. Commission (IEC) This means that each of Assent’s clients has made §§ Society of Corporate Compliance and a financial and organizational commitment to Ethics (SCCE) evaluating the actions of its supply chain — which §§ MedTech Europe now includes Assent. As such, Assent Compliance §§ Association of Equipment upholds the same human rights standards as its Manufacturers (AEM) enterprise clients. This is Assent’s first CSR report to its stakeholders. The company considers the UNGC Ten Principles PRINCIPLE 1: for its material topics. The company’s reporting Businesses should support and respect cycle aligns with the calendar year, with an April 1 the protection of internationally proclaimed annual release of its reports. human rights... CORPORATE GIVING & EMPLOYEE FUNDRAISING IN 2018 In 2018, Assent Compliance continued the process of building a culture of mutual respect and Assent is proud to share a portion of its profits laying the groundwork for a successful internal to support the Ottawa community. Assent has human rights program. One initial step was to a long history of supporting organizations in its introduce new training resources and mandatory neighborhood. In 2018, corporate giving and programming to help employees learn more about employee fundraising included: their rights, requirements and code of conduct. §§ Fight for the Cure: $23,309 §§ Children’s Wish Foundation: $22,912 §§ HOPE Volleyball: $1,810 ALIGNMENT WITH GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES Although this report provides some information in accordance with GRI 102, Assent is a private company and does not as yet report on all topics under the standard. 9 These rights are articulated and shared in Assent’s Business Code Guidelines, which encompass respect for the individual. In November 2018, Assent rolled out a Workplace Harassment & Violence Policy course on its internal learning management system. The course educated employees on their requirements and rights as they pertain to all forms of workplace harassment, including violence, bullying, threats and unwanted sexual advances. The company also shares guidelines for how to communicate appropriately in various COLLABORATION contexts, such as on company phones, instant WITH THE SOCIAL messaging applications, email and non-essential communications. This helps mitigate the risk of RESPONSIBILITY harassment and verbal abuse between employees. ALLIANCE In 2018, Assent Compliance continued PRINCIPLE 2: its role as a convening force for the Social Responsibility Alliance, an initiative dedicated to providing companies with the ...And make sure that they are not complicit open-source tools, resources and support in human rights abuses. they need to build socially-responsible supply chains. The SRA seeks to facilitate the collection of human and labor rights data to Every human rights program needs data. As help companies create positive change in their a supply chain data management solution supply chains and improve the lives of those provider, Assent is poised to begin evaluating its impacted by human rights violations. own vendors. In developing its supplier survey The initiative houses the Slavery & Trafficking and Preferred Supplier Program, the company Risk Template (STRT), an open-source tool included human rights criteria to satisfy GRI maintained by a multi-stakeholder Development key performance indicators (KPIs), listed below. Committee. Sarah Carpenter, Chair of the CSR For more information about Assent’s Preferred Steering Committee and Manager of Business & Human Rights at Assent, holds one of the coSupplier Program, view the labor section on the chair roles on the Development Committee. following page. Assent Compliance // 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report KEY PROJECT: PREFERRED SUPPLIER PROGRAM OVERVIEW The Assent Preferred Supplier Program identifies and rewards suppliers who uphold Assent’s CSR standards while providing excellence in customer service, quality and overall value. These CSR standards cut across social, environmental and governance issues. As a quickly-scaling company, Assent has prioritized embedding sustainable principles throughout its purchasing practices, rewarding positive supplier behavior. It ensures Assent’s purchases will always support and incentivize the growth of responsible business. Assent assesses suppliers against its internal criteria, based on a survey crafted by industry-leading CSR experts. Unsuccessful applicants are provided with educational resources to drive continuous improvement both in Assent’s supply chain, and in the greater business landscape. DUE DILIGENCE BEST PRACTICES Collaboration The program is driven by the work of Assent’s own regulatory, marketing, survey implementation and supplier engagement personnel. It combines the acquisition of a sustainability data set with procurement information such as price, ease of doing business, on-time delivery and quality. As such, it serves Assent’s broad business goals and supports the full needs of its buyers. Sustainability Expertise Large organizations often have more stringent due diligence requirements. Assent’s internal subject matter experts designed the Preferred Supplier Program to make context-specific evaluations of suppliers to ensure their most salient sustainability risks are taken into account. It does so with consideration of international standards such as the UNGC Ten Principles. 11 Leveraging the Assent Compliance Platform Assent’s core software offering, the Assent Compliance Platform, automates supply chain due diligence and provides suppliers with an easy-to-use interface through which to respond. As such, the CSR Initiative leveraged the platform to deploy its own survey to suppliers, allowing it to: §§ Manage supplier responses. §§ Manage evolving survey requirements. §§ Gain cloud access to data. §§ View campaign progress from reporting dashboards. §§ Ensure supplier participation through the easy-to-use Supplier Portal. Developing a Pilot The Preferred Supplier Program required the creation of new processes, groups, frameworks and tools. Given the program’s complexity, Assent ran a pilot assessment of a small set of suppliers, testing and improving it through practice. This built momentum for the program and provided the feedback necessary to fine-tune its execution. In the coming years, Assent will take a phased approach to performing complete due diligence in its supply chain. Impacts The Preferred Supplier Program embeds sustainability within Assent’s purchasing practices. It expands the scope of how Assent’s buyers select suppliers based on established CSR criteria. Assent Compliance // 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report LABOR Assent has a strong connection to labor rights. While the company offers solutions for both the PRINCIPLE 3: Labour Standards Assurance System (LSAS) Businesses should uphold the freedom of and human trafficking and slavery, it also guides association and the effective recognition of and facilitates standards development and data the right to collective bargaining... exchange, including the Slavery & Trafficking Risk Template (STRT). PRINCIPLE 4: Internally, Assent provides its employees with an inclusive, harassment-free environment to ...the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour... pursue their goals and advance their careers. The company offers salaries that are competitive within the Ottawa employment landscape. PRINCIPLE 5: Employees also receive a range of benefits, including: ...the effective abolition of child labour... §§ Weekly catered meals. §§ Unlimited snacks and beverages. DIVERSITY & EQUAL OPPORTUNITY §§ Corporate discounts at a nearby gym. Canada is one of the world’s most multicultural §§ A $350 budget to purchase productivity nations, and Ottawa is growing more diverse,1 essentials, such as ergonomic chairs and according to recent census data. Assent noise-canceling headphones. is privileged to hire from this deep pool of §§ Dental coverage. ethnically and gender-diverse talent, and ensures §§ Health coverage across a range of opportunities are equally available, regardless service types. of background. §§ Paid holidays, personal development days and sick leave. The CSR Initiative’s Diversity & Inclusion Working §§ Free on-site yoga and meditation classes. Group (under the Social WG in 2018) works in collaboration with the company’s Employee The initiative released a draft of a policy that Experience (human resources) department to improves upon Assent’s existing Business nurture an inclusive environment at Assent. From Code Guidelines by expanding on the rights of cultural holiday celebrations to community hiring employees. The policy is expected to be rolled outreach, the company invests in and grows with out in 2019. The initiative’s work in ensuring local minorities. It also works with post secondary respect for labor rights at Assent in 2018 laid the institutions to connect students with paid groundwork for year-over-year improvement. internships and employment opportunities. 1 Laucius, J. (2017, October 25). Latest census reveals increasingly diverse face of Ottawa-Gatineau. Ottawa Citizen. Retrieved from https://ottawacitizen.com/news/ local-news/latest-census-reveals-increasingly-diverse-face-of-ottawa-gatineau 13 Assent strives to hire and build a gender-diverse Assent University employee base, and it reports on gender diversity in Assent has built a vast library of training materials to its operations. Assent Compliance was recognized help global suppliers, manufacturers and businesses in March 2018 when it won an Employer Excellence understand their regulatory requirements, and the Award from Hire Immigrants Ottawa. importance of sustainable business practices. This The 2018 Employer Excellence Awards were includes: presented at the Employer Council of Champions §§ Industry-specific regulatory eBooks. Summit at the National Arts Centre in Ottawa, §§ Human rights due diligence education. Ontario, to companies that recruit immigrant §§ Scoping guides. employees, encourage success and promote §§ Regulatory overviews and guidance. diversity in the workplace. Assent provides free access to these resources PRINCIPLE 6: on its website. It also administers a learning management system to help clients and their ...the effective abolition of discrimination in suppliers learn more about product compliance respect of employment and occupation. requirements and corporate social responsibility. Learning & Development TRAINING & EDUCATION Ongoing education and development is a As a leading service provider and industry pioneer foundational pillar of Assent’s growth, and enriches in supply chain due diligence, Assent educates and employee culture with a range of free learning informs its clients, the business landscape and opportunities, both from organization-wide and its own employees. It delivers clarity on complex vocation-exclusive perspectives. Examples of regulatory requirements. It helps enterprise materials and benefits include: companies distribute high-level standards to §§ A learning management system for training on the farthest reaches of their supply chains. And policies and code of conduct. mid-level companies leverage these assets to §§ Regular learning sessions delivered by internal enhance the cost-efficiency and scalability of their subject matter experts. compliance programs. §§ Monthly optional technology training. Assent’s subject matter experts have helped guide §§ Internal employee review process to evaluate the creation of human rights standards, such as career and training opportunities. the Conflict Minerals Reporting Template (CMRT) §§ Two paid professional development days and the Slavery & Trafficking Risk Template (STRT), per year. as well as data exchange standards for sharing §§ Biweekly management and leadership training. product environmental information. Its regulatory §§ Onsite library of books. experts speak at highly-attended conferences and on webinars almost daily. Although these are business activities, they promote and uphold the UNGC Ten Principles globally. Assent Compliance // 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report C.A.R.E.: Career. Advance. Review. Engage. Assent favors environmentally-friendly vendors Referred to as C.A.R.E., Assent’s internal employee (for more information about Assent’s Preferred review process introduces mandatory skills Supplier Program, turn to page 9). Employees development and learning to Assent’s employees contribute to an internal culture that reduces, in all of its offices. The process sees each reuses and recycles wherever possible. The employee and their manager meet twice a year company participates in events that support for 90 minutes to discuss progress, goal-setting, and reinforce these ideals, such as Earth Day. challenges and opportunities. It also requires an The CSR Initiative’s Environment Working Group agreement on a learning and development path, began creating programs and ongoing initiatives to be revisited at the next C.A.R.E. meeting to to reduce the company’s footprint and influence determine progress. positive supplier behavior. ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 8: Assent is a proud advocate for sustainable ...undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility... business practices on the global business stage. It helps companies understand and distribute highlevel standards throughout their supply chains. It is important that Assent meets the requirements ENERGY of environmentally-aware enterprise customers. In an office environment where the administration As such, it takes a precautionary approach to has control over lighting and infrastructure, environmental challenges, in alignment with any energy-related efforts present significant UNGC Principle 7 and the internal standards of the challenges. Employees have little opportunity company’s peer and partner networks. to positively influence the company’s energy footprint in a meaningful way. As a company quickly growing beyond the boundaries of its PRINCIPLE 7: current real estate, the CSR Initiative compiled a set of CSR-related criteria for corporate services Businesses are asked to support a precautionary to consider as it identifies Assent’s next building. approach to environmental challenges... This includes access to public transit and the energy efficiency of the building. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE In order to track and manage year-over-year improvement, Assent quantifies values outlined in the GRI standards: èè GRI 302: Energy èè GRI 305: Emissions èè GRI 306: Effluents and Waste Electricity Natural Gas ENERGY CONSUMPTION ENERGY CONSUMPTION 890,067kWh 48,371m3 INTENSITY INTENSITY 2,890 kWh /employee 157m3 /employee In 2018, Assent began taking account of its energy usage and intensity to establish a baseline for year-over-year improvement. Assent is evaluating the potential to purchase renewable energy in the meantime. EMISSIONS The CSR Initiative has committed to disclosing its performance on emissions indicators in alignment with GRI 305: Emissions. In 2018, the Environment Working Group deliberated that emissions due to employee commuting (Scope 3) has materiality for the company. It then began laying the foundation for year-over-year performance tracking by establishing and deploying a transportation survey to its employees. This enabled it to gain perspective on which kinds of green initiatives would resonate within the company. Assent Compliance // 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Green Transportation Employee commuting is Assent’s most significant contributor to Scope 3 emissions. To reduce footprint, Assent has invested in infrastructure to promote bicycling among staff, including racks and an indoor locker room. The Environment Working Group also started a carpooling program in collaboration with the Ottawa Ride Match web service. EMPLOYEE TRANSPORTATION GHG Emissions SURVEY ENERGY INDIRECT (Scope 2) Emissions 126,307kWh GRI 305: Emissions, Disclosure 305-3 identifies employee commuting as a significant component of the KPI, and the detail has materiality for Assent. To report on and improve OTHER INDIRECT our performance in this area, we needed to gain (Scope 3) Emissions 688,777 an understanding of employee commuting at Assent, including: èè Average and total distance traveled. èè Average and total emissions. INTENSITY 2,646 kg èè Programs that can improve our performance. /employee èè Understanding of how to improve employee participation in existing programs. The transportation survey gave us actionable data Through the program, employees gained at a 66 percent company-wide response rate. Most access to a portal through which they could respondents seemed engaged by the survey, while Assent gained insight into the transportation services connect with peers to share commuting costs. its employees would most benefit from and received In the event that no in-office matches were valuable feedback on existing programs. The survey will available, the portal provided the opportunity be readministered to the company on an annual basis. to connect with other area drivers with similar itineraries. PRINCIPLE 9: Although the web service worked well and was intuitive to use, we identified an ...And encourage the development and diffusion ongoing opportunity to further reduce our of environmentally friendly technologies. footprint. The working group launched a survey to better understand the transportation-related services that would be most beneficial to employees. 17 EFFLUENTS & WASTE The results of the audit were telling. Ninety-two percent of Assent’s waste was composed of As a local company, Assent supports its internal content that could be recycled or composted. This culture with free food, snacks, coffee, tea and helped inform the initiative’s direction for wasteother refreshments in its kitchen. This places related office enhancements and communication the company in a special position to influence opportunities. In 2019, effluents and waste will be sustainable waste management, and target managed by the CSR Initiative’s newly-created solutions directly to the company’s own spending. Waste Working Group. It intends to: Assent has various recycling bins located §§ Bring efficient waste sorting stations to around each office location, and a practice of every office location. keeping plastic water bottles off the premises, §§ Deliver employee waste education. encouraging employees to reuse reusable water §§ Create plan to ensure waste training is containers instead. The working group members delivered throughout the company. performed a waste audit to learn more about the §§ Introduce a waste reduction strategy. habits of employees. ANTI-CORRUPTION Anti-corruption is yet another area that has direct Group members completed the UNGC Self relevance to Assent’s service offerings. Assent Assessment Tool to identify gaps in Assent’s works with internal subject matter experts to governance policies. deliver anti-corruption, anti-bribery training In order to spread awareness of governanceand solutions to small, mid-level and enterprise related issues, members leveraged Slack, a companies. Because of this association, the CSR work-based messaging application, to share Initiative has a clear mandate to ensure Assent’s articles, documentation and ideas between internal governance standards are compliant with members of the working group, and, occasionally, the requirements of its clients. the rest of the company. The working group The initiative’s Governance Working Group also built governance orientation into employee is responsible for identifying, auditing, onboarding materials. These initiatives served recommending and driving ethical business to keep governance-related issues in the front of attitudes and practices within the organization. employees’ minds, helping them follow practices It leverages corporate governance best practices that are in alignment with company requirements. to build an internal culture of anti-corruption, establishing a code of ethics for day-to-day PRINCIPLE 10: activities and long-term programs. In 2018, the working group set base-level Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. requirements through GRI 205: Anti-Corruption. Assent Compliance // 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report INTERNAL ANTI-BRIBERY, ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICY In early 2018, a review of Assent’s Code of Conduct policy identified gaps in the company’s internal approach to anti-corruption. This led to the development of an Assent Anti-Bribery, AntiCorruption Policy. The working group collaborated with Assent’s General Counsel and significant internal governance expertise to create the policy, with consideration of best practices outlined by the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, Global Reporting Initiative standards and UNGC reporting guidelines. The policy is available to a range of stakeholders, including employees, customers, suppliers and regulatory bodies. The working group also established a plan for semi-annual review of the policy, both in alignment with and in anticipation of the changing regulatory landscape. In 2019, the Governance Working Group is exploring the potential for partnerships with organizations such as the Global Compact Network Canada and the Canadian Centre of Excellence for Anti-Corruption (CCEAC) to continue growing a culture of anti-corruption at Assent. It will also hold semi-annual documentation audits and discussions with key business stakeholders. 19 CONCLUSION In 2018, Assent’s CSR Initiative laid the groundwork for the company to track its performance in governance, social and environmental KPIs. It enriched the careers and personal lives of its participants, providing them with new experiences as they worked to maintain and improve their work environment. Using the GRI standards, we established a baseline for and gained insight into company CSR performance, setting a standard for year-over-year improvement. Assent will remain vigilant and passionate about improving on the initiatives highlighted in this report, now and in the future. For more information about this report, please contact: Kristopher Bras Communications Lead, CSR Steering Committee kristopher.bras@assentcompliance.com Sarah Carpenter Chair, CSR Steering Committee sarah.carpenter@assentcompliance.com Laura Sweet Executive Lead, CSR Steering Committee laura.sweet@assentcompliance.com Assent Compliance // 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report GRI INDEX PAGE NUMBER, RESPONSE OR GRI STANDARD REASON FOR SUBMISSION 102-1 Name of the organization 7 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 6 102-3 Location of headquarters 7 102-4 Location of operations 7 Assent is a private company and 102-5 Ownership and legal form does not disclose this information. 102-6 Markets served 6 102-7 Scale of the organization 7 Assent had 415 full time employees, 102-8 Information on employees and other workers six temporary employees, and six part time employees on December 31. 102-9 Supply chain 11 102-10 Significant changes to the orga5 nization and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 15 102-12 External initiatives 8-9 102-13 Membership of associations 9 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker... 5 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 8 102-18 Governance structure 8 102-47 List of material topics 4 102-50 Reporting period 9 102-51 Date of most recent report 9 102-52 Reporting cycle 9 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 20 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 8, 10, 15, 16, 18, 20 102-55 GRI content index 21 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 18 205-2 Communication and training about an18 ti-corruption policies and procedures 21 PAGE NUMBER, RESPONSE OR GRI STANDARD REASON FOR SUBMISSION There were no incidents of 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken corruption in 2018. 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 16 302-2 Energy consumption outside the organization 16 302-3 Energy intensity 16 This is Assent’s first reporting year. As 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption such, we established a baseline in 2018. 302-5 Reductions in energy requireThis is Assent’s first reporting year. As ments of products and services such, we established a baseline in 2018. 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 17 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 17 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 17 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 17 This is Assent’s first reporting year. As 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions such, we established a baseline in 2018. Assent did not have the data to report on 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) this. We don’t believe we are a significant source of ozone-depleting substances. Assent did not have the data to report on this. We don’t believe we 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides are a significant source of nitrogen (SOX), and other significant air emissions oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions. 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 14 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular 100 percent performance and career development reviews 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 7 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom 11 of association and collective bargaining may be at risk 408-1 Operations and suppliers at signifi11 cant risk for incidents of child labor 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk 11 for incidents of forced or compulsory labor 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 9 Assent Compliance // 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 525 Coventry Road Ottawa ON K1K 2C5 Canada 1 866 964 6931 info@assentcompliance.com assentcompliance.com HR-OT-190401
