2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report feedback Our Story We are accelerating Cisco technology and people are accelerating global problem solving in ways that have global problem solving never been attempted before. From solving customers’ business challenges to tackling to make the impossible the toughest social and environmental issues possible. of our time, we are helping to make the impossible possible. 2018 CSR Report 2 csr.cisco.com feedback 3 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs In this report 30 People 32 Ethics and integrity 35 Team development 2 Our Story 44 Health and wellness 5 Message from 49 Inclusion and collaboration Chuck Robbins 60 Employee community impact 23 The Details 24 Governance 64 Society 66 Building digital skills and entrepreneurship 74 Strategic social investments 84 Human rights 91 Responsible sourcing and manufacturing 106 Planet 109 Environmental sustainability 121 Energy and GHG emissions 147 Material use 156 Non-material topics 163 Appendix I 164 GRI Index 176 UN SDGs csr.cisco.com feedback 4 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs About this report We use our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report to share how we are managing and measuring progress against our CSR goals, as well as to respond to a broad set of stakeholder expectations and inquiries we receive throughout the year. This report covers fiscal year results for the period ended July 28, 2018. Data includes all our operations around the world, unless otherwise stated. Some data has been rounded. Monetary figures are in U.S. dollars unless otherwise noted. The data in the Planet chapter is subject to internal and external audits in line with our Environmental Management System and ISO 14001 requirements. Data that supports public commitments, such as our goals to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, are subject to external assurance. In addition, the Cisco Foundation, which provides cash grants to our nonprofit partners, is audited annually. For more information on Cisco’s CSR activities, visit csr.cisco.com. GRI 102-45, 102-50, 102-56 csr.cisco.com feedback 5 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs A message from Chuck Robbins We believe in the possible. We are also focused on building a thriving workforce that embraces diversity across the “It is increasingly becoming the spectrum at every level by using technology That’s something we have said at Cisco for more than 30 years. to better recruit, hire, and develop diverse responsibility of businesses like We focus on driving incredible innovation for our customers to help them harness the power of technology to drive growth. At talent. Through actions like solar power purchase agreements in India and a Cisco to help everyone around the same time, we consistently strive to make the world a better commitment at the World Economic Forum the world have access to place by using our technology and innovation to bring about positive change and improve lives. to help enable the circular economy. We are also focused on building a thriving workforce opportunity and possibilities.” that embraces diversity across the spectrum As our world grows more complex and interconnected, social at every level by using technology to better responsibility is not only a competitive differentiator or a recruit, hire, and develop diverse talent. business imperative—it is simply the right thing to do. The Through actions like solar power purchase world faces challenges that no one community, city, or country agreements in India and a commitment at the can solve on their own, and it is increasingly becoming the World Economic Forum to help enable the responsibility of businesses like Cisco to help everyone around circular economy, we continue to reduce our the world have access to opportunity and possibilities. environmental impact. You can learn more about these initiatives—and how we hold We are truly lucky that advanced ourselves accountable to the universal technologies have made principles embodied in the United Nations information and connectivity Global Compact—in the pages that follow. available to more people globally Take a closer look at what than ever before. At the same I truly believe that when we apply the strength of energizes Chuck Robbins and time, so many communities still our business—our technology, resources, and what makes him most proud in struggle with basic needs for expertise—to the issues that people face around his role as Chairman and CEO. housing, food, and education. the world, there is so much that we can achieve. There is an incredible power that can be Cisco has been deeply focused achieved through connections, and together we on bridging gaps in each of these can build the bridge to possible. areas. In FY18, we made a 5-year, $50 million commitment to address the homelessness crisis in Santa Clara County; responded Sincerely, to the many natural disasters not just across the United States, but across the globe; and we educated almost 1.9 million students around the world in IT skills through Cisco Networking Academy. Chuck Robbins Chairman and CEO GRI 102-14 csr.cisco.com feedback 6 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs What we made possible in FY18 Giving Circular economy Homelessness $383 100% million product return $50 million to Destination: Home to address Homelessness in the Bay Area in cash and in-kind contributions Cisco pledge as part of PACE* hosted from Cisco and the Cisco Foundation by World Economic Forum, Davos * Platform for Accelerating the Circular Economy (PACE) Recognition Digital Workforce Renewable energy Entrepreneurship #1 Barron’s Most 1.87 million Cisco Networking Academy students enrolled worldwide in IT skills education 40% of our Bangalore campus in India powered by two solar power Awarded $100,000 USD grand prize funding to Global Problem Solver Challenge winner, CareNX Innovations, which is using IoT technology Sustainable U.S. purchase agreements to promote fetal health Company List Supply chain excellence GHG reduction Diversity #3 Gartner Supply 45% reduction 29% of new hires Chain Top 25 in Cisco Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions were women—leading to record female representation of 25 percent in 2018 worldwide since FY07 csr.cisco.com feedback 7 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Between barriers and breakthroughs there is a bridge. More than 30 years ago, The technological connections we We cannot solve the world’s create go well beyond our products problems on our own, but we do Cisco pioneered the and solutions. Across our CSR focus have an important role to play. As technology that areas of People, Society, and Planet, we continue to connect everything, connects everything. Cisco is using the power of our everywhere, Cisco is building bridges technology and the ingenuity of our that transform global challenges into Today, our intent-based technologies employees to accelerate global infinite possibilities. are constantly learning and adapting problem solving and advance social to provide customers with a highly and environmental benefits. This secure, intelligent platform for their work is focused on issues most digital businesses. relevant to our business and where we can have the greatest impact. Our focus areas and priorities With input from internal and external stakeholders, we developed this list of priorities that impact our employees, society and the planet, and on which Cisco can make an impact. People •A  ttracting, keeping, and sharing great talent • Inclusion and collaboration • Employee community impact Society • S  trategic social investments • Building digital skills and entrepreneurship • Human rights • Responsible sourcing and manufacturing Planet •E  nergy and GHG emissions • Material use and waste csr.cisco.com feedback 8 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs The bridge to 1 billion We have a long legacy of doing amazing things with technology— with the ultimate goal of driving positive business outcomes, empowering people, and helping to better society at large. In fact, it is how Cisco began—with two people driven by a desire to connect. That promise to connect is reflected in As of the end of FY18, we have our name—short for San Francisco—and positively impacted a cumulative our logo, inspired by the iconic Golden 445 million1 people worldwide. This Gate Bridge. Cisco’s new brand impact takes many forms. Our 2018 campaign and tagline is “The bridge to Corporate Social Responsibility possible,” which honors this past while (CSR) report chronicles the social, pointing to our future. environmental, and business benefits we have made possible over the Look across our company, and you will past year. find more “bridges,” from our people who are building the next era of Having a goal to impact 1 billion connections to programs like Cisco people has been a rallying point for Networking Academy, which is our employees who have both individempowering the next generation of ually and collectively been engaged in technology professionals with the skills efforts to bridge new possibilities “At our core, we have to go out and change the world. across the world. From teaching always been about solving technology courses at a refugee problems, connecting This belief in what is possible led us to school, to starting a nonprofit that people, and striving for 1 our ambitious goal, announced in advocates for orphans, to developing 2016, to positively impact 1 billion people with digital solutions by 2025. technology that can save lives in fires and avalanches, our employees are positive outcomes.” billion people Tae Yoo, In the 2 years since that proof that everyone has the potential Senior Vice President, announcement, we have focused on to be a bridge and problem solver. Corporate Affairs and CSR the programs having the greatest positively impacted potential for impact, and the investments and partnerships best by 2025 aligned with our business strategy. 1 F  Y16-FY18 numbers updated December 2018 to reflect Cisco’s social impact grants and signature programs such as Networking Academy. csr.cisco.com feedback 9 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs What is possible for our people? Our People are our Bridge Builders. Everything we do at Cisco starts with our people and how they support our business, customers, and communities around the world. Our People Deal describes the culture Cisco embraces to attract the best and brightest in our industry. As with all deals, there are two sides—what our people can expect from Cisco and what we ask in return. These three pillars make up our unique experience at Cisco: We connect everything—people, process, data, and things—and we use those connections to help change our world for the better. And we are doing it faster than ever before, in ways we believe no one else can. We innovate everywhere to create fresh ideas and possibilities. We take bold risks to shape the future because we understand every failure is a success, if we learn from it. We support one another and work together to create “We introduced Our People Deal shared success that will benefit everyone. The future to create the culture we want our of Cisco, the growth of our customers and partners, employees to experience—a culture and the lives of people around the world—they are that will help us move quickly; be agile, all connected. innovative, and collaborative; and attract and retain the best people.” Fran Katsoudas, Executive Vice President and Chief People Officer csr.cisco.com feedback 10 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Possible: Building from every perspective Inclusion is the bridge that connects diverse Our actions include: 29,000 perspectives, challenges the status quo, and unlocks the full potential of our people. Amid •D  iverse Talent Accelerators—A suite of tools this age of digital transformation, we believe that help us minimize bias in candidate members of our Inclusion & inclusion, diversity, and collaboration make us searches and interviews Collaboration Community— more innovative, more agile, and ultimately •T  he Multiplier Effect—A pledge created by 16 percent growth more successful. This commitment starts at Cisco, but open to anyone, through which the top. Based on gender and ethnicity, our since FY17 leaders can commit to sponsoring a diverse executive leadership team is 58 percent individual to the next level in their career diverse—making Cisco’s one of the most 29% diverse executive teams in our industry. •C  ommitment to Pay Parity—We continually review our compensation system to ensure record hiring rate We are welcoming more perspectives than we pay our people fairly and equitably for women ever into the Cisco family through new • Inclusion & Collaboration Community— strategies to recruit, retain, and develop Through more than 243 Employee Resource 58% individual contributors and leaders. We are also proud to take a leadership role in national and Organization chapters and Inclusion Leadership Teams in every region and function, Cisco diverse executive global collaborations to drive equity and create employees have countless opportunities to leadership team fully diverse and inclusive organizations, and to connect with others and celebrate their diverse take a stand against injustice in our communities. interests and culture. csr.cisco.com feedback 11 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Possible: Building our full potential Agility and speed are critical in today’s complex and hyperconnected world. To thrive, companies must understand and securely harness the power of their connections, find patterns and intelligence in data, and anticipate and respond to market shifts. This dynamic extends to the way we attract, keep, and grow talent across Cisco. We recognize employee needs are constantly changing and their skills’ lifespans are shorter than ever. Once people join the Cisco team, they must have the needed resources to refresh their skills and grow in their careers. Increasing our people’s knowledge and capacity benefits both our employees and business, and we are continually looking for new ways to do so. That is why we have partnered with Degreed, a new learning platform to expand the training and development content available to our people. Degreed integrates with Cisco’s existing training and development tools to build upon them. Employees can access and organize external articles, videos, and courses in a single place. This enables them to customize their own paths, allowing them to remain lifelong learners and stay on the cutting edge of their own personal development. Degreed also will provide us with insights into the training topics and formats our employees most prefer. Our employee community impact #3 424,000 Cisco 2018 Best employee volunteer hours Workplaces for Giving Back Fortune magazine 2.5X $21.4 million more likely an employee will stay at Cisco if they participate in our Time2Give program, employee donations to charities and Cisco which gives employees five matching gifts days per year to volunteer csr.cisco.com feedback 12 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs What is possible for society? With intent-based networking, Cisco has not only changed the building blocks for networks, but also created a new platform for innovation. This enables us to bridge new expanses through our products and keep people and things securely connected. We are applying these same resources to make a positive impact on society and our business. This includes the help we provide social enterprises and nonprofits to accelerate early-stage, technologybased solutions for pressing global challenges. At the same time, we help countries meet industry demand for a digitally skilled workforce. The opportunities and challenges we manage within our own business also extend to our global supply chain, which we view as an extension of our business. For this reason, we are committed to ensure the same responsible business standards and ethical behaviors we expect of ourselves are upheld by the hundreds of suppliers who source and manufacture our products. csr.cisco.com feedback 13 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Possible: Solving homelessness Success can lead to unintended Our contribution to the program helps consequences. For technology Destination: Home facilitate the acquisition companies headquartered in California’s of land, and construction of supportive Silicon Valley, one consequence of housing; pioneer technology to improve the technology boom is a shortage services for the homeless; and explore of affordable housing throughout the other evidence-based innovations to region. As a result, Santa Clara County, prevent homelessness from occurring in where Cisco is headquartered, is one the first place. of the wealthiest counties in the United States, yet has the nation’s third-highest “There has been unparalleled financial rate of chronic homelessness. success in the tech community, particularly here in Santa Clara County,” Cisco has a corporate responsibility to says Cisco CEO Chuck Robbins. “But address this problem, and in 2018 we there is an increasing divide between that made a 5-year, $50 million commitment success and those who are struggling in to Destination: Home. Created in 2008, our community. In Silicon Valley and at this incredible organization is a publicCisco, we invent things people never private partnership that drives and aligns resources to create permanent housing dreamed possible, and we can do the same for a problem like homelessness.” A snapshot of Santa Clara County and sustainable support systems built for the long term. The organization is improving how systems work together to end homelessness, as well as protect #15 #3 7,400 individuals and families at risk of wealthiest highest rate people without becoming homeless. county in U.S. of chronic homes homelessness Learn more about Cisco’s commitment to eradicating homelessness and addressing other critical human needs here. csr.cisco.com feedback 14 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Five steps to restoring communications How TacOps responds in a crisis 1. Survey the situation. Determine where equipment is most needed 2. Develop a plan. Customize technologies to fit the incident at hand Possible: 3. Head into action. Engineers Connecting when it matters most can set up equipment in as little as 15 minutes 4. Learn and improve. Grow the network to connect There are few situations where connectivity is more critical than in the trying to locate loved ones. Cisco’s Tactical Operations (TacOps) more people aftermath of a natural disaster. These events are growing in number team arrived equipped to help, working with our nonprofit partner 5. Hand off and head home. and intensity worldwide, and can have a significant impact on our NetHope to restore connectivity to the island as quickly as possible. Help with the transition to employees, customers, and communities, as well as our business TacOps is a skilled team that mobilizes rapidly to respond to normal operations operations. Cisco technology and a band of Cisco employees and disasters worldwide when catastrophes knock out communications. volunteers get our clients and communities up and running so they TacOps also manages Cisco’s Disaster Incident Response Team, can connect with loved ones and the resources needed for survival. consisting of 350 trained Cisco volunteers who pitch in to help with relief efforts. During FY18, TacOps responded to wildfires in California, Such was the case in 2017 Guatemala’s Volcán de Fuego eruption, Hurricanes Harvey and Irma, Cash and product donations when Hurricane Maria left and more. some 3.4 million residents $2 $1.25 of Puerto Rico without Our team in Puerto Rico supported the installation of 37 Wi-Fi Cisco, partnering with NetHope, million million electricity and disabled sites across the island, working alongside NetHope for nearly applied technology and expertise nearly all communications. three months. Together, we connected NetHope-member NGOs to get secure networks up and for relief efforts for relief efforts for running after Hurricane Maria— Restoring communication and more than 250,000 residents through public Wi-Fi hotspots, in Puerto Rico Hurricane Harvey restoring hope and community quickly was critical, not emergency operations centers, city halls, hospitals, and clinics. only for emergency Lessons learned from Maria, such as the value of cloud-based in the process. personnel, but also for network technologies like Meraki, are helping to provide a blueprint local people desperately for response to future disasters. csr.cisco.com feedback 15 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Possible: A global tech-savvy workforce Technology proficiency can be the key to a lifetime of opportunity for individuals in a rapidly digitizing world. Likewise, a workforce with skills and passion for the latest networking technologies is critical to the long-term success of Cisco, our partners, and our customers. Those needs are the driving force behind Cisco Networking Academy, which has provided critical training to millions of students worldwide for more than 20 years, educating a generation of learners on the transformative power of the network. One inspiring beneficiary of this program is Soso Luningo, who grew up in a poor village in the Eastern Cape province of South Africa. She was a quick learner and, as a student, became the only person in her village to qualify for computer lessons. Luningo jumped at the opportunity, despite naysayers who told her technology education was not meant for girls. As a result, Luningo completed her bachelor’s degree and all four courses of the Soso Luningo was told Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) curriculum. Luningo got a job technology was not where she was the only woman in her company’s entire IT department— meant for girls. Cisco and was soon promoted. And then promoted again. Networking Academy helped her prove Luningo then returned to her university as the instructor for Cisco Networking them wrong. Academy, where she helped other students, especially women, make themselves heard. Today Luningo is a Networking Academy program manager in South Africa, enabling thousands of underprivileged students benefit from the program. Each year, hundreds of thousands of women enroll in Cisco Networking Academy. Like Luningo, many of them go on to not only change their own lives, but also to inspire others to do the same. Learn more about Cisco Networking Academy, including our progress toward enrolling 2 million students annually by 2020, here. csr.cisco.com feedback 16 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Possible: Inspiring problem solvers from an early age Cisco Networking Academy has empowered millions “Students are highly engaged. They are of students in high school and beyond. Yet emerging research tells us we may be missing an opportunity to engage students even earlier taking on goals. This really sparks the on STEM topics and the power of technology for social good. passion in students, particularly those That is why we created Global Problem Solvers: The Series (GPS: The who do not always demonstrate that Series), a new animated web series geared toward middle schoolers. passion in traditional assignments.” GPS: The Series features a diverse team of teens from around the globe who use technology to solve real-world problems. The mission of the —E  dgar Ochoa, social studies teacher, program is to inspire students to become global problem solvers: Roosevelt Elementary School District citizens ready to thrive in an increasingly connected and digital future Phoenix, Arizona by innovating like technologists, thinking like entrepreneurs, and acting as social change agents. The animated characters in GPS: The Series—and students who participate in the program—focus on social, economic, and environmental problems around the world. During the first season, they give a village in Malawi access to clean water. In the second, they figure out how kids can continue learning when schools are closed after a hurricane hits the U.S. Gulf Coast. Each episode tackles a different stage of social entrepreneurship, from articulating a problem to marketing a product. The series, along with supporting materials for teachers, including storyboards, scripts, and worksheets, is available for free in English, French, Hindi, and Spanish. As technology rapidly changes the way we work, live, play, and learn, we hope tools like GPS: The Series will help prepare a new generation to thrive in our increasingly interconnected and digital world. Meet the Global Problem Solvers from GPS: The Series. csr.cisco.com feedback 17 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Possible: Respecting human rights in a digital age As we enable our customers to These disruptive technologies have embrace and capture new opportunities the potential to address humanity’s driven by digital transformation, we also most pressing challenges while also recognize our responsibility to ensure bringing new and unforeseen human that transformation does not come at rights risks. As an example of how a societal cost. For this reason, we artificial intelligence can be applied in believe innovation must advance handthe human rights arena, Talos, Cisco’s in-hand with thoughtful policies and threat intelligence group, took on a practices that respect the human rights new type of challenge by entering a of all people. Fake News Challenge last year. The Challenge asked participants to develop We developed a set of human rights an algorithm using AI to evaluate news position statements in FY18 that stories and identify misleading articles. articulate Cisco’s point of view on The Talos solution was more accurate technologies we expect to impact than any other team’s, earning the society and our business, including: Fake News Challenge’s top prize. • Encryption • Data Localization and Sovereignty Machine learning models like the one • Surveillance by Governments Talos developed could be applied in • Internet of Things real-world situations such as helping • Big Data Analytics human fact-checkers do their work • Artificial Intelligence more effectively. As AI continues to evolve, Talos remains committed to “forcing the bad guys to innovate.” csr.cisco.com feedback 18 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs What is possible for the planet? Cisco was part of the technological revolution that built the modern world. Now, we intend to build the bridges that will set us on a sustainable course to preserve the planet for future generations. This effort starts with our own operations and our global supply chain and extends to solutions we offer our customers to improve their own operations and products. As we deploy equipment around the world, we provide world-class services and repair to sustain our customers’ networks and extend product life. We also provide product refurbishment to likenew condition, and best-in-class recycling when a product has reached the end of its useful life. The potential of Cisco technology to connect people and ideas across distances, however, is perhaps our greatest opportunity to contribute to a sustainable future. Cisco technology, for example, can avoid emissions generated from transportation by making remote collaboration among individuals seamless. And we can help cities leverage the Internet of Things to reduce their environmental impacts. We have changed the world many times over with our products and solutions. By seeking to build a sustainable business modeled after the Earth’s natural cycles, we plan to change the world once again. csr.cisco.com feedback 19 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Possible: Advancing a circular economy The world’s population and economies are Nearly a decade ago, Cisco became a founding growing rapidly, drawing upon a shared pool member of the Ellen MacArthur Foundation, of finite natural resources. Each year, we are allowing us to partner with like-minded using more resources than our planet can companies to address this challenge. Now, regenerate, which means our business and we are building upon this work with the society must adapt. introduction of a new, enterprisewide program to support a circular economy A circular economy gradually decouples inside our business and beyond. economic activity from the consumption of finite resources, designing waste out of the Our holistic approach extends from how system and transitioning to renewable we design, build, and deliver products and resources. In so doing, this model builds solutions, to how we value the assets we have long-term resilience and presents a trillionand turn those assets into new products. We dollar opportunity with huge potential for have published a new goal to decrease the innovation, job creation, and economic growth. use of virgin plastic by 20 percent by 2025, using FY18 as our baseline year, and we are From Cisco’s inception to current partnerships working to incorporate circular design principles with our customers to solve their most challenginto all new Cisco products by 2025. We are ing problems, Cisco has a long track record also applying Cisco technology to support of building bridges. The circular economy is our customers through their own circular a natural continuum of Cisco’s business of transformations. Find more information on connecting the unconnected. We are uniquely Cisco’s Circular Economy program here. positioned to harness the power of technology to bridge the gap between the unintended consequences of a one-way consumption model and rich new opportunities for innovation and growth. csr.cisco.com feedback 20 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Possible: Reducing our carbon footprint Electricity is the largest contributor to GHG emissions within our operations, which Less carbon in the supply chain means powering our business using clean power is a priority. During 2017, Cisco Ensuring responsible manufacturing announced our third, five-year goals to practices within our extended further reduce our GHG emissions and operations of global partners is an increase the proportion of our electricity important component of reducing our 70,000 coming from renewable sources. environmental impact. We set a goal in FY16 to avoid 1 million metric tonne In previous years, we have installed solar metric cumulative of GHG emissions in our capacity at Cisco sites in India, Massachusetts, supply chain from FY12 to FY20. As and Texas and made our first offsite power of the end of FY18, we have achieved tonne purchase agreement (PPA) of 20 megawatts 90 percent of our goal. in Blythe, California. In FY18, two new solar PPAs covering our operations in India are continuing to make progress toward our GHG GHG emissions reduction from and renewable energy goals. Cisco’s Bangalore campus—the second-largest in the world—is now using solar power generated at two offsite solar installations. power purchase agreements The PPAs will collectively deliver 85,000 megawatt-hours of clean, renewable (PPAs) and on-site solar electricity every year to the local electric grid where our Bangalore campus is installations in Bangalore located, providing nearly 40 percent of the campus’ electricity needs. The PPAs will also benefit the community, supporting jobs in India’s emerging renewables Equivalent to taking market and adding clean power to the national electric grid. 15,000 cars off the road csr.cisco.com feedback 21 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Possible: Taking bold new steps Research Triangle As researchers and innovators, we know finding big solutions Recently, we have developed a comprehensive green strategy for our Park 2020 campus often require starting small. By asking questions and conducting RTP site, with goals to achieve 100 percent renewable energy, water goals experiments, we arrive at answers with broad applicability. neutrality, and zero waste by FY20. We are partway there, given that our U.S. facilities’ electricity is already 100 percent powered by renewables. That is exactly what is happening at Cisco’s campus at Research To achieve our waste goal, we will explore adding capabilities like • 100% renewable energy Triangle Park (RTP) in North Carolina. RTP is a growing campus in a campus composting, waste sorting, and substitution of single-use items regional innovation hub, surrounded by leading research universities with reusable ones. To reduce water use, we plan to conduct water • Water neutral and clean technology ventures. This makes RTP a perfect place audits and invest in a variety of water efficiency and restoration projects. to tackle sustainability issues within Cisco’s real estate operations, • Zero waste including energy, water, and waste. RTP will continue to serve as a model for innovation. This pilot may serve as a launching pad to create similar strategies across our global operations in the future. csr.cisco.com feedback 22 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Accelerating our progress People Society Empowering our people and teams Scaling inclusive social and economic impact in countries around the world to thrive in a digital workforce (Employee Engagement, measured by Goal: (employees donating time or money) Goal: (Number (Number of people (Number of people of people positively positively impacted, impacted, Goal: (Students (Students enrolled enrolled per year, per year, millions) millions) percent donating time or money) millions positively millions cumulative) cumulative) (Students enrolled per year, millions) Achieve 80 percent Positively impact 1 billion impacted, millions, cumulative) Reach 2 million employee engagement, people through our Cisco Networking 46% 1.87 1.87 measured by volunteer 44% social impact grants 445 445 Academy students service and donations 37% and signature programs per year by 20202 to charitable causes, by 20251 1.33 1.33 by 2020 (percent) 235 235 1.09 1.09(percent) Progress: Progress: Progress: -45% Engagement increased The life-changing work We grew the number of -41% 80% 82% due to social media-driven of new and established 80 80 academies and expanded 77% -34% 37 campaigns and benefits partners is helping us into new educational settings. like Time2Give. make rapid progress. 2016 2017 2018 2016 20172016 20182017 2018 2016 2017201620182017 2018 1  Annual and cumulative FY16-FY18 numbers updated December 2018 2 Goal was adjusted from 2021 to 2020 during FY18. to reflect Cisco’s social impact grants and signature programs such as Networking Academy. Chart TitleChart Style Title Style 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Planet Segment XX% Segment XX% Advancing environmentally sustainable growth in a digital world (percent) (percent) (percent) Goal: (percent) Goal: SegmentGoal:Segment XX% XX% Goal: (percent) (percent) (percent) (percent) (percent) (percent) Reduce total Cisco Use electricity Avoid 1 million metric Improve large rack-mountedScope 1 and 2 GHG generated from tonne cumulative of 91% equipment system power 82% -45% 91% 91% 80% emissions worldwide -45% renewable -45% sources GHG emissions in our efficiency-as measured -41% -41% -41% 80% 82% 80% 82% 80% 82% Segment XX% Segment XX% by 60 percent absofor at least 85 77% 77% 77% supply chain from 71% from the input power from 77% 71% 71% -34% lute by FY22 (FY07 37 -34% 37 -34% 37 percent of our Segment FY12 XX% to FY20XX% Segment the facility to the boardbaseline) global electricity 50% 50% 50% mounted ASICs, memory by FY22 and other chip devicesfrom 77% to 87% by 2022 using (FY16 baseline) Progress: Progress: Progress: Progress: Chart TitleChart Style Title Style We are investing in Efforts such as new We have significantly Innovative power-delivery energy efficiency 2016 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 solar contracts offsite 2018 2016 20172016 2018 2017 20162018 2017 2018avoided 2016 carbon2017 emissions 20162018 2018 2017 2018 2017 2016 techniques and power 2016 2017 2018 and renewables to are helping us make from supply Services Services XX% chainXX% materials, Switching XX% Switching XX% switching devices will help meet this FY22 goal. progress. energy, and logistics. us reach this FY22 goal. Just announced (September 2018):(percent) We will decrease (percent) use of virgin (percent) Other X% Otherby plastic X%20 percent by FY25, using FY18 as our base year. 84% 84% SP Video 84% SP Video X% X% csr.cisco.com feedback 23 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs The Details Between aspiration and action there is a bridge. We have never been a company that waits for others We invite you to learn more about the strides Cisco to lead. As you have just read in Our Story, we are made during FY18 in The Details, which delves using the power of our business and the networks we more deeply into the programs and strategies that have enabled to accelerate global problem solving for are helping us reach our goals. people, society, and the planet. We have set ambitious Businesses, governments, technologists, and goals to focus our actions in these areas and are innovators everywhere dream of using technology making meaningful progress. to make a better world. Cisco aims to build the bridges that help them get there. CSR Governance Aligning our business priorities with pressing global challenges CSR Pillars People Society Planet 2018 CSR Report 24 csr.cisco.com feedback 25 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs “Our Story” shares some of our governmental and nongovernmental Working Group includes experts from Supply Chain Operations. The group biggest accomplishments toward organizations with whom we work and Collaboration Engineering, Corporate is sponsored by Mark Chandler— addressing global challenges and the communities in which we operate. Affairs, Corporate Communications, Executive Vice President, Chief Legal accelerating global problem solving Government Affairs, Inclusion and Officer, and Chief Compliance Officer. over the past year. Here in “The Corporate governance Collaboration, Investor Relations, Details,” we transition to a format A commitment to ethical conduct— Marketing, Security and Trust, and tailored to analysts and investors, who and to the governance structures are typically seeking more information that ensure we walk the talk— on our strategy, goals, and year-overhelps us earn and maintain our Figure 1. CSR Business Process year progress across our three CSR stakeholders’ trust. More information pillars: People, Society, and Planet. about corporate governance at Cisco, including our enterprise risk CSR at Cisco management (ERM) program, can be Cisco pioneered the technology found in our 2018 Annual Report. that connects everything and has Business Corporate now developed intent-based CSR governance functions affairs technologies that are constantly Cisco Corporate Affairs champions learning and adapting to provide our companywide commitment customers with a highly secure, to CSR performance and Performance intelligent platform for their digital transparency. This team conducts CSR reporting measurement businesses. Through our technology, reporting activities—aligned with the passion and expertise of our the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) people, and our network of partners, standards—and engages with internal we are making connections to help and external stakeholders to assess, accelerate global problem solving prioritize, and monitor CSR issues. CSR and advance positive social and The team establishes corporate CSR Stakeholder environmental impact. strategy, drives processes for CSR Implementation Business engagement Corporate social responsibility (CSR) governance, and provides guidance Process and analysis is integrated into Cisco’s business and coordination across business strategy and functions. It’s core to functions. our purpose, our culture, and how CSR priorities are owned by the we invest our resources. business functions, including Prioritization, Stakeholder Across our focus areas of People, Corporate Affairs, and are integrated goal setting, feedback to Society, and Planet, we are prioritizing into ongoing business strategy and and initiatives the business issues aligned with Cisco’s business planning. Business functions set CSR strategy and where we can make the goals, implement plans, and measure greatest positive impact. To do this performance. Where a CSR priority successfully, we must have the trust of requires multiple functions to engage, all our stakeholders. This includes our we establish cross-functional teams employees, customers, investors, to implement our strategy and plans. partners, and suppliers, as well as the As an example, our Human Rights GRI 102-18 csr.cisco.com feedback 26 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Figure 2. CSR governance and management Board of Directors Oversees Cisco’s governance, risk management, and controls Chairman and CEO Board committees Oversees all business activities • Acquisitions • Audit • Compensation and management • Finance • Nominations and governance Governance, risk and controls Corporate CSR Business functions and cross functional groups Champions enterprise risk management (ERM); Champions Cisco’s companywide commitment Conduct due diligence and implement policies works across the business to identify, to CSR performance and transparency and programs for specific CSR priorities assess, and manage risks Employee Responsible Inclusion & Building skills & Ethics & Strategic social Material use Talent community sourcing & GHGs/Energy collaboration entrepreneurship human rights investments & waste impact manufacturing Employees Annual recertification to code of business conduct Supply chain and partners Ongoing enforcement of supplier code of conduct GRI 102-18 csr.cisco.com feedback 27 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Reporting and materiality For our CSR Report, Cisco reports GRI’s recommended process and in accordance with the Core GRI principles, and addresses ESG topics Figure 3. standards. As appropriate, we align with that have an impact on society, the other requirements. For example, the environment, and our business. CSR Our focus areas and priorities Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) priorities may be broken down into multiple CSR topics, depending on how and the Task Force on Climate-related they are managed and reported within Financial Disclosures (TCFD) have the business. Tier I and II CSR topics released their respective guidance on take priority as they have significant People integrating Environment, Society, and impact to society, the environment, and Governance (ESG) into ERM processes our business, and therefore receive and disclosure, and we are working to the greatest amount of investment as •A  ttracting, keeping, and sharing great talent align with these frameworks. well as senior executive sponsorship. • Inclusion and collaboration Lower-tier CSR topics are those in Cisco also recognizes the importance • Employee community impact which impact is limited and where the of the UN Sustainable Development management of the topic is incorpoGoals (SDGs), a set of global aspirarated into the responsible business tions necessary to shift the world function and its processes. toward greater sustainability and Society resilience. Our CSR programs and Inputs to the process include CSR strategies, many of which have been inquiries from customers and in place for more than a decade, investors, employee surveys, industry • Building skills and entrepreneurship support several of the SDGs. The benchmarking, and listening to key • Strategic social investments alignment of Cisco’s programs with technology and CSR leaders and • Human rights the SDGs is highlighted in our UNSDG influencers. In years in which we • Responsible sourcing and manufacturing Index here. Our CSR approach condo not conduct a comprehensive tinues to focus on leveraging our assessment, as was the case for technology, people, and partners to FY18, we do a CSR materiality advance positive social and environrefresh with internal stakeholders, mental impact. focused on validating our CSR priorities in terms of business risks Planet Every two years, Cisco undertakes and opportunities. Results are provided a comprehensive CSR materiality each year to Cisco Governance Risk assessment that considers both internal • Energy and greenhouse gas emissions and external stakeholder views and and Controls and inform enterprise • Material use and waste risk management activities. assesses impacts on our focus areas of People, Society, and Planet. This assessment methodology follows GRI 102-44, 102-46 csr.cisco.com feedback 28 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Figure 4. Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement and management Bridging what is possible means building connections and trust with our key stakeholders through regular dialogue. Outside views help us identify and prioritize emerging issues, better align our business to society’s and the planet’s needs, share the findings of our research, and evolve our CSR strategy and programs. We also encourage our stakeholders to provide feedback on our Stakeholder groups performance and transparency. • Communities • Governments • Nonprofits We partner with a wide range of global and local organizations to shape and extend • CSR opinion leaders and regulators • Sales channel partners the reach of our CSR programs, including governments, nonprofits, multilateral • Customers • Industry leaders • Suppliers organizations, and peers. Since 2002, we have been a strategic partner of the World Economic Forum (WEF), and our engagement with the WEF influences • Employees • Investors our CSR strategy and helps us learn from others and share best practices. At the 2018 meeting in Davos, Switzerland, we joined 10 other “It is important for all of us to companies in launching SkillSET, recognize that without the talent a portal of training libraries where users can get access to materials we need, none of us would be on everything from business successful. The SkillSET initiative skills to cybersecurity. This new platform, which is available free Engagement forums (external) Engagement forums (internal) brings together the capabilities of charge to users, will help fill • Annual customer • Financial Analyst • Annual leadership and strengths of all our companies gaps in skills that will be needed in the digital economy and aims to satisfaction surveys Conference summit • Annual shareholder • Global Customer to help educate the high-skilled reach 1 million people by 2021. meeting and company Advisory Board • EthicsLine • Functional all-hands reporting workers needed for jobs now and • Cisco CEO • High-Tech Policy blog • Industry working groups • Leader Day into the future. It is our obligation Leadership Council • Cisco CIO Exchange and standards bodies • Leadership Quarterly • One-to-one investor • Monthly “Cisco Beat” to make sure people with jobs • Cisco Foundation meetings company meeting across every industry are given • Cisco Networking • Partner community forums Academy Advisory Boards • Partner Education • SustainX the means to learn new skills • Cisco Networking Connection • Team Listening: Engagement Pulse • Partner Summit and remain competitive.” Academy Conferences • Cisco Platform blog • Public Policy Engagement Real Deal survey Team Space Chuck Robbins, Chairman and CEO • Cisco support forums Website Voice of the Employee • Social Media • CiscoLive Conferences (Facebook, Twitter) • Committee Encouraging • World Economic Forum Corporate Philanthropy (CECP) GRI 102-12, 102-13, 102-40, 102-42, 102-43 csr.cisco.com feedback 29 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Public policy and political support • Protecting innovation A strong, balanced patent system is important to protect innovators while at the Creating positive change through our business requires us to maintain same time reducing incentives for harmful litigation based on poor-quality patents. strong relationships with the governments of the countries and territories in which we operate. Cisco engages with governments at the global, national, • Promoting investment and local levels to help shape public policy and regulations that support the Cisco advocates for national tax policies that promote investment, encourage technology sector and help governments meet their goals. Cisco’s Government job creation, and incentivize innovation while also being consistent with existing Affairs team develops and influences pro-technology public policies and regulations. global approaches to taxation. The team is composed of former public officials, both elected and appointed, as • Securely connecting the future well as seasoned government affairs professionals. Further details can be found As society increasingly becomes more connected and devices more intelligent, on our Cisco Public Policy Engagements website and our High Tech Policy blog. we need to harness the power Current policy priorities include: of intuitive networks—powered • Advancing smart cybersecurity policies by machine learning and Effective policies for cybersecurity risk management are foundational to Cisco’s artificial intelligence—to efforts to securely connect consumers, businesses, and governments. In an provide visibility and control interconnected world, smart policies will protect security in a dynamic threat over devices that may be environment while fueling economic growth and innovation. unable to protect themselves against attack. • Protecting free trade Cisco advocates for policies that open markets for technology products and Cisco does not make political services, lower prices, increase choice, and promote innovation. Promoting contributions to candidates for and enforcing trade agreements is important to encouraging innovation and U.S. federal or state elected investment that spur economic growth and competitiveness. office, nor does Cisco make contributions to political parties • Investing in people and knowledge or other committees for the Cisco supports immigration policies that promote innovation by accelerating purpose of influencing the economic growth, encouraging hiring, and creating a highly skilled workforce. election of candidates to federal, Reforming the immigration system in the U.S. will enable businesses to compete state, or local public office. We more effectively in the global marketplace. occasionally make corporate • Preparing wireless networks for the next generation contributions in support of U.S. Policies that promote network investment foster networks that can keep pace local and state ballot measures with rising consumer demand for data. For wireless, governments control on issues that affect our access to a key input—radio spectrum—and therefore must make spectrum operations. Cisco fully complies available for growth and new technologies. with all reporting requirements regarding such contributions and • Preserving an open Internet discloses those contributions on a quarterly basis here. Cisco’s Board of Directors Cisco has always supported an open Internet. Ensuring regulations are developed reviews the company’s political contributions on at least an annual basis. in a way that incentivizes network investment is essential to allowing continued innovation and flexibility to develop new business models. People Empowering our people and teams to thrive in a digital workforce In this section Ethics and Team Health and Inclusion and Employee integrity development wellness collaboration community impact 2018 CSR Report 30 csr.cisco.com feedback 31 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Ethics and Team Health and Inclusion and Employee Figure 5. Integrity Development Wellness Collaboration Community Impact 2018 People dashboard Highlights (employees volunteering or Goal: making donations) Achieve 80 percent employee engagement, 46% 44% Introduced new ethics and compliance training for measured by volunteer employees on open-source and third-party software 37% service and donations infringement, as well as on the new General Data to charitable causes, and Protection Regulation (GDPR) mandate. Read more by 2020.  hared 2,500 employee social posts during the S #WeAreCisco #LoveWhereYouWork campaign. Read more Progress: A  dded functionality to the Team Space platform, including Engagement increased making it available in Chinese, English, French, Portuguese, due to social mediaand Spanish. Read more driven campaigns and 2016 2017 2018 M  odified our Real Deal survey to better understand benefits like Time2Give. how employees feel about Cisco’s strategy and culture— and better determine which factors make people want to stay with us. Read more Key performance metrics  olled out Degreed, a new learning experience platform that R allows employees to access Cisco-endorsed curricula or 23,843 99.7% discover content meeting their own interests. Read more  ffered a suite of new and ongoing programs for leaders O at all levels, from Aspiring Leader Journey to the Senior Leader Program. Read more responses of employees  rovided new offerings combining wellness and technology, P to Real Deal Surveys—132 percent of our goal completed Code of Business Conduct Certification including Vida, a health coaching app for employees and families, and Cisco Mind Set, a mindfulness and workplace 14% 29% resiliency program. Read more  nveiled new employee benefits, including increased global U minimum time off for new parents, and Emergency Time Off—additional time away during unexpected situations. Read more safety incidents lost work days L aunched Diverse Talent Accelerators, a suite of tools per 100 U.S. FTE employees* per 100 U.S. FTE employees* to help us find and attract diverse talent. Read more E xpanded our employee donation matching program *2018 vs. 2017 to match gifts up to $10,000 at any time of year. Read more 58% of Cisco’s Executive Leadership 15 years of perfect scores Team is diverse in terms of gender or ethnicity on the Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index csr.cisco.com feedback 32 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Ethics and Team Health and Inclusion and Employee Integrity Development Wellness Collaboration Community Impact Ethics and integrity Cisco’s success is built on a culture of integrity. Customers, investors, and partners rely on our trustworthiness in the marketplace, and that trustworthiness starts within the company. This means we continually strive to achieve the highest standards of ethical conduct in all our business dealings and among our employees, suppliers, and business partners. We are committed to maintaining an environment where everyone is expected to act ethically. Our people must feel free to voice concerns without fear of retaliation and with confidence those concerns will be taken seriously. GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2 csr.cisco.com feedback 33 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Ethics and Team Health and Inclusion and Employee Integrity Development Wellness Collaboration Community Impact Code of Business Conduct Our Code of Business Conduct (COBC) reinforces our core values and defines our expectations of ethical behavior. The COBC is available in 16 languages and helps guide employee behavior and decisions in an engaging and interactive manner. It includes an ethics decision tree, videos, FAQs, and links to additional policies and resources. All regular employees are required to certify compliance with the COBC each year, subject to applicable laws. Employees must also complete relevant compliance and ethics COBC trainings, including annual trainings on anti-corruption. We provide additional targeted trainings throughout the year and supplement them with functional published in 16 languages and regional initiatives. In FY18, we fine-tuned training content to provide more clarity on open-source and third-party software infringement. We also invested in the development and delivery of trainings related to Data Protection and Privacy compliance to address the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) mandate. Our training materials are available in multiple formats to promote accessibility, and campaigns are reinforced with other resources, such as discussion forums, Sharing concerns videos, and websites. Cisco’s Global Compliance Enablement team continues to To maintain the highest ethical standards, it is critical we cultivate an environment focus on key areas such as conflicts of interest, anti-bribery, and anti-corruption. where employees and others can report concerns about suspected unethical With recent developments in business intelligence, we are using predictive behavior safely, promptly, and confidentially, subject to applicable law. analytics to be more proactive in risk mitigation in order to, for example, identify We provide several ways for employees to share their concerns or ask questions: high-risk business transactions. •Speak directly to their manager, their Human Resources representative, or a member of the Legal team. •C  ontact the Ethics Office by email at ethics@cisco.com, through our web form, by calling our global EthicsLine (available 24 hours a day in more than 150 languages), or by fax or mail. •C  ontact Cisco’s General Counsel or the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. GRI 102-16, 103-1, 103-2 csr.cisco.com feedback 34 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Ethics and Team Health and Inclusion and Employee Integrity Development Wellness Collaboration Community Impact We handle all inquiries promptly and investigate to the full extent necessary. obligated to publicly disclose to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Violations of the COBC are subject to disciplinary action up to and including any violations that could be material to our business or financial condition. termination of employment. We do not tolerate retaliation against individuals We expect these same considerations to apply to our suppliers and their raising good faith reports of misconduct or allegations of policy violation. employees. The Supplier Code of Conduct requires our suppliers to have In FY18, the Ethics Office received 1,240 inquiries (see Figure 6). We believe mechanisms in place to allow workers to file, track, and resolve formal this level of engagement demonstrates the effectiveness of our ethics training grievances. We also work through industry coalitions to offer people in our programs and policies, as well as an awareness of Cisco’s commitment to extended workforce alternative mechanisms to call attention to Code-related business integrity. This also demonstrates employees know how to raise concerns issues. Learn more about how we manage ethics and standards in our supply and feel comfortable doing so. chain discussion here. For full transparency and integrity, the Ethics Office reports all cases to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, to the Executive Compliance Committee, and to our independent auditors. As a publicly traded company, we are also Figure 6. Figure 7. Figure 8. 39+33+28 43+32+1162 Inquiries made to ethics office Ethics office inquiries Ethics allegations1 1,240 951 871 Conflict of interest disclosures 39% Employee relations 43% 2016 2017 2018 Allegations of misconduct 33% Policy issues 32% Questions 28% Conflicts of interest 11% Gift policy violations 6% Brand protection 6% Other concerns 3% 1 Numbers do not total 100 due to rounding GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 csr.cisco.com feedback 35 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Ethics and Team Health and Inclusion and Employee Integrity Development Wellness Collaboration Community Impact Team development Our purpose is to build bridges between hope and possibility. This work begins with our people—connecting everything, benefiting everyone, and innovating everywhere. At Cisco, each person is unique, but we bring our talents together to work as a team and make a difference. When we combine our talents, great things happen. csr.cisco.com feedback 36 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Ethics and Team Health and Inclusion and Employee Integrity Development Wellness Collaboration Community Impact Creating a winning culture As Cisco competes for the same Talent recruitment and retention talent pool as other major #LoveWhereYouWork technology companies, talent attraction and retention will remain Contest 2018 2,500 Building top-performing teams begins with recruiting the best talent. We are positioning ourselves for the digital revolution by seeking people with skills in areas in which we must continually emerging areas that are not traditionally associated with Cisco, like artificial improve our game. We believe intelligence, machine learning, and cloud engineering. We do this by putting Cisco’s offer to prospective our own technology to work. Tools such as data analytics and automation are employees is a compelling one: helping us map global talent flows and develop customized strategies for our the opportunity to work as an major locations worldwide. innovative team on fast-paced social media posts When it comes to engaging with prospective employees, we use Cisco projects shaping the future of business; geographic flexibility and by employees sharing collaboration technologies like Webex Teams and Telepresence to communicate with candidates throughout the interview process. Digital engagement through internal mobility; and above all, a why they love Cisco our cisco.com/careers site, @WeAreCisco social media profiles, the Life at Cisco culture of teamwork and innovation. 2.5x more than 2017 blog, and video content creates a technology-driven candidate experience, helping prospects see what Cisco makes possible. #WeAreCisco Diversity is an integral part of our recruiting strategy. In every candidate search, Research suggests the first thing a job seeker does before applying—and the last we make an up-front commitment to create a diverse candidate slate, using thing they do before accepting a job—is talk to an employee at the company they are technology to craft job postings interested in. With more than 70,000 team members worldwide, Cisco employees Cisco has committed that neutralize bias. We also strive to create diverse interview panels, are not hard to find. But for people who do not know one of us personally and want to know what working here is like, social media is the next best thing. to interviewing at as research shows such panels are more effective in maintaining Prospective employees can get the inside perspective they seek by following the @WeAreCisco social media accounts or browsing the #WeAreCisco hashtag least one qualified the interest of minority candidates. As part of our efforts to increase on Instagram, Twitter, or LinkedIn. Social media brings us together as a global representation, Cisco has committed employee tribe and allows us to connect, exchange ideas, and talk about why woman for every to interviewing at least one qualified woman for every open position at we love where we work. When an employee’s @WeAreCisco post creates a reaction, we may ask the open position at the the VP level and above. individual to write a post for the Life at Cisco blog, making further connections with existing and future talent. For example, one employee who competed on To continue to develop our diverse VP level and above. hiring practices, Talent Attraction has partnered with Cisco’s Office of “The Amazing Race” described what the competition has in common with her job at Cisco. Another shared how Cisco’s celebration of May the 4th (Be With You) Inclusion & Collaboration and Legal Star Wars day—affirmed her sense of belonging in Cisco’s proudly unique culture. to create the Talent Acquisition Across all of our social channels, the @WeAreCisco message reaches millions of Diversity Communication Guide. We are also exploring ways to apply technology, people each month. automation, and intelligence to our hiring process, including identifying diverse Social media also helps our talent brand team engage and retain current Cisco alumni and contacting them about potential opportunities. Cisco continues employees. Each year, this team runs a contest using two hashtags: to recruit diverse early-career employees at special events such as the Grace #WeAreCisco and #LoveWhereYouWork. Employees are challenged to Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing, the Society for Hispanic Professional post using these hashtags on their own social accounts for a chance to Engineers, and the National Society for Black Professionals. win prizes, like coffee with a Cisco executive. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 csr.cisco.com feedback 37 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Ethics and Team Health and Inclusion and Employee Integrity Development Wellness Collaboration Community Impact Our People Deal Working for Cisco means committing to “Our People Deal,” a partnership we are committed to every single day of the year. We call it a “deal” because culture is a two-way street, a relationship of give and take. Employees expect us to give them the resources and support they need to succeed. In turn, we ask our people to take bold risks, innovate, and collaborate with others, always with our customers in mind. Our People Deal includes six Guiding Principles: Give your best. Show a desire to be at your best, and connect with others to share quickly with whomever needs it. Open your mind to ideas from everywhere and anywhere. And use those ideas to build on the possibilities to pour a little drop of love into our customers’ worlds. Take accountability. Whatever comes your way, understand it and be personally accountable for its success. Assume the answer is “yes” and that you do not need to wait in line for permission. Check the data, but do not let that slow down taking responsibility. And deliver. Give your ego the day off. It is the best solution our customers need, not the best-protected Cisco turf, so support that solution, whatever the background of the person or team who came up with it. Have the debate and have a backbone. Make your point, then commit to what has been agreed and deliver it with agility and grace. Take difference to heart. We become bigger as individuals and more powerful as a collective when we respect and value what makes us so special: our unique, personal differences. Inclusion will always beat exclusion. Give something of yourself. A simple smile or “hi” every day is worth its weight in gold, so do not hide it away. Show care and consideration to your colleagues, our customers, our communities, our partners, and the world we all share. Be worthy of trust. Be an inspiration. Be delightful to everyone—even if you do not like them. T  ake a bold step. Whatever your position, show leadership and courage when it comes to innovating and disrupting. If it does not feel safe, be secure in the knowledge that shooting for the stars will always be a part of who we are. Together we can figure out how to get there, so let’s dream big. GRI 102-16 csr.cisco.com feedback 38 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Ethics and Team Health and Inclusion and Employee Integrity Development Wellness Collaboration Community Impact Listening to employees Figure 9. Making the voice of our people heard, collectively, is critical to keeping Cisco’s culture strong. We believe in listening harder and smarter to Team Space highlights understand what is going on at the company level and what is happening within our direct teams. We do this through a range of listening activities and a powerful listening strategy that continues to evolve. Availability in Digital Webex five languages Teams assistant Chinese Portuguese Team Space English Spanish 38% Our power lies in our people French and thus in our teams. That is why we empower our people to speak openly about their roles, AudioEye Tracking of likes, and dislikes, and raise of employees submitted questions about Cisco’s outlook accessibility Check-In view toolbar “streaks” weekly Check-Ins and future. When our employees 86% feel comfortable raising issues, sharing new ideas, and exploring ways to work harder, Cisco has a unique opportunity to harness that listening and insight into managers a sense of where team members need coaching and how to help of Check-Ins were viewed actionable change. them develop their strengths. or discussed with leaders Team Space is a platform enabling employees to keep in touch on a With a year’s worth of data on how Team Space is used by Cisco employees, we now have insights to help teams operate more effectively. We have learned, regular basis. It is a collaboration for example, that consistent, meaningful attention makes a difference. When and development platform, but it is leaders and team members connect weekly, performance increases twice as also much more. On Team Space, much as when those conversations happen every other week. employees highlight their unique qualities and skills, track weekly ups and downs, We are pleased with usage rates as employees get accustomed to the platform. and let teammates and their leaders know how to best work with and manage Team Space continues to evolve, based on ideas from users and enhancements them. Blending technology and human touch, Team Space is a powerful tool that that further align with our business needs. helps our team members feel heard. It has two key features: •T he StandOut Assessment, which helps team members understand and reveal their strengths to others—and play to those strengths every day. The platform Engagement Pulse lets employees and managers glean insights into their teammates’ abilities An additional outlet for our people to freely share their experiences of working and serves up regular tips on how best to work together. By the end of FY18, with their leaders is Engagement Pulse, an eight-question, on-demand survey 88 percent of Cisco employees had completed a StandOut Assessment. within Team Space. Covering topics such as “I am enthusiastic about the •W eekly Check-Ins allow employees to share their priorities for the coming mission of my company” and “In my team I am surrounded by people who week and talk with their managers about what they loved—and loathed—about share my values,” Engagement Pulse encourages employees to speak the previous week. It is a powerful tool to let managers see the forest and openly and enables team leaders to listen and find ways to better lead. the trees of their employees’ experience. Weekly Check-Ins enable leaders Through real-time data and insight, Engagement Pulse surveys allow to guide their teams to work on what is most important. They also give leaders to truly own their teams’ engagement. csr.cisco.com feedback 39 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Ethics and Team Health and Inclusion and Employee Integrity Development Wellness Collaboration Community Impact 45% The surveys produce an assessment •S  atisfaction with opportunities to innovate, like hackathons and of team “health” at Cisco. Healthy innovation challenges teams at Cisco have most of their • Requests for more resources to aid in career and skill growth members highly invested in all three components of engagement: • Calls for more efficient tools and processes to maximize productivity of active employees company, team, and individual, We are also using attrition data to identify survey responses that help predict while unhealthy teams demonstrate completed an Engagement a deficiency in one or more of the whether people will remain with or leave Cisco. Using a layered analysis approach that combines survey items we know are related to retention and attrition, such Pulse survey three. Leaders who can more readily pinpoint the needs of their as perceptions of teammates and team leaders, with responses to open-ended survey questions, we can provide leaders with rich details describing the types 5 percent increase from 2017 team know where to focus their of experiences that keep people invested at Cisco. efforts to increase engagement. A new Real Deal dashboard enables us to quickly analyze survey results for the Leaders are expected to share ELT and other leaders. In addition, a new comparative analysis tool, known as the results of Engagement Pulse CODA, compares survey results of any two groups. With these improved analytic surveys with their teams. These debrief discussions are not just about numbers; capabilities, we can get intelligence to our leaders more quickly, so they can rather, they are an opportunity to start a conversation about how to build on make informed decisions to improve the employee experience. strengths and improve. After each Engagement Pulse, teams are encouraged to identify actions they can take in the coming quarter, with the goal of seeing improvement in the next survey. Real Deal survey Another way we listen is through the Real Deal Survey. This 16-question survey helps us uncover Cisco employees’ perspective on strategy, culture, and leadership. Each question is strategically aligned with Our People Deal and its pillars of Connect Everything, Innovate Everywhere, and Benefit Everyone. The survey is distributed to 25 percent of Cisco’s employees each quarter, across all functions, regions, and lengths of service, giving each employee an opportunity to provide their input once a year. We share the results of the Real Deal survey with all employees every quarter through an online infographic and present data to our executive leadership team and functional leaders. Findings provide actionable insights for executive and functional leaders to enrich the employee experience. Across the four Real Deal surveys conducted in FY18, we received 23,843 responses, exceeding our goal of 18,000. These surveys revealed: •A majority of “positive promoters,” meaning employees who say working in their function makes them feel satisfied, appreciative, and/or happy csr.cisco.com feedback 40 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Ethics and Team Health and Inclusion and Employee Integrity Development Wellness Collaboration Community Impact Other opportunities for listening These data have revealed valuable insights Getting real with surveys about our people’s experiences at Cisco. We are always looking for new and clever For example, 67 percent of employees were ways to empower Cisco employees to share positive when asked about an important their thoughts and opinions. Our monthly TV Several changes to the Real Deal survey methodology in FY18 moment that happened at work. Comments talk-show-style, all-hands meeting, The allowed us to gather even deeper insights. A new open-ended reflected the joy that comes from partnering question format with variable wording meant that employees across Cisco Beat, continues to be a vital two-way with talented and devoted colleagues to business units saw slightly different versions of the survey. This communication channel. At the Beat, every solve difficult customer needs. Employees helped each business focus on issues that were most relevant employee hears company news firsthand and also report being happy with the launch of to them. Rather than gathering input only about the culture at has an opportunity to voice questions and our new brand campaign, The Network. Cisco overall, this format allowed us to zero in on the day-to-day concerns directly to leadership. experiences that make up life in each function. Intuitive. They are glad to see cross-functional Frequently during these meetings, we openly collaboration and innovation around our core Below is an example of a how a survey question has been updated. discuss business and world events affecting network and switching groups. In addition, When an employee takes the survey, the text in brackets is replaced employees and ways they can give back to they are supportive of our executive leadership with the appropriate words for their business unit. help important causes. In 2018, for example, team’s unity in response to presidential when employees told us they wanted to executive orders regarding immigration. Before support families immigrating to the United “If you could talk live with Chuck and Another way Cisco people are fostering States from the Texas-Mexico border, we the ELT, what would you tell them culture and connecting with leaders is Our created a U.S. Immigrant Support Fund, with about life at Cisco?” People Deal Movement, a group of more employee contributions matched by the Cisco than 200 people who meet every six weeks Foundation. And to help employees understand After to learn from each other and serve as role and empathize with the plight of refugees, Cisco “If you could talk live with models for Cisco’s culture and principles. <Your Functional Leader>, worked with Mercy Corps to host Out of the larger group, 15 ambassadors what would you tell them two-hour training sessions that were chosen to participate in a year-long about life in <Function>?” simulate the refugee experience. program during which they speak plainly Innovative text analytics with our senior leadership team about how technologies using natural we can improve our culture to help drive language processing help us business success, including attending better interpret feedback from Cisco’s annual Executive Summit. Under employees during Cisco Beat and the sponsorship of Fran Katsoudas, Chief other forums. Even if we are not People Officer, and Irving Tan, Chief able to address every question Operations Officer, ambassadors will make live, we can capture sentiments, recommendations on how to continue to share them with our leaders, and improve our culture, based on what people use them to focus on areas in our on the front lines actually think and feel. strategy that need more clarity. We can also harness data from social channels, collaboration tools, and company events to gain understanding of employee sentiment. csr.cisco.com feedback 41 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Ethics and Team Health and Inclusion and Employee Integrity Development Wellness Collaboration Community Impact Helping our people learn and lead today and tomorrow—based on how we know job families, functions, and roles are evolving. It also provides intelligence and insights into organizational learning We want to make sure we are giving our people every opportunity possible to trends, emerging skill areas, and employee interests. Degreed will be available learn, develop, and grow professionally and personally. New technologies and to all Cisco employees at the end of calendar year 2018. business models are disrupting our organization and industry, shortening the lifespan of skill sets and making it essential for our employees to continually learn. We combat this partially by providing a large suite of professional courses Talent marketplace for people to increase their skills and learn the inner workings of Cisco and our One of our ongoing goals at Cisco is to make sure we have the right people, with industry. More than 19,500 people participated in these courses in the last year the right skills, on the right teams. It is easier to achieve this goal when employees alone. Looking ahead, we are are as interested in development as we are. Some employees may want to just building a culture of constant New technologies learning and thoughtfulness around career paths, and test the waters in another department, or they may want to work with a different team on an interesting or innovative project. The Talent Marketplace enables and business models employees to test-drive a specific role through a “stretch assignment.” ensuring our people bring the most engaged, highestStretch assignments allow our people to work with other teams, have new are disrupting our performing, and valuable versions of themselves to experiences, and develop new skills, without having to completely change jobs. Using the Talent Marketplace, employees can apply for assignments organization and work every day. with other teams, as well as trying job swaps and time swaps. People 92% might work on a one-time project or industry. Continual Degreed take on a stretch assignment lasting for five months. Or they might offer learning and This shift is underpinned by Degreed, a learning experience their special knowledge or talents to platform that unites existing another team for eight hours a week of Talent Marketplace skill building are internal learnings systems with external learnings like TED for a year. Anyone at Cisco can post an assignment or apply to an open assignments are essential. Talks. Degreed uses machine learning to provide highly assignment on Talent Marketplace. cross-functional personalized and curated Coaching content recommendations, allowing users to select from Cisco-endorsed curricula or create individual Coaching is a great way for Cisco employees of all experience levels to receive development plans. It is one place where Cisco employees can discover, consume, one-on-one, executive-level career and life coaching to help them achieve organize, share, and track all relevant learnings, no matter where they take place. business and personal goals. This format forces us away from a training model that is highly prescriptive and Each employee begins by filling out a StandOut Debrief, which helps our job-focused and toward a multifaceted culture of learning centered around Coaching team pair them with the right coach to match their career aspirations curiosity, empowerment, and active participation. We call it “learning at the and personality traits. The StandOut Debrief results in a StandOut Assessment edge.” From a business perspective, Degreed provides the focus, clarity, and employees can share in Team Space. Through high-touch, personalized resources required to develop the core skills needed in our business—both GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 404-2 csr.cisco.com feedback 42 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Ethics and Team Health and Inclusion and Employee Integrity Development Wellness Collaboration Community Impact sessions, each employee speaks virtually or in person with their coach to go Programs for leaders Figure 10. over new methods of working, better learning habits, and more to ensure each employee is aligned to work toward leader and team outcomes. Leaders are crucial to not only our individual contributors’ growth but to Leadership programs Cisco’s growth as a whole. Knowing 700+ The Power of Teams this, we have set up a broad suite of leadership development programs to Putting the power of communication and growth into the hands of our teams, help leaders actively engage in proper we introduced The Power of Teams: a guided, discussion-based, team learning learnings and continue to enhance leaders attended experience available to teams who are ready to take their performance to the their skills to become the best leaders the New Leader Program next level. Consisting of self-led or facilitator-led options, this learning experience they can be. 83% challenges teams with activities to build better engagement on both the team and individual levels. By understanding and practicing what the best teams at A new suite of leadership development Cisco do to succeed, the program helps identify where each team can grow. programs and experiences targets all levels of leadership, from new to more experienced. It includes simulations, of Cisco leaders took part virtual sessions, one-on-ones, and more. in Leader Day 2017 Table 1. Cisco Leadership Programs 61% checked in on Team Space more frequently after attending Leader Day What is it? Experienced Senior Leader New Leader Team Leader Aspiring Leader Leader Day Leader Program Program (SLP) Program Experience Journey Who is it for? Cisco leaders Individuals who Newly promoted Experienced, Potential team Current Cisco with 2+ years of have been leading team leaders and new, and aspiring leaders leaders experience in for 5 or more new-to-Cisco leaders people leader years, senior leaders roles or technical leaders technical leaders, and enterprise “It is so important for leaders leaders to have perspective and to How long does 4 days, in person 8 weeks, held in 2 days, in person 1 day, consisting Self-paced 1 day it last? two stages of 3 rounds content designed question, ‘what do I really of increasing to last 8 weeks difficulty care about, and why?’” What is covered? Building superior talent, fostering Becoming innovators, Facilitating transitions into Developing strategic Understanding the challenges Discussing priorities and Fran Katsoudas, innovation, and catalysts for leadership roles, decision-making Cisco leaders strategies for Executive Vice President developing change, and clarifying what skills around realface, identifying the year ahead successful stewards of talent Cisco expects life leadership what leaders and Chief People Officer business of leaders challenges pay attention to, models and learning how effective leaders handle difficult situations GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 404-2 csr.cisco.com feedback 43 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Ethics and Team Health and Inclusion and Employee Integrity Development Wellness Collaboration Community Impact Rewarding great work We want our people to share in our mutual success. Cisco provides compensation, benefits, and long-term savings packages that are market competitive, differentiated (as appropriate), and personalized. In FY18, our total compensation included salaries, benefits, bonuses, commissions, stock awards, and retirement benefits. We focus on ensuring everyone who works for Cisco is paid fairly for the job. We track wages globally based on gender, and on both gender and ethnicity in the United States. If we find gaps, we fix them. We have also started offering managers deeper insight into market rates. These insights help them make better pay decisions and have more transparent conversations with employees about how their pay compares to similar jobs in the same location. We reward our people in other ways, too. A culture of recognition is central to the employee experience and to Cisco’s success. Our Connected Recognition program means any employee can nominate an individual or team for a monetary award to recognize outstanding work and say “thank you” on a regular basis. In FY18, 234,000 Connected Recognition awards were given, with 87 percent of employees receiving an award. Employees can give their peers awards of up to $50 without approval and can receive rewards with higher value—up to $2,000—with a manager’s approval. In addition, 109,000 “bravos,” or nonmonetary congratulations, were given to employees who received an award. 234,000 Connected Recognition rewards exchanged between employees GRI 401-2 csr.cisco.com feedback 44 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Ethics and Team Health and Inclusion and Employee Integrity Development Wellness Collaboration Community Impact Health and wellness Creating a safe, supportive, and healthy work environment is part of Our People Deal. This includes giving employees the resources they need to stay well and care for others at home. We do this through a focus on safety in the workplace; health benefits that address physical, social and emotional needs; and flexible hours and technology that enable people to integrate work and home life. GRI 103-1, 03-2, 03-3 csr.cisco.com feedback 45 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Ethics and Team Health and Inclusion and Employee Integrity Development Wellness Collaboration Community Impact Wellness benefits • More than 7,000 employees and family members across Bangalore, Chennai, Pune, and Mumbai participated in a three-day health event in India, and At Cisco, we care deeply for one another and the world around us. We look out employees from seven countries took part in a regional “step challenge.” for each other as part of our day-to-day, even—and especially—amid the buzz of Through this challenge, employees collectively took 63 million steps—burning business. We know balancing life’s responsibilities and joys is personal to every a combined 3 million calories. individual. Our approach is not “one size fits all,” but rather “one • In our Europe, Middle East, Africa, and Russia (EMEAR) region, Cisco teamed size fits one.” We want to support up with well-being expert Jessie Pavelka on a program that encompasses the our employees and their loved four elements of health: food, exercise, mindfulness, and connection to others. ones during life’s triumphs and Across the region, more than 3,000 Cisco employees have attended events in challenges, and we design our person and via Webex on wellness topics. global benefits to do just that. We recently put the power of technology to work Comprehensive benefits, including to bring personal wellness coaching into the hands medical, dental, and vision plans; of every Cisco employee in the U.S. Vida Health disability coverage; and life insurance offers a customized, tech-enabled personal health Cisco coach for employees and their families. Participants help employees stay healthy and secure their families’ well-being. choose their coach based on background and the LifeConnections However, we do not stop there— style of coaching they prefer. Through the app they can connect when and how they want with their Centers we meet employees where they are. Our LifeConnections health coach, even between sessions for support and and fitness centers at our major check-ins through in-app messaging. Within two Where campuses make it convenient for months of Vida’s launch, more than 1,600 Cisco people to prioritize health and employees and family members had engaged with • San Jose, California the program. wellness. The centers feature • Research Triangle Park, health clinics, fitness areas, and personal coaches to assist employees and Another new offering for U.S. employees is their families deal with stress, weight management, and more. North Carolina Cisco Mind Set, a mindfulness program to help On an ongoing basis, we organize on-campus health events where employees employees sharpen their mental edge. The • Bangalore, India can take the time to invest in their health and well-being. During FY18, we innovative, five-session course is designed to hosted 19 Health + Savings events at our largest U.S. campuses, where more enhance concentration, resiliency, and creative than 5,000 employees received wellness education, health screenings, and flu thinking. Participants learn simple cognitive What shots. According to our post-event survey, 95 percent of attendees said the strategies and engage in mental training exercises event helped them answer their benefit enrollment questions, and 88 percent to optimize their work performance. More than • Health clinics said their experience at the event encouraged them to engage in Cisco’s 900 employees have participated in Cisco Mind Set since its launch in October 2017, reporting • Fitness facilities wellness programs. improvements in focus, efficiency, stress Embedding wellness into our culture is a global effort. Some of our solutions •E  xperts on exercise, management, and multitasking. around the world include: diet, mental health, • A series of Health Weeks in six Latin American countries covered topics such and more as resilience, stress management, nutrition, cancer prevention and detection, cardiac care, diabetes prevention, ergonomics, and first aid. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 401-2 csr.cisco.com feedback 46 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Ethics and Team Health and Inclusion and Employee Integrity Development Wellness Collaboration Community Impact Keeping healthy can also mean having someone to talk to who can offer advice and support. Our global Expert Medical Opinion program offers peace of mind in the face of a major medical Making mental health decision. A simple phone call connects employees and eligible family members, including spouses, domestic partners, children, a priority parents, and parents-in-law, to a leading physician in the specialty they need for a free expert second opinion. Similarly, our global Employee Assistance Program helps employees and Mental health challenges are common, but often marked by families better manage life transitions, work-related stress, and stigma, making it hard for many people to speak up about their struggles. We are committed to making Cisco an open, supportive other personal challenges. The free, confidential services cover environment. In FY18, CEO Chuck Robbins reinforced this assessment, referral, and intervention assistance for major life commitment with an email to all worldwide employees. He wrote: events and financial and legal issues, and offer support through difficult challenges such as stress, abuse, or addiction. “Each of us has a role to play in ensuring that those suffering feel less afraid to ask for support in the moments they need it most. No one needs to go it alone. I encourage everyone to talk openly and extend compassion. It may be as simple as recognizing when others are going through a difficult time and allowing them to take any needed time for themselves. It may be listening and encouraging someone to seek help or seeking help for yourself. I want you all to know we are here to support you with the help you need.” The email included links to resources available to employees to address mental health concerns on behalf of themselves or their loved ones. The email caused an outpouring of emotion among Cisco employees, leading to hundreds of stories being shared on Cisco Employee Connection, our intranet site. It was a meaningful expression of Cisco’s inclusive culture and our genuine care for one another across all of life’s moments. Building upon this momentum, in FY19 Cisco will roll out a comprehensive, crossfunctional mental health strategy to support employees by: •A  ddressing the stigma • Implementing a global Cisco standard of coverage with wellness program integration • Enhancing our crisis response support • Scaling telehealth therapy leveraging Cisco collaborative technology These efforts will be delivered in multiple phases, with the most immediate focus on tackling the stigma surrounding mental illness. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 csr.cisco.com feedback 47 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Ethics and Team Health and Inclusion and Employee Integrity Development Wellness Collaboration Community Impact Supporting those who care for others The birth or adoption of a child is one of life’s most significant events. To foster an inclusive environment and culture that celebrates diverse backgrounds and families, we have made meaningful changes to how we support parents. The time an employee receives to care for a newly born or adopted child is now based on the role they will play as caregiver (main or supporting), rather than gender. This gives our employees freedom in deciding how they will care for their child—regardless of the paths they take to parenthood. Within Canada, Mexico, the Netherlands, Poland, Switzerland, and the U.S, as well as the Asia Pacific, Japan, and Greater China region, main caregivers now receive 13 consecutive weeks of paid bonding leave. For birth moms, this time is in addition to their own pregnancy disability leave, which varies by country. Cisco parents who support their spouse or partner while bonding with their new child will receive four weeks of paid time off, which can be taken consecutively or in weekly increments. And for the first time, employees can take three paid days off to welcome or celebrate each new grandchild within their first year of birth or adoption. We will continue to roll out this global initiative in all countries where Cisco operates. For those just starting to grow their families, Cisco offers support for fertility Figure 11. services, surrogacy, and adoption assistance, with specific offerings varying Time away for by country. We also provide free resources to parents, including healthy pregnancy programs, breastfeeding support and spaces for new mothers, new children and webinars and workshops on parenting topics. 13 weeks Cisco continues to help employees put their families first as their children grow, and as other family members age. We offer a host of childcare programs, services, and support, including state-of-the-art child learning and care centers conveniently located and run by globally recognized paid bonding leave for childcare partners at our largest campuses in San Jose, Bangalore, and the U.K. primary caregivers In the U.S., we also provide discount programs and priority access to our 4 weeks partner childcare centers, and CareLinx helps employees locate in-home caregivers for adult family members. When regular care arrangements fall through, Cisco also provides nationwide backup child and elder care. Employees can have a caregiver come to their home or use a drop-in childcare center, and Cisco helps cover the cost. for secondary caregivers During FY18, we introduced Rethink, a global program to support parents 3 days of children with autism, Down Syndrome, ADHD, and other developmental disabilities. The Rethink online platform offers evidence-based education and family support to all employees globally. Families can connect with experts about approaches to their specific challenges. Every employee is for grandparents eligible for seven hours of free coaching with Rethink each year, in addition to the therapy services covered by our medical plans. We also provide coverage for applied behavioral therapy and other treatments to help GRI 401-2 children with special needs in each of our medical plans. csr.cisco.com feedback 48 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Ethics and Team Health and Inclusion and Employee Integrity Development Wellness Collaboration Community Impact Flexibility at work and away furniture in our workplaces so employees can customize their spaces to their individual needs and preferences. This helps them remain comfortable and productive and We do our best at work when we take the occasional time away. Cisco reduces ergonomic risks in our offices. provides annual paid time off so employees can travel, take care of life matters, volunteer, recover from illness, or simply relax and recharge. Employees also We implemented a new tool in FY18 designed to standardize and simplify safety data receive five days of paid time off through the Time2Give benefit, which they collection and management. This includes improvements to incident reporting, risk can use to volunteer with an organization they care about (read more on assessment, compliance auditing, and other related compliance activities. As a result, here). As an added treat from Cisco, every employee gets their birthday we expect the total number of injury reports to increase as employee awareness of as a paid day off. our health and safety programs grows in FY19. However, we do not anticipate an increase in incident severity. We also have our employees’ backs when the unexpected happens. Whether dealing with a death, illness, or even a natural disaster, we are making it easier An important component of safety is emergency preparedness. More than 3,700 of our for our employees to attend to significant life events without worrying about people are part of 114 Emergency Response Teams worldwide, ready to respond in work. During FY18 we were pleased to introduce Emergency Time Off (ETO), emergency situations. They are trained to give first aid, help evacuate buildings, and offering all employees around the world time off at full pay to deal with a sudden, provide other support. We carry out Incident Management Drills every year to keep unexpected circumstance that requires their immediate and undivided attention— us prepared for an emergency. If a disaster occurs, we inform employees and others without having to dip into their regular paid time off. Cisco has also expanded through the Cisco Employee Connection website. Individuals in some countries can sign the definition of family for this leave. Instead of the traditional idea of family up for our Emergency Notification System, which allows users to indicate whether they being those immediately related to you, ETO recognizes family as the people are safe or need help. you rely on and the people who rely on you, so employees can be there for the important loved ones in their lives, no matter who they are. Even when not taking time off, flexibility matters. We give our people the choice over how, where, and when they work, depending on their job function and Figure 12. management approval. Within our offices, employees can choose to work from many different spaces, from open collaboration areas and eCafés to workstations Safety performance 0.24 and audio privacy rooms. Cisco’s own technologies make this possible. Our products support flexible working, including high-speed wireless access, a wide variety of TelePresence® video devices, and social software platforms that drive community connections. For employees recovering at home from an illness, injury, or other major life event, we connect them to Cisco technology through incidents 0.95 a new program called Connected Touch, allowing them use Cisco’s DX80 collaborative device to connect easily with colleagues from the comfort of home. Safety on the job lost work days per 100 U.S. full-time Ensuring our people are safe at work is a foundational priority. Cisco works continuously to increase employee awareness of our safety programs and employees provide training and promotions to empower employees to take responsibility Both below for their safety. We base our occupational health and safety programs on industry averages global regulatory and industry standards that help manage and reduce specific hazards. For example, our Global Ergonomics Program provides adjustable GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 401-2, 403-9 csr.cisco.com feedback 49 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Ethics and Team Health and Inclusion and Employee Integrity Development Wellness Collaboration Community Impact Inclusion and collaboration Diversity, inclusion, and collaboration are fundamental to who we are, how we create the best teams, and how we will succeed in this age of digital transformation. Our vision for the future is to create exponential value for Cisco, our employees, customers, partners, and communities through the intersection of diversity, inclusion, collaboration, and technology. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 csr.cisco.com feedback 50 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Ethics and Team Health and Inclusion and Employee Figure 13. Cisco’s Executive Leadership Team Integrity Development Wellness Collaboration Community Impact Inclusion and collaboration We are the most diverse Cisco since 1998. We are delivering on our vision of accelerating full-spectrum diversity—inclusive of gender, generation, race, ethnicity, orientation, ability, nationality, religion, veteran status, background, culture, experience, strengths, and perspectives. Chuck Robbins It starts at the top, where 42 percent of our Francine Kelly Katsoudas Chairman and Kramer Executive Leadership Team (ELT) is women, EVP, Chief CEO EVP, Chief and 58 percent is diverse in terms of gender People Officer Financial Officer or ethnicity, making Cisco an industry leader in top leadership diversity. David Irving Tan Goeckeler We are proud of the 30-plus industry distinctions SVP, EVP & GM, and inclusive leadership awards we received Operations Networking and Security Business over the past year. Cisco is one of only 11 other companies to have been recognized on the Legends list by Great Place to Work. We know our leaders make the difference when it comes Gerri Elliott Amy Chang SVP & GM, to inclusion and collaboration; 12 of our EVP, Chief Sales and Collaboration executives received individual inclusive Marketing Officer Technology Group leadership awards from across the industry. Mark Mark Patterson Chandler SVP, EVP, Chief Chief of Staff to Legal Officer the CEO Michael Timmeny SVP, Chief Government Strategy Officer Maria Martinez EVP, Chief Customer Experience Officer Anuj Kapur SVP, Chief Strategy Officer 58% of Cisco’s Executive Leadership Team is diverse in terms of gender or ethnicity GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 csr.cisco.com feedback 51 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Ethics and Team Health and Inclusion and Employee Integrity Development Wellness Collaboration Community Impact Accelerating diverse talent To find, attract, develop, promote, and retain diverse top talent and inclusive advertisements that appeal to a wide range of candidates, and find and assemble leaders, we are innovating solutions to address our most critical business diverse interview panels to increase the odds of hiring diverse top talent. challenges and opportunities. Accelerating diversity is a top priority across our After the implementation of DTA, Meraki nearly closed its gender gap, with global enterprise, and it starts with the ways we find and attract extraordinary women representation up 24 percent and ethnic diversity increased in nearly talent. In FY18, we completed the pilot and launch of an innovative suite of every category—up 30 percent overall. solutions we call Diverse Talent Accelerators (DTA). DTA enables us to mirror the markets where we do business at every level in every function, and track our In FY18, we had record representation of women across Cisco—25 percent. progress to realize our bold diversity aspirations. These tools help us identify the This was due in part to a record hiring rate for women of 29 percent. We have best places to find top talent, benchmark and optimize diversity goals, create job also set new record representation for African American/Black (3.6 percent), Figure 14. Diverse talent accelerators An integrated suite of intelligent solutions that transforms how we find, attract, and accelerate talent. SmartInsights SmartTracker SmartStart SmartSelect Helps leaders set ethnicity talent Helps leaders understand where Helps create smarter job Assembles diverse interview panels that baseline share and aspirations, to recruit with search capabilities postings with inclusive can improve the likelihood of hiring African rethink hiring strategies, and including gender, ethnicity, job language to neutralize American/Black and Hispanic/Latino candidates capture a highly competitive family, experience, and location. bias. by as much as 100 percent and women share of diverse talent. candidates by 30 percent. Search Plan Select & Attract GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 csr.cisco.com feedback 52 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Ethics and Team Health and Inclusion and Employee Integrity Development Wellness Collaboration Community Impact Hispanic/Latino (5.4 percent), and two or more races (not Hispanic or Latino) Anyone who wants to (1.2 percent). The representation for these ethnicities has increased Cisco is a “Great Place to Work” help build the pipeline of consistently every year since 2014, contributing to making Cisco our most For 21 years in a row, Cisco has been ranked on Fortune’s diverse talent can sign the diverse since 1998. The improvement in representation for these ethnicities has 100 Best Companies to Work For list. As a result, we have been recognized on the Legends list by Great Place to Multiplier Effect pledge at been broad-based, improving Work, an honor only 11 other companies can claim. representations in both technical and www.multiplydiversity.com. We were also included on area-specific 2017 Great Place nontechnical roles, and is being driven by to Work lists for the following countries and regions: record-level hiring for these ethnicities, with African American/Black at 4.5 percent, • Europe • Poland • Hong Kong • Portugal Hispanic/Latino at 5.6 percent, and people • Ireland • San Francisco Bay Area of two or more races (not Hispanic or • Italy • Singapore Latino) at 2.2 percent. • Latin America • Spain Cisco is now above baseline share for technical, nontechnical, and leadership roles for women. • Mexico This growth has been fueled by strong hiring and a drop in attrition. Our increase in diversity has also resulted in Hispanic/Latino, Asian, American Indian/Alaska Native and Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander hires to be above baseline share. The Multiplier Effect “There’s always someone who had an The Multiplier Effect continues to leverage the power of sponsorship to change the equation for influence on your career journey. diversity. It is a personal commitment that encourages leaders at all levels to sponsor at least one extraordinary diverse candidate for career advancement and to challenge their peers to do the Pay it forward. Take what you’ve same. Individuals who take the pledge gain access to a sponsorship guide with suggestions for received and give it to someone finding and supporting a sponsee. As of FY18, 42 percent of our ELT and 36 percent of our VPs have taken the pledge. else in your own way.” Sonar Thekdi, Vice President of Engineering Business Operations — Cisco LifeChanger Sponsor, The Multiplier Effect Our collaboration technology helps remove barriers to inclusion by creating seamless connections between people no matter who they are, what device they are using, or where in the world they happen to be. To break down barriers to employment within our own company, Cisco launched the LifeChanger program in 2015 to increase opportunities for people with disabilities. LifeChanger “Organizations should ensure combines novel applications of Cisco’s voice, video, and collaboration technology with process that people of all physical and improvements to transcend location, accommodation, and mobility issues. The result: people with disabilities can seamlessly join and contribute to teams. cognitive abilities have the The program began with a pilot in San Jose, California, and has led to employment for approximately opportunity to have not just 100 people with disabilities in Belgium, Brazil, India, Poland, and other countries. The new hires have a job, but a career.” been highly successful: in India, LifeChanger hires were 120 percent more productive than their peers. Shari Slate, Vice President, Chief Inclusion and Collaboration Officer GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 csr.cisco.com feedback 53 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Ethics and Team Health and Inclusion and Employee Integrity Development Wellness Collaboration Community Impact Developing diverse talent participate. In FY18, more than 60 percent of the women who were promoted Next generation leaders to management had attended at least one of our targeted programs, Cisco is committed to developing our next generation of leaders. Our midto contributing to a significant 6 percent increase in women in director and senior-level employees participate in Cisco’s Next Generation Leaders (NGL) manager roles. program to develop leadership skills through the lens of diversity. It is a six-month journey for managers and their employees to learn about one another—and how to best work together—by embracing different perspectives, unlocking talent, and fostering disruptive thinking. NGL cohorts are available for our African American/Black, Hispanic/Latino, Strategic partner Asian/Pacific Rim, and many more communities. Early success with the programs training among our Asian/Pacific Rim employees based in the U.S. yielded a 90 percent employee retention rate and a promotion rate 74 percent higher than that of nonparticipants. Our research shows our African American/Black We partner with 20 world-class organizations that help us attract, participants’ odds of receiving a promotion increases threefold compared develop, and retain our talent. These include organizations such as: to nonparticipants. Programs for female leaders Cisco continues to develop our next generation of female leaders for the company globally. Our DARE program encourages and inspires women who are The Hispanic IT Executive The Anita Borg Institute just starting out in their careers—focusing on key issues like visibility, internal Council (HITEC) which and its annual Grace Hopper politics, and positive branding. JUMP brings high-potential, mid-level female supports emerging Hispanic conference, the largest gathering participants together to focus on authentic leadership, strategic thinking, and leaders in technical roles of women in computing from increasing impact. We make sure participants are aware of the range of tools and around the globe, where we resources at their disposal as they define and navigate a path at Cisco to meet and interview potential match their personal strengths and long-term career ambitions. Our data job candidates shows both programs increased women’s odds of promotion—50 percent for DARE and over 90 percent for 1,300+ JUMP. Participants in these programs combined had a 94 percent retention rate. The Executive Leadership The Diversity Women’s Business As these programs mature, we Council (ELC), which helps to Leadership Conference, are seeing phenomenal growth employees participated in in year-over-year participation, build an inclusive leadership pipeline of highly qualified which develops female leaders and allows attendees to make strategic partner conferences growing talent retention rates, and increasing the likelihood African-American corporate strong connections with their and programs of promotion for those who leaders contemporaries who share similar work experiences, challenges, and concerns. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 csr.cisco.com feedback 54 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Ethics and Team Health and Inclusion and Employee Integrity Development Wellness Collaboration Community Impact The future of fairness Taking a stand for social justice Stepping up our Benefitting everyone—a cornerstone of Our People Deal—starts with fairness work on inclusion and equality for everyone. Cisco is expanding on our long-term commitment to inclusion and social justice for our people inside and outside the workplace. Over the past few years, social injustices have continued to unfold, from travel In 2017, CEO Chuck Robbins joined forces with over 400 other bans based on nationality to unequal law enforcement and sexual harassment. CEOs to sign the CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion™ Pledge, As people continue to be unfairly targeted for their race, orientation, beliefs, and to create fully diverse and inclusive organizations. In FY18, other factors, Cisco employees look to leadership to take a stand on issues that we started to build a framework for a more conscious culture. matter to all of us, and to be mindful of the diverse concerns of a diverse global As part of our commitment, we are also expanding our unconscious workplace. Employees expect their employers to be a voice for equality and bias education and evolving our focus to be on interrupting bias. justice in a chaotic world. In FY18, Cisco employees and leaders took stands on The delivery will be through easy-to-consume microlearnings a range of important issues: designed to drive new behaviors that raise awareness, change •A s a member of the cross-industry Business Roundtable, Cisco CEO Chuck mindsets, create a common language around bias, and articulate Robbins helped prepare a statement urging the White House to end the policy the importance of interrupting bias and encouraging inclusion. Our curriculum is designed to address the information, attitudes, of separating unaccompanied minors from their parents at the U.S. border, and stereotypes that affect the way we process information calling the practice “cruel and contrary to American values.” He also reiterated subconsciously. the importance of inclusion and diversity as a way to connect perspectives, spark new ideas, explore new possibilities, tap into the power of digital transformation, and inspire innovation in his letter included in the first-ever Business Roundtable CEO Report on Diversity and Inclusion. Our commitment to fair pay •C isco supports the United Nations Standards of Conduct for Business: Tackling Discrimination against Lesbian, Gay, Bi, Trans, and Intersex People as a best Cisco has always been committed to paying our people fairly and equitably. practice for companies working to ensure human rights for all people. The We are a founding signer of the White House Equal Pay Pledge and the standards reflect Cisco’s commitment to an inclusive environment for our Parity.org pledge, and we are leading the charge to make fair pay a reality customers, partners, and employees in the workplace and beyond. For the for all employees through the Employers for Pay Equity Consortium. 15th consecutive year, Cisco achieved a perfect score on the 2018 Human Three years ago, we built an innovative and inclusive framework that uses powerful Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index, recognizing Cisco as one of the analytics to review and test the overall health of our compensation system. best places to work for the LGBT community. Our reviews look at all factors that influence an equitable talent environment, from •W e listen when employees share concerns about social justice issues and act new hire offers to individual rewards, so we can continue to design and deliver fair, to influence change to support them. We also encourage employees to act by inclusive, and competitive pay for our people. These analyses have revealed a matching contributions to organizations working to make positive change. When healthy compensation system overall. In FY18, we identified minor disparities employees told us they wanted to rally behind the #MeToo movement, Cisco within approximately 0.5 percent of our global employee population. We have given created the Empower Change Together Fund to facilitate donations and matching pay adjustments in an effort to close those minor gaps. The funds required to funds to the Time’s Up Now legal defense fund. When our employees expressed address these gaps represent a small fraction—less than 0.02 percent—of our heartbreak over discriminatory actions and rhetoric, we encouraged matched global base payroll. donations to the Fighting Racism and Discrimination Fund, which includes organizations focused on social justice. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 405-2 csr.cisco.com feedback 55 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Ethics and Team Health and Inclusion and Employee Integrity Development Wellness Collaboration Community Impact Supporting diverse employee communities globally, being an ICC member significantly improves the likelihood an employee will be promoted. Within the United States, the likelihood for promotion increases Cisco’s Inclusion and Collaboration Community (ICC) is a global platform for by 65 percent. diverse groups to connect, innovate, and excel, both in person and online. ICC has grown approximately 16 percent since FY17, from 25,000 to more Notable actions in FY18 within EROs and other ICC groups include: than 29,000 active members worldwide. These individuals participate in: •C  isco’s Women of Impact (WOI) conference, a flagship event for the development • Employee Resource Organizations (EROs) and advancement of professional women, began in San Jose with 250 attendees. In FY18, the event had more than 15,000 attendees across the world. WOI • ICC Networks included 24 hours of global content and in-person sessions in over 110 sites • Virtual Groups and 51 countries worldwide. • Inclusion Leadership Teams (ILTs) •O  ur VETS ERO provides free access to cybertraining and certification for • Flagship diversity experiences veterans and military spouses. Cisco Services Academy also offers a Veterans Talent Incubation Program (VTIP) for former military service members who wish Cisco has ILTs within every region and function. They give us new insight into to transition into a technology career. The VTIP program started in 2017 and how we make our systems, policies, and practices relevant within every part has been extremely successful, leading to 66 veterans hired by Cisco. of our business. Our ILTs have been instrumental in co-designing solutions to accelerate diversity, including forming Mentor Rings and the highly successful •A  dvocating for LGBT equality, our PRIDE ERO community asked for support for Courageous Conversations forums. Coming Out Day in our Bedfont Lakes, U.K. office. The group received approval to fly the LGBT pride flag for a week at the campus. And for the first time, With the development of a new ICC Portal, we can now track the contributions PRIDE also sought and gained approval to raise a transgender flag to honor of our EROs and ICC Networks, and have the foundation needed to track ROI in Transgender Day. terms of development, retention, and promotion. Preliminary findings reveal that Figure 15. Thriving employee communities 243 72 chapters countries 29,000 active members Figure 16. Inclusion & collaboration community chapters A global platform for diverse groups to connect, innovate and excel aboration aboration aboration aboration aboration Coll Coll Coll Coll Coll 243 Co Co Co Co Co n& n& n& n& n& L L L L L AL Y AL Y AL Y AL Y AL y y y y y Inclu sio unit Inclu sio unit Inclu sio unit Inclu sio unit Inclu sio unit mm mm mm mm Y mm te etw CO N 196 Con C AAN rk CBP Conn ec C DAN ork N E XI Ó CW 160 wo Co als ne ec dD sN te et N nn on i s La dA te d ss ne ls Co en c isab s ia n A f f init y Bla c k Profe ilities Aware tino Professiona nnec ted Wom aboration aboration aboration aboration boration Coll Co Coll Co Coll Co Coll Co Colla Co n& n& n& n& n& m L L L L L AL AL AL Y AL AL Y y y y y Inclu Inclu unit Inclu unit Inclu unit Inclu unit sio nity sio Y mm sio Y mm sio mm sio Y mm mu ECN iC RID ETS Wo ng ON P E era V up po e ri dia GB Vet ns rt me p i it y ne un pS in le Ea ork L eo ng In T& Ena n rly C ns C S ci areer Netw onnecting P A lli e s C o m m blement Troo ence and E Employee Resources Organizations Business Initiated Networks 2016 2017 2018 Ally Health Networks Cultural Networks Networks GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 csr.cisco.com feedback 56 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Ethics and Team Health and Inclusion and Employee Integrity Development Wellness Collaboration Community Impact Figure 17. Workforce snapshot1 Cisco has published workforce diversity statistics in our CSR Report since 2005. Below is a summary of our diversity data as of July 2018; additional data is available on cisco.com. 52+ 34 + 6 + 4 2 + 1 + + 1 Overall workforce 75+25 73+27 Global by gender U.S. by gender U.S. by ethnicity White/Caucasian 53% Asian 37% Hispanic/Latino 5.4% African American/Black 3.6% Two or More R  aces (Not Hispanic or Latino) 1.2% Male 75% Male 73% American Indian or Alaska Native 0.3% Female 25% Female 27% Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander 0.2% 47+ 40 + 5 + 4 + 2 + 1 1 + Technical workforce2 Nontechnical workforce2 84+16 58+42 60+ 20 + 7 + 5 + 3 + 2 + 1 Global by gender U.S. by ethnicity Global by gender U.S. by ethnicity Asian 50% White/Caucasian 62% White/Caucasian 41% Asian 23% Hispanic/Latino 4.4% Hispanic/Latino 7.3% African American/Black 3.4% African American/Black 5.1% Two or M  ore Races (Not Hispanic or Latino) 0.9% Two or More Races (Not Hispanic or Latino) 1.7% Male 84% American Indian or Alaska Native 0.2% Male 58% American Indian or Alaska Native 0.3% Female 16% Native H awaiian/Other P  acific Islander 0.1% Female 42% Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander 0.2% 1 Some figures may not total 100% due to rounding of underlying data. 2 Based on alignment to EEO-1 job categories. GRI 102-7, 102-8, 405-1 csr.cisco.com feedback 57 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Ethics and Team Health and Inclusion and Employee Integrity Development Wellness Collaboration Community Impact Figure 17. Workforce snapshot (cont.’d) Vice Presidents 78+22 78+22 72+ 21 4 + + 2 1 + 1 + Global VPs by gender U.S. VPs by gender U.S. VPs by ethnicity White/Caucasian 72% Asian 21% Hispanic/Latino 4.1% African American/Black 1.7% Male 78% Male 78% Two or More R aces (Not Hispanic or Latino) 0.7% Female 22% Female 22% American Indian or Alaska Native 0.7% 58+ 17 + 17 + 9 Executive Leadership Team1 58+42 Global ELT membership ELT membership by ethnicity by gender White/Caucasian 58% Asian 17% Hispanic/Latino 17% Two or M ore Races (Not Hispanic or Latino) 8.3% Male 58% Female 42% 1 As of December 2018 GRI 405-1 csr.cisco.com feedback 58 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Ethics and Team Health and Inclusion and Employee Integrity Development Wellness Collaboration Community Impact Figure 17. Workforce snapshot (cont.’d) 58+ 30 5 + + 3 + 2 1 + + 1 Leadership and people managers1 80+20 77+23 Global managers by gender U.S. managers by gender U.S. managers by ethnicity White/Caucasian 61% Asian 31% Hispanic/Latino 4.7% African American/Black 2.3% Two or More R aces (Not Hispanic or Latino) 0.8% Male 80% Male 77% American Indian or Alaska Native 0.2% Female 20% Female 23% Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander 0.1% 47+ 40 + 6 5 + + 2 1 + + 1 Hiring 71+29 Global by gender U.S. by ethnicity White/Caucasian 47% Asian 40% Hispanic/Latino 5.6% African American/Black 4.5% Two or M ore Races (Not Hispanic or Latino) 2.2% American Indian or Alaska Native 0.3% Male 71% Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander 0.3% Female 29% 1 People managers, directors, and senior directors. GRI 405-1 csr.cisco.com feedback 59 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Ethics and Team Health and Inclusion and Employee Integrity Development Wellness Collaboration Community Impact Figure 17. Workforce snapshot (cont.’d) Cisco Board 73+27 Board membership by gender Cisco Board Members Carol A. M. Michele Michael D. Mark Bartz Burns Capellas Garrett Male 73% Female 27% 91+9 Board membership by ethnicity Dr. John L. Dr. Kristina M. Roderick C. Chuck Hennessy Johnson McGeary Robbins White/Caucasian 91% Asian 9.0% Arun Brenton L. Steven M. Sarin, KBE Saunders West GRI 405-1 csr.cisco.com feedback 60 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Ethics and Team Health and Inclusion and Employee Integrity Development Wellness Collaboration Community Impact Employee community impact Making a difference in our communities, locally and globally, is an important part of our culture. We empower our employees to accelerate social change by participating in Cisco-led community initiatives, such as Cisco Citizen Networks, our Be the Bridge annual giving campaign, and Global Service Month volunteering. We also encourage employees to support causes that matter most to them, which we enable through our Time2Give benefit and donation matching. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 csr.cisco.com feedback 61 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Ethics and Team Health and Inclusion and Employee Integrity Development Wellness Collaboration Community Impact Figure 18. We are proud to see the many ways our Donations directly to employees are sharing their time and charities or through Cisco talents, from building homes in Romania and working with migrant families in Employee matching gifts $21.4M China to judging school science fairs. Our goal is to achieve 80 percent community $15.2M impact $12M employee engagement—measured by donations or volunteer time—by 2020. 2016 2017 2018 46% Cisco of employees donated time or money, totaling 58% of our employee engagement goal of achieving #3 2018 Best Workplaces 80% employee engagement by 2020 for Giving Back Fortune Employee volunteer hours 424,000 358,000 187,100 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 413-1 2016 2017 2018 csr.cisco.com feedback 62 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Ethics and Team Health and Inclusion and Employee Integrity Development Wellness Collaboration Community Impact Fueling the pipeline Our Cisco Citizen Networks drive employee engagement and volunteerism in cities and regions around the world where we have an employee presence. We have over 50 chapters across 27 countries. Chapters plan volunteer projects and develop relationships with local nonprofits and nongovernmental organizations, with each initiative tailored to the specific needs of the local community. Engaging volunteers locally gives employees the opportunity to learn more about the challenges their communities face. This shapes their perspectives and the perspectives of Cisco leadership, as well as informing how Cisco technologies can be developed and deployed to advance social good. Supporting diverse women in STEM A particular focus area for Cisco is inspiring more people, particularly girls and women across underrepresented populations, to Figure 19. pursue science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) education and careers. Every Girls Power Tech 2018 April, we support Girls in ICT Day, a global event organized by the United Nations International Telecommunication Union. Cisco has been participating in this initiative from the beginning, motivating thousands of young women from around the world to learn about the opportunities the technology sector holds for their future. On or around Girls in ICT Day, employee volunteers from the Cisco Global 700 4,600 101 52 Mentoring Initiative mentor young women and teach them about Cisco technology. In 2016, we made a commitment to the Million Women Mentors initiative to have our employees mentor 5,000 female students in the U.S. by employee students Cisco participatng 2020, a goal we have already reached and exceeded through our Girls in ICT Day and volunteers reached offices countries Girls Power Tech programs. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 413-1 csr.cisco.com feedback 63 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Ethics and Team Health and Inclusion and Employee Integrity Development Wellness Collaboration Community Impact Time2Give Volunteering helps Cisco employees gain new perspectives, develop leadership and other skills, and work better in teams. We support our employees in volunteering for the causes, issues, and nonprofits that align with Cisco’s community priorities, as well as those reflecting their own passions and interests. That support is demonstrated through Time2Give, which offers full-time Cisco employees five days off per year to volunteer for a community cause they care about. Where and how employees volunteer is up to them—they can take a few hours by volunteering an afternoon at their child’s school or can take all five days at once and travel to help build houses in another country. Volunteer service benefits communities and Figure 20. may also help employees feel more engaged; those who volunteer are 2.5 times more likely to stay at Time2Give Cisco and 30 percent more likely to be promoted than those who do not. Donation matching Cisco has a long tradition of matching employees’ donations to charitable organizations, as well as offering a match of $10 per hour to organizations where our 11,000 people volunteer. Previously, we matched employee gifts up to $1,000, except during our Be the Bridge campaign in November and December, during which we matched gifts up to $10,000 for each employee. In FY18, we expanded this program and now match employees gifts up to $10,000 at any time of year. This change not only increases the impact we and our employees can make, but it also allows people to give on their timetable, not Cisco’s. In 2018, for example, this allowed employees celebrating Ramadan in May and June to maximize their holiday giving. We continued our commitment to support those affected by disasters with special matching campaigns to responding 185,000 organizations. Employees donating to disaster response organizations can receive an additional $10,000 match while a campaign is active. In FY18, employee donations powered by matching funds from the Cisco Foundation totaled $1.9 million for disaster relief. volunteer hours GRI 413-1 Society Scaling inclusive social and economic impact in countries around the world In this section Building digital skills Strategic social Human Responsible sourcing and entrepreneurship investments rights and manufacturing Photo: Ezra Millstein for Mercy Corps 2018 CSR Report 64 csr.cisco.com feedback 65 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Building Digital Skills Strategic Social Human Rights Responsible Sourcing Figure 21. and Entrepreneurship Investments and Manufacturing 2018 Society dashboard (Number of people positively impacted, (Students enrolled per year, millions) Highlights (Number millions, of people positively impacted, cumulative) (Students enrolled per year, millions) Goal: millions, cumulative) Goal: Positively impact Reach 2 million Cisco 1.87 1.87  rew our Cisco Networking Academy program with record enrollment G 445 levels, new course offerings, and a job portal connecting alumni to job 1 billion people 445 Networking Academy openings at Cisco and our partners. Read more through our social students per year by 1.33  aw a 211 percent increase in submissions for our second annual S 1.33 impact grants and 20202 1.09 1.09 Global Problem Solver Challenge. Read more 235 signature programs 235  ublished two pieces of research in partnership with Oxford Economics P by 20251 and Gartner, including a study on a region’s digital readiness and an 80 examination of how technologies such as automation, IoT, and artificial 80 intelligence will affect the U.S. labor market. Read more Progress: C  ommitted to addressing the homelessness crisis in Santa Clara County Progress: with a five-year, $50 million contribution to Destination: Home. Read more The life-changing work of 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 We grew the number 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 new and established of academies and R  esponded to Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria; earthquakes in Mexico, partners is helping us expanded into new and fires in California with a combination of financial support, product make rapid progress. educational settings. grants, and TacOps deployments. Read more  eveloped a series of position statements to express our point of view D Chart Chart Title Title Style Style on human rights issues arising from an increasingly digitized world, Key Performance Metrics including encryption, data localization, government surveillance, IoT, big data analytics, and artificial intelligence. Read more Segment XX% Segment XX% $383 9.26 87% 209 Published  content to educate customers, peers, and the public on how to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Read more Segment XX% L ed a pilot to explore using blockchain to create transparency regarding Segment XX% provenance data from mines as a contributor to the Responsible Minerals million million students of employees million people Initiative blockchain working group. Read more in cash and in-kind contributions have participated in have completed Keep impacted by our social impact by Cisco and the Cisco Networking Academy Cisco Safe data security grants and signature programs W  orked with strategic suppliers to build up a green supply chain in Segment XX% Foundation courses since 1997 Segment XX% training such as Networking Academy in mainland China and minimize environmental impact when producing Segment XX% FY18 (54 million increase over Cisco products and components. Read more Segment XX% previous year) L aunched an executive sponsorship program for Cisco’s top U.S. diverse suppliers, with 26 pairs of Cisco executives and diverse suppliers meeting 1.7 87K+ 84% 60 over an 18-month period. Read more E nhanced U.S. staff augmentation sourcing to include at least one diverse supplier in 99 percent of searches. Read more million Chart Chart Title Title Style military Style personnel of identified supplier facilities malware samples reviewed have participated in Cisco smelters and refiners in our audited through a third-party by our threat intelligence Networking Academy supply chain have been auditor team per day XX%1998 Services since Switching XX% audited or are active in the Services XX% Switching XX% Responsible Minerals Assurance Process 1 FY16-FY18 numbers updated December 2018 to include signature programs such as Networking Academy. GRI 413-1 2 Other Goal was adjusted from 2021 to X% FY18. 2020 during Other X% SP Video X% csr.cisco.com feedback 66 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Building Digital Skills Strategic Social Human Rights Responsible Sourcing and Entrepreneurship Investments and Manufacturing Building digital skills and entrepreneurship We lead several ongoing programs through which Cisco is partnering with educational institutions and social change agents to co-develop curriculum, experiences, and engagement models that help build skills in digitization and entrepreneurship. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 csr.cisco.com feedback 67 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Building Digital Skills Strategic Social Human Rights Responsible Sourcing and Entrepreneurship Investments and Manufacturing “Cisco is normally known for their technology, but what Cisco Networking Academy they’re really known for around Twenty years ago, Cisco donated networking equipment to a local school. It sat unused at first, because no one was trained on how to use the equipment. As we trained the school staff to here is giving individuals skills build their network, Cisco Networking Academy was born. And after seeing the impact this and opportunities to compete training had on the school’s students and teachers, we were inspired by a new mission to harness the potential of technology to change the world. in the world that they normally Today, Cisco Networking Academy is one of the largest and longest-running education and wouldn’t have access to.” employment CSR programs around the world. Designed with the most demanding IT jobs in the market in mind, Cisco Networking Academy provides a comprehensive learning experience, including: Richard Douglas, •A  n online interactive curriculum with a focus on networking, security, and emerging Cisco Networking technologies such as IoT Academy Instructor, • Network simulation software and programming environments New York City • Access to physical and virtual lab equipment for the most effective hands-on technical training From the start, students are encouraged to develop problem solving skills, work in teams, and apply user-centric design techniques to create solutions, just as they would in the workplace. Courses are taught in classrooms using a blended learning style, localized in the most popular and in-demand languages around the world. Networking Academy courses are delivered online through netacad.com, a global cloud-based learning and collaboration platform. Networking Academy students also have access to career resources and connections to employers seeking information and communications technology (ICT) talent through the Talent Bridge program. We partner with governments and educational institutions around the world to establish local academies and initiatives that promote workforce readiness and socioeconomic development. Courses are delivered in collaboration with 11,400 schools, community colleges, universities, and organizations that support underserved communities such as rural populations, veterans, prisoners, and people with diverse abilities. Netacad.com conforms to web content accessibility guidelines based on WCAG2.0 for users with vision and hearing disabilities—giving more people tools to thrive in the digital economy. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 413-1 csr.cisco.com feedback 68 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Building Digital Skills Strategic Social Human Rights Responsible Sourcing and Entrepreneurship Investments and Manufacturing Learning portfolio updates Cisco Networking Academy focuses on the latest networking, security, and emerging technologies, while promoting business and entrepreneurial skills. In FY18, we added seven new courses and workshops providing foundational skills in network programmability and programming, as well as job readiness skills in cybersecurity for students of all levels, particularly those wanting to pursue a career in this thriving industry. The emerging technologies workshops are designed to prepare students and instructors for the networking transition driven by digital transformation in the market. The security portfolio is designed based on the National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education (NICE) framework, which is meant to upskill the workforce to address the global cybersecurity skills shortage. “Being a part of the Dream Much of the Networking Academy Team teaches you so much curricula is developed in-house; however, we also work with third-party more than how to build a organizations like the Open Education network or install a router. and Development Group and Network Development Group to create industryIt taught me organization, relevant content that prepares learners teamwork, and the value for the needs of today’s workforce. In addition, we partner with employers of good coworkers.” and other organizations to deliver Zöe Rose, mentorships, internships, and other hands-on experiences to help students Academy Student, prepare for and obtain new jobs. Manitoba, Canada Dream Team The program also emphasizes unique learning experiences through hackathons and other real-world opportunities. Since 2011, a select group of college and university students enrolled in Networking Academy are nominated by their instructors to provide support for Cisco Live, Cisco’s largest customer-focused event, as well as the National Basketball Association, the British Open, and other major events. By configuring and troubleshooting equipment, providing help desk assistance, and honing teamwork and leadership skills, the students—known as the Networking Academy Dream Team—get hands-on experience with the latest networking technology. Since the inception of the Dream Team program in 2011, 585 students have participated. In FY18, 132 Dream Team participants supported 18 events around the globe. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 413-1 csr.cisco.com feedback 69 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Building Digital Skills Strategic Social Human Rights Responsible Sourcing and Entrepreneurship Investments and Manufacturing Figure 22. Talent Bridge matching engine 200 employers posted 10,000 students registered 10,000+ 6,400+ entry-level jobs students connected to jobs in 85 countries Talent Bridge The Networking Academy Talent Bridge employment program, including a comprehensive set of activities such as the Dream Team, Job Matching Engine, LinkedIn campaigns, Virtual Job Fairs, and Webinars, connects qualified Networking Academy students and alumni with Cisco and partner employers. The program has successfully connected more than 6,400 students to entry-level jobs since 2016. In FY18, we introduced the Talent Bridge Matching Engine, which automates the process of connecting Networking Academy students to jobs with Cisco and Cisco partners. The Matching “I’m looking for the best and brightest, Engine is available globally in 15 languages and matches students to job and I’ve got a platform with Cisco opportunities based on education, certifications, experience, and location. Networking Academy that gives me Partnership updates access to the up-and-comers. This is an We continued to expand our global network of public-private partnerships amazing pool of candidates.” with governments, academic institutions, and nonprofit organizations in John Grindley, FY18. In Latin America, Cisco Peru has been given the distinction “Aliados por la Educación” for its partnership with the Ministry of Education. For 2 Director of Strategy, years Cisco Networking Academy curriculum has been part of the Digital Straight Up Technologies, Literacy Program, reaching 2001 high schools across the country and Cisco partner more than 600,000 students. The partnership is expected to continue to expand and reach other regions in Peru. In addition, we continued to grow GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 413-1 csr.cisco.com feedback 70 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Building Digital Skills Strategic Social Human Rights Responsible Sourcing and Entrepreneurship Investments and Manufacturing our relationship with Junior Achievement International in Latin America, expanding into Colombia with more than 8,400 students introduced to the Networking Academy program during FY18. Getting women plugged into IT careers In collaboration with Trident Academy of Technology in India, we hosted the first Networking Academy Learnathon, during which more than 10,000 students in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, and Odisha completed The statistics on the gender gap in STEM are well known. Not only are women the Cybersecurity Essentials course in two weeks. In China, partnerships outnumbered in computing jobs, the percentage of women in these jobs has with the Ministry of Education’s University Computer Curriculum Steering decreased over the past 25 years. We are helping encourage women to enroll in Cisco Networking Academy and pursue technology careers in general through Committee and Guangdong Department of Education have allowed us to efforts like Women Rock-IT. The program includes virtual broadcasts featuring provide Networking Academy curriculum to tens of thousands of students. women who have launched successful careers in tech. Since 2014, Women Finally, we began a new partnership with European Schoolnet, based in Rock-IT has featured 41 speakers and 22 live TV broadcasts, prompting more than Belgium, to train school ICT administrators to optimize and secure their 420,000 viewers to enroll in technology courses (85 percent of whom are new to schools’ networks. Networking Academy). Continuous improvement Improving the Networking Academy experience is an important focus. We continue to evolve the ways we gain insights, evaluating the entire impact spectrum from early indicators to outcomes, including: • Course registration and completion • Student and instructor satisfaction • New jobs obtained • Additional job and educational opportunities In addition, employer feedback on potential skills gaps among Networking Academy alumni helps feed curriculum improvements. Our goal is to help our instructors and students achieve successful outcomes. To support us in this effort, we gather feedback from annual conferences and surveys of instructors and students. In addition, the Academy Advisory Board, representing students, instructors, partners, and alumni, formally gathers requirements and assesses future needs. Cisco Networking Academy has achieved successful student outcomes for more than 20 years by balancing agility with expertise—staying abreast of what’s next in technology while maintaining elements of our program that have proven effective. This approach allows us to continue reaching new and returning students, recruiting new instructors, and scaling with the help of our strategic partners worldwide. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 413-1 csr.cisco.com feedback 71 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Building Digital Skills Strategic Social Human Rights Responsible Sourcing and Entrepreneurship Investments and Manufacturing Figure 23. Cisco Networking Student Impact2 Academy 91% obtained a job 93% use course skills 1.7 million or educational opportunity learned in their daily lives CCNA Routing & Switching students found jobs between 86% 83% FY05 and FY18 learned skills increased their value that can help them in in FY18 Since 1997 current or future job 9.26 Instructor Impact3 million students 97.2% say Networking Academy helped 85.2% say Networking Academy helped them become a better educator them broaden their career In FY18 180 countries 1.87 million learners Highest female enrollment around the world 11,400 academies 28% female learners 35% India 35% Morocco 41% Tunisia 42% Palestine 53% United Arab Emirates 68% Oman 37% China 43% Myanmar (Burma) 24,700 instructors $320 million 37% Ukraine 40% Jordan 44% Nigeria 46% Peru in-kind contributions from Cisco 40% Kazakhstan By 2020 2 million students 1 Goal was adjusted from 2021 to 2020 during FY18. Student outcome survey of participants completing Cisco Certified Network Associate 2 curriculum or higher. enrolled annually1 3 Instructor Survey of participants actively teaching in FY18. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 413-1 csr.cisco.com feedback 72 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Building Digital Skills Strategic Social Human Rights Responsible Sourcing and Entrepreneurship Investments and Manufacturing Training and career support for veterans and active military personnel As a proud supporter of the U.S. military and veterans, we have extended our technology training programs to help these individuals excel in their roles within the military and pursue new career paths once they have completed military service. Launched in 2011, Cisco’s Veterans Program supports transitioning U.S. military personnel, veterans, and military spouses in connecting to ICT education and employment. In FY18, Cisco reached 6,577 transitioning military, veterans, and spouses through these programs. Military personnel and veterans can also enroll in a Networking Academy program, providing a gateway to entry-level jobs and certifications in the ICT field. Additionally, the AFA’s Cyber Patriot program continues its rapid expansion in the United States with over 7,200 students participating in learning key elements of cybersecurity. Veterans interested in a career in cybersecurity can access free training and entrepreneurs move their solutions to the Figure 24. certification through CyberVetsUSA, an industry-led, skills-to-jobs initiative next level as they focus on solving pressing Networking Academy currently offered in Virginia, Maryland, and North Carolina. This is a collaborative problems around the world. In 2018, almost Supports Military Personnel effort led by Cisco, bringing together multiple IT industry partners to address the 300 teams completed submissions, a 211 ICT workforce shortage in targeted regions. Those who aspire to roles at Cisco percent increase from 2017. 87,000 may also participate in the Veterans Talent Incubation The program’s second annual grand prize of Program (VTIP), a pipeline for service members and $100,000 went to CareNX Innovations, whose veterans to obtain CCNA certification and to find jobs as new system, Feton, uses IoT technology to Creating young Cisco Customer Support Engineers or Network Consulting personnel detect a fetus’s heartbeat. Lack of access to developed ICT skills global problem Engineers. Since 2016, Cisco has hired more than 60 healthcare facilities contributes to complications since 1998, at veterans from the VTIP program. In addition, in 2018 Cisco solvers that lead to more than half a million stillbirths 70+ launched the Talent Bridge for Veterans Matching Engine per year. By making this test widely accessible, which connects qualified military talent to Cisco’s partner Cisco is helping educate Feton can change this statistic and save lives. ecosystem, further building a bridge to employment middle schoolers about At the 2018 Cisco Live event, we invited two military installations possibilities for those transitioning out of the military. the power of technology past Global Problem Solver Challenge prize with 7,500 winners, along with one Rice Business Plan to drive social good with a new animation series Competitions and partnerships Competition winner of the Cisco Global Problem Solver Prize (see next page), a and curriculum known as Cisco Global Problem Solver Challenge chance to gain exposure and earn additional trained Global Problem Solvers: The Cisco Global Problem Solver Challenge recognizes funding. Liberty Mechatronics, Neopenda, and in FY18 The Series. Learn more post-secondary students and recent graduates whose dot Learn shared their ideas about oil filtration, ideas use the Internet of Things (IoT) and digitization neonatal health, and online education, about this program here. to create breakthrough technologies, products, and respectively, with event attendees and social media followers, who voted to services that drive economic development and solve give dot Learn a $25,000 prize. In addition, industry analysts at the event had a social and environmental problems. By providing visibility, chance to meet one to one with our challenge winners to learn how their unique funding, and encouragement, we help these social technology-based solutions are positively impacting our world. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 413-1 csr.cisco.com feedback 73 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Building Digital Skills Strategic Social Human Rights Responsible Sourcing and Entrepreneurship Investments and Manufacturing Rice Business Plan Competition local industries, government agencies, NGOs, and community colleges. This communityIn collaboration with Rice University, we award one of the largest nondilutive prizes (funding based collaboration has the potential to build Harambe Entrepreneur Alliance skills for the future, incubate innovation, and that does not require giving up any equity in the foster entrepreneurship, whether through the company) in the Rice Business Plan Competition creation of new businesses or identification of (RBPC), the world’s largest intercollegiate fresh approaches within existing organizations. Cisco is a founding sponsor of the Harambe Entrepreneur Alliance. This startup competition. The annual competition invites 42 university teams, chosen from nearly We developed this public university grant-making nonprofit supports high-impact social and business ventures across Africa 400 applications, to compete for more than initiative based on previous collaborations with through an ecosystem of more than 200 young, innovative African $2 million in prizes. Arizona State University (ASU) and other grant entrepreneurs known as “Harambeans.” Harambeans are visionaries for programs. Supported by Cisco managed funds transforming the region and have pledged “to work together as one” to One of those prizes is the $100,000 Cisco unlock the full and often untapped potential of Africa. at the Silicon Valley Community Foundation, in Global Problem Solver Prize, which recognizes FY18 we issued six 1to 3-year grants to public Collaborating with privateand public-sector groups, Harambe supports the technologies, products, and services with social U.S. universities to catalyze development of IoT aspirations of young African leaders through mentors, feasibility study grants, impact. In 2018, we awarded this prize to Lunula and digital skills, foster entrepreneurial mindsets, scholarships, pro bono legal services, and access to angel and venture Health, a team that has developed a process to and align programming or curriculum with local capital. Collectively, Harambeans have launched a series of tech-enabled accurately measure blood hemoglobin levels by industry opportunities. Pilot grant recipients enterprises, with more than $300 million in funding raised from a variety of analyzing digital images of fingernail beds taken include: investors. Harambe-backed startups have created more than 2,000 jobs and on a smartphone. This process can be used to detect anemia, eliminating the need for costly • California State University Fullerton are valued at more than $1 billion. and invasive blood tests. • Florida International University The RBPC is open to students from all • Georgia State University universities, regardless of location. Since inception, more than 200 former competitors • University of Michigan have gone on to successfully launch or sell • West Virginia University their ventures. Past competitors have raised • Youngstown State University over $1.9 billion in funding and more than 90 have been awarded federal grants to continue Many grantees are using funds to expand IoT their work. education, develop new certificate programs, and increase participation in STEM by women. Digital Economy Initiative For example, Georgia State launched a crossdisciplinary program for students to help create We believe educational institutions and technology solutions to real problems and organizations focused on emerging prepare them for digital professions. To inspire entrepreneurs can be powerful catalysts for higher participation in IT by women and minority local economic development. In FY17, we populations, they include outreach and summer launched the Digital Economy Initiative, a pilot programming for local high school students. We grant program rooted in the belief that public plan to evaluate these university pilot programs universities can accelerate an inclusive digital to determine how to proceed with this initiative. economy in their region by collaborating with GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 csr.cisco.com feedback 74 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Building Digital Skills Strategic Social Human Rights Responsible Sourcing and Entrepreneurship Investments and Manufacturing Strategic social investments Today’s pace of technological advancement is unprecedented. New technologies are driving global innovation and transforming how we live and work. Digitization is enabling countries and businesses to maintain global competitiveness, increase GDP, foster innovation, and create new jobs. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 csr.cisco.com feedback 75 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Building Digital Skills Strategic Social Human Rights Responsible Sourcing and Entrepreneurship Investments and Manufacturing As this transformation occurs, skills, resources, and access to new technologies We have presented research findings at the World Economic Forum, can be unevenly distributed. To help communities thrive, we must harness the International Society for Technology in Education conferences, Cisco power of digitization to create economic opportunity for all, and Cisco has an Networking Academy partner conferences, Cisco Live, and other venues. important role to play. Through strategic investments of our financial and human capital, our products and solutions, as well as our signature programs such as Networking Academy, we are partnering to drive an inclusive digital economy— Recent research positively impacting 1 billion people by 2025. Cisco published two key pieces of research in FY18. The first study, created in partnership with Gartner, was an exploration of how to effectively define and measure a region’s digital readiness. A holistic framework was created Socioeconomic research to measure a country’s digital readiness based on seven components: Cisco’s original research, in partnership with leading Figure 25. Digital readiness framework research and advisory companies and world-renowned academic institutions, on topics related to the digital revolution is a key input to our social investment strategy. Research insights enable us to better understand how strategic investments can help build the skills needed in the future and ensure the relevance of our key social investments, such as Cisco Networking Academy program, and focus areas including critical human needs, educational opportunity, and economic empowerment. Beyond guiding our own decision making, research provides a basis for informed decisions by heads of state, universities, educators, and nonprofit leaders to set the direction for social investments and program development. For example, our research is designed to help states and nations: •S  et the talent agenda for future growth by predicting the digital skills needed and the most effective ways to address skills gaps and job displacement • Pinpoint the supply and demand of skilled labor in specific regions; “Many of today’s jobs will be replaced •H  olistically assess a region’s digital readiness and understand key interventions by automation. That is the nature of how for a region to move up in their digital journey technology is transforming our lives. •R  ethink education systems to deliver graduates with the digital skills necessary Cisco recognizes our responsibility to for the jobs of the future and • Realize the benefits of digitization for all socioeconomic groups aid in this transition.” Irving Tan, Senior Vice President, Operations GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 csr.cisco.com feedback 76 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Building Digital Skills Strategic Social Human Rights Responsible Sourcing and Entrepreneurship Investments and Manufacturing Figure 26. Map of digital readiness stages Based on an analysis of 118 countries and 50 U.S. states, three stages of digital readiness emerged: Explore Cisco’s interactive tool with digital readiness data for 118 countries worldwide and 50 U.S. states here. These stages were correlated with a country’s GDP per capita, demonstrating Within this research, localized studies in the U.S. and Australia revealed the economic value of digital readiness. Different interventions are recommended differences in digital readiness across states and territories. Scores reveal depending on a region’s stage of digital readiness. For example, countries which states and countries are most digitally ready and which are less so, beginning their digital journeys (the Activate Stage), benefit primarily from presenting opportunities for local government, industry, educational institutions, improvements in basic human needs and human capital development, especially and community organizations to work together to increase digital readiness. growing foundational IT knowledge. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 csr.cisco.com feedback 77 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Building Digital Skills Strategic Social Human Rights Responsible Sourcing and Entrepreneurship Investments and Manufacturing Figure 27. 2027 Employment Forecast by Occupational Group (% change in FTE employment) Management Business & Financial Operations Computer & Mathematical Architecture & Engineering Life, Physical & Social Science Community & Social Services Legal Education, Training & Library Arts, Design, Entertainment, Sports & Media Healthcare Support Protective Services Food Preparation & Serving Related Source: Oxford Economics Building Grounds Cleaning & Maintenance Personal Care & Service Sales & Related Office & Administrative Support Farming, Fishing & Forestry Construction & Extraction Installation, Maintenance & Repair The second research study was developed in collaboration Production with Oxford Economics and examined how technologies Transportation & Material Moving such as automation, IoT, and artificial intelligence will affect the U.S. labor market over the next 10 years. -15% -10% -5% 0% 5% 10% Our analysis predicts significant transformation ahead, resulting in 6.5 million job moves by 2027 either through displacement or disruption. The study predicts a balance between displacement of workers due to automation Figure 28. and an increase in spending power due to labor-saving “Human” skills shortfall innovations. It also identifies the jobs and industries at (Proportion of required “human” skills that are lacking risk, forecasts the new jobs that will appear, and identifies in workers moving into relevant jobs by 2027) the workforce skills needed to be ready for the future. In line with historical trends over the last 20 years, the 25% employment forecast is a balancing of the “displacement Source: Oxford Economics effect” caused by technology countered by a top-down 20% “income effect” as industry harnesses the power of technology to improve productivity. Additionally, the 15% research found that the future labor market will 10% require not only more technological skills, but also “human skills,” including negotiation, persuasion, and 5% social perceptiveness. Workers who possess human 0% skills will find ways to use and work creatively with Negotiation Persuasion Service Instructing Social Coordination Orientation Perceptiveness technology, rather than compete against it. Skills shortfall of workers moving into “human skills” relevant jobs GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 csr.cisco.com feedback 78 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Building Digital Skills Strategic Social Human Rights Responsible Sourcing and Entrepreneurship Investments and Manufacturing Figure 29. Our investment framework Our investments take place in four stages: Insights gained through our research also help Cisco make informed investments that harness the power of digitization to reach as many people as possible. As a critical part of our goal to Blueprint Validate 1 2 positively impact 1 billion people by 2025, Cisco and the Cisco Foundation invest in nonprofit organizations that leverage scalable Pilot-test solutions in order to Design a new, technology-based technology solutions to help underserved communities around measure initial results and prove solution that does not currently the world. the solution. exist, or digitize an existing Through the strategic use of technology, social innovators can solution. Create Test Develop Measure magnify the impact of their work. As we do for our customers, we help our nonprofit partners leverage technology to: Scale •S  treamline and automate processes for efficiency, cost savings, Operate Scale and productivity Sustain Replicate Scale to more people, replicate to multiple geographies globally, •S  cale to reach more people, particularly vulnerable populations, continue ideation and iteration of who have not yet benefitted from the digital economy • Unlock the power of data for faster and better-quality decisions 4 3 the original solution, and measure social impact. Because the biggest We discover organizations and individuals pursuing the best ideas need for funding is at Stages 1 and 2, Transition to solve social problems with digital solutions, and we help make our nonprofit partners often report an these concepts a reality and further their impact by providing cash At the point that a solution has increase in other sources of funding grants, expertise, and Cisco technology donations. advanced to Stage 4, it has once their solutions advance to successfully replicated and scaled, stage 3—the point when the solution Our focus areas are: has been proven and traditional demon­strated social impact, • Critical Human Needs and Disaster Relief and is financially sustainable. funders are willing to invest. • Educational Opportunity • Economic Empowerment Our approach for cash grant investments is to invest in earlystage solutions that use technology to address social challenges. We focus on early-stage solutions because that is where funding More than financial investment support is most needed and where we can provide the most value with catalytic impact. We provide seed funding for blueprint Constant throughout our engagement with nonprofits is our advisory ideations and experimentation, as well as proof-of-concept pilots. support and technical expertise. As nonprofits transition from startup Once validated, we support replication and scale of the solution. to established and sustainable organizations, we provide guidance on The goal is a solution that grows to reach to multiple geographies a variety of issues, including: and sectors, scales to reach more people, demonstrates social impact, and achieves financial sustainability. • Governance and operational structure • Business planning and strategy development • Impact evaluation • Financial sustainability planning GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 csr.cisco.com feedback 79 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Building Digital Skills Strategic Social Human Rights Responsible Sourcing and Entrepreneurship Investments and Manufacturing Measurement and evaluation With an ambitious goal to positively impact 1 billion people How we by 2025, we want the solutions we fund not only to reach many people, but also to result in deep social impact. measure impact We work closely with our nonprofit partners to measure The breadth of our programs’ impact program effectiveness so we understand the value depends on what problems the programs and social return of our investments, and our nonprofit are designed to solve. Here are examples partners understand how to improve their offerings of what we might measure: and demonstrate impact. We evaluate impact by measuring programs’ breadth, and we also measure depth where possible. Critical Human Needs and Disaster Relief To measure breadth of impact, all grantees report on Number of people who have access to clean the number of people reached by the funded program drinking water over a 12-month period and cumulative total from program inception to date. Depth of social impact is measured according to a standard set of metrics for Educational Opportunity each of our three investment portfolios (Critical Human Number of students who reached proficiency Needs and Disaster Relief, Educational Opportunity, and in science, technology, engineering, and Economic Empowerment). math (STEM). We also require grantees to Figure 30. validate that at least 65 percent Positively impacting 1 billion of participants in the funded Economic Empowerment (Numberpeople by 2025 of people positively impacted, programs are from underserved (Students enrolled per year, millions) Percent of people who obtain jobs, job millions, cumulative) population groups, as well to retention, change in income (millions cumulative) provide organizationand grantlevel metrics, such as client 1.87 445 satisfaction and retention. Grantees provide quarterly reports to detail their progress against agreed1.33 235 upon grant deliverables and 1.09 metrics, and many retain outside organizations to independently 80 validate their work. 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Chart Title Style csr.cisco.com feedback 80 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Building Digital Skills Strategic Social Human Rights Responsible Sourcing and Entrepreneurship Investments and Manufacturing Social investment focus area: Critical human needs and disaster relief Destination: Home Our Critical Human Needs and Disaster Relief portfolio focuses on increasing access to affordable housing, food security, and Destination: Home, a supporting clean drinking water. We also invest in technology-based interventions to improve the speed, efficiency, and effectiveness organization within the Silicon of humanitarian aid, and provide emergency support following natural disasters. Valley Community Foundation, Our support also includes leveraging some of our most important assets: our products and technological expertise. is a public-private partnership Cisco is one of the only corporations with a disaster response team having such advanced technology capabilities, as established in 2008 to serve as well as highly trained and skilled personnel who can deploy to the field. Established in 2003, Cisco’s Tactical Operations the backbone organization for (TacOps) team is critical to our disaster response capabilities, providing emergency communications when traditional collective impact strategies to end communications are degraded or destroyed. homelessness in Santa Clara TacOps is comprised of an eight-person, full-time, dedicated County. In FY18, Cisco committed disaster response team, supported by 350 trained employee$50 million over 5 years to “Connectivity is a critical lifevolunteers known as the Disaster Incident Response Team (DIRT). Destination: Home’s Supportive line for people, especially in Volunteers are given time away from their normal Cisco jobs to join Housing & Innovation Fund. Read more about the inspiration behind TacOps deployments. This expertise, along with world-leading times of disaster.” technology, puts us in a unique position to provide support in this commitment in Our Story, here. emergencies. By responding during the acute phase of an Matt Altman, Cisco emergency or natural disaster, TacOps enables agencies to get Tactical Operations, communications up and running faster than government or local Technical Leader providers can. Security is also important during disaster; TacOps networks leverage advanced security technologies such as Cisco Umbrella, Next Generation Firewall, and Meraki, blocking hundreds of thousands of cyberthreats per month. In times of crisis, our customers are often some of the first to reach out to the TacOps team. TacOps works directly with Cisco account teams, bringing our extensive field experience to the table to help design solutions that meet their customers’ needs, ranging from using TacOps solutions in times of crisis to helping customers build their own deployable communications solutions. For example, when responding to the California wildfires, we provided emergency connectivity to nonprofit partners as well as helping customers establish network connectivity out in the field. GRI 203-2, 413-1 csr.cisco.com feedback 81 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Building Digital Skills Strategic Social Human Rights Responsible Sourcing and Entrepreneurship Investments and Manufacturing Critical human needs and disaster relief (cont’d.) Table 2. Social investment focus area: critical human needs and disaster relief Partner Situation Investment Impact We have strategic engagements with a • 31 people are forcibly displaced •5  major disaster campaigns launched •T acOps responded to 12 disasters globally number of nonprofit organizations and every minute (match limit set between $250K-$1M) with emergency connectivity in FY18; 50+ NGOs—such as the American Red Cross, • Natural disasters, human conflict, and •$  4 million+ in support through employee since 2005 NetHope, CARE, Mercy Corps, and the UN forced displacements increasing in scale giving to nonprofit partners, Cisco • In response to Hurricane Maria, World Food Programme—to help increase and frequency Foundation matches, cash grants from the 250K residents were connected by preparedness and provide immediate • Connectivity is a critical lifeline for company and Foundation, product grants, 70+ NetHope networks, enabling them assistance in the wake of natural disasters. humanitarian and relief organizations, and TacOps deployments to contact loved ones and access When major disasters strike, we establish and affected populations, when critical services special giving campaigns that allow our communications are disrupted by •C  onnectivity and hope provided to employees to donate to relief efforts and a crisis. affected communities, aid organizations, increase their impact through matching gifts and service agencies. from the Cisco Foundation. The Cisco Foundation matches up to $10,000 per Learn more about Cisco’s disaster relief employee for every disaster campaign, efforts in FY18 in Our Story, here. which is in addition to the $10,000 in donations that can be matched per employee every year. We also participate in the American Red Cross Annual Disaster Giving Program (ADGP) Mercy Corps is a leading disaster and •1  34 million people need humanitarian •$  10 million over 5 years to integrate •1  .3 million people reached in FY18, the humanitarian relief NGO active in more than assistance worldwide technology into humanitarian and first year of our partnership 40 countries. With needs increasing and aid • Out of the 68.5 million people around the development assistance programs, • Goal to reach 11 million people by 2022 funding decreasing, technology’s role in world have been forcibly displaced from enabling faster and more efficient aid • Partnership includes expansion of the helping organizations communicate their homes, 25.4 million have become •C  ash grants, donations of Cisco Signpost platform, which has scaled to securely, make rapid decisions, use data, refugees, fleeing their homeland in search technology, technical expertise, and seven countries and has reached more and share findings efficiently is more of safety, security and a better life for advisory support than 840,000 refugees important than ever. their families. •E  xtended work on Signpost platform, • Connectivity is a critical lifeline for which provides refugees and crisishumanitarian and relief organizations, affected populations with critical and affected populations, when information such as legal options communications are disrupted by a crisis. and asylum-seeking procedures GRI 203-2, 413-1 csr.cisco.com feedback 82 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Building Digital Skills Strategic Social Human Rights Responsible Sourcing and Entrepreneurship Investments and Manufacturing Social investment focus area: Educational opportunity We are committed to building a digital foundation to improve education in our society. Programs in our education investment portfolio are designed to: • Expand reach • Improve outcomes • Increase student engagement in STEM • Improve the professional development of teachers worldwide In addition to our Networking Academy® program, our education investment portfolio supports the creation and deployment of innovative technologyenabled education delivery models. The focus is to improve both teaching and learning using Internet technology and digitization. Table 3. Social investment focus area: educational opportunity Partner Situation Investment Impact New Teacher Center (NTC)’s mission is to • 1.5 million new teachers entering U.S. •F  unding support and product donations •N TC has grown to serve 14,000 teachers improve student learning by accelerating the classrooms in next decade since 2009 • 1.8 million students impacted across effectiveness of new teachers, experienced • New teachers often placed in challenging • Enabled NTC to create Formative 500 U.S. school districts in FY18 teachers, and school leaders. NTC works classrooms and districts, leading to attrition Assessment System, an online platform • NTC’s approach leads to 31 percent with school districts to select and train • Teacher quality is important school-based allowing mentors and coaches to gather increase in teacher retention exemplary teachers to provide mentorship factor affecting student achievement data connecting teacher performance • Five additional months of student learning to beginning teachers. These mentors and student learning spend 10 days per year in face-to-face •S  upported creation of Learning Zone, training sessions and participate in weekly an online mentoring platform allowing forums to continue their own skill building. NTC to extend its programs’ reach Science Buddies dedicates itself to helping •S  tudents face unequal access to •C  ash grants and product donations •D oubled reach to approximately 18 million students from all backgrounds build literacy resources to build their STEM literacy • Supported STEM-related content targeting students between FY11 and FY18 in science and technology so they can • Homework assignments such as science girls and underserved populations •5 4 percent of student users were female, become productive, engaged 21st-century fair projects present challenges for • Helped launch Topic Selection Wizard, an based on FY18 reporting citizens. The organization creates low-income students online tool that helps students identify •3 8 percent were from underrepresented cost-effective resources, available online, • Evolving school curricula requires teachers low-cost science project ideas ethnic groups that students and teachers can use to to continually update lesson plans • Recent grant will help Science Buddies •4 9,000 teachers registered on platform explore their interests in science. build curriculum aligned with Next Generation Science Standards GRI 203-2, 413-1 csr.cisco.com feedback 83 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Building Digital Skills Strategic Social Human Rights Responsible Sourcing and Entrepreneurship Investments and Manufacturing Social investment focus area: Economic empowerment Our economic empowerment programs connect underserved people to skills, meaningful employment, financial products and services, and opportunities they need to thrive and develop careers in the digital economy. Our investments have also helped people open savings accounts and secure loans to start small businesses. Table 4. Social investment focus area: economic empowerment Partner Situation Investment Impact Living Goods empowers a network of • Millions of children die every year due to • Initial early-stage support to help Living •6  million people reached in FY18 women, known as Community Health lack of access to affordable health Goods design a mobile technology • Child mortality reduced by 27 percent Promoters (CHPs), to improve the health products platform and refine the platform and at an average cost of just $2 per person of families in their communities by • Challenges in health sector in emerging apps based on feedback per year distributing essential goods and health economies: • Current multiyear partnership to enable • Goal to reach 25 million people via 34K education to those who need them, all Keeping vital medicines in stock Living Goods to: CHPs across four countries by 2021 enabled by mobile technology. CHPs Compensating and retaining community – Use digitization to better recruit CHPs focus on areas that precipitate the majority health workers – Reach more people of child deaths but can be addressed – Optimize business operations at a low cost: complications from malaria, – Use predictive algorithms to tailor diarrhea, and pneumonia. They also provide interventions to emerging health risks preand post-natal health education and – Track performance and impact services. CHPs earn a living from the products they sell, thus providing an important source of income to better meet their families’ needs. Opportunity International (OI) is a global • 1 in 3 people worldwide does not have • Initial early-stage support to help OI •1  1 million people gained access to nonprofit that offers financial products, access to a bank account develop and test mobile banking products financial services services, and training to help people transform • However, a majority of these individuals •C  urrent multiyear support including cash • 2 million jobs created their lives and participate in their local have access to a mobile phone grants, donations of Cisco technology, and • Goal of creating 3 million jobs and economies. OI provides cost-effective and • Mobile financial services allow people to expertise to enable OI to: positively impacting 20 million people easy-to-use banking services in remote access financial products and services and – Improve efficiency in business operations by 2020 areas, including mobile banking, ATMs, contribute to economic growth – Scale to connect more people to vans, point-of-sale devices, and satellite financial services branches. Their clients are primarily poor – Design and offer new digital financial women, farmers, and rural youth who, thanks products and services to OI, achieve increases in productivity – Better target specific client populations and incomes, allowing them to invest in (for example, women, elderly, ultra-poor) education, food, housing, health, and – Enhance impact evaluation small businesses. GRI 203-2, 413-1 csr.cisco.com feedback 84 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Building Digital Skills Strategic Social Human Rights Responsible Sourcing and Entrepreneurship Investments and Manufacturing Human rights Technology is advancing more rapidly than ever before, opening up new opportunities for communication and innovation. With those opportunities, however, come increased risks of technology being used for discrimination, misinformation, and bias. As people and businesses use and share increasing amounts of information across a growing number of platforms, the freedom of individuals to disclose—or conceal— personal information with whomever they choose is under threat. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 412-2 csr.cisco.com feedback 85 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Building Digital Skills Strategic Social Human Rights Responsible Sourcing and Entrepreneurship Investments and Manufacturing This reality has profound implications both for Cisco’s business and for our A critical aspect of our approach is the evolving customers. We can best reconcile the opportunities and challenges of the digital intersection of human rights with a variety of age by being proactive and vigilant regarding potential risks and misuses of our disruptive technologies shaping our future. During Disruptive technologies products, technology, and solutions. FY18, we partnered with BSR, a global nonprofit and human rights organization, to review the landscape of Industry norms and policies for managing emerging issues related to digital In partnership with BSR, Cisco disruptive technologies relevant to Cisco and the rights and human rights are still being established. It is critical for Cisco to be developed position statements impact they have on human rights as diverse as part of the dialogue surrounding these issues. We seek a future in which people on the following issues: nondiscrimination, privacy, freedom of expression, are served by technology, and not the reverse. This means we are increasingly child rights, and access to public services. With • Encryption integrating human rights and ethics-based decision-making into all aspects of input from senior leaders in Cisco’s Security and • Data Localization and our work. As new frameworks emerge, Cisco is committed to serving as the Trust organization, and members of Cisco business Sovereignty digital foundation for keeping data up to date, private, and secure across the functions including IoT, collaboration, engineering, • Surveillance by Governments network, in the cloud, within IoT solutions, and anywhere else it may exist. government affairs, legal, and privacy, we • Internet of Things developed a series of position statements to • Big Data Analytics express Cisco’s point of view on human rights • Artificial Intelligence Managing human rights issues arising from these disruptive technologies. Human rights position statements Several of these issues, such as encryption and Respect for human rights is a cornerstone of how Cisco conducts business. Our localization, have direct implications for data human rights program extends across the full Cisco value chain. This includes: security. Cisco’s full position statements on each issue are available. • Advocating, upholding, and defending freedom of expression These position statements will help us set priorities and inform ongoing work •P  rotecting the right to data privacy and security through participation in Internet such as product development, sales, employee training, policy, and advocacy. governance and global product standards organizations The statements are a foundation for a more holistic approach to human rights that considers the entire value chain of our products and solutions from design • Designing privacy into our products, services, and processes to application. As disruptive technologies continue to evolve in new and • Being an inclusive employer that respects diversity unpredictable ways, we will continually evaluate how we implement our human rights principles, conduct business, and address risks and opportunities in a •R  especting the working conditions, welfare, and human rights of workers collaborative, transparent, and ethical manner. in our supply chain “Cisco strongly supports free expression and open Policy and governance Protecting human rights, including digital rights, begins within our business. communication on the Internet. We are proud to have Human rights issues are overseen at the highest levels within Cisco, and we played a leading role in helping to make Internet offer training to keep employees current on issues at the intersection of human rights and technology. technology ubiquitous, allowing billions of people Our Human Rights Policy, which we have maintained since 2012, is informed by in nearly every nation around the world to access international human rights frameworks, including: information previously unavailable or inaccessible.” • The Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) Mark Chandler, • The 8 International Labour Organization (ILO) Core Standards Executive Vice President, • The UN Global Compact General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 412-2 csr.cisco.com feedback 86 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Building Digital Skills Strategic Social Human Rights Responsible Sourcing and Entrepreneurship Investments and Manufacturing The policy reflects our Employee training and awareness commitment to apply the UN To help our employees understand the relationship between technology and Guiding Principles on Business human rights, we require all employees who work in business functions most and Human Rights, which likely to have direct engagement with human-rights-related business decisions, clarify the relationship such as our, sales, services, and supply chain teams, to undergo training. This between the state’s duty to training empowers employees to incorporate human rights and data privacy protect human rights and the considerations beginning with the earliest stages of the product design, sales, corporate responsibility to and data life cycle. We offer this training biannually to full-time employees and respect human rights. to new employees as they join. As of FY18, 97 percent of required employees We use a formal, companycompleted this training. In FY19, we will launch new training, updated to wide governance structure to encompass the latest developments in technology. implement our commitment to We also offer a range of training and awareness programs specific to data human rights. Mark Chandler, security and privacy. Data privacy and security are included in our Code of Executive Vice President, Business Conduct and required trainings, and resources are available to all our General Counsel and Chief employees and contractors. Approximately one-third of Cisco employees are Compliance Officer, is the certified in the Security Ninja training program, an application security program executive sponsor of human covering information security, data protection and privacy policies, secure rights at Cisco. Our Human development, and value chain security. Rights Working Group (HRWG) includes experts from across the global business, including supply chain, security and privacy, inclusion and collaboration, government affairs, community relations, marketing and communications, investor relations, Figure 31. Data security & privacy and corporate affairs. Security and privacy The HRWG proactively identifies and responds to the by design company’s most significant human rights risks, opportunities, Ethical conduct Securing the cloud and impacts across our business operations, products, sales and services, and supply chain. According to HRWG’s charter, Data security Compliance Non-discrimination, diversity, the group’s purpose is to: & privacy Providing transparency and inclusion •B  e a place where external stakeholder perspectives are fed Code of Business Conduct Promoting security back into the company for review and consideration Global anti-corruption awareness • Inform our human rights strategy and track progress on an policies ongoing basis Ethical sourcing Digital rights •A  ct as champions for human rights in their respective Supplier Code of Conduct Ethical Digital Freedom of expression functions and with external stakeholders Employee wellness, health, conduct rights and privacy and safety Global product standards •R  eview and inform our human rights policy Multi-stakeholder internet •C  ommunicate our progress via the annual CSR Report, governance stakeholder engagement, and the Cisco Audit Committee as needed Policy advocacy for a free and global internet GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 412-2 csr.cisco.com feedback 87 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Building Digital Skills Strategic Social Human Rights Responsible Sourcing and Entrepreneurship Investments and Manufacturing Phishing for safety 200,000 safety tasks completed Many security threats originate from “phishing” emails, which are designed to trick users into revealing personal information. We test and raise Beyond dedicated training programs, a crossto access personal information or to conduct awareness of phishing techniques by sending internal test phishing functional education and awareness team works illegal surveillance. This knowledge strengthens emails to our employees. with our subject matter experts to cascade and our commitment to ensuring our products and integrate new security and data privacy practices solutions are secure from the start. We partner 1. Email employees at varying intervals. In FY18, we focused our efforts throughout the company. This team hosted with other technology providers in the service on high-risk employees, including new and early-in-career employees, and people who handle system administration tasks that give them informational sessions in 2018 that reached provider, data center, enterprise, cloud, and access to global permissions for other users. hundreds of global workers. For the past IoT market sectors to support customers’ 10 years, Cisco has held a series of internal digital rights, data privacy, and security needs. 2. Include suspicious hyperlinks or attachments. If employees click or security conferences around the globe where open attachments, they are taken to online educational content sales, marketing, services, and engineering explaining how phishing works. Security and privacy by design experts strengthen our security community 3. Track and follow up. We monitor which employees fall for phishing tricks, by presenting to each other on their areas of Increased connectivity means increased and follow up with subsequent email messages to test whether their complexity. We build security into every level expertise. We also promote training and cybersecurity knowledge improves after reading educational content. of our solutions and services, creating a awareness through our corporate internal website, as well as digital signage and posters. chain of trust in systems and their individual components. Our Secure Development Lifecycle The Keep Cisco Safe program is a collection of (SDL) process has been in place for more than online activities available to all Cisco employees. 10 years. Compliant with ISO 27034, the SDL It uses gamification techniques to educate provides a solid foundation to address constantly Figure 32. employees on data protection, data privacy, evolving security threats. By embedding and security tasks and policies. Training includes privacy engineering into the SDL, we Security at Cisco actions employees can take to build safe enable greater fairness, accountability, and practices into both their work and home lives. 31,651 transparency in how our products, services, employees certified in the 92 dedicated Incident Providing secure products and solutions process personal information. We also give our customers and end users the necessary controls to manage their Security Ninja Program Responders around the globe and solutions privacy obligations. 292 The disruptive technologies shaping our We adhere to global specifications for our 65,855 future are highly relevant across Cisco’s Information Security Management System 45 value chain, including through the use of our (ISMS), achieving ISO 27001 certification Security internal test phishing products, services, and technologies by our across our entire services business. This Advocates emails sent last year customers. Cisco is the leader in securing certification means our security policies and across Penetration the connections, platforms, people, and procedures have been independently verified, multiple functions Testers dedicated applications where data is processed. We giving our customers peace of mind that we to attacking are aware our products could potentially be are protecting their data. Cisco’s products used to compromise human rights, such as and solutions GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 416-1 csr.cisco.com feedback 88 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Building Digital Skills Strategic Social Human Rights Responsible Sourcing and Entrepreneurship Investments and Manufacturing Moving forward, we will continue to take a Creating secure networks “human rights by design” approach to disruptive Data security involves not just the design of products, but the interconnections technologies such as Artificial Intelligence (AI), of complex networks, including those based in the cloud. Security informs the machine learning, and IoT by assessing the entire value chain, from design, production, operations, and use to end-of-life. potential human rights risks and opportunities Through our Value Chain Security Program, we manage security risk from start of new products and reviewing the long-term to finish—whether the impact is technical, operational, or human. Our Trust impacts of existing products. As with all Anchor and Secure Boot technologies validate our software and check that innovative efforts, we will raise awareness code is authentic and unmodified, while products such as Cisco Umbrella with best practices and guidance on how to secures user data and applications in the cloud. integrate human rights considerations into the product and service design, development, Cisco is further enhancing network security with our Network Intuitive, intentFigure 33. and operational processes. based networking that uses machine learning to recognize intent and mitigate security threats. The Network Intuitive constantly learns, adapts, automates, Time needed Our engineers design products and services in ways that avoid vulnerabilities, and then test and protects to optimize the network and defend against threats. Customers to detect a them to proactively identify security issues can detect threats in encrypted traffic, creating security while maintaining data privacy. With the Network Intuitive, we continue our focus in the areas of cloud before attackers might. Penetration testers security breach uncover vulnerabilities so we can resolve them and IoT via research, acquisition, and innovation. 4.6 hours before anyone else can exploit them. When we learn of a security vulnerability in a product or service, we respond by validating it, fixing it, Cisco average and informing our customers. Cisco does not work with any government, including the U.S. government, to weaken our products. If a 197 days industry average customer’s security has been impacted by external forces, we react the same way, regardless of the origin of the security breach. We offer customers robust tools to defend their environments against attack—and to detect A growing security portfolio attacks when they are happening. Every six months, Cisco publicly releases a Transparency Report regarding requests or demands for customer data we In FY18, Cisco announced our intent to acquire Duo receive from law enforcement and national security agencies around the world. Security, the leading provider of unified access security Talos, our industry-leading threat intelligence team, collects information about and multifactor authentication delivered through the cloud. existing and developing threats, reviewing 1.7 million malware samples per day. Duo helps protect organizations against cyber breaches by All Cisco security products use Talos threat intelligence, providing fast and making security easy and effective based on the effective security solutions. Our own Computer Security Incident Response trustworthiness of users and devices. The Duo cloudTeam (CSIRT) constantly monitors network and attack traffic for security based software solution verifies the identity of users and incidents within Cisco. In FY18, Cisco did not have any data breaches that the health of their devices before granting them access to caused cognizable harm or resulted in legal/regulatory action. applications—helping users more easily and securely connect to any application on any networked device. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 416-2 csr.cisco.com feedback 89 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Building Digital Skills Strategic Social Human Rights Responsible Sourcing and Entrepreneurship Investments and Manufacturing Engaging on important issues •E ngaging on issues specific to data privacy by supporting Common Criteria, Online Privacy Alliance, the EU/Swiss-US Privacy Shield, and the APEC Cross The issues we face related to data privacy Border Privacy Rules system. We also collaborate with security and privacy and human rights are complex and organizations including the Cloud Security Alliance, Health Information Trust multifaceted—and, often, misunderstood. Alliance, National Cyber Security Alliance, Payment Card Industry Board of Yet the stakes couldn’t be higher. Cisco is Advisors, and International Association of Privacy Professionals. committed to meeting and exceeding new regulations regarding data privacy and •M eeting with analysts, investors, and customers to inform them of our security, and helping our peers, customers, approach to human rights and address their questions. and members of the public do the same. •P articipating in and leading industry events When we are all better informed on these such as the annual international Data Privacy critical issues, we are all better off. Day in January and Cybersecurity Awareness Cisco ready for General Month in October. We also share information Data Protection Regulation Industry collaboration and tools to help organizations respond to (GDPR) data breaches and incidents on our website, Cisco is working to grow the community of blogs, and the Privacy Sigma Riders podcast. The much-anticipated General organizations that promote and defend human rights through a free and open •P articipating in the BSR Working Group on Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) Internet. We are becoming increasingly Human Rights, a forum for companies from all went into effect in 2018. Cisco used vocal in policy, diplomatic, and standardsindustries to share ideas and exchange best the new legal obligations of GDPR setting channels about our support for open practices. We work closely with BSR to as an opportunity to increase our and global product standards, and we continually improve our human rights program. thought leadership on data privacy participate in multistakeholder approaches and protection. We used the May 25, to Internet governance. 2018 enforcement date for GDPR Responding to European to raise awareness of data privacy Cisco regularly collaborates with stakeholders on human rights issues to measure data privacy regulations as a business opportunity and the ongoing effectiveness of our work and gauge expectations. Collaborations As a global organization, Cisco may transfer explain what’s next for businesses include the following: customer information from one country to a on their data privacy journeys •A dvocating for legislation promoting stronger digital security and privacy. Cisco subsidiary, third party, or business partner beyond GDPR. We were an early Cisco joined other leading technology companies in FY18 in publishing in another part of the world. We safeguard adopter of GDPR through the amicus briefs calling for greater controls on government demands for data and enable the global transfer of information Cisco Data Protection Program, managed by third parties. in a number of ways. In Europe, the Binding and developed a suite of resources Corporate Rules (BCRs) protect the data privacy, to help others prepare for the new •P articipating in the Internet Engineering Task Force, the Internet Governance fundamental rights, and freedoms of individuals regulation, including: Forum, Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers Standards Association, for transfers of personal information protected the International Telecommunications Union, the World Wide Web Consortium, •C  isco’s View on GDPR under European law. Cisco has received and other groups. •G  DPR Readiness Infographic approval of our BCRs by the Dutch, Polish, •G  DPR Blog Posts •D riving ethical sourcing practices as a member of the Responsible Spanish, and other relevant European data •U  nderstanding GDPR Video Series Business Alliance. privacy regulators. Supporting the BCRs, our •C  isco Data Protection and Privacy new Global Personal Data Protection and Privacy •S upporting the principles of the Global Network Initiative (GNI), which apply Policy outlines Cisco’s commitment to personal to operators of public Internet access networks, and include them in our data and privacy, and the principles governing contracts and processes where applicable. this commitment. GRI 102-12, 102-13 csr.cisco.com feedback 90 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Building Digital Skills Strategic Social Human Rights Responsible Sourcing and Entrepreneurship Investments and Manufacturing Industry and user awareness We believe when it comes to data privacy, knowledge is power. Through clear and transparent communications and training, we can help our customers and other users comply with emerging regulations, take control of their personal data, and play a more active role to prevent breaches and improper use. Cisco’s Trust Center provides straightforward information to help our customers and others manage data security and privacy. Our security advisories and alerts report threat outbreaks and vulnerability activities. We also share information and research about cybersecurity and threats through the Cisco Security blog. In FY18, we introduced Privacy Data Sheets to share more information about how Cisco is responding to global regulations and customer requirements. Privacy data sheets describe how personal data or personally identifiable information is processed by specific Cisco solutions. In addition, we regularly publish infographics on topics ranging from how customer data privacy concerns impact sales to how to prevent phishing attacks. Cisco also produces the Privacy Sigma Riders podcast, which explores the intersections between cybersecurity, data protection, and data privacy. The podcast is hosted by Cisco Chief Privacy Officer Michelle Dennedy, one of the “At Cisco, we remain focused on world’s foremost experts on data privacy, in conversation with guest experts the security, trust, privacy, and and innovators. We highlighted the business value of good data privacy with the Cisco 2018 resilience of our customers, and Privacy Maturity Benchmark Study, created in conjunction with Cisco’s Annual that means securing their data Cybersecurity Benchmark Study. This survey was completed by thousands of security professionals across the world and across industries, and revealed the and that of our employees.” financial benefits of good data privacy processes, including shorter delays in Michelle Dennedy, sales cycles. We also leveraged Cisco’s sponsorship and participation in the National Cybersecurity Alliance’s Data Privacy Day to share practical tips on Vice President and keeping information secure. Internally, we updated our policies to meet or Chief Privacy Officer exceed the GDPR requirements and added more global data protection officers to our ranks. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 412-2 csr.cisco.com feedback 91 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Building Digital Skills Strategic Social Human Rights Responsible Sourcing and Entrepreneurship Investments and Manufacturing Responsible sourcing and manufacturing Cisco’s sourcing and manufacturing are entirely outsourced to a global network of hundreds of suppliers and partners. These suppliers provide the parts that go into our products; assemble and test finished products; provide logistical services; and collect, refurbish, and recycle products at the end of their useful life. csr.cisco.com feedback 92 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Building Digital Skills Strategic Social Human Rights Responsible Sourcing and Entrepreneurship Investments and Manufacturing Supplier relationships The complexity of our supply chain means that relationships with our suppliers and insights into our supply chain operations are critically important to our business success and impact. As an extension of our own workforce Cisco named to Gartner and operations, it is not surprising that many of the same challenges and Supply Chain Top 25 opportunities we face as a business extend to our supply chain. For example, In Gartner’s 2018 ranking of the Top 25 Global Supply circular economy principles present a major opportunity for us to make better Chains, Cisco scored at the top of the list, moving from use of resources throughout our value chain. The application of these principles the #4 to #3 spot. Gartner’s Top 25 rating is based on considers issues such as designing products for recycling and repair, using several factors, including financial and CSR performance. recycled materials, ensuring product takeback is safe and secure, and working We were recognized for our commitment to the circular across our industry to increase acceptance of refurbished products. economy, as well as support for Cisco’s business model As we incorporate these considerations into our business, we must ensure our transition, focus on workforce strategy, and commitment suppliers have the technological capabilities to adapt them. And our suppliers’ to security. employees—our extended workforce—must be equipped with the skills to succeed in the factories of the future. Cisco is helping our suppliers make this transition while promoting greater diversity among our supply base and protecting human rights. We believe technology is the bridge that can help us resolve both resource and capabilities divides. Through digitization, we continue to automate processes for greater efficiency, quality, cost savings, and more sustainable business practices. “Moving from #4 to #3 in Gartner’s Top 25 Supply Chains list was a solid accomplishment. I am proud of our team for everything we have achieved throughout this past year, but I am even more proud that we have been represented on the list for more than a decade. I think that speaks to the way we run our supply chain, and how we are focused on consistent execution so that the foundational elements of our supply chain are operating optimally.” John Kern, Senior Vice President, Supply Chain Operations csr.cisco.com feedback 93 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Building Digital Skills Strategic Social Human Rights Responsible Sourcing and Entrepreneurship Investments and Manufacturing Figure 34. Cisco Supply Chain logistics hubs manufacturing sites global repair sites 14 Component suppliers 104,000+ 38,000+ A large group of suppliers contracted to provide parts to our manufacturing partners according to our specifications components orderable items Manufacturing partners countries A select group of suppliers that produce 2,200+ orders daily 385,000+ items shipped daily finished Cisco products Logistics service providers Suppliers who transport components and finished products 44 527,000+ 500+ Software suppliers Suppliers who support non-hardware-oriented units repaired suppliers products and services as Cisco’s business model evolves locations 60,000+ extended workforce 20,000+ virtual teams Repair Partners Suppliers who operate repair sites and complete service repairs. GRI 102-9, 103-1 csr.cisco.com feedback 94 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Building Digital Skills Strategic Social Human Rights Responsible Sourcing and Entrepreneurship Investments and Manufacturing Figure 35. Supplier engagement Supplier engagement process Cisco’s commitment to promote and foster a culture of integrity extends to our for a more resilient and responsible supply chain supply chain. Our Supplier Ethics Policy details how suppliers must conduct business as part of the Cisco ecosystem, including Cisco’s policy on matters such as insider trading, lobbying, and protection of intellectual property. A foundational element of our Supplier Ethics Policy is the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) (formerly Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition) Supplier Code of Conduct (the Code). The Code sets baseline expectations in the areas of labor, 4 1 health and safety, environment, ethics and management systems. The RBA updates its own code every 3 years to stay current with ever-changing Capability building Risk assessment expectations. When a new RBA Code of Conduct is released, we notify all We offer training and continuous We evaluate the supply base improvement to help suppliers on social and environmental risk factors, relevant suppliers of the change. To meet the requirements of RBA membership, better align with our values. Cisco’s exposure to those risks, and we also follow RBA’s process for supplier engagement. the inherent risks from operations and production. Scorecards Ethics and standards We use scorecards to drive accountability Our Supplier Ethics Policy requires Cisco suppliers and their employees to conduct throughout the engagement themselves with the highest standards of honesty, fairness, and personal integrity. 3 process. 2 As part of the supplier qualification process, suppliers must acknowledge that subcontractors, and any other parties they engage to provide services to Cisco, Corrective Audit will act in accordance with the Supplier Ethics Policy. We also require our action plans We audit high risk suppliers based on RBA’s Validated suppliers’ suppliers to adhere to the supplier code of conduct. We review and approve Assessment Program to assess supplier corrective action plans and monitor their their conformance to our progress until closure. Code of Conduct. Data analytics We use data to inform our strategy and supplier capability-building, and will expand this approach in FY19. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 csr.cisco.com feedback 95 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Building Digital Skills Strategic Social Human Rights Responsible Sourcing and Entrepreneurship Investments and Manufacturing Human rights in Supply chain human our supply chain Cisco expectations rights priority areas Respecting human rights in our supply of suppliers chain is an expectation of our customers, •F  reely chosen employment employees, and other stakeholders, and a •Y  oung workers and child labor means by which we reflect our corporate Our latest supplier expectations include: •P  ollution prevention and values. Cisco conducted the first Human hazardous materials Rights Impact Assessment (HRIA) of our • Comply with Cisco’s Supplier Code of Conduct •E  thical sourcing of raw materials supply chain in FY17. The goal of this •W  omen’s empowerment • Ensure a conflict-free supply chain assessment was to identify impacts and •P  romoting reskilling for the future opportunities, determine how they can be • Partner on Cisco’s Circular Economy objectives and circular of work managed, and understand how we perform design principles against the UN Guiding Principles (UNGPs) • Meet materials compliance requirements as detailed in the on Business and Human Rights. Cisco Controlled Substances Specification The study concluded our current supply chain • Manage subtier performance improvements, including conducting assessment and audit process identifies actual site audits of high-risk supplier facilities and reporting supplier diversity efforts within their own supply chains and potential human rights impacts with a high degree of thoroughness and conforms to a • Set sustainability targets via CDP and report publicly on how they majority of the expectations of the UNGPs. The manage their most significant impacts assessment informed the 3-year roadmap for • Participate as a full member of RBA, including sharing audit our priority areas (see sidebar). We recognize reports via the RBA-ONLINE database these issues are constantly evolving but also • Proactively mitigate business continuity risks systemic, and will require several years of focus to address. Learn how Cisco respects • Comply with the Master Security Specification human rights within our business and for • Engage with stakeholders and analysts with respect to rankings our customers. and research inquiries Another important step in identifying and • Use technology and worker interviews to gather real-time respecting the rights of the most vulnerable insights of factory audit data to identify code-related training workers in our supply chain is conducting and improvement opportunities audits. Our supply chain auditing process is discussed in detail here. GRI 103-2 csr.cisco.com feedback 96 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Building Digital Skills Strategic Social Human Rights Responsible Sourcing and Entrepreneurship Investments and Manufacturing Responsible minerals sourcing Cisco does not buy 3TG directly from smelters or refiners. Therefore, we must collaborate Our products and components use a wide variety of materials, including tantalum, with our suppliers to conduct our due diligence To request a CMRT tin, tungsten, and gold (3TG), which are often referred to as conflict minerals. We for responsible mineral sourcing. We survey report from Cisco, are committed to sourcing all raw materials ethically, which aligns with our values our suppliers using the RMI’s Conflict Minerals please send an email to and helps us to meet the expectations and requirements of our customers, Reporting Template (CMRT), review the responsibleminerals@ government regulators, and other stakeholders. Yet responsible sourcing of smelters they report, and request them to work minerals is a global issue, and one we cannot solve alone. To maximize our cisco.com and include through their supply chains to shift sourcing to impact, we work closely with the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI; formerly the smelters conformant with RMAP. Suppliers’ your company name Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative) to drive crossconformance to these requirements is included and contact information. industry engagement and solutions on the ethical in supplier scorecards created for our central sourcing of raw materials. Cisco’s commitments sourcing teams to help drive more educated are captured in our Conflict Minerals Policy. decision-making and improve performance. In 2017, 84 percent of the identified smelters As a contributor to RMI’s blockchain working group, we are exploring opportunities and refiners of 3TG in our supply chain for to leverage blockchain technology to provide enhanced transparency and trust current products on the market had been audited into provenance data from mines through smelters and refiners. In addition, we by or were active in the Responsible Minerals are currently leading a pilot with one of the top gold producers and another Assurance Process (RMAP), which assesses leading technology company to test future industry standards, key assumptions, smelters’ management systems for responsible and process digitization, and plan to share the results with the RMI working mineral sourcing. For more information, see group. Results of the study may also inform the use of blockchain within Cisco’s Table 5 supply chain more broadly. Table 5: Smelters and Refiners Active in Responsible Materials Assurance Process (RMAP)1 Previous percentage Number conformant Current percentage Total smelters or refiners, by validated or active 2016 or active 2017 conformant or active 2017 conflict mineral 2017 Gold 75% 107 73% 146 Tantalum 100% 41 98% 42 Tin 91% 72 91% 79 Tungsten 91% 43 93% 46 1 The most recent assessment of smelters and refiners active in RMAP was conducted in 2017. GRI 103-2 csr.cisco.com feedback 97 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Building Digital Skills Strategic Social Human Rights Responsible Sourcing and Entrepreneurship Investments and Manufacturing Supplier awards We incentivize suppliers through two annual awards. The Excellence in Sustainability Supplier Award and Excellence in Supplier Diversity Award recognize exceptional performance by our supply chain partners and acknowledge mutual achievements. The Excellence in Sustainability Supplier Award recognizes the suppliers and partners that have distinguished themselves as visionaries and collaborators in the social and environmental sustainability space. The 2018 winner, DW Morgan has digitized and fully optimized its shipping routes, and engages proactively on logistics-related projects. Cisco and DW Morgan partnered on an initiative to introduce reusable pallet coverings, which prevented 125,250 pounds of plastic stretch-wrap from reaching landfills in 1 year. The Excellence in Supplier Diversity award recognizes certified diverse suppliers that have demonstrated exemplary performance through outstanding quality, value, and service to Cisco, and exhibit a leading commitment to advancing their own supplier diversity and inclusion initiatives. The most recent winner is Trans-Expedite, a womanowned minority business certified with the Women’s Business Enterprise National Council. Trans-Expedite is exemplary in their contribution to the local community through job creation and stimulation of purchasing power. Top photo (left to right): Jeff Gallinat (Cisco), Lisa Brady (Cisco), John Hoyt (DW Morgan) and Jeff Purnell (Cisco) Photo at right: (left to right): Jeff Gallinat (Cisco), Rick Moya (Trans-Expedite), Mike Strohacker (Trans-Expedite) Lisa Brady (Cisco), and Jeff Purnell (Cisco) csr.cisco.com feedback 98 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Building Digital Skills Strategic Social Human Rights Responsible Sourcing and Entrepreneurship Investments and Manufacturing Supplier assessments and screening We continue to integrate social and environmental responsibility into our relationships with and our assessment of suppliers in several ways. Cisco’s To drive improvements across our industry, we believe it is imperative not only Supply Chain Sustainability Team works to embed supplier responsibility to continually evaluate our suppliers, but also to help all companies in our metrics into operating practices across supply chain functions. We also supply chain progress through leadership, support, and education. We do this consider supplier responsibility when evaluating and onboarding new through self-assessments, audits, and corrective action plans, including suppliers and during key stages of strategic planning, risk management, capability-building. and performance evaluation. Self-assessments Audits We require key suppliers to complete an annual self-assessment questionnaire. Cisco’s comprehensive supplier auditing program, based on the RBA’s Validated We then undertake a second risk-based assessment of all suppliers, which Audit Process (VAP), helps suppliers build capacity and improve their performance. considers factors such as geographical criteria, regional audit performance, Every 2 years, we commit to auditing 25 percent of suppliers who are deemed product type, workforce data, and sourcing strategy. high risk, including manufacturing facilities and component suppliers. We prioritize Active participation in the self-assessment process is positively reflected in high-risk supplier facilities for site audits using the risk assessment tool described each supplier’s scorecard. We also use scorecards to assess key suppliers’ here. Auditors use the RBA’s standard protocols and audit tools to review performance at least once per year as part of our regular business reviews. documentation, conduct site tours, and assess how suppliers monitor their Supplier responsibility represents between 5 and 10 percent of a supplier’s own suppliers. We share our audit findings with other RBA member companies total score. Scorecard criteria are tailored to each type of supplier. To help through the RBA-ONLINE platform. RBA audits are valid for 2 years. suppliers see the bigger picture of what we want to accomplish, we require During the year, 60 supplier facilities were covered through RBA audits. Of these, greater sharing of supplier responsibility and risk mitigation efforts. The 47 were audits of component supplier facilities and 13 were of our contract sustainability portion of the scorecard includes: manufacturing partners. The percentage of audit elements resulting in a finding • Annual RBA Self-Assessment Questionnaire and Validated Audit Program (VAP) was 9.5 percent compared to 11.7 percent in FY17. This decrease is attributable audit sharing through the RBA-ONLINE database to the fact many Tier 1 factories were re-audited in FY18, and re-audits typically produce fewer findings for these mature facilities. • Conflict minerals due diligence disclosure • GHG reporting through the CDP with emissions reduction targets and third-party validated response • Engagement with next-tier suppliers on supply chain emissions reduction •A  cknowledgement of the Cisco Controlled Substances Specification, including compliance with environmental regulations such as the European Union (EU) Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) Directive •A  cknowledgment of the Cisco Packaging Specification for electronic manufacturing service and original design manufacturer suppliers GRI 103-3 csr.cisco.com feedback 99 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Building Digital Skills Strategic Social Human Rights Responsible Sourcing and Entrepreneurship Investments and Manufacturing Key suppliers use the RBA-ONLINE audit sharing database, which allows us to focus more resources on assessing and improving the working conditions of higher-risk suppliers or suppliers in lower tiers in the supply chain. Using the RBA’s standard Validated Assessment Process (VAP) allows suppliers to make better use of their resources as well. VAP assessments are completed by independent third-party auditors who are specifically trained in social and environmental auditing. Once an audit is complete, it can be shared online with multiple customers, giving suppliers more time to spend addressing any issues. Our internal risk assessment framework exceeds industry guidelines, going beyond traditional self-assessments to use a combination of publicly available indices, geographic information, and past audit findings to assess unique risks. For example, certain commodities or regions may have a higher likelihood of a specific Code violation. This, in turn, enables us to understand regional variations in risks and better deploy targeted capacity-building. While labor practices and health and safety standards make up the largest portion of our audit findings, environmental findings in our suppliers’ factories are a key dimension of the Supplier Code of Conduct and are included in our audits. Table 6. Distribution of Audits by Supplier Type FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 Manufacturing partner facilities 22 12 17 18 4 13 Component supplier facilities 30 22 29 37 49 47 Total 52 34 46 55 53 60 Mitigating environmental Corrective action plans risk in China Our goal is to help our suppliers and the electronics industry build their capacity and increase In recent years, the Chinese government has strengthened compliance with international standards. However, when standards are consistently not met, we its environmental legal system as well as environmental law may discontinue a supplier relationship. To help support suppliers in making improvements and enforcement, forcing many Chinese businesses to reduce addressing specific audit findings, we direct them to use the RBA Learning Academy. Internally, we capacity, relocate, or even close to meet new regulations. provide supplier-facing employees around the globe with training on Supplier Code of Conduct In response, Cisco has found ways to predict and mitigate fundamentals and guidance on how to embed responsible business practices into their roles. the potential risk to our suppliers and Cisco supply chain operation in mainland China. We use a database platform from the Institute of Public and Environmental Affairs, a Chinese NGO, to identify the existing and historical environmental issues for our suppliers in mainland China. Cisco is working closely with these suppliers to remediate existing issues and make sure they comply with the local environmental law; we also encourage our manufacturing partners to work with their downstream suppliers to build up a green supply chain using our sourcing power. GRI 103-3 csr.cisco.com feedback 100 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Building Digital Skills Strategic Social Human Rights Responsible Sourcing and Entrepreneurship Investments and Manufacturing Figure 36. Helping suppliers improve 30 Cisco uses audits to Suppliers produce Suppliers must address For issues such as the Cisco works closely identify potential corrective action plans priority issues within 30 monitoring of working with suppliers until problems. and evidence that they days and all other hours, suppliers provide performance improves. have implemented findings within long-term improvement We conduct follow-up their plans. 180 days. plans. audits if needed. 100%of priority and major findings in FY18 were downgraded or closed within the RBAprescribed timeframe1 1 E  xcludes some working hours findings and other findings that require long-term improvement plans csr.cisco.com feedback 101 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Building Digital Skills Strategic Social Human Rights Responsible Sourcing and Entrepreneurship Investments and Manufacturing Table 7. Categorization of Audit Findings in FY18 Percent of Total Findings Findings Findings Total number audit elements component Total contract identified identified identified of audit resulting in suppliers manufacturers as priority as major as minor elements findings Labor 16 125 98 1640 14.57% Freely chosen employment 23 6 3 19 7 Young workers 6 3 2 4 3 Working hours 105 36 9 65 67 Wages and benefits 20 17 0 26 11 Humane treatment 0 2 1 0 1 Nondiscrimination 11 2 1 6 6 Freedom of association 7 1 0 5 3 Ethics 0 5 10 656 2.29% Business integrity 3 0 0 0 3 No improper advantage 4 1 0 0 5 Disclosure of information 1 0 0 1 0 Intellectual property 0 1 0 0 1 Fair business, advertising, and competition 2 0 0 1 1 Protection of identity and nonretaliation 2 0 0 2 0 Responsible sourcing of minerals 0 0 0 0 0 Privacy 1 0 0 1 0 Health and Safety 5 143 55 1804 11.25% Occupational safety 34 10 0 35 9 Emergency preparedness 56 18 5 48 21 Occupational injury and illness 18 2 0 11 9 Industrial hygiene 11 5 0 14 2 Physically demanding work 2 1 0 2 1 Machine safeguarding 3 2 0 3 2 Food, sanitation, and housing 30 9 0 29 10 Health and safety communication 1 1 0 1 1 GRI 103-3, 414-2 csr.cisco.com feedback 102 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Building Digital Skills Strategic Social Human Rights Responsible Sourcing and Entrepreneurship Investments and Manufacturing Table 7. Categorization of Audit Findings in FY18 (continued) Percent of Total Findings Findings Findings Total number audit elements component Total contract identified identified identified of audit resulting in suppliers manufacturers as priority as major as minor elements findings Environment 0 62 14 984 7.72% Environmental permits and reporting 8 1 0 9 0 Pollution prevention and resource reduction 2 1 0 2 1 Hazardous substances 23 6 0 22 7 Wastewater and solid waste 9 1 0 7 3 Air emissions 5 1 0 6 0 Materials restrictions 0 0 0 0 0 Stormwater management 12 2 0 13 1 Energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions 3 2 0 3 2 Management System 0 35 31 1230 5.37% Company commitment 0 0 0 0 0 Management accountability and responsibility 5 1 0 4 2 Legal and customer requirements 5 0 0 1 4 Risk assessment and risk management 12 1 0 5 8 Improvement objectives 6 0 0 3 3 Training 1 1 0 0 2 Communication 0 0 0 0 0 Worker feedback and participation 1 0 0 1 0 Audits and assessments 6 0 0 5 1 Corrective action process 2 0 0 2 0 Documentation and records 1 0 0 1 0 Supplier responsibility 16 8 0 13 11 GRI 103-3, 414-2 csr.cisco.com feedback 103 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Building Digital Skills Strategic Social Human Rights Responsible Sourcing and Entrepreneurship Investments and Manufacturing Table 8. Audit Findings by Country Management Number of Number of Location/Category Labor Environment Ethics H&S system Total initial audits closure audits Brazil 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 China 168 58 8 148 36 418 36 15 Czech Republic 14 1 0 1 1 17 0 1 Korea, Republic of 1 0 1 2 4 8 2 0 Malaysia 10 7 6 15 13 51 6 3 Mexico 16 4 0 17 5 42 3 1 Philippines 2 1 0 5 0 8 2 0 Taiwan 11 4 0 7 3 25 3 1 Thailand 8 1 0 4 4 17 4 0 United States 7 0 0 2 0 9 2 0 Vietnam 2 0 0 2 0 4 1 1 Total 239 76 15 203 66 599 60 22 GRI 103-3, 414-2 csr.cisco.com feedback 104 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Building Digital Skills Strategic Social Human Rights Responsible Sourcing and Entrepreneurship Investments and Manufacturing Supplier Diversity priorities, we recognize doing so will lead to our longer-term Cisco’s Supplier Diversity Program strives to provide equal opportunity within vitality, based on industry the communities we serve. We work to connect opportunities to engage and research showing diverse amplify Cisco’s engagement with diverse-owned businesses. In countries suppliers regularly meet or where supplier diversity is a requirement, we look to meet all public procurement exceed customer expectations. guidelines. Supplier diversity is also a mandate from many of our customers, Several new initiatives helped us who use their requirements as a means to better reflect the communities in continue to prioritize diversity by which we jointly operate. But maintaining a diverse supply base is more than increasing opportunities with compliance; it also helps us incorporate wide-ranging perspectives that mirror diverse suppliers. our global customer and employee base. We award billions of dollars of contracts for suppliers every year and actively Executive sponsorship solicit diverse businesses to supply us with goods, services, and components program for our products, as well as selling Cisco’s finished products. To help us identify and engage with diverse-owned suppliers in the U.S., we actively participate in Beginning in FY18, Cisco several professional organizations, including both the National Minority Supplier Global Procurement Services Development Council and the Women’s Business Enterprise National Council. and Supply Chain Operations In the U.S., we follow the federal government’s criteria for diverse-owned launched an executive sponsorbusinesses: those headquartered in the U.S. and at least 51 percent owned by ship program for Cisco’s top U.S. citizens who fall under one of the following historically disadvantaged groups: U.S. diverse suppliers. Through this program, 26 U.S.-based • Small Business Cisco executives paired with • Women-Owned Business 26 suppliers and committed to meet at least quarterly for • Minority-Owned Business 18 months. The Cisco sponsors work to build structured relationships with their • Veteran-Owned Business diverse suppliers, as well as helping suppliers better understand Cisco’s culture, • Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Business business function strategies, and priorities so they can more effectively compete for work. • Disabled Veteran-Owned Business The program goes beyond helping suppliers win business with Cisco. Sponsors • Historically Underutilized Business (HUB) Zone also encourage diverse suppliers to reduce their risk by ensuring no more than We are focused not only on supplier diversity, but also the diversity of our total 30 percent of their revenue comes from Cisco. To date, 50 percent of sponsored workforce, which includes our contingent workers. Cisco recently began measuring suppliers reduced their reliance on Cisco while growing their own businesses—a the diversity of our contingent workforce in the U.S., specifically for preferred win for all parties. The initiative aligns with our Multiplier Effect Pledge—a call for suppliers with more than 50 individuals at Cisco. Contingent workforce diversity all Cisco leaders to sponsor one diverse individual to the next level in their career. reporting is a component of the supplier’s scorecard. We will continue to request these metrics from our preferred suppliers. While it is no simple task for a large global organization to elevate supplier diversity among competing procurement GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 csr.cisco.com feedback 105 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Building Digital Skills Strategic Social Human Rights Responsible Sourcing and Entrepreneurship Investments and Manufacturing Sourcing opportunities 99% To choose a diverse supplier, category managers must first be aware these suppliers Supplier Day Diversity Award are available. Cisco’s procurement tools and integrated processes help us do exactly this. Our Supplier Day Diversity Award (distinct from the Excellence When users in the U.S. search for contingent of U.S. staff labor suppliers, they receive a list of preferred in Supplier Diversity Award), recognizes suppliers who share and reflect Cisco’s commitment to inclusion and diversity while augmentation suppliers. Now, 99 percent of these lists include at least one diverse supplier. By delivering high customer satisfaction. The 2018 winner of this searches widening our focus from spend tracking with award was Mirror Show Management, which helps design environments for trade shows and Cisco Live!. A woman-owned include at least diverse suppliers to increasing the opportunities for these suppliers, we can business, the company is involved with various community organizations that support education and empowerment of women. one diverse create a stronger pipeline for long-term supplier diverse supplier spend. Global expansion We recognize diversity means different things in different parts of the world. Knowing women face professional barriers everywhere, we are taking steps to expand our supplier diversity program globally with a focus on women-owned businesses. To achieve this, we have partnered with WEConnect International, an organization that builds capacity among women business owners and connects corporate buyers with these women-owned supplier businesses. Cisco is in the process of identifying and engaging with businesses in India and the UK, where Cisco has high levels of spend. In FY19, we will roll out a registration portal to increase their visibility for business opportunities with Cisco. Much like our U.S. diverse supplier dashboard, we expect this increased visibility will translate into increased spend with these businesses. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Planet Advancing environmentally sustainable growth in a digital world. In this section Environmental Energy and Material Nonmaterial sustainability GHG emissions use topics 2018 CSR Report 106 csr.cisco.com feedback 107 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs E  nvironmental Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Figure 37. Sustainability Emissions Topics 2018 Planet dashboard (FY15Percentage GHG Emission (Percentage Reduction from FY07 Baseline) (FY15Percentage GHG Emission of Used Electricity (Avoided Supply Chain GHG Emissions, (Percentage of Used Electricitymetric tonne CO2e) (Avoided Supply Chain GHG Emissions, Reduction from FY07 Generated Baseline) from Renewable Sources) cummulative Generated from Renewable Sources) cummulative metric tonne CO2e) Goal: Goal: Goal: Reduce total Cisco Scope 1 (FY15Percentage GHG Emission Reduction from FY07 Baseline) -45% (Percentage of Used Electricity Use electricity (Avoided Supply generated Chain GHG Emissions, -45% metric tonne CO2e) 91% Decrease use of virgin 91% and 2 GHG emissions world-41% Generated from Renewable Sources) from -41% renewable cummulative 77% sources for 80% 82% 80% 82% plastic by 20 percent 77% 71% wide by 60 percent absolute -34% 37 at37least 85 percent of our -34% by FY25 (FY18 71%baseline) by FY22 -41% -45% baseline) (FY07 82% global electricity by 91% FY22 50% 80% 50% 77% -34% 37 71% Progress: Progress: 50% We are investing in energy Efforts such as new off-site efficiency and renewables solar contracts are helping to meet this goal. 2016 2017 2018 us make progress. 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 (Chart title) (Chart title) (FY15Percentage (Chart GHG Emission 84% title) (Percentage of Used Electricity 82% (Avoided Supply Chain GHG84%Emissions, Goal: Reduction from FY07 Baseline) Goal: from Renewable Generated 77% Sources) cummulative 82% 77%metric tonne CO2e) Improve large rack-mountedAvoid 1 million metric tonne equipment system power -45% 80% 82% cumulative of GHG emissions 91% 77% efficiency-as measured from-41% in 77% our supply 80% 82% chain from the input power from the 37facility -34% FY12 to FY20 71% to the board-mounted ASICs, 50% memory and other chip devicesfrom 77 percent to 87 percent by FY22 (FY16 baseline) 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Progress: 2016 2017 2016 2018 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Progress: 2016 2017 2018 Innovative power-delivery We have significantly avoided techniques and power switching carbon emissions from devices will help us reach this supply chain materials, (Chart title) FY22 goal. energy, and logistics. 84% 82% 77% csr.cisco.com feedback 108 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Figure 37. Sustainability Emissions Topics 2018 Planet dashboard (cont’d) Key performance metrics FY18 Highlights 100% of electricity used 1,000 employees C  ompleted two offsite solar contracts that will provide approximately 40 percent of our Bangalore, India, campus electricity needs. Read more D  eveloped a new circular economy strategy that encompasses at North American facilities is generated from are members of the Cisco Green Team Network Cisco’s circular operations, consumption, design, solutions, and renewable energy sources industry leadership. Read more J oined industry peers in signing the Platform for Accelerating 32.4 129 the Circular Economy (PACE)’s Capital Equipment Pledge. Cisco committed to 100 percent product return. Read more R  eceived industry recognition for our sustainability efforts, including #1 on Barron’s Most Sustainable Companies 2018 and #9 in the Wall GWh metric tonne Street Journal’s Management Top 250, which measures performance of energy avoided of used electronics against a range of factors, including social responsibility. Read more through energy efficiency and renewable energy collected at Recycle IT Day 2018  ompleted 145 energy efficiency projects in FY18 in Cisco buildings C projects completed in FY18 around the world that avoid approximately 32.4 GWh of energy consumption and 10,300 metric tonne CO2e. Read more A  nnounced a product power goal to improve large rack-mountedequipment system power efficiency. Read more Set a goal to achieve 85 percent renewable energy. Read more R  educed consumption of single-use items such as paper cups within our offices; as of FY18, one-quarter of our office was paper cup-free based on square footage. Read more csr.cisco.com feedback 109 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs  nvironmental E Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics Environmental sustainability Our approach to environmental sustainability begins with the areas where we have the greatest potential for impact—reducing our energy use and using resources more efficiently. With careful oversight of key issues, engagement of our employees, and partnerships across our industry, we can operate our business in a way that respects the planet. csr.cisco.com feedback 110 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs  nvironmental E Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics Figure 38. Environmental sustainability at-a-glance Cisco environmental impact We are applying a long-term approach to setting and achieving our goals to address the core environmental impacts related to our business and climate Cisco has a significant role in the enablement of the Internet of Things (IoT), as such, change, using Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) findings. we are uniquely suited to help address environmental issues stemming from the The actions, commitments, and performance updates described in this chapter disruption of the earth’s cycles: constitute Cisco’s environmental policy and programs and build on the core values outlined in our Corporate Environmental Policy overview. Carbon cycle Resource cycle Biological cycle Reduce energy consumption Use the earth’s resources Promote species Energy and greenhouse gas emissions and increase energy more efficiently to reduce conservation by reducing Our GHG reduction goals are concentrated in four areas: operations, supply efficiency to help mitigate the impact of resource poaching in the world’s chain (extended operations), products, and solutions. long-term climate change extraction and disposal. game reserves and caused by fossil fuel use and national parks. Operations increasing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. In FY18, we made progress toward the 5-year goals we set in FY17: •R educe total Cisco Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions worldwide by 60 percent Energy and Greenhouse absolute by FY22 (FY07 baseline) Gas Emissions  Circular Economy  Connected Conservation  •U se electricity generated from renewable sources for at least 85 percent of our global electricity by FY22 Through engagement with our employees, business partners, and the power of the network, we can make the greatest impact in these three areas. These goals are based on the work of scientists contributing to IPCC reporting and The 3% Solution report1. In FY18, our Scope 1 and 2, and Scope 3 product power efficiency goals were listed on the Science Based Targets Initiative website with a status of “target set.” 40% Cisco completed two off-site solar contracts, providing approximately 40 percent of our Bangalore, India, campus electricity needs. This is a significant achievement given the carbon intensity of the Indian energy portfolio and local energy reliability issues. of our Bangalore, India, Extended operations (supply chain) campus electricity needs To have a direct stake in supplier GHG reduction, we are emphasizing supplier tracking and reporting of GHG emissions. At present, our manufacturing are provided by two off-site partners and logistics providers, as well as 74 percent of our component solar contracts suppliers (by spend) have set reduction goals. We encourage our suppliers to report to CDP, which builds more transparency into our supply chain. 1 T  he 3% Solution report is named for the annual emissions reduction thought to be needed through 2020 to meet IPCC guidance. According to the IPCC Annex 1, developed countries need to reduce GHG emissions by 25 to 40 percent below 1990 levels by 2020, and by 80 to 95 percent below 1990 levels by 2050. Such a stabilization pathway was said to provide a “reasonable chance” of averting warming beyond 2°C above preindustrial temperature. csr.cisco.com feedback 111 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs  nvironmental E Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics In FY16, we set a goal to avoid 1 million metric tonne cumulative of GHG • Teleworking and mobility: Cisco Virtual Figure 39. emissions in our supply chain from FY12 to FY20. At the end of FY18, we had Office and Cisco OfficeExtend provide highly avoided 910,582 metric tonne of carbon emissions, or 91 percent of our FY20 secure wired and wireless voice, data, and Cisco circular goal. For more information, see Table 20. video service for teleworker homes (or small commercial offices). Employees can save economy initiatives Products time and avoid the GHG emissions generated from commuting. More than a third of our Our circular economy initiatives We continue to improve product power consumption from plug to port. We do this by optimizing facility input voltage and improving power conversion from employees use our teleworking solutions. are focused in five major areas: bus to board to point of load, as well as through the energy efficiency of our ASICs, • Cloud and data center: Consumer, which are major consumers of power in our products. government, and business IT use is In FY18, we announced a new science-based goal to improve large rackincreasingly being centered in the cloud. 1. Circular operations mounted-equipment system power efficiency—as measured from the input Cisco data center server, switch, and router Reduce or use renewable and recovered inputs power from the facility to the board-mounted ASICs, memory and other chip products enable energy-efficient cloud throughout our operations. devices—from 77 percent to 87 percent by FY22 (FY16 baseline). compute and connectivity provisioning. In addition to the examples above, Cisco is 2. Circular design Solutions leveraging emerging technologies to develop Design for hardware circularity, repair, and reuse; Cisco offers technology solutions that help us—and our customers—be more new comprehensive services and solutions that use recycled and ‘closed loop’ material inputs; sustainable and transition to the circular economy: will enable circular value creation for customers. and direct used materials to become new inputs for production. • Internet of Things (IoT): Cisco IoT solutions help customers connect devices securely and gain digital insights to drive resource efficiency. For example, Circular economy 3. Circular consumption solutions for Smart+Connected Communities, Digital Buildings, and Connected Manufacturing enable energy efficiency, waste reduction, predictive maintenance, As a business, we rely on natural resources Cycle refurbished and remanufactured product and more. throughout the lifespan of our products—to make for multiple uses, leverage partners, and deploy and ship hardware, and for our customers to as-a-service models. This area includes Cisco’s • Remote collaboration: Cisco TelePresence® video conferencing, Cisco trade-in as well as takeback and recycling programs. access the network we provide. Our customers Webex® desktop conferencing, Cisco Webex Teams™, Cisco Unified rely on the same pool of natural resources— Communications, and Cisco Jabber® enable employees to meet with 4. Circular solutions whether it is for the products they sell or for each other and with customers and partners around the world without the the systems they run. Shape and pioneer solutions and services to enable productivity loss, work-life impact, or GHG emissions of physical travel. circular economy value creation for customers. 5. Ecosystem leadership Advance the circular economy through industry innovation, collaboration, and public policy. GRI 103-2 csr.cisco.com feedback 112 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs  nvironmental E Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics The circular economy looks beyond the current take-make-use-dispose model and aims to redefine growth, focusing on positive societal benefits. It entails The Capital gradually decoupling economic activity from the consumption of finite resources and designing waste out of the system. Underpinned by a transition to Equipment Pledge renewable energy sources, the circular model builds long-term resilience, generates business and economic opportunities, and provides environmental At the World Economic Forum Annual Meeting in 2018, as a and societal benefits. member of the Platform for Accelerating the Circular Economy At Cisco, we are focused on accelerating the adoption of circularity. This means (PACE), Cisco announced its commitment to the Capital Equipment thinking differently about the way we do business, design and build products Pledge to direct used materials to become new inputs for production. and solutions, and recycle and reuse assets. It also informs how we use our Cisco’s pledge is: technology to support our customers through their own business transformations. 100% Product Return • Provide product return pickup and transport at no cost for any customer worldwide upon request Employee engagement • Establish alternative commercial models that promote product return, including purchase trade-in, return credit, leasing, and Environmental sustainability has become increasingly important to our employees. product-as-a-service We are committed to providing employees with tools that allow them to collaborate • Offer comprehensive warranty, replacement, service, and repair and solve environmental problems, both in the office and in their communities. for all products to extend useful product lifetime and minimize We encourage employees to be global problem solvers and come up with obsolescence innovative ways to improve reusability and recyclability. One success story is • Repurpose returned product, subsystems, components, and commodities, including a limited amount of closed-loop return the India Green Team, an employee-led effort that transformed Cisco’s India to new product manufacturing sites into a disposable-cup-free zone. Other efforts include: • Annual shutdown: Cisco requires employees in North America, and encourages other employees worldwide, to take time off at the end of December. The shutdown gives us an opportunity to power down facilities and unused equipment during a time when much of our workforce is already taking time off. Over the 10-day shutdown, beginning in December 2017, Cisco avoided approximately $570,000 in energy costs and 2,700 metric tonne CO2e of GHG emissions. Employees working in buildings in India, Hong Kong, Germany, and Ireland reduced their electricity consumption by 40 percent or more during the shutdown and were rewarded with an ice cream social or catered lunch. • Recycle IT Day: Every year around Earth Day in April, we encourage employees to bring their used electronics to Cisco sites around the world to have them responsibly recycled using the same vendors we use to recycle Cisco products. Learn more in our discussion of Cisco’s internal product end-of-life programs. GRI 103-2 csr.cisco.com feedback 113 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs  nvironmental E Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics Cisco Green Team • Earth Aware: Every April we host a month• Product teardown events: Teardown events Network long employee volunteerism and awareness increase awareness of the complexity and campaign. We plan activities, events, and variety of materials that go into making Cisco volunteer opportunities to encourage products and spark innovative solutions for The Cisco Green Team Network (GTN) is an employee-led global employees to take action in environmentally increasing equipment reusability. At these “green team” with local chapters. These green teams are comprised responsible behaviors at work and at home. events, employees physically break apart of employee volunteers who educate fellow employees and advance Hundreds of employees around the world used Cisco equipment and collaborate on sustainable change. The Cisco GTN envisions a more environmentake part. As a result of the Earth Aware how to increase its reusability or recyclability. tally sustainable business and world, empowering our employees to campaign, there has been an increase in drive social and environmental change in the office and their homes. • Cisco Green: This is a hub on our internal formally planned sustainability-related They approach this by raising awareness regarding environmental social media site that enables employees to volunteerism events and activities across issues and connecting employees with resources to drive action in learn about Cisco’s environmental sustainability their local buildings. In various ways, the Cisco GTN encourages Cisco. For more information, see the Cisco activities and provides links to programs, others to have fun and connect while making Cisco a greener blog post about the events. information, and other tools. workplace. By the end of FY18, there were 11 Cisco GTN chapters • SustainX: Earth Aware culminates in the Cisco worldwide with over 1,000 members. Since Cisco GTN was • Cisco GreenHouse: In 2016, we launched SustainX event, a thought leadership forum established, the team has accomplished the following: an interactive sustainability web platform for hosted on Cisco’s campuses. Employees from employees. Cisco GreenHouse connects •S uccessful elimination of paper cups from select Cisco buildings around the world come together to learn about in India, Europe, and the U.S. passionate employees with like-minded peers Cisco’s sustainability practices and how they all over the world who want to find ways to •E stablishment of a community garden in San Jose, California can help make a difference. lead more sustainable lives. By the end of •D evelopment of an urban farm at our Diegem, Belgium, site FY18, more than 2,104 employees had joined •D esign and installation of shadow the site and 14,900 actions had been taken. boxes above the landfill, recycling, and composting receptacles in San Jose cafeterias to help employees quickly and easily sort their waste We engage employees on more than environmental •R eceipt of Cisco’s Excellence in Environmental Stewardship award responsibility. For more information about employee in December 2017 engagement at Cisco, see: • Employee Community Impact • #WeAreCisco •C  ase Study: Engaging Employees in GHG Reductions csr.cisco.com feedback 114 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs  nvironmental E Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics Employee training Table 9 shows the environmental topics we assess and manage, and how they relate to our environmental priorities. The top environment-related topics, Tier 1 We offer numerous ways to help employees and 2, are governed by dedicated programs and investment. Tier 3 topics incorporate environmental design principles receive due diligence as part of normal company operations. For FY18 reporting, into our products and solutions. For example, Tier 1 and 2 topics headings have been simplified to more accurately capture videos on demand show how we can reduce the relevant disclosure categories. carbon emissions by creating new products, improving upon existing product designs, and Table 9. List and ranking of environment working with our supply chain to make upstream topics assessed by the CSR materiality operations more environmentally conscious. assessment process We engage employees who have a significant Tier Environment role in defining product requirements or developing our products and packaging. In previous years Cisco has held live learning sessions with internal and external 1 Energy/GHG experts covering topics that inspire and promote expansion of new and existing best practices and Design for Environment (DfE) principles. 2 Material use and waste To further embed environmental practices into our business operations, we 3 Biodiversity Land use offer employee training on our business management system, which includes Non-GHG airborne emissions Water pollution (liquid effluents) our Environment Management System (EMS) and environmental policies. We Water use also offer training to our IT and engineering employees on how they can reduce energy use within Cisco’s labs and data centers. In FY18, we continued to see increasing customer interest in environmental sustainability, as reflected in requests for proposals, surveys, and other CSR materiality assessment: environment customer inquiries. Cisco invited approximately 5,000 customers across all regions and market segments to complete an online survey on environmental Environmental topics are included in the CSR Materiality Assessment process sustainability. Customer feedback from this FY18 survey confirmed the priority as described in our CSR Governance. Additional inputs inform the prioritization of our environmental sustainability issues. The top three issues identified by of environmental topics, including results of life-cycle assessments (LCAs), this customer listening survey were: input from stakeholders, and assessments by independent consultancies. • Product energy efficiency In FY18, stakeholder feedback confirmed our priorities continue to be: • Product materials selection •E nergy and GHG emissions, with a focus on product energy efficiency, energy consumption in operations, and transport emissions from product logistics • Product takeback and recycling •M aterial use and waste, with a focus on increasing product returns for reuse, Details about our performance and actions in all these areas follow in the remanufacturing for resale, or recycling relevant sections. csr.cisco.com feedback 115 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs  nvironmental E Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics Environmental policy Cisco’s Sustainability Executive Team (SET) sponsors our environmental initiatives and reviews our environmental Cisco believes the most effective leadership is by example. strategy and performance. SET is organized around specific We will continue to improve our environmental impact tracks; each is sponsored by an executive from the lead assessment, reporting, and initiatives. We also help drive business function and co-sponsored by the executive who sustainability best practices among our supply chain and chairs SET. Current tracks include: business partners, including requiring suppliers with whom we have a significant business relationship to report their • Energy and GHG: Tracking GHG emissions; reducing overall impacts to CDP. energy usage through product and facility innovation; sourcing renewable energy; and integrating our carbon reduction We use a set of governing principles as we develop our strategies into supply chain operations environmental policies: • Circular economy: Increasing customers’ return of used • Integrate environmental responsibility throughout our business equipment for reuse, repair, and hardware replacement while meeting customer expectations with respect to product for life extension from our global network of service depots, function, delivery, quality, service, and EOL management remanufacturing for resale, or recycling; new go-to-market •W  ork with our suppliers to integrate environmental responsibility leasing or hardware-as-a-service business models; using into their operations, through our Supplier Code of Conduct, IoT technology to improve energy management in factories and all life-cycle phases of our products producing Cisco products; and designing products to use fewer materials and last longer through maintenance and upgrades. •U  se the disclosures from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards to guide our environmental impact assessment, • Employee engagement: Providing volunteer opportunities, reporting, and initiatives awareness events, and educational tools for employees to use both at home and in their communities •P  rovide complete, accurate, and public environmental reporting for our stakeholders •R  equire all Cisco employees (mergers and acquisitions included) to complete an annual Code of Business Conduct (CoBC) certification and act in a manner consistent with our CSR objectives We continue •S  hare our environmental policies and practices in our annual CSR report to improve our We maintain the following governance processes: environmental impact •S  eek stakeholder engagement and analysis on our CSR materiality assessment, our reporting, and the results of assessment, reporting, and initiatives. our initiatives •M  aintain ISO 14001 certification for sites with significant potential for environmental impact •U  se our CSR business process to govern reporting, stakeholder engagement, feedback, prioritization, goal setting, initiative implementation, and performance measurement csr.cisco.com feedback 116 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs E  nvironmental Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics Governance Cisco sites for ISO 14001 certification are selected based on a set of criteria including: Key executives, along with business functions covered by our Environmental Management System (EMS), create and implement operational change. •F  acility size and lab area Teams focus on corporate-level initiatives that directly enhance Cisco’s •B  uilding headcount capacity or persons housed environmental performance. •P  rimary facility function •S ET provides oversight for our Tier 1and 2-related environmental initiatives. These criteria focus on sites that can make the greatest contribution to reducing Our Senior Vice President, Operations, is the executive sponsor of SET and is negative environmental impacts and enhancing positive impacts. Once a site the official conduit to the Executive Leadership Team (ELT), our CEO, and the has been selected for certification, we evaluate its associated impacts, including Board of Directors. corporate functional areas; associated products, activities, or services at that •T he CSR Integration and Sustainability team within Corporate Affairs and location; and the environmental impacts associated with the generation or use the larger Human Resources organization is responsible for Cisco’s overall of materials, impacts on air and water, and depletion of natural resources. Using sustainability strategy. The team coordinates funding, resources, organization, this information, we calculate an environmental score to further help us prioritize scheduling, and execution of each SET track with engagement from business facilities and issues. Each site aligns with Cisco’s corporate sustainability priorities, units across Cisco. in addition to site-specific goals. •T he Board of Directors, acting directly and through its committees, is responsible In FY17, Cisco successfully upgraded our certification to the new ISO 14001:2015 for oversight of risk management at Cisco, including risks associated with CSR standard with no major nonconformances and 10 Positive Comments. During FY18, and sustainability. Our enterprise risk management (ERM) program identifies, Cisco added ISO 14001 certification for new sites in Alpharetta, Georgia; and assesses, governs, and manages risks—and Cisco’s response to those risks— Columbia, Maryland, both sites of acquisitions in previous years (Figure 40). across the company. When top risks are identified, owners are assigned and specific mitigation work plans and scorecards are developed. Scope and implementation Cisco’s ISO 14001 certified sites are audited by an independent third party, TUV Regulatory fines SUD America Inc. Sites that were part of an acquisition are included in the scope Cisco has incurred no significant fines—defined as more than $10,000—in of our corporate environmental policy and associated environmental initiatives and any of the last five years, and was not subject to nonmonetary sanctions for thus may become 14001 certified and audited. Table 10 shows our ISO 14001 noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. Cisco is not aware certification key performance indicators (KPIs). of any formal grievance filed about environmental impacts. Table 10. Cisco Environment Management System ISO 14001 certification Environmental Management System KPI FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 Cisco’s ISO 14001 EMS is a global framework relying on individual Number of Cisco sites with ISO 14001 28 28 26 30 32 certification accountability, management responsibility, measurement of key performance indicators, and a continuous improvement philosophy to meet business and Percent of real estate portfolio with ISO 93% 94% >90%1 >90%1 >90%1 14001 certification environment goals. The EMS is certified by TUV SUD America Inc. to the international EMS standard ISO 14001:2015. A copy of our EMS certification 1 We have met our goal of certifying a high percentage of our real estate portfolio. We will maintain >90 percent coverage of sites is available for download. that meet the certification criteria. GRI 103-2, 103-3, 307-1 csr.cisco.com feedback 117 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs E  nvironmental Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics Figure 40. Cisco ISO 14001 certified site locations Bedfont Lakes/Reading, Amsterdam,Netherlands United Kingdom Dusseldorf, Germany Galway, Ireland Krakow, Poland Boulder/Englewood, Colorado Chicago, Illinois Paris, France San Jose, California Boxborough, Brussels, Belgium Massachusetts Netanya, Israel Richardson, Texas New York, New York Vimercate, Italy Columbia, Maryland Toyko, Japan Beijing, China Herndon, Virginia Jerusalem, Israel Austin, Texas Alpharetta, Georgia Shanghai, China Atlanta, Georgia Hong Kong, China Research Triangle Park, North Carolina Bangalore, India Singapore St Leonards/N. Sydney, Australia csr.cisco.com feedback 118 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs E  nvironmental Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics Our EMS helps us identify the most significant environmental impacts, evaluate their All numeric claims made in this chapter are subject to a 20 risks at each Cisco site, and set relevant corporate and local objectives. All ISO multiday, detailed, bottom-up audit conducted by our internal 14001-certified sites have environment aspect teams. Each site’s team reports on ISO 14001 audit team and part of the annual ISO 14001 goals, initiatives, and metrics to measure our environmental performance. Local internal audit plan. Verification is key to reporting valid data initiatives are aligned to corporate-level programs where possible. Table 11 lists the and helps us actively identify needed corrective actions. All number of aspect teams per region. environmental claims made in the 2017 CSR report were internal EMS Cisco’s primary corporate sustainability activities are included in our certified successfully audited and verified through Cisco’s internal audit audits including 8 process. Cisco’s environment-related claims in the 2018 CSR EMS and are part of the internal and external audits we perform annually. This report will be audited in FY19. enables us to internally track key corporate environmental performance goals, initiatives, and metrics. Our EMS aligns closely with our circular economy, GHG emissions, and energy Precautionary principle virtual audits management programs and supports the management of our sustainability using Cisco TelePresence® information. This alignment has helped us automate our sustainability data Consistent with the precautionary principle, we advocate a or Cisco Webex® collection and focus resources on other important tasks, such as evaluating risk-based approach to our operations through our Enterprise and implementing mitigation projects. Risk Management and Environment Management System processes. We are reducing our global GHG emissions by Internal EMS audits provide insight into how our environmental processes and improving the efficiency of our products and operations and by encouraging our commitments have been implemented and how well we are improving our EMS at suppliers to reduce their GHG emissions as well. We use our own collaboration our certified sites. The frequency of these audits depends on criteria such as site products to reduce GHG emissions in our operations, and help our customers size, operational activities at the site, and the results of previous audits. In a typical leverage our solutions to do the same. The majority of the GHG emissions from 3-year period, every site will receive one on-site audit and one virtual audit. our operations are directly associated with energy use, typically electricity. As part of our ISO 14001 certification, we participate in annual audits conducted Therefore, we report our GHG emissions with our energy use. by a third-party registrar. These audits identify areas of improvement and performance while providing external validation and verification of our EMS Table 11. Environment aspect teams per region processes and programs. Europe, Middle Asia Pacific, During our internal and external audits in FY18, Cisco received 33 Positive East, Africa and Japan, China and Aspect Teams Global Teams Americas Russia (EMEAR) India (APJCI) Total Comments on our ISO 14001 certified EMS. The Positive Comments were primarily tied to improving Cisco environmental performance, enhancing our Waste reduction and recycling 6 8 9 23 employee engagement and awareness, and aligning our operational E-scrap management 1  10 10 2 22 management with sustainability in mind. Energy management2  0 2 9 11 Environmental awareness2 7 4 0 11 Wastewater management 1 0 0 1 Total per region 24 24 20 68 1 These teams have site-specific activities and goals but also support a corporate-level/global goal. 2 Used at smaller sites, these teams typically include activities around employee engagement, energy management, e-scrap management, waste reduction and recycling, and local “green” activities. csr.cisco.com feedback 119 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs  nvironmental E Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics Life-cycle assessments Cisco uses life-cycle assessments (LCAs) to estimate the GHG emissions associated with our products. This integrated approach helps us understand the environmental impacts of our materials, packaging, transportation modes, product power consumption, and recycling. We can then use what we learn as we make business decisions. LCAs also help us develop more energy-efficient manufacturing through comparing assembly and test scenarios. To support our LCA work, we utilize external tools and data sources, including thinkstep GaBi 7.3 and other publicly available data sources, such as the International Energy Agency (IEA); the United Kingdom’s Department for Business, Energy, and Industrial Strategy; and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP). In FY19, we plan to join the Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s Product Attribute to Impact Algorithm (PAIA) program, which is a collaborative tool developed to efficiently perform an LCA. Much of the electronics industry uses the same components and materials in its products, and the PAIA tool aims to streamline LCAs by using shared industry standard LCA inputs. csr.cisco.com feedback 120 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs E  nvironmental Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics Design for Environment We have incorporated environmental design principles into our products and manufacturing Goal: processes so fewer raw materials are used, less packaging is needed, and product refurbishment and recycling are more effective. To this end, environmental design features Decrease use of virgin are incorporated into our product requirements document. plastics by 20 pecent Cisco’s Design for Environment (DfE) approach focuses on the following areas: by FY25. (FY18)1 • Energy efficiency (with a goal to improve system power efficiency of large rack-mounted equipment from 77 percent to 87 percent by 2022 (FY16 baseline)) • Reduction of hazardous materials 1  he plastics included in this goal make up the majority T of Cisco’s use, however, it excludes plastics contained • Design for recyclability and upgradability in commodity components sourced from suppliers (such as printed circuit boards). Most of these electronic • Recycling marking on plastic components (ISO 11469, formerly SPI codes) for ease of sorting components require the electrical insulating property during recycling provided by plastics. • Packaging and fulfillment (reduction of materials and package volume as well as logistics impacts) • Design for longevity • Compatibility with product recycling • Recycled content materials and materials with less environmental impact • Standardized and modularized components and enclosures • Design for disassembly, repair, and reuse, using easily separable components with similar materials to facilitate recycling and reusable components Cisco’s DfE principles are derived from a combination of sources, including formal requirements (for example, ECMA-TR/370) and other best practices developed within our business. In FY18, we continued to update our DfE principles to align with Cisco’s commitment to the circular economy, as well as evolving customer requirements and industry and regulatory trends. More information on our circular design priorities can be found in the Circular Economy section. csr.cisco.com feedback 121 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics Energy and GHG emissions Reducing our energy use and GHG emissions is a critical environmental issue. We are making progress through energy efficiency initiatives across Cisco, investments in renewable energy, and improvements to the efficiency of our products. GRI 103-1, 103-2 csr.cisco.com feedback 122 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics Figure 41. Energy and GHG emissions goals Goals Energy and GHG emissions is the most material environmental issue for Cisco. Goal: Goal: The way Cisco manages its GHG emissions and electricity from renewables is critical to many stakeholders, including employees, investors, and external reporting organizations, such as the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, Corporate Knights, and 87% 60% Improve large rack-mounted-equipment Reduce total Cisco CDP. In addition, research has shown a company’s sustainability practices are a system power efficiency—as measured Scope 1 and 2 GHG key factor for employee recruitment and retention. Cisco has been committed to from the input power from the facility to emissions worldwide reducing our GHG emissions for more than a decade. the board-mounted ASICs, memory and by 60 percent absolute FY18 was our first full year working toward our FY22 goals; a brief discussion other chip devices—from 77 percent to by F22 (FY07 baseline) regarding progress toward these goals is below and in the Energy and Scope 1 87 percent by FY22 (FY16 baseline) and 2 GHG Emissions section. During FY18 we established a Scope 3 use phase product power efficiency goal. Our in-progress Scope 1, 2, and 3 product power efficiency goals are listed on the Science Based Targets Initiative website with a status of “target set.” Table 12 provides a summary of our GHG emissions goals since 2006. Goal: Goal: 85% 1 million Use electricity generated from metric tonne cumulative renewable sources for at least of GHG emissions avoided 85 percent of our global electricity in our supply chain from by FY22 FY12 to FY20 To achieve these goals, we will: • Invest more than $45 million between FY18 and FY22 in the areas of energy efficiency and renewable energy • Implement more than 300 energy efficiency and on-site renewable energy projects across our real estate portfolio • Increase renewable energy procurement through utility green power programs, power purchase agreements (PPAs), and renewable energy certificates • Improve product power efficiency through engineering innovations GRI 102-11, 103-1, 103-2 csr.cisco.com feedback 123 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics Table 12. Cisco GHG emissions goals1 We form our GHG emission reduction goals based on internal Date Goal GHG emission reduction goal description best practices and expert opinion, including recommendations Established from the IPCC, the U.S. EPA, the IEA, and The 3% Solution report1 September 2018 Improve large rack-mounted-equipment system power efficiency—as measured from the input power from the facility to the from the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and CDP. Since 2013, Cisco board-mounted ASICs, memory and other chip devices—from 77 percent to 87 percent by FY22 (FY16 baseline). has been setting and achieving science-based targets that exceed This goal is in progress. the rate of decarbonization required to keep global average July 2017 1. Reduce total Cisco Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions worldwide by 60 percent absolute by FY22 (FY07 baseline). temperature increase below 2°C compared to preindustrial 2. Use electricity generated from renewable sources for at least 85 percent of our global electricity by FY22. temperatures, as described in the Fifth Assessment Report of These goals are in progress. the IPCC. Our FY22 GHG reduction goal of 60 percent (FY07 June 2016 Avoid 1 million metric tonne cumulative of GHG emissions in our supply chain from FY12 to FY20. baseline) equates to a 4 percent reduction per year. For reference, this reduction is nearly three times greater than the yearly This goal is in progress. emissions reduction of 1.35 percent recommended for our February 2013 1. Reduce total Cisco Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions worldwide by 40 percent absolute by FY17 (FY07 baseline). industry by the Sectoral Decarbonization Approach to science2. Reduce total Cisco business-air-travel Scope 3 GHG emissions worldwide by 40 percent absolute by FY17 (FY07 baseline). based target setting2. 3. R educe Cisco’s FY17 net consumption-weighted electricity emission factor to half of the latest International Energy Agency (IEA) world average emission factor publicly available before the end of FY17. Our goals are set as 5-year commitments because multiyear 4. Reduce total Cisco operational energy use per unit of revenue worldwide by 15 percent by FY17 (FY07 baseline). goals allow for large investments, which have a potential for big 5. Use electricity generated from renewable sources for at least 25 percent of our electricity every year through FY17. payoffs. We believe we demonstrate a best-practice approach Goals closed in 2017. Our final report on these goals can be found in our 2017 CSR report on pages 101, 102, 106 and 108. to goal setting by: June 2008 U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Climate Leaders commitment to reduce all Scope 1, Scope 2, and • Committing to realistic multiyear goals, befitting the business-air-travel Scope 3 GHG emissions worldwide by 25 percent absolute by end of CY12 (CY07 baseline). scale of the problem Goal closed in 2012. Our final report on this goal can be found in our 2012 CSR report starting on page F14. • Using consistent and precise wording of goals, with September 2006 Clinton Global Initiative (CGI) commitment to reduce GHG emissions from all Cisco business air travel worldwide by 10 percent absolute by FY09 (FY06 baseline). clear measurement methodology Goal closed in 2009. Our final report on this goal can be found in our 2009 CSR report starting on page C32. • Participating in consistent and transparent reporting from year to year 1 All goals undergo external verification for limited assurance against the ISO 14064-3 • Implementing third-party assurance for all goal-related reporting • Setting goals based on IPCC findings and science-based reduction recommendations 1  he 3% Solution report is named for the annual emissions reduction thought to be needed through 2020 to meet IPCC guidance. According to the IPCC Annex 1, developed countries need to reduce GHG emissions by 25 to 40 percent below 1990 levels by 2020, T and by 80 to 95 percent below 1990 levels by 2050. Such a stabilization pathway was said to provide a “reasonable chance” of averting warming beyond 2°C above preindustrial temperature. 2  ccording to the Sectoral Decarbonization Approach (SDA) sector definitions (version 1, released May 2015), Cisco is classified in the “Services/Commercial Buildings” sector. Calculation is based on the most recent SDA target calculation tool (version 8, released A 27 February 2017). GRI 103-1, 103-2 csr.cisco.com feedback 124 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics Performance We have been recognized in the past year for our sustainability efforts by CDP (see Table 13 below), Barron’s, Corporate Knights Global 100, and the EPA. 2018 represents our 14th year disclosing with CDP. For the 2018 reporting Key Sustainability year, Cisco achieved an A rating by CDP and was listed on their 2018 Climate A List based on information submitted to CDP in July 20181. The CDP Climate A List includes companies from around the world that have been identified as leaders Rankings in their efforts and actions to combat climate change. Table 13 shows Cisco’s participation and performance in CDP over the last 14 years. We take pride in our consistently high CDP rankings and consider them evidence of our long-term #1 commitment to improving GHG emissions disclosure and performance. Cisco maintained our position on both the Dow Jones Sustainability (DJSI) World and North American Indices in September 2018 based on information submitted to DJSI in May/June 2018. The DJSI series, a globally recognized benchmark, rates Barron’s Most Sustainable companies based on their economic, environmental, and social dimensions. We have been on the World Index for 12 of Companies 2018 the last 13 years and have been on the North American Index every year since its inception in 2006 (13 years). Table 13. CDP performance history Cisco also ranks consistently high on the EPA’s Top Partner Rankings, which highlight the annual green #5 CDP Year/Cisco fiscal year CDP Score1 A List CDLI2 CPLI3 Newsweek Green Ranking 2018 power use of leading Green Power Partners within the United States #7 2018/FY17 A‡  ‡ ‡ 2017/FY16 A‡  ‡ ‡ and across individual industry sectors. As of July 23, 2018, we 2016/FY15 A‡  ‡ ‡ were ranked sixth among the top 2015/FY14 100/A   # Corporate Knights 100 Most 30 tech and telecommunications companies, seventh on the national Sustainable Corporations 2018 2014/FY13 100/A _   top 100 list, and sixth on the #9 2013/FY12 100/A _   Fortune 500 partners list. 2012/FY11 96/B _  _ For more information on the CSR 2011/FY10 98/A _   awards Cisco received in 2018 Wall Street Journal Management 2010/FY09 (CDP6) 92/A _   and year prior, please visit our Top 250 2018 2009/FY08 (CDP5) 88/† _  _ CSR Awards page. 16 2008/FY07 (CDP4) 96/† _  _ 2007/FY06 (CDP3) 70/† _ _ _ 2006/FY05 (CDP2) 70/† _ _ _ 2005/FY04 (CDP1) Responded/† _ _ _ disclosure, performance, and A List CDP awards since 2005— Disclosure/Performance more than any company 1 2 Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index 3 Carbon Performance Leadership Index †PerformancescoringbeganwithCDP2010 1 In ‡StartingwithCDP2016,asinglelettergraderepresentsdisclosureandperformance  each annual CSR report, we report on activities within the previous, completed fiscal year (through end of July). CDP’s latest scoring was released in January 2019 and was based on a July 2018 submission using FY17 data. #Starting with CDP 2015 performance leadership was officially transitioned to the 'A List' csr.cisco.com feedback 125 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics Energy and Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions Table 14. Summary of Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions Our Scope 2 emissions result almost exclusively from electricity FY07 Baseline use and represent 94 percent of our Scope 1 and 2 emissions. KPI Year1 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 Comments As a result, implementing projects to reduce our electricity use Total GHG emissions: 48,311 49,721 45,562 53,123 41,926 43,949 is a major part of our energy and GHG reduction strategy. In Scope 1, metric tonne CO2e FY18, our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions were 45 percent Total GHG emissions: 448,950 704,756 731,103 731,662 744,929 668,339 “Location-based” is lower than our FY07 baseline on an absolute basis. See Scope 2 (location-based), used consistent with Table 14 for details. metric tonne CO2e GHG Protocol and does not include renewable To support standardization and benchmarking across companies, energy purchases. Cisco uses the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Total GHG emissions: 402,422 497,581 318,890 247,933 223,558 205,154 “Market-based” is Standard as the basis for our Scope 1 and 2 calculations. We Scope 2 (market-based), used consistent with report Scope 1 and 2 emissions based on our operations over metric tonne CO2e GHG Protocol and which we have operational control. Scope 1 and 2 calculations includes renewable energy purchases. are based on site-specific data for fuel consumed and utilities Scope 1 and 2 emissions 14.2 16.0 15.8 15.9 16.0 14.4 Location-based purchased, applying published emissions factors and global (location-based) intensity, intensity is a measure warming potentials (GWPs). See Table 16 for details. The EPA metric tonne CO2e per of operational efficiency Center for Corporate Climate Leadership provides additional million dollars of revenue commonly used by many program guidance. All GHG emissions reported in this section Cisco stakeholders. include the seven GHGs covered by the GHG Protocol: CO2, Scope 2 emissions from 96.4% 97.1% 98.2% 98.1% 98.0% 97.9 CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, and NF3. PFCs, SF6, and NF3 are primary data, percent not applicable to our operations and we do not have biogenic Total GHG emissions: Scope 1 450,733 547,302 364,452 301,057 265,484 249,103 and 2 (market-based), metric carbon emissions. tonne CO2e Historical Scope 1 and 2 emissions data often vary from previous Percent progress against FY22 Base year +20.9% -19.1% -33.2% -41.1% -44.7% Results are based on publicly reported values, either in the most recent CDP survey or reduction goal2 Scope 2 GHG Protocol our previous CSR report, because of updated reporting guidance, methodology released Goal: Reduce total Cisco in 2015. Cisco’s current emissions factors, adjustments for acquisitions or divestitures, Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions GHG reduction goal was worldwide by 60 percent or correction of any errors found during review. We report marketannounced in absolute by FY22 (FY07 baseline) and location-based Scope 2 emissions in accordance with the September 2017. GHG Protocol’s updated Scope 2 guidance. 1 Our reporting policy for environmental metrics is to show the baseline year, data for the past five completed years, the goal, and progress against the goal. 2 Scope 2 emissions for all years have been adjusted to reflect the GHG Protocol’s new Scope 2 guidance. This new guidance was released in 2015 and had Each year, an independent third party provides a limited material impacts on Cisco’s current and Scope 2 figures calculated prior to 2015. assurance review of our GHG inventory, including the emissions relevant to our current GHG reduction goals, namely Scope 1 and 2 emission sources. This limited assurance review is provided in level of energy consumption for the last several years. We do buying renewable energy from utilities and green power accordance with the ISO 14064-3 International Standard and is expect our energy use will rise over time; as a result, we are providers. Our challenge will be to prevent our global average published as part of our CDP submittal. See our FY18 Inventory working to reduce the carbon intensity of the electricity we use. emissions factor from increasing as we grow in emerging Assurance Statement. Including renewable energy purchases, our global average markets such as India, where lowand no-carbon electricity is contractual emissions factor is 73 percent below the world less readily available. Indirect energy or electricity represents 89 percent of our average (See Table 16). We have achieved this by locating energy consumption (Table 15). Through the projects facilities where low-carbon grid electricity is available and described in this section, we have effectively plateaued our GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 305-1, 305-2, 305-4, 305-5 csr.cisco.com feedback 126 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics Table 15. Summary of Scope 1 and 2 energy usage FY07 Baseline KPI Year FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 Comments Energy usage, GWh 1,239 1,791 1,826 1,850 1,831 1,838 Indirect energy usage, GWh 1,025 1,573 1,636 1,641 1,656 1,644 Electricity is the only indirect energy source used by Cisco—we do not purchase any heating, cooling, or steam. Direct energy usage, GWh 213 218 189 209 176 194 Direct energy consumption is the sum of Cisco’s natural gas, propane, and diesel usage for heating and backup power generation and regular gasoline and diesel fuel used in Cisco’s fleet. Electricity usage, GWh 1,025 1,573 1,636 1,641 1,656 1,644 Natural gas usage, GWh 135 103 82 94 90 105 Stationary diesel usage, GWh 18 40 37 33 15 22 Stationary diesel is typically used for backup power generation. Propane usage, GWh 0.8 0.1 0.2 0.2 2 2 Transportation fuel usage (combined gasoline 59 76 70 73 68 65 Transportation fuel includes regular gasoline and diesel fuel), GWh and diesel fuel used in Cisco’s fleet. Energy use per unit of revenue, GWh of energy 35.5 38.0 37.1 37.6 37.2 37.3 consumed per billion dollars in revenue Table 16. Electricity emissions factors FY07 Baseline KPI Year FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 Comments IEA world average emission factor, g CO2e per kWh 507.1 536.0 536.0 536.0 506.0 463.0 Latest factors used for our current FY18 report from IEA, RE-DISS, and EPA GHG Emissions Factors Hub. Prior years used the latest factors available at time of prior-year reporting. See footnotes for emission factor and GWP sources.1 Cisco global average electricity emission factor 437.9 448.0 446.6 448.2 447.1 407.1 (location-based), g CO2e per kWh Cisco major data center average electricity emission 394.7 447.9 421.0 419.4 419.5 353.9 factor (location-based), g CO2e per kWh Cisco global average electricity emission factor 392.5 316.3 194.8 152.8 134.5 125.0 (market-based), g CO2e per kWh 1  isco used emission factors from the following databases for its FY18 GHG inventory: 2018 International Energy Agency (IEA) Electricity Information Database 2016 IEA factors, 2017 EU Residual C Mix Factors from RE-DISS, Center for Corporate Climate Leadership GHG Emission Factors Hub (modified March 9 2018). 2018 country-specific emission factors for Australia, Brazil, Canada, India, United Kingdom provided from those countries’ governments. 100-year GWPs from IPCC Fourth Assessment Report (AR4), 2007. GRI 103-1, 302-1, 302-3, 304-4 csr.cisco.com feedback 127 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions reduction strategy Cisco Connected Workplace Reducing our energy consumption and GHG emissions while enabling a diverse The most efficient workplace is the one you do not have to build. We continue to energy supply for our operations helps us stay competitive and benefits the optimize our real estate portfolio while reducing energy use and GHG emissions environment. Our overall strategy to accomplish these objectives is to: by implementing Cisco Connected Workplace (CCW). This solution integrates workspace design, policy, and technology to transform the workplace experience. • Use our real estate space more efficiently through Cisco Connected Workplace Our activity-based workspaces can accommodate approximately 30 percent • Increase the energy efficiency of our real estate operations more employees than a traditional office layout, substantially reducing space •G  enerate low-carbon electricity from on-site systems and purchase and land requirements and therefore the associated environmental impacts. renewable energy Our new buildings and renovation projects must meet CCW design specifications, • Engage our stakeholders, including employees, on our sustainability strategy which include energy efficiency requirements such as standards for LED lighting and efficient air conditioning. We have changed our workplace occupancy model from individual to group assignment; this gives our employees flexibility and choice while increasing the utilization of our assets. In addition, with our flexible work policy and mobile technology solutions, employees can work from any Cisco office, as well as from home, a customer site, or even a coffee shop. CCW successfully integrates our technology into our flexible workplace. At the end of FY18, 65 percent of our total office space was compliant to our CCW design. Also by the end of FY18, we completed a multiyear, multimilliondollar renovation of our headquarters in San Jose that reduced our square footage by 30 percent while providing a better workplace experience for our employees. Over the past 5 years, Cisco has reduced our real estate portfolio by 7.3 million square feet, while the number of persons housed in our real estate footprint has only decreased by 3 percent. We estimate this gross reduction in square footage has allowed us to avoid approximately 166 million kWh of energy use and 67,400 metric tonne of GHG emissions annually. Energy efficiency program: EnergyOps Our Global Energy Management and Sustainability (GEMS) team leads all energy and sustainability initiatives across our 22 million square feet of global real estate. The team currently manages a more than $40 million, 5-year global EnergyOps program to implement hundreds of efficiency and renewable energy projects every year through FY22. This team includes Cisco employees and contracted energy managers who have the following primary responsibilities: • Manage Cisco’s global annual utility budget and contracts • Identify and implement demandand supply-side energy solutions, such as energy efficiency upgrades and on-site renewable energy projects GRI 103-1, 103-2, 305-5, 302-4 csr.cisco.com feedback 128 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics •E  mbed sustainability and efficiency criteria into our building, lab, and data • Improving hot and cold aisle containment within our labs center design standards •C  ontinuing an employee engagement campaign to promote, educate, and •E  xplore and evaluate options for higher efficiency in all of Cisco’s real incentivize employees to conserve energy estate projects • Engage employees to participate in resource conservation Building efficiency: Labs In FY18 the GEMS team enabled Cisco to avoid approximately 32.4 GWh of Over 60 percent of our operational electricity is used to power and cool equipment in our Increasing the energy consumption and 10,300 metric tonne CO2e by investing $9.9 million to implement 145 energy efficiency projects, not including our renewable energy engineering and services labs. Increasing the energy efficiency of our labs is our greatest energy efficiency purchasing or on-site renewable energy generation. We estimate the energy efficiency and on-site renewable energy projects we have implemented since opportunity to reduce Cisco’s GHG emissions and energy costs. We can do this by focusing of our labs is our FY14 have avoided approximately 173.5 GWh of energy and 80,800 metric tonne CO2e. This program has also allowed us to make our operations more on efficiency in the design of our labs and practicing smart approaches to utilization and greatest opportunity to reduce Cisco’s efficient and increase the amount of renewable electricity we buy, directly power management. contributing to the achievement of the FY17 sustainability goals we set in FY13 Our Global Lab Specification includes and the funding of our FY22 goals. See our Goals section for details. Table 17 shows the energy savings associated with the GHG reduction projects efficiency standards for new, high-density labs and retrofits. For instance, airflow GHG emissions and energy costs. we implemented between FY14 and FY18. Projects the GEMS team implemented management is mandatory in the state of globally in FY18 include: California per Title 24. We require it in all new labs globally and recommend it for renovation • Increasing lighting efficiency by updating lighting controls and using projects. EnergyOps projects, as well as projects initiated by lab managers also LED technologies help us improve existing airflow management, ventilation, cooling, and other • Installing variable frequency drives and premium efficiency motors and pumps building infrastructure systems. in our HVAC systems We are also mindful of our equipment usage, powering down or removing unused, • Installing solar window film to reduce heat gain and improve occupant comfort unneeded equipment. Smart power distribution units (PDUs) monitor our lab • Installing waterside economization and dry cooler technologies to improve free equipment, and virtual machines help us increase server utilization. Our Cisco cooling utilization Technical Services (TS) labs across the world, which make up the majority of our labs, use a check-in, check-out system of automation pods to allow lab employees • Improving insulation of heating and cooling piping, valves, and pumps to set up configurations virtually and then release equipment when they are finished with it. This system maximizes the number of people who can use the equipment, Table 17. Energy and GHG emissions reduction projects1 KPI FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 Number of projects implemented 96 165 103 103 145 Annual energy avoided, GWh/yr 22.7 47.1 31.2 40.1 32.4 Total estimated annual CO2e savings, 12,000 22,500 12,400 23,600 10,300 metric tonne CO2e/yr 1 These do not include renewable energy purchases. csr.cisco.com feedback 129 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics minimizes the amount of equipment physically needed in each lab, and reduces the amount of energy used collectively by our TS labs. When a lab team moves to a different lab, users remove unused or old equipment, thereby saving space, power, and cooling in the move. Building efficiency: Data centers Our data center efficiency strategy also focuses on design, utilization, and power management. Our data centers in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, and Allen, Texas, were designed to achieve a Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) of 1.41 and 1.35 at full load, respectively. Both centers have achieved a Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED)-NC Gold Certification (v2.2) from the U.S. Green Building Council by incorporating numerous sustainable design features. We also retrofit our data center spaces with more energy-efficient technologies. Examples of efficiency retrofits we completed over the last several years include: • Installing LED lights •R  eplacing electric-resistance heaters with more efficient heat pumps in our backup generators • Applying coil optimization technologies to improve cooling system efficiency •R  etrofitting existing Computer Room Air Handling units with EC fans to allow Much like our labs, PDUs in our data centers monitor power and control our equipment more efficient variable fan speed use. Data Center Infrastructure Management (DCIM) tools allow us to digitize the data • Installing mixed-mode waterside economizers to allow greater utilization of center. This enables maximum resource allocation efficiency, helping us to bridge the free cooling throughout the year gap between IT workloads and facilities, automatically collect IT and facility data, and better manage power, cooling, and physical space supply and demand. DCIM also provides predictive analytics to identify capacity trends and operational conditions Table 18. requiring attention or preventive action. These tools help our teams make better Examples of recently completed data decisions on whether we need to build new data centers. center energy efficiency retrofits include: We balance loads in order to reduce demand on our power and cooling systems. We are also consolidating capacity by migrating loads into key locations. By consolidating our footprint, we will have fewer locations to support while reducing our square footage Installing LED Replacing electricApplying coil Retrofitting Installing mixedcosts and our overall carbon footprint. Since July 2013, we have reduced our data lights resistance heaters optimization existing CRAH mode waterside center square footage by 20 percent. with more efficient technologies units with EC fans economizers to heat pumps in our that improve to allow more allow greater backup generators cooling system efficient variable utilization of free efficiency fan speed cooling throughout the year csr.cisco.com feedback 130 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics Building efficiency: Green building 20 We have made significant progress toward LEED-Certified data integrating green building standards into center design features our real estate since our first LEED-certified building was built in 2009. By the end of FY18, 20 Cisco facilities had facilities had LEED LEED certification, with 13 rated Gold or The following sustainable design features have been Platinum. These facilities represent over certification by the incorporated into our LEED-NC Gold Certified data centers 2.7 million square feet of LEED-certified space, which is about 12.5 percent of end of FY18 in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, and Allen, Texas: • Waterside and airside economization • Variable frequency drives on major equipment, including Cisco’s global real estate portfolio. pumps, chillers, and CRAH units We also incorporate principles of green • Higher-voltage electrical service distribution of 480/277V; building standards into the Cisco Connected •E  ducational outreach through change rack distribution of 415/230V Workplace, even if LEED certification is not management with design and sustainable • Rooftop solar photovoltaic (PV) planned. These standards make our spaces practices • Heat recovery from data hall for office space use (in North Carolina) more comfortable for our occupants while • Increased building occupancy and efficiency • LED lighting reducing our buildings’ impact on the with the use of data and space policies • Low-e glass windows environment. Some of the principles we • Reclaimed water use in cooling towers (in North Carolina) include are: •W  ellness focus with the provision of spaces • Nonchemical water treatment system for relaxing, socializing, and exercising •T houghtful building layouts that place • Water-efficient plumbing enclosed spaces toward the core, allowing •S  pecification of low-emitting materials • Occupancy sensors integrated with lighting and in construction temperature controls for natural light penetration and placement • Landfill diversion during construction of people near the perimeter We are also able to donate furniture in several •L ED lighting, including task lighting for locations, including sites in San Jose and adjustable occupant lighting control China. In these locations, we first check if the office furniture we are replacing can be used •B iophilic designs such as living walls and in another Cisco office. If not, we donate it to the use of natural materials a local charity or recycle it. We incorporate principles of green building standards into the Cisco Connected Workplace csr.cisco.com feedback 131 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics On-site power: Solar and combined heat and power (CHP) Boxborough, Massachusetts, campus. We installed five arrays containing 3,168 solar panels. The output for this system is nearly 1 million kWh per year. Our We prefer on-site power projects where possible, but off-site power is often other on-site solar systems are located at our data centers in Allen, Texas; RTP, the better option due to factors such as location, budget, and space constraints. North Carolina; and other campus buildings in Bangalore, India. While we do utilize unbundled RECs today to help meet our renewable energy goal, we continue to engage utilities and renewable energy providers to expand We continue to maintain our 425-kW cogeneration system at our Bedfont Lakes both our on-site and off-site renewable energy activities. campus in the U.K. Operating at peak efficiency, this system avoids approximately 850 metric tonne CO2e per year and saves over $510,000 in electricity costs From FY12 through FY18, Cisco increased our total on-site solar PV capacity annually. We have also installed nine solar hot water systems at our campus in from 200 kW to 3 MW. Collectively, these systems produce an average 2.4 million Bangalore, India. These systems collectively produce an average of 8,500 liters kWh of electricity, avoiding 1,400 metric tonne CO2e each year over the of hot water every day, which satisfies approximately 67 percent of our hot water projected 25-year life of the systems. Our newest rooftop solar PV systems demands at the campus. in Bangalore and Pune, India, increase our on-site solar PV capacity in India to over 1 MW. We also completed a 966-kW solar PV carport in 2015 at our Renewables strategy We identify and evaluate potential projects in the following order: 1. On-site power opportunities 2. G  reen power contracts with utilities 3. Off-site power opportunities 4. R  enewable Energy Certificates (RECs) csr.cisco.com feedback 132 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics Purchasing renewable electricity international RECs (I-RECs) in India. The percent Other accomplishments in FY18 include: of electricity purchased from renewable energy Purchasing electricity generated from •P urchasing 100 percent of the electricity used sources for various regions is also shown in renewable or other low-carbon sources is at our facilities from renewable energy sources Table 19. a big part of our GHG reduction strategy. Our in the United States and many European global renewable electricity purchases are Utility providers are enabling better access countries, including Belgium, Denmark, summarized in Table 19. We have purchased to renewable energy. At Cisco, we take full France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, renewable electricity primarily in the United advantage of these types of opportunities and Switzerland, and the United Kingdom States and Europe since FY06 by buying RECs also commit to taking simple measures to •C ontinuing participation in Duke Energy’s and entering into green power contracts with provide easy access to new renewable energy. Green Rider program to purchase about various electricity suppliers. In FY18, we We signed our second and third solar power 10 percent of the electricity used at our purchased 1,090 GWh of Green-e Certified purchase agreements (PPAs) in Karnataka, India RTP campus from 10 MW of solar projects RECs and green power in the U.S., 97 GWh in April 2018. Collectively, these agreements located in North Carolina of green power in Europe, and 134 GWh of will deliver 85,000 MWh of clean, renewable electricity every year to the local electric grid •C ontinuing participation in Austin Energy’s where our Bangalore campus is located. These Green Choice program to purchase Table 19. Renewable energy 100 percent of the electricity used at agreements will provide nearly 40 percent of the electricity we need to power our Bangalore our facilities in Austin, Texas, from local FY07 wind power systems KPI Baseline Year FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 campus and represent a big step towards achieving our FY22 GHG reduction and To further engage with green power providers, Electricity from renewable 110 579 1167 1264 1324 1349 sources, GWh renewable energy goals. Cisco works with both the WWF’s Corporate Percent progress against 10.7% 36.8% 71.3% 77.0% 80.0% 82.1% Renewable PPA agreements not only allow us Renewable Buyers’ Principles and Rocky reduction goal to receive solar-generated electricity bundled Mountain Institute’s Business Renewables Goal: Use electricity with the associated RECs, but also save us Center. Cisco also participates in the EPA’s generated from renewable money and reduce volatility in our energy Green Power Partnership and ranks consistently sources for 85 percent high in the EPA Green Power rankings. of our global electricity budget by locking in electricity prices over the by FY22 term of the agreements. Furthermore, they Electricity usage from renewable sources by region: create local jobs and add clean, renewable power to the Indian electric grid, which is critical EMEAR (Europe, Middle 31.4% 60.8% 48.1% 43.6% 59.2% 62.4% East, Africa, and Russia) considering around 75 percent of the power in India is generated from carbon-intensive coalIndia 0.0% 1.0% 1.6% 33.3% 45.3% 49.0% fired power plants. We completed our first PPA United States 9.5% 43.8% 96.7% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% in 2017, which now provides solar power to our San Jose, California, headquarters. csr.cisco.com feedback 133 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics Scope 3 Scope 3 emissions cover a broad range of activities, including our Table 20. Progress toward 2020 Scope 3 supply chain GHG reduction goal supply chain, logistics, product use, and product end-of-life. Table 12 shows the public commitments we have made to reduce our Scope 3 FY12 Base emissions. Additional Scope 3 emissions information is available in our KPI Year FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 response to Question 6.5 of the 2018 CDP Investor Survey. Cumulative GHG emissions avoided from Scope 3 8,958 213,331 337,975 500,170 711,980 910,582 supply chain GHG emissions, metric tonne CO2e Scope 3 GHG emissions reduction strategy Percent progress against reduction goal 0.9% 21.3% 33.8% 50.0% 71.2% 91.0% Goal: Avoid 1 million metric tonne cumulative of GHG Our Scope 3 emissions reduction efforts are focused on reducing emissions in our supply chain from FY12 to FY20 emissions related to our products’ energy efficiency and supply chain operations. Our overall strategy to accomplish these objectives is to: • Increase product power efficiency through continual engineering To build upon the knowledge gained from our Scope 3 supply chain GHG emission improvements inventory (developed using the data reported through CDP), Cisco launched the •C  ollaborate with supply chain partners to optimize transport and materials in Supply Chain GHG Reduction Program to formalize and execute on a top-down the manufacturing of our products, and increase energy efficiency in our Tier 2 approach to reducing GHG emissions. The mission of the program is to reduce virtual factories Cisco’s Scope 3 supply chain GHG emissions to reduce environmental impact while delivering additional supply chain benefits and customer satisfaction. The Supply Chain GHG Reduction Program provides the framework to: Scope 3 supply chain • Prioritize opportunities based on supplier data collected via CDP To gain an accurate picture of the life cycle impacts of our products, we need to understand the impacts associated with our supplier GHG emissions. In 2016, • Embed emissions accounting and responsibilities in our processes and tools we set a goal to avoid 1 million metric tonne of GHG emissions from our supply • Execute projects that deliver Scope 3 supply chain GHG emissions reductions chain by FY20. This goal is our first quantitative emissions goal to encompass • Report on GHG emissions avoidance and other benefits Scope 3 supply chain activities Cisco directs or influences, such as sourcing strategies, excess component management, product fulfillment model designs, Individual initiatives within the program focus on specific areas of supply chain manufacturing-related energy use, and transport mode optimization executed GHG emissions prioritized by our CDP-based Scope 3 carbon footprint. The by third parties. carbon footprint study supplemented product LCAs and CDP-based supplier emissions data to identify hot spots as targets for reduction. Using this study, our three primary areas of focus have been materials, energy, and logistics. GRI 305-3 csr.cisco.com feedback 134 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics In FY18, the Supply Chain GHG Reduction Program continued the momentum Promoting transparency in the supply chain with employees and executives needed to drive change in the supply chain. The CSR practices are embedded in our supply chain business processes. We program consists of six tracks, each focused on a specific mission for reducing continue to improve these processes to make environmental sustainability a or avoiding supply chain emissions. Specific areas of reduction and details of key criterion in our relationships with and assessment of our suppliers. This achievements are reported individually in their respective Scope 3 cradle-tochapter focuses on supply chain issues relating to the environment. Discussion gate categories. of our Supplier Responsibility practices not related to the environment can be Their categorization against the GHG Protocol and links to their FY18 performance found in the Society section. are as follows: Improving transparency in the supply chain is critical to helping us address some • Make It Green: Scope 3 Transportation and Distribution and Scope 3 Purchased of our most significant sustainability issues. To target our work with suppliers and Goods and Services peers and improve performance, we need to identify key concerns and impacts. Supply chain transparency is also something our stakeholders want to see– • Mode Shift: Scope 3 Transportation and Distribution customers and governments are demanding it. • Responsible Supply Chain Design: Scope 3 Transportation and Distribution To help us understand key impacts in our supply chain and how they are • Services Green: Scope 3 Transportation and Distribution managed, we: • Component Scrap Management: Scope 3 Purchased Goods and Services • Encourage suppliers to publish CSR reports describing how they manage their • Partner Energy Management: Scope 3 Purchased Goods and Services most significant sustainability impacts • Require suppliers to report GHG emissions and targets through CDP Supply Chain via Cisco’s supplier scorecarding process; for more information refer to the FY18 letter requesting our suppliers to report to CDP (Appendix I) • Conduct site audits of high-risk supplier facilities •U  se worker interviews and support other RBA-sponsored research and training initiatives to gather actionable, direct feedback from factory workers to complement audit findings To gain an accurate picture of the life cycle impacts of our products, we need to understand the impacts associated with our supplier GHG emissions. As a member of the CDP Supply Chain Program, we request that all suppliers with whom we have a significant business relationship report their impacts to CDP. We then use specific metrics from their responses in our sustainability scorecard, shown in Figure 42. We encourage suppliers to share information, even in areas where they are not performing well. For example, we ask suppliers to report any environmental infractions or remedial actions through an annual self-assessment audit process. Using standardized RBA self-assessment tools makes this process efficient for suppliers serving multiple customers. GRI 103-2, 103-3 csr.cisco.com feedback 135 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics 1 Report to CDP 2 Response to Public Figure 42. Cisco supplier CDP GHG reporting performance 3 3rd Party Assurance 4 Set Goal 5 Engage Suppliers Manufacturing partners Component suppliers 13 100% 100% 24 5 1 80% 4 80% 2 5 60% 3 60% 40% 40% 20% 20% 0% 0% FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 Logistics End-of-life 100% 1 100% 2 1 5 2 80% 80% 5 4 4 60% 3 60% 40% 40% 20% 20% 0% 0% 3 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 csr.cisco.com feedback 136 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics Active participation in the self-assessment process is positively reflected in each supplier’s Table 21. Categorization of supplier environmental audit findings* in FY18 scorecard. We make it clear they will not be penalized for disclosing this information. Our % of Audit Findings Findings Findings Total Number Elements aim is to promote open dialogue and to work Identified Identified Identified of Audit Resulting in with suppliers to reach an acceptable outcome. as Priority1 as Major2 as Minor3 Elements4 Findings Environment 0 62 14 984 7.72% Supplier audit findings Environmental permits and reporting 0 9 0 Pollution prevention and resource reduction 0 2 1 Environmental findings in our suppliers’ factories are a key dimension of the Supplier Code of Hazardous substances 0 22 7 Conduct. Cisco performs audits on our highWastewater and solid waste 0 7 3 risk suppliers through the RBA Validated Audit Air emissions 0 6 0 Protocol (VAP). Materials restrictions 0 0 0 There were no priority environment findings in Stormwater management (new in VAP 5.1) 0 13 1 FY18. We worked with our suppliers to ensure Energy consumption and GHG emissions 0 3 2 that major findings were closed and helped them establish environmental management systems * A  n audit finding is defined as a nonconformance with our Supplier Code of Conduct found during an audit. Criteria for categorization of findings are in accordance with the RBA Validated Audit Process Audit Operations Manual. to prevent similar findings from happening again. 1 Priority finding: A major nonconformance with significant and immediate impact. Table 21 details environment-related supplier 2 Major finding: A significant failure in the management system that renders established processes or procedures ineffective. audit findings. To learn more about our audit 3 Minor finding: Typically an isolated or random incident that does not necessarily indicate a systemic problem with management systems. 4 Total audit elements: The total number of audit elements with the potential for a finding for the 57 FY17 audits. processes, see the Society chapter here. We also use a database from the Institute of Public and Environmental Affairs to identify the existing and reported environmental pollution violations for our suppliers in mainland China. We are working closely with these suppliers to remediate the existing issues and make sure they comply with the local environmental law; we also encourage our manufacturing partners to work with their downstream suppliers. Scope 3 business air travel As shown in Table 12, Cisco closed its last travel goal in 2017. Please refer to our final report on this goal starting on page 108 of our 2017 CSR Report. We continue to report travel emissions as part of our Scope 3 CDP reporting. Our 2018 CDP submission is available here. GRI 308-2 csr.cisco.com feedback 137 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics Scope 3 employee commuting Flexible work practices In addition to the collaboration tools we make widely available to our employees, several Cisco network technologies also permit flexible working environments Figure 43. (for example, working from home or remotely). These include Cisco Virtual Office Benefits of Cisco and Cisco OfficeExtend. Cisco Virtual Office provides wired and wireless voice, transportation services data, and video service for an employee’s home or for small commercial offices,  nvironment E using Cisco ISR integrated services routers and IP phones. Cisco OfficeExtend • Fewer GHG emissions and less congestion is an even simpler solution–a remote wireless access point in the employee’s Employees home that provides the same highly secure communications to a wireless local• Improved work-life balance and area network (WLAN) controller at the connected Cisco campus. job satisfaction • Reduced vehicle maintenance and commuting costs 25,000+ • Greater productivity Cisco employees use Cisco Virtual Office to work remotely Many employees also use Cisco’s AnyConnect Secure Mobility Client to connect to our enterprise network, enabling them to work from any device, at any time, in any location. Although telecommuting or working remotely does not directly reduce their area. We also offer transit shuttle services at eight of our locations, making air travel, it helps our employees become more proficient in using collaborative it easier for mass transit commuters to get from public transport stations to technologies, which is especially important for a global technology company. Our our sites. In FY18, over 2,150 employees took advantage of our mass transit employees can then use these skills to reduce air travel when possible. incentive program each month, and our commuter and transit shuttle services provided 991,000 rides either to or from work. Transportation services We launched a carpooling program for our San Francisco Bay Area locations in FY16. By the end of FY18, 6,200 users had signed up to participate either as riders We provide a variety of transportation services to our employees to help them or drivers, and matched users for 150,000 carpooling trips in FY18. commute to and from work, move around our campus locations and adjoining communities, and receive vehicle services while parked. We offer electric vehicle (EV) charging at 43 locations across the North America, Latin America, Europe, China, and India, saving over 1,200 metric tonne CO2 in Cisco encourages our employees’ use of mass transit by providing campus FY18. By the end of FY18, we had over 283 stations with more than 492 charging shuttle services at eight of our locations globally, incentive programs that lower ports available for use by Cisco employees and guests1. the cost of mass transit, and information about public transportation options in 1 Cisco includes the electricity used to charge employee EVs in our Scope 2 emissions. csr.cisco.com feedback 138 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics Cisco also maintains a fleet of company cars for our employees in Europe and has been working to reduce the GHG emissions associated with this fleet over the last 5 years. We have set a limit Cisco locations with EV charging on the allowable CO2 emissions of newly purchased vehicles, and promote EVs when possible. The current limit we set is 120 g/km for U.S. • Toronto, Canada diesel cars, and 140 g/km for gasoline cars. We expect to further • Irvine, California • Hangzhou, China reduce these limits over time, as the automobile industry continues to • Pleasanton, California • Hefei, China release more fuel-efficient and less polluting vehicles. • Rancho Cordova, • Suzhou, China California • San Jose, Costa Rica In FY19, employees who select EVs for their company car will get a • Santa Clara, California • Prague, Czech Republic home charger installed free of charge, while we continue to increase • San Francisco, California • Espoo, Finland the number of EV charging units at our Cisco offices. See table 22 • San Jose, California • Paris, France for the percentage of EVs in Cisco’s fleet. • Lawrenceville, Georgia • Eschborn, Germany We also provide a number of on-site services for employees on our • Fulton, Maryland • Bangalore, India campuses, including refueling, car washing, oil changes, and bicycle • Boxborough, • Chennai, India storage. These and other concierge services reduce employee Massachusetts • Rome, Italy commuting time, employee stress, and vehicle miles. In FY18, our • Charlotte, North Carolina • Vimercate, Italy Booster refueling service was utilized by almost 7,200 employees, • Greensboro, • Amsterdam, Netherlands reducing their driving mileage by 58,750 miles and reducing the North Carolina • Lysaker, Norway associated CO2 emissions by 26 metric tonne. • Research Triangle Park, • Krakow, Poland North Carolina • Bucharest, Romania • Malvern, Pennsylvania • Madrid, Spain • Richardson, Texas • Stockholm, Sweden Table 22. Percentage EVs in Cisco company cars • San Antonio, Texas • Écublens, Switzerland • Bedfont Lakes, Year FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 Outside of U.S. United Kingdom • Salzburg, Austria • Chandlers Ford, Total fleet size 6,550 6,580 6,100 5,950 5,440 • Vienna, Austria United Kingdom Number of electric vehicles 38 127 334 420 469 • Diegem, Belgium • Green Park, Percentage of electric vehicles 0.6% 1.9% 5.5% 7.1% 8.6% • Kortrijk, Belgium United Kingdom • Ottawa, Canada csr.cisco.com feedback 139 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics Scope 3 life cycle emissions Figure 44. Breakdown of GHG emissions by life cycle phase for select product categories LCA techniques (specifically, carbon footprinting) help us understand the largest impacts of our 80+18+1 91+6+21 91+6+21 Chassis-based Small access products so we can focus on the areas where IP phone switch router we can make the most difference. We use the five product life cycle stages defined by the GHG Protocol in its 2011 Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard, which itself is based on the ISO 14040 series standards: • Material acquisition and pre-processing • Production • Distribution and storage Use 80.5% Use 93.4% Use 92.80% • Use Manufacturing 19.5% Manufacturing 6.0% Manufacturing 5.95% Transport 0.2% Transport 1.0% Transport 1.45% • End-of-life End-of-life -0.2% End-of-life -0.4% End-of-life -0.20% We are committed to shaping our industry in this area 92+4+31 87+9+31 Large chassis Mid-level through two avenues: router ethernet switch • Internal research to develop our capabilities • Industry engagement Our LCA work has focused on our most common product categories, including IP phones, standalone switches, servers, and routers, which cover a majority of our products. We have also assessed Cisco TelePresence videoconferencing to determine its net benefit as a substitute for travel. Use phase emissions Use 93.0% Use 89.0% generally account for more than 80 percent of product Manufacturing 4.0% Manufacturing 8.5% life cycle emissions1. Use-phase emissions account Transport 3.2% Transport 3.0% for more than 90 percent of life-cycle emissions for End-of-life -0.2% End-of-life -0.5% larger routers and switches, because power is higher relative to weight. For lower-power devices, like Note: Negative EOL values indicate material credits associated with recycling and reuse of materials. endpoint devices that might have a shorter lifetime, can be turned off, and whose use is compatible with idle or standby modes, the percentage of emissions from the use phase is lower. 1  lobal emissions factors can vary by a factor of three, which impacts use-phase emissions. This G analysis used the global average electricity emissions factor. Larger-grid emissions factors increase the percentage of overall emissions in the use phase. csr.cisco.com feedback 140 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs E  nvironmental Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics Figure 45. Next year, we will join Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s (MIT’s) Product Attribute to Impact Algorithm (PAIA), which is an organization that aims to make 34+21+131031 IP phone manufacturing phase impacts electronics LCAs more standardized and accurate by creating a tool that uses Integrated circuits 35% ranges of industry data. In FY19, we will conduct at least two updated LCAs on Printed wiring boards 22% our phones and servers to capture the changes in our products, such as use of LCD screens 13% recycled content in our phones. Memory 13% Plastic 10% These efforts build and share knowledge, apply life-cycle concepts to our Cables 3% product design and operations, build engagement with academics, and support Electronic components (excl ICs) 3% the ICT sector in working toward practical and useful methodologies to assess Packaging 1% the GHG emissions impact of our products. Enclosure metals 1% Electromechanicals <1% Scope 3 cradle-to-gate emissions In FY12, we improved our capability to perform LCAs, developing tools to automate As part of our commitment to reducing GHG emissions, we are focusing on our the analysis of product materials and standardizing life cycle models. Since then, own facilities, employee business travel, and supply chain. CDP continues to we have focused on ways to further improve data availability and accuracy in the serve as a foundation for supplier engagement, emissions reporting, prioritization, materials and manufacturing phases. Figure 45 shows the manufacturing phase and goal setting. For more information about our supplier engagement process, carbon footprint of a Cisco IP phone. Collecting accurate data to support LCA please refer to the Promoting Transparency in the Supply Chain section of this modeling is most difficult for the largest impact areas identified in the manufacturing chapter. Detailed accounts of our Scope phase: integrated circuits, bare printed circuit boards, displays, and assembly and 3 carbon inventory results can be found in test processes. To address this challenge, we are working with industry peers and response to Question C6.5 of our 2018 Transportation and suppliers to collect more data and improve calculations. CDP Climate Change response. We have participated in several ICT industry efforts working toward a common Distribution Programs approach to assessing environmental impacts of products, including: Scope 3 transportation and distribution FY18 emissions avoided 20,800 • GHG Protocol Scope 3, Product Accounting and Reporting, and ICT Sector Cisco’s Services Green, Mode Shift, and Supplement standards. Over the last 3 years, Cisco has contributed to the Responsible Supply Chain Design initiatives development of these standards, which form the basis for accurate accounting have helped reduce transportation emissions. • European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI) LCA of metric tonne Cisco Services Green initiative uses two primary CO2e Services Green telecommunication equipment and service, DTS/EE-00014 strategies to reduce transportation-related 90,774 • International Electronics Manufacturers Initiative (iNEMI) Eco-Impact Evaluator emissions: dynamic receipt and disposition, Project (completed in FY13) to develop a simplified LCA tool for ICT products. and repair site localization. Dynamic receipt Cisco was co-editor and disposition eliminates the need for a central depot for the evaluation of a product’s metric tonne • High-Density Packaging Users Group (HDPUG) PWB Environmental Life Cycle Cumulative CO2e Mode Shift viability for reuse over recycling. Instead, Analysis project focusing on developing a model for the manufacturing of 36,260 products can be screened locally, and either bare circuit boards forwarded for repair or sent to an approved • Sponsorship of Stanford University civil engineering annual class projects local recycler. Repair site localization takes this one step further, using in-theater repair sites metric tonne and ground transportation whenever possible. CO2e Responsible Supply Chain Design csr.cisco.com feedback 141 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics The Mode Shift initiative optimizes our global, virtual factory-to-factory freight The Partner Energy Management program challenges our contract manufacturing movement of goods, shifting transportation modes from air to ocean whenever sites to pursue verifiable energy saving targets through the digitization of factory practical, while still meeting customer expectations on lead time. activities. Successes to date have focused on Internet of Things (IoT) energy management systems, which use thousands of sensors to precisely measure and The Responsible Supply Chain Design initiative created a supply chain network manage energy consumption across systems and equipment. Cisco realizes our to optimize the net movement of a product during its life cycle, starting with outsourced operations require flexible goals, but we are confident the focus on the component shipments from suppliers and continuing through the finished energy management provides clear benefits—including more affordable energy, product shipments to end customers. Carbon emissions reporting is embedded increased utilization of equipment, and increased awareness and capacity among in the “Network Design” modeling tools. Each time a new contract manufacturing factory workers. network design sourcing decision is considered, the modeling tools provide executive-level decision-makers with the logistics carbon emissions impact, Over the last year, we have engaged with suppliers at sites in China, Malaysia, which is then measured alongside traditional supply chain variables like cost, and Mexico. Each site has taken its own approach in designing and completing resiliency, and lead time. energy reduction initiatives, but all have incorporated IoT functionality in some capacity. Furthermore, by leveraging Cisco’s program guidance documents, our partners have been able to obtain limited assurance verification for the energy Scope 3 purchased goods and services savings across these sites in accordance with In a fully outsourced model, the emissions reductions from material, waste, and the International Performance Measurement and energy reduction activities fall under Scope 3 Purchased Goods and Services. The Verification Protocol Efficiency Valuation Make It Green, Component Scrap Management, and Partner Energy Management Organization 10000–1:2012 guidelines. In FY18, programs have led to less waste and material use in our supply chain. the Partner Energy Management initiative saved 6,975 MWh of energy in the factories, the Aligned to the SET Circular Economy track, the Make It Green program is an equivalent of 4,368 metric tonne CO2e. initiative to limit the waste and costs associated with products and packaging while reducing carbon emissions and improving the customer experience. Formerly known as Pack It Green, the program has expanded beyond packaging Scope 3 product use phase optimization to include product fulfillment and the use of recycled materials (product energy efficiency) in our products. Table 25 in the Materials section details the Make It Green Improving product energy efficiency represents program focus areas. more than just a regulatory requirement for Through Make It Green, approximately 4,124 cumulative metric tonne of material Cisco–it is an opportunity for us to help customers (corrugated board, plastic, wood, CDs/DVDs, cables, and other materials) and save on energy costs, reduce global energy 44,367 cumulative metric tonne of CO2e were avoided in FY18. GHG emissions demand, and lower GHG emissions, in addition to included those avoided from reduced material and freight weight reduction. In making our products more competitive. While the addition, these FY18 changes also saved an annualized $30 million in material ICT industry accounts for about 2 percent of the and freight cost reductions. world’s GHG emissions from energy, we expect The Component Scrap Management Program has grown into a formal initiative ICT energy consumption to grow.1 under our Circular Economy program. The objective of the program is to increase Throughout their life cycle, our products consume the internal reuse of excess and obsolete component inventories for other business the largest proportion of energy, and release the units, services repairs, and refurbishing activities wherever possible and to increase most GHG emissions, during the use phase. the external resale of nonproprietary components on global commodity markets to extend the life of those components. In FY17 and FY18, the Component Scrap Management program avoided 3,550 metric tonne CO2e through the resale of 1 U  se phase emissions generally account for more than 80 percent of product life-cycle emissions. Use-phase emissions account 2,972 kg of components into global commodity markets for reuse. for more than 90 percent of life-cycle emissions for larger routers and switches, because power is higher relative to weight, csr.cisco.com feedback 142 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics Customers and regulators have rising expectations of products to minimize energy costs and GHG emissions. Every year the number of inquiries related to environmental sustainability we receive from analysts, customers, shareholders, and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) rises. We track applicable energyuse regulations and certification programs to review compliance needs as requested by our customers. Advocacy and standards development Cisco engages with governments, regulatory agencies, and standards development organizations to monitor and influence the development of emerging product energy-efficiency requirements Efficiency Ratio (TEER) measurement method covers all power conversion and and standards, particularly around climate change. power distribution from the front end of the system to the data wire plug, including We believe these activities, done properly, bring application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs). clarity and consistency to the global marketplace and create predictable requirements that enable Cisco has been a co-editor for several standards, including the ATIS TEER companies to focus on the environmental issues standards and Energy Efficiency of Telecommunications Equipment: Methodology most relevant to their business. Specifically, we for Measurement and Reporting standards, and specifically those regarding: believe product energy-efficiency standards can • Servers and server blades (ATIS-0600015.01.2009) promote innovation by being performance-based, by taking into account product functionality, and by • Transport and network systems (ATIS-0600015.02.2009) relying on objective criteria, real-world data, and • Router and ethernet switch products (ATIS-0600015.03.2009) system-level efficiency. These ATIS TEER standards created a framework for measuring product energy Since 2008, we have been working with the EPA usage that takes into account product functionality and uses real-world loads to to define ENERGY STAR requirements for relevant determine energy efficiency across the entire product. This is important because products. In 2013 the EPA released the Version 1.0 ENERGY STAR specification it allows companies like Cisco to compare energy-usage design improvements to differentiate more efficient products across multiple types of large networking from product generation to generation, and it helps consumers make better equipment. We are qualifying some in-scope products with this and other existing informed purchasing decisions. ENERGY STAR specification programs. To date, the ENERGY STAR specification These ATIS TEER standards have been incorporated into the Network Equipment programs relevant to Cisco products include enterprise servers, IP phones, and Building System (NEBS) design guidelines applied to telecommunications small and large network equipment (SNE/LNE). A list of Cisco ENERGY STARequipment in the United States. NEBS is the most common set of safety, spatial, qualified products is available on the ENERGY STAR program website. and environmental design guidelines applied to telecommunications equipment, Although ENERGY STAR is a useful means to promote product energy efficiency and compliance with these guidelines is an industry (but not a legal) requirement. improvements, we believe an approach that addresses product energy efficiency All Cisco products that have entered the market since 2011 have gone through across an entire product system is a better way to measure and promote energy ATIS TEER testing. efficiency. ENERGY STAR standards generally apply to a single point of power Table 23 highlights several illustrative examples of energy efficiency initiatives supply conversion at the front end of the total system. In contrast, the Alliance and organizations Cisco participates in. for Telecommunications Industry Solutions (ATIS) Telecommunications Energy csr.cisco.com feedback 143 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics Table 23. Energy-efficiency-related initiatives and organizations Organization Area/Issue of Engagement European Commission Joint Research Cisco is a signatory and active member of the EU Code of Conduct on Energy Consumption of Broadband Communication Equipment. Center, Codes of Conduct Aspirational goals are provided in order to reduce energy consumption of broadband communication equipment without hampering the fast technological developments and the service provided. Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Cisco is an active member of ATIS and engages with other member organizations to develop standards relevant to the telecommunications Solutions (ATIS) industry. In 2010, Cisco took a lead role in the development of the ATIS Telecommunications Energy Efficiency Ratio (TEER) standard for the measurement of product energy efficiency. Minimum Energy Performance Standards Cisco supports efforts that focus on the development of energy performance requirements and limit the maximum power consumption of (MEPS) (Australia and Korea) product standby modes. European Telecommunications Standards Cisco is engaged with ETSI in the development of standards for energy efficiency. Institute (ETSI) Cisco provided the rapporteur for the router and switch standard ES 203 136 which addresses measurement methods for energy efficiency of routers and switches and for the ETSI server standard EN303470 where the active efficiency metrics and idle measurements are defined for 2and 4-socket servers. Cisco is also collaborating with industry peers on efficiency standards around NFV and SDN and has provided significant input to ETSI EN 303 423 : Electrical and electronic household and office equipment—Measurement of networked standby power consumption of interconnecting equipment Responsible Business Alliance (RBA), Cisco is a founding member of the RBA, leverages many RBA tools, and has contributed to the development and revision of the RBA formerly EICC Code of Conduct. The Green Grid (TGG) The Green Grid is a global consortium of companies dedicated to resource efficiency in business computing ecosystems. Cisco participates on a broad range of issue topics, including data center management, liquid cooling technology, power usage effectiveness (PUE), water usage effectiveness (WUE), and energy usage effectiveness (EUE). International Telecommunication Union (ITU) Cisco is a major contributor to the ITU-T SG5 Lead Study Group on ICT and climate change. On circular economy aspects, we will start to (worldwide) work on ITU-T L.CE_Concepts: Circular Economy. Definitions and concepts for material efficiency for ICT. Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry Cisco supports efforts that focus on the development of a minimum energy efficiency requirement for networking router and switch (METI) (Japan) product groups. U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), Cisco has been working with the EPA to define ENERGY STAR standards for networking equipment: SNE, LNE, telephony equipment, Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and servers. Cisco also has worked with Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, the EPA/DOE technical arm, Navigant, the National Resources Defense Council (NRDC), and Ecova on measurement methodologies and metrics. Cisco routinely provides feedback to these organizations on best practices, draft standards, and actual power measurement procedures for relevant products. Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) TRAI is an Indian government regulatory organization for the telecommunications industry. In 2011 it released recommendations and guidance on energy-efficiency metrics and measurement. Cisco provided extensive document reviews and recommendations on how to align with existing and widely adopted ATIS/ANCI and ITU-R relevant documents. European Committee For Electrotechnical Cisco is actively working on the following standards: Standardization—CENELEC TC10 • prEN 45552—General method for the assessment of the durability of energy-related products • prEN 45554—General methods for the assessment of the ability to repair, reuse and upgrade energy related products Cisco is providing input and monitoring the following standards development: • prEN 45553—General method for the assessment of the ability to re-manufacture energy related products • prEN 45555—General methods for assessing the recyclability and recoverability of energy related products. • prEN 45556—General method for assessing the proportion of re-used components in an energy related product • prEN 45557—General method for assessing the proportion of recycled content in an energy related product • prEN 45558—General method to declare the use of critical raw materials in energy related products Electronic Product Environmental Cisco is engaged with IEEE and NSF International in the development of server standards for energy efficiency, covering clouds services, Assessment Tool—EPEAT telecommunications, and architectural framework. GRI 102-12, 102-13 csr.cisco.com feedback 144 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics Improving product energy efficiency packet processing engines. To cool these higher-power components, more efficient and effective systems must be deployed. These advanced cooling By improving product energy efficiency, we address two key systems, targeted towards 2023, will utilize multiphase cooling techniques challenges facing Cisco. First, in order to achieve the projected, to transfer expected thermal output of next-generation switches and routers. and required, product performance specifications for the next 5 to 10 years, Cisco products will require an architecture having • High-speed interconnects initiative: High-speed silicon-to-silicon or optics“energy scalability”—meaning it can provide energy-efficient to-silicon interconnects are an integral part of routing and switching systems. service for variable traffic types, traffic demands, customer usage, These interconnects consume a significant portion of the total system power. and installs. Second, the GHG emissions associated with the We are exploring ways to increase the interconnect speed, driving the gigabits energy our products consume during their lifetime of use is per second per watt (Gbps/W) consumed metric as high as possible to increase by far our largest emission source. In order to address these performance and reduce energy use. By the end of 2020, increasing traffic challenges, Cisco is investing in four primary product energy bandwidth demand will require interconnect speed efficiency to be discussed efficiency engineering initiatives: in terms of Tbps/W of traffic transmitted or received. It is assumed that by 2022, ASIC packet processing technology will consume more than 1,000 watts •P ower initiative: We are improving product efficiency from in a 4-inch by 4-inch area using hundreds of transmit and receive channels plug to port of our products, and set a product power efficiency and thousands of power connections. This initiative drives optimization in the goal in early FY18. This goal is to improve large rack-mountedhigh-speed signaling interconnect to allow more physical space and effective equipment system power efficiency—as measured from the input methods of delivering power to the ASIC. power from the facility to the board-mounted ASICs, memory, and other chip devices—from 77 percent to 87 percent by FY22 • Customer facilities initiative: We are working with customers to reduce the (FY16 baseline). Additional detail on this goal is available in amount of energy required to operate IT facilities by using power solutions our goal announcement blog post. Progress toward this goal is that increase the efficiency of overhead power, avoid step-down transformers, shown in Table 24. The outcome of such a goal drives Cisco to and provide integrated cooling strategies. These end-to-end solutions for design new power systems that result in a net positive gain in our customers reduce hardware requirements and energy consumption while overall product efficiency. providing a more integrated method for managing IT infrastructures. This initiative includes developing power supplies having wide-ranging AC and DC •T  hermal initiative: We are exploring alternative methods of cooling (air flow, inputs, and Power over Ethernet (PoE) and Pulsed Power systems integrated liquid, and refrigerant cooling) to reduce operating temperatures and facility into connected building applications that reduce the buildout of future cooling requirements. Forced air cooling systems in wide use today have electrical infrastructure. limitations in cooling concentrated areas of high power from next-generation When we evaluate product energy efficiency, we consider the power performance of the entire system. We measure the percent efficiency as electricity passes Table 24. Product power efficiency improvements (large rack-mounted-equipment) through each component (or function). This can include, for example, the external power supply units (PSU), intermediate bus converter (IBC), point of load (POL), FY16 and ASIC, memory, or other chips. baseline KPI year FY17 FY18 Scope 3 product end-of-life System power efficiency (percent) Goal: Improve large rack-mounted-equipment system power 77% 80% 82% The last product life-cycle phase defined in the GHG Protocol Product Life Cycle efficiency-as measured from the input power from the facility Accounting and Reporting Standard is end-of-life (EOL) management. There are to the board-mounted ASICs, memory and other chip devices— minimal emissions associated with this life-cycle phase for Cisco products, and from 77 percent to 87 percent by 2022 (FY16 baseline). most of them are connected to the transport of the returned product and the recycling process. For more details, see the Product End-of-Life section. csr.cisco.com feedback 145 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics Enabling effect We are making progress in managing the GHG emissions in our own operations, in our supply chain, and at other phases of the product life cycle. Our products and services also offer opportunities through the “enabling effect.”1 The enabling effect happens when ICT sector products and services can be used to achieve reductions in GHG emissions in other industry sectors. For example, high-definition videoconferencing (ICT sector) can be used in place of face-toface interaction to avoid air travel (transportation sector), and energy monitoring and control of IP-enabled devices (ICT sector) can be used to reduce energy consumption in buildings (real estate and industrial sectors). In addition, Cisco products can support LEED accreditation. Currently, network products can only get LEED credit under the Innovation category of the LEED: BD+C: Data Center program. Under the LEED: BD+C: Data Center program, only ENERGY STAR-certified products can get LEED credit, up to six points. Information on ENERGY STAR qualification of Cisco products is discussed in the Scope 3 Product Use Phase (Product Energy efficiency) section of this chapter; certified Cisco products are listed on the ENERGY STAR website. Cisco sponsored and contributed to the first SMART 2020 report in 2009, which identified opportunities for the ICT sector to develop and apply network technologies to reduce total GHG emissions by 15 percent. The report continues to be a seminal work and still guides industry strategy. Considering the ICT sector was projected to be responsible for only 3 percent of global emissions in 2020, this represents a substantial positive impact. Potential reductions are concentrated in the areas of transportation, buildings, power/energy, and industry. 1 See the Smart 2020 report published by GeSI for a more detailed explanation of the enabling effect. csr.cisco.com feedback 146 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics Figure 46. Reducing GHG emissions from business air travel Remote collaboration The use of our remote collaboration technologies, Figure 46, helps Cisco and our clients reduce business-air-travel emissions. These technologies technology solutions include Webex Teams®, Cisco TelePresence®, Cisco Webex®, Cisco Unified Communications, and Cisco Jabber® collaboration solutions. Our adoption of these technologies has yielded a reduction in business-travel carbon emissions and travel costs, plus an increase in employee productivity and work-life balance, all while maintaining and growing the customer relationships we need for continued revenue growth. Going forward, Cisco will continue to use collaboration technologies to address our business air travel impacts. Replacing business air travel with remote collaboration requires more than just technology. Our business processes, management practices, and culture have also had to adapt. As experience with collaborative technologies increases, within Cisco and among Immersive 1in 3 our customers and partners, remote videoconferencing interactions have progressed from We have more than 1,500 Cisco TelePresence rooms deployed in our being the exception to now being a offices worldwide. standard practice. Personal Hosting and attending Webex meetings videoconferencing global ISO 14001 with other employees or with customers, Hardware-based (DX80 and Cisco TelePresence) audits performed partners, and other stakeholders has become as common as using the personal video totals more than 8,000 units. using Cisco remote telephone. We use Cisco TelePresence, Jabber, and Webex for virtual company collaboration tools meetings, executive operational reviews, and department “all hands” meetings. About one-third of our annual global ISO 14001 site audits are performed using Cisco remote collaboration solutions. This real-world experience guides product development and helps with the rollout of supporting management practices. Because the Small office rate of adoption of remote collaboration technologies has matured, we are videoconferencing no longer trending adoption metrics included in our previous CSR reports. Cisco Connected Workplace is Cisco’s shared office space solution. Many small, flexible-use rooms for one to two people have DX80 or MX00 Desktop videoconferencing units installed, totaling more than 400 units worldwide. Cisco Connected Workplace videoconferencing Webex is available to all Cisco employees is Cisco’s shared office space solution. using Cisco-assigned laptops; Cisco TelePresence and Cisco Webex now interoperate. csr.cisco.com feedback 147 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Use Topics Material use We are manufacturing products and packaging with more recycled content, and designing for improved recyclability. GRI 103-1, 103-2 csr.cisco.com feedback 148 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Use Topics Goal: Make it green Packaging decrease use of The amount of packaging waste being added to landfills is an environmental A key requirement for our product and packaging designs virgin plastics by concern. To address our impacts in this area, we design our packaging 20% is minimizing materials while achieving performance and reliability targets; see the Design for Environment (DfE) to minimize material usage while protecting our products during shipping, section for more information. warehousing, and delivery. Packaging engineers work with the product design teams to reduce protrusions, product fragility, and product dimensions to Make It Green is Cisco’s sustainable materials, packaging, minimize product packaging and increase packing efficiency during transport. and fulfillment solutions program. Make It Green has by FY25 helped eliminate unwanted or redundant items often Products that are damaged in transit can result in negative business and (FY18 baseline) 1 included in a typical shipment, reducing packaging and environmental impacts. Additional resources, energy, and materials are needed to repair or replace the damaged product. Each packaging design goes through material waste. These solutions also help reduce GHG emissions through lower transportation weights. rigorous drop and vibration testing to confirm it provides the required level of product protection. Product Once basic packaging and material requirements have been met, Cisco Upon request, we provide our customers with basic information about evaluates four additional aspects of environmental package design: product weight and percent of recycled material. As these requests increase, • Packaging material optimization: Designing a package that adequately we continue to improve our ability to support these requests and product protects the product from transport damage or waste while optimizing the information requirements for component-level materials and related weight volume of material and complying with all relevant environmental regulations data. Examples of ongoing work are listed in Table 25. • Space efficiency optimization: Designing a package that optimizes space/ cube efficiency during transport • Optimizing distribution: Designing the product for distribution in order to further reduce the amount of packaging material used and/or GHG emitted in transportation • Environmentally friendly materials: Including recycled content and recyclability in product designs In our 100-percent-outsourced supply chain, material and waste reduction activities and associated GHG avoidance fall under Scope 3 Purchased Goods and Services and Scope 3 Transportation and Distribution. Please refer to these sections for more information about our achievements in packaging optimization in FY18. 1 T  he plastics included in this goal make up the majority of Cisco’s use. However, it excludes plastics contained in commodity components sourced from suppliers (such as printed circuit boards). Most of these electronic components require the electrical insulating property provided by plastics. GRI 103-1, 103-2 csr.cisco.com feedback 149 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Use Topics Table 25. Focus areas for sustainable product, packaging, and fulfillment solutions Category Benefits Cisco product examples Secondary product Reduce materials, packaging, and shipping costs Customers can choose not to receive: configurable options by providing customers with a way to opt out of • Cisco UCS storage product power cables receiving cables, brackets, and similar items. • Cisco Aironet® wireless access point mounting brackets and clips We intend to expand the availability of options to address growing customer demands. However, widespread customer awareness and adoption of such options remains a challenge. Electronic delivery Increase dematerialization and operational The eDelivery program updates software-related products available for of software, licenses, efficiencies. Reduce CDs, paper, and packaging. electronic delivery though unique product IDs and/or Cisco Commerceand product Reduce packaging and fulfillment costs. based electronic fulfillment preferences. documentation “Pointer cards” continue to be used across Cisco product lines to consolidate web links for product and compliance documentation. Bulk packaging Reduce packaging and shipping costs, and Bulk-pack models are now available for high-volume spare products, increase operations efficiencies, by shipping like including cables, optics pluggables, memory, central processing units, products in a carton selected during packing hard drives, fans, and rack gear kits. based on the order quantity. Dense packaging Reduce packaging and shipping costs by In FY18, we continued to focus on optimizing our inbound shipments. optimizing supply chain packaging between The inbound optimization of the Cisco Catalyst® 3K chassis avoided over our factories. 281 metric tonne of packaging (corrugated, metal, and wood) and saved over $1.4 million in material and freight costs. Use of recycled Reduce the amount of new materials required In FY18, Cisco produced 2.5 million IP phones with 35 percent recycled materials to produce our products and packaging while content plastic, avoiding the manufacture and use of more than diverting waste from landfill. 430 metric tonne of virgin plastic. GRI 103-1, 103-2 csr.cisco.com feedback 150 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Use Topics Recycled content Products We use recycled industrial content in our products and our packaging through standard substitutes that are recyclable in most regions after use. When regionally available and technically manufacturing. Electronic products consist primarily of electronic circuit boards, steel, and feasible, we use cushions made from 100 percent recycled polyethylene, which are also recyclable. plastics. Cisco generally does not require a minimum percentage of postconsumer recycled Cisco legacy products, including those produced by our acquired companies, may not incorporate content in new product and/or packaging manufacturing. However, we continue to research the all current best packaging practices. A similar challenge also exists for packaging provided with percentage of recycled materials already being used in our products, and the potential for us to OEM products the Cisco supplier delivers directly to the end customer. specify a broader requirement. While we promote recyclable packaging, sometimes this is not possible. Although metallized In FY17, the Cisco IP Phone 6800 and 7800 Series were released using a minimum of antistatic bags are not easily recycled, they are essential to the safe transport of products 35 percent postconsumer plastic in seven of its unique plastic components, expanding susceptible to damage from electrostatic discharge. Bags are sized to fit the product being the project from FY16 to now include several product families. shipped and minimize the amount of material used. Our contract manufacturers also reuse We continue to make strides in this effort. In FY18, Cisco produced 2.5 million IP phones with antistatic bags whenever technically feasible. 35 percent recycled content plastic, avoiding the use of more than 430 metric tons of virgin plastic. In an effort to not only increase the use of recycled plastic, but decrease the use of plastics Figure 47. overall, we have set an ambitious goal to reduce our use of virgin plastics, Figure 47. Achieving our plastic reduction goal Most product documentation is distributed electronically to consumers. However, some physical documentation is still necessary, such as regional regulatory requirements, safety materials, We have committed to decrease use of and operating instructions. In these cases, the supplier qualification process requires suppliers virgin plastics by 20 percent by FY25 to print their documentation on paper that is chlorine-free and contains at least 10 percent (FY18 baseline). We will do this by: postconsumer waste. We continue to work on ways to reduce the number of physical documents shipped, including the evaluation of new fulfillment technologies that may provide region-specific documentation solutions. For more information, see Table 25 and the Scope 3 Purchased Goods and Services section. Using more refurbished Reducing plastic unnecessary Packaging components plastic Generally, our packaging uses corrugated cardboard that includes a minimum of 30 percent components recycled content. Almost all of our packaging for new products is made either of a single material and packaging or of multiple materials that are separable for recycling. In our global market, customer, municipal, and regional recycling practices vary greatly. The ability of customers to recycle our packaging depends on the recycling facilities in place in their location. The plastic used in Cisco packaging falls into categories identified by Resin Identification Codes 1 to 7. Polyethylene (codes 2 and 4) is the predominant material. Some plastic components carry labels Increasing indicating their plastic recycling code number to aid end-of-life recycling. We use thermoformed recycled plastic medium-density polyethylene (MDPE) cushions made from virgin material or from recycled in products and packaging GRI 103-1, 103-2, 301-2 csr.cisco.com feedback 151 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Use Topics Hazardous Materials Polyvinyl chloride As a global supplier of network equipment, we conform to applicable material regulations for Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) is a product, packaging, and battery materials. We have developed our Controlled Substances nonregulated substance found Specification to fulfill global environmental regulations, and we are committed to reducing in the insulation of cables. Cisco’s the impact of the materials used in our products and in our supply chain. The purpose of previous work on the iNEMI PVC this specification is to communicate Cisco’s substance use and reporting requirements to Alternatives Project to reduce the component suppliers and manufacturing partners. The specification outlines the controlled PVC content in cable insulation substances and any conditions of use, regulatory restrictions, substances to be reported and focused on understanding the phased out, and substances under study for potential inclusion. For additional information environmental trade-offs of standard, on materials-related regulations, visit Cisco’s Materials webpage. In addition, for up-to-date halogen-free, and bio-based cable product-level information, visit our self-service Product Approvals Status (PAS) tool1. jacketing. In FY17, we conducted a sample study to quantify the minimal The following sections cover a number of materials that, while currently not prohibited for usage of PVC in cable insulation in use in our industry, we are working to reduce or substitute in our products where possible. our supply chain. We estimate PVC in cable insulation accounts for less than 1 percent of the total product Halogenated flame retardants weight shipped annually by Cisco. Nonregulated halogenated flame retardants (HFRs) can be found in printed circuit boards We will continue to monitor PVC in and plastic parts. We have worked with manufacturing partners, industry standards technical cable insulation and make changes committees, and academia to validate proposed alternatives for HFRs. Cisco continues to if they are necessary in the future. identify, confirm, and, where technically practical, phase out nonregulated HFRs. Cisco will continue to research Some of the actions we have taken include: alternate materials and apply them to new products where quality and •Q  ualified additional halogen-free PCB laminate materials and increased their use performance requirements can in new products be attained. •E  liminated, from thousands of Cisco-designed plastic parts, the HFRs found in resin compounds Batteries • Over the past 5 years, performed material assessments and identified the areas within our business with the greatest opportunity to move to HFR-free materials Batteries in Cisco products are generally used to maintain information in system memory when a device is powered off. These products are designed so batteries can be easily located and recycled. Product labels are provided to indicate the product contains a battery. This information alerts our recyclers to remove a battery before further processing. 1 Cisco.com registration is required. Register here. Note: This tool is only accessible using Internet Explorer. csr.cisco.com feedback 152 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Use Topics Product End-of-Life Table 26. Product trade-in and returns Extending the usable life of our products and KPI FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 Comments the components inside them has long been a Product returns, metric tonne 12,180 11,718 12,609 11,398 13,946 All materials sent for harvesting, Cisco priority. We operate programs for recycling, and reuse including customers, partners, and employees to take materials received via a Returned back, refurbish, and reuse unneeded products Materials Authorization (RMA) and are continually developing new ways to Refurbish, resell, and reuse rate, 23% 25% 19% 16% 31% Material distributed by Value Recovery manage product materials. percent to Cisco Service Supply, Cisco Refresh, or internal labs Cisco’s Global Scrap Management Aspect Team Returned material sent to landfill, 0.30% 0.27% 0.28% 0.36% 0.35% Landfill material consists only of sets goals for all ISO 14001-certified sites. percent nonelectronic waste materials, One of our goals is lowering the percentage of such as broken pallets, wet cardboard, material received and sent to landfill. For FY18, and shrink wrap, accompanying Cisco product returned by customers we set a goal of sending only 0.48 percent of for recycling. returned material to landfills. We exceeded this goal, sending 0.35 percent of material to landfill, a decrease from 0.36 percent in FY17. Looking ahead, we hope to continue to decrease this percentage. Figure 48. Our trade-in and recycling programs are Cisco trade-in and recycling programs designed to bring back the products Cisco or our acquired companies have sold to channel partners and end users. Of products sent to our e-scrap recyclers, nearly 100 percent are recycled, and all commodity fractions go to downstream recyclers to be made into new products. During FY18, we also refurbished, resold, reused, or recycled 13,946 metric Customer programs Programs for companies Internal programs for Cisco tonne of products returned to us (Table 26). • Cisco Migration Incentive producing or repairing • eBin/Lab Scrap Program We attribute this increase in repurposed Program (MIP) Cisco products material to the high quality of and demand •C  isco Data Center Server • Manufacturing Scrap/ for the material we received in FY18. •C  isco Takeback and Recycling Program Reuse Program Recycle (TB&R) Program Information on our compliance with product •N  on-Genuine Brand • Global Scrap Program recycling regulations, such as the Waste •E  xceptional Pick-Up Program Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) Program (EPUP) • E-scrap events Directive, can be found online. Products are labeled with a crossed-out “wheelie bin” symbol to encourage end users to reuse or Learn how and why Cisco eScrap recycling is connected recycle electronics instead of disposing of to our sustainability and the circular economy them in the trash. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 301-3 csr.cisco.com feedback 153 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Use Topics Figure 49. Reverse logistics material sources and flow of materials for reuse and recycling Sources of reverse Non-genuine Cisco end Cisco end Contract Contract repair Data center eBin & Lab Recycle IT brand protection customer customer manufacturers manufacturers server recycling Scrap Program events program program logistics materials trade-in program takeback & scrap/reuse & RFDs-global program (internal) (internal) (internal, not (TMP/EPUP) recycle program program scrap program (internal) public) Cisco RL Cisco reverse RL receiving Cisco reverse value recovery logistics value logistics value nonproprietary recovery center recovery reuse parts receiving program components center resale Refurbish, Cisco capital Cisco capital Cisco service Cisco service remarketing remarketing supply supply reuse refurbishment resale to refurbishment to customer reuse, resale vendor customer vendor or RFD Recyclers Reverse Logistics Recyclers We have nine different programs in operation to support our product trade-in Harvesting of components and recycling efforts aimed at customers, suppliers, partners, and internal users (Figure 48). A flow diagram of these programs is shown in Figure 49. In January 2017, Cisco launched a pilot program allowing recyclers to harvest commodity components from materials for the first time. Recyclers may harvest For close to two decades, Cisco has used circular economy principles to increase processors, memory, and other hardware having sufficient market value to product returns for resale or recycling; to study leasing and as-a-service models offset the cost of their harvesting, cleaning, packaging, and resale. The pilot to facilitate return and reuse; to implement IoT technologies for improved asset was a success, returning more than $6.7 million worth of components into the tracking, maintenance, and operations; and to improve product and packaging reuse marketplace during FY18. Now, this program is part of our standard design. See the Circular Economy section for more information on our approach process—allowing more components to be returned for reuse. to the circular economy. csr.cisco.com feedback 154 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Use Topics Figure 50. Cisco Reverse Logistics Locations The Cisco Takeback and Recycle (TB&R) program focuses on Cisco branded items that do not qualify for either the MIP or EPUP. The TB&R also Aleksahdrov, Russia accepts equipment from other manufacturers that Sweden has been replaced by newly purchased Cisco Gustavsberg, Germany Finland items. The equipment is typically old and has no Netherlands (2) Switzerland reuse value, or it is damaged. These materials R&R Ops NL Nürnberg, Germany Austria Moscow, Russia go to the closest Cisco approved recycling site. Czechia Toronto, Canada Ireland Currently, there are 47 approved recycling UK Poland R&R Ops Roseville, CA Belgium Ukraine locations (Figure 50). The number and location Hungary West Chicago, IL France Serbia of Cisco authorized recyclers continue to expand Spain Italy Turkey Roseville, CA Israel based on the growth in our business and the La Vergne, TN Shanghai, China Portugal Greece Japan requirements of local regulations. Tucson, AZ R&R Ops Hong Kong Mexico Tampa, FL Croatia Shenzen, China Engaging with our TB&R is easy and Saudi Arabia UAE Hong Kong straightforward: Customers go to the web India portal to submit a pick-up request form. Costa Rica Panama City, Panama Cisco’s contracted third-party recycler Quito, Ecuador Colombia Malaysia (2) then contacts the customer to arrange the Singapore pick-up and work out the logistics to return the materials to the appropriate location. Peru Brazil Programs for companies producing Chile REVERSE LOGISTICS-RECEIVING & REUSE OPS or repairing Cisco products CISCO CONTRACTED RECYCLER LOCATION Australia KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa Argentina RECYCLER SUBCONTRACTED PARTNER LOCATIONS CURRENT WAREHOUSE/DISASSEMBLY LOCATION The Cisco Manufacturing Scrap/Reuse Program takes excess, obsolete, or damaged materials from our contract manufacturers, manufacturing partners, original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), original design Customer programs manufacturers (ODMs), and proprietary component suppliers. Our contracted The Cisco Migration Incentive Program (MIP; formerly the Technology Migration repair manufacturers and distribution depots use the Global Scrap Program for Program) and Exceptional Pick-Up Program (EPUP) enable customers to return their excess, obsolete, or damaged materials. Both of these programs are a used equipment. MIP is a global channel partner program that rewards the migration valuable source of reusable product. of an existing customer network to new Cisco technologies with incremental discount on the new equipment purchase. These programs provide Cisco with Internal programs for Cisco the newest and best-quality used equipment for refurbishment and reuse. Trade-in materials are refurbished, resold, or reused by Cisco Capital® Refresh, The largest of Cisco’s internal programs is the eBin/Lab Scrap Program. The Cisco Service Supply, or our internal labs. Reuse is always our first priority. In eBin program began at our San Jose campus, where 450 labs produce a large FY18, we reused nearly $249 million of Cisco equipment, calculated at standard amount of e-scrap, and now includes all Cisco labs and offices worldwide. The cost (COGS). Any nonreusable materials are harvested for components and eBins are green plastic rolling bins where materials are collected in the labs for recycled by one of our authorized recyclers. recycling. Smaller labs may have only one eBin; large labs may have more than a dozen. Each eBin has an owner, and when the eBin is full, the owner visits our csr.cisco.com feedback 155 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Use Topics Figure 51. 23rd Annual Recycle IT recycling web portal and fills out a pick-up request, which is Each contracted recycler provides Cisco with monthly reports Day event fulfilled by a Cisco authorized recycler. showing all cases opened and processed on a lot-by-lot basis. When each lot is processed, the report includes a mass balance The Cisco Data Center Server Recycling Program serves data showing the weight as received and the weights of each fractional centers in 11 countries. When a data center no longer needs a commodity adding up to the gross weight received. server, it is offered to other Cisco data centers for possible reuse. When one of these servers reaches the end of its useful life, it We hold quarterly business reviews with each e-scrap recycler is recycled, and all parts are shredded. Some products are not to review the past quarter’s results and to go over all action reused because they have, or have had, sensitive data residing items that were to be worked on during the quarter and the in their memory. focus areas for the next quarter. We also conduct random site audits of the recycling facilities. The Non-Genuine Materials Program handles non-genuine Cisco products we occasionally receive in equipment returns. 142 Cisco sites Non-genuine items also come to Cisco through law enforcement E-scrap recycling process around the world seizure of counterfeit Cisco equipment. When non-genuine participating equipment is found, we use a special witnessed protocol After being weighed on a calibrated scale, each item is reviewed whereby the collected materials are properly destroyed. for possible component harvesting. After harvesting, the unit proceeds to the recycling process. The recycling process starts We also hold an annual Recycle IT Day for our employees with each load of e-scrap being dismantled and sorted into (Figure 51). Cisco employees and contractors can bring their “commodity fractions.” This separates the steel, aluminum, e-scrap from home, and Cisco pays to have the materials recycled cardboard, plastic, wire/cable, and printed circuit boards. Printed properly. Any Cisco office location can host a recycling day event. circuit boards are then shredded and sorted further before going In FY18, we held our 23rd annual Recycle IT Day event, with to a specialized smelter where as many as 22 metals are harvested 142 Cisco sites around the world participating and 129 metric from the boards. These harvested metals are sold on the global tonne of used electronics collected. Since Cisco started holding metals markets. All materials, including any batteries or packaging these events in 1995, our employees and contractors have materials, are sent to downstream recyclers to be made into helped recycle 2,973 metric tonne of used electronics. new products again. Additional information regarding our return and recycling programs is available on our product recycling 129 metric tonne E-scrap recyclers web portal. of used electronics collected We currently have two contracted e-scrap recyclers. Each recycler has several company-owned facilities and several Product packaging EOL subcontracted recyclers to provide global recycling coverage. Cisco’s contracted recyclers are certified to one or more We have not adopted a packaging recycling program, as the e-scrap-specific recycling standards, such as R2, R2 Rios, environmental impact, including transportation and emissions, eStewards, and WEEELABEX. from shipping packaging back to Cisco outweighs the potential 2,973 benefits when compared with using local recycling. Instead, we metric tonne Our contracts require recyclers to enforce our strict recycling design our packaging to be separable and recyclable so it can of used electronics processes with any of their subcontractors doing Cisco work. We be directed to local packaging material recycling programs. See collected since approve every prospective recycling company and every recycling the Packaging section, here. Information on Cisco’s compliance location before sending any Cisco equipment for processing. inception with environmental packaging regulations can be found at our Additionally, our recycling process described earlier is formally WEEE compliance information page. documented and is part of the contract with each of our recyclers. csr.cisco.com feedback 156 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics Nonmaterial topics: Effluents Water use Waste Biodiversity Non-GHG emissions csr.cisco.com feedback 157 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics Effluents (liquid) water use, but this continues to be a challenge given the size and geographic dispersion of our operations and the fact that many of our locations are shared We seek to locate our operations in areas where we can successfully serve buildings without water sub-meters. We continue to investigate all possible our customers while limiting our negative environmental impacts. Effluent spills, causes of our year-on-year increase in water use. Water is still an important such as chemical, oil, and fuel spills, can have significant negative impacts on area of focus for Cisco because some of our facilities are located in regions the surrounding environment, potentially affecting soil, water, air, biodiversity, where water rights and usage are a concern, including our headquarters in and human health, as well as our business. We take this and other environmental San Jose, California. health and safety issues very seriously. Cisco has had no significant releases to Cisco primarily uses water to operate our lab and data center cooling systems, an environmental receptor over the reporting year. Table 27 tracks liquid spills for landscaping and irrigation, and in our restrooms, breakrooms, cafeterias, and discharges from Cisco facilities. and kitchens. We reduce our water consumption in these areas as much as possible and use reclaimed water instead of potable water in applications Table 27. Effluent Spills and Discharges such as landscaping and in cooling towers. KPI FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 Based on the definition of consumption provided by CDP1, we have calculated our water consumption as negligible. None of the water Cisco withdraws is Spills and discharges None None None None None incorporated into products or waste products. We believe the amount of water evaporated from our cooling towers and irrigation is negligible compared to our Water use broader water withdrawals and discharges. However, over the next few years, we will be working with our water utilities and utility bill management providers Water scarcity affects more than 1 billion people around the world. Even to improve our global water data collection processes and expect to be able to though technology companies like Cisco do not directly use significant amounts more precisely calculate our water consumption due to evaporation. of water, we understand the importance of reducing water consumption as much as we can in our operations and in our supply chain to help protect this limited resource for future generations. Key objectives of Cisco’s water management Table 28. Water use program for all sites are to: KPI FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 Comments • Identify and implement site-level water conservation opportunities for our Total water withdrawn, 2,803 2,916 3,050 3,067 3,275 This figure covers 100 percent of operations, focusing on water-scarce and water-stressed locations m3, thousands Cisco’s facilities. •W  ork with local governments, water utilities, owners of our leased buildings, Total water withdrawn 2,760 2,872 3,010 3,051 3,247 We use municipal water for and other partners to incorporate best practices into our operations from municipal supply domestic purposes such as (third-party sources), m3 restrooms, cafeterias, cooling towers and irrigation. Some of our Water usage water utilities do provide recycled water, which we use for irrigation We have been collecting and tracking water usage data for our major campus and cooling tower purposes. locations since FY07 (Table 28). In FY18, Cisco collected water data for Total water withdrawn 44 44 40 16 28 This is for our Boxborough, 75 percent of our real estate portfolio. Our methodology is to extrapolate our from groundwater Massachusetts, facilities. Water is treated on site and then discharged measured water use to 100 percent of our facilities in order to report total back to the groundwater. water use (see Table 28), rather than only reporting measured water use. We Real estate portfolio 72% 73% 74% 72% 72% use this methodology per industry best practice and the recommendation covered by water reporting from our auditors. We have made great improvements in our ability to track 1  he amount of water that is drawn into the company boundary and not discharged back to the water T environment or a third party GRI 303-5, 306-3 csr.cisco.com feedback 158 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics We use the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) water Cisco’s most material global issues are GHG/energy and product material use tool to better understand our water use and risks at both the country and local and waste from our products and packaging. However, water is an issue whose watershed level. We define water stress in line with CDP and the WBCSD Global relevance varies by geography. Because of concern with long-term changes to water tool, which state that high baseline water stress is when withdrawals are climate and water availability, we are exploring at our Research Triangle Park campus in the range of 40-80 percent of total annually available blue water in an area. (North Carolina, USA) how a large Cisco campus could become water neutral, Extremely high baseline water stress is when withdrawals are above 80 percent meaning restoring water to local watersheds in quantities equal to our consumption. of availability of blue water. Through the tool we identified 70 percent of Cisco’s We will develop targeted strategies to conserve water and evaluate partnerships water use by volume is withdrawn from high or extremely high water-stressed with local organizations to address local water issues. We also audit our water watersheds. This figure is high because our two largest campuses, San Jose, usage at this site, identify opportunities to reduce our water consumption there, California, and Bangalore, India, both have an “Extremely High” baseline water and invest in projects that restore local watersheds. stress and make up 65 percent of our total measured water withdrawals. We will continue to monitor our water-stressed and water-scarce locations, However, Cisco’s total water withdrawals are relatively low compared to other including our San Jose campus, to determine if additional water conservation companies. For example, through the U.S. Commercial Buildings Energy opportunities and strategies could be implemented in FY19. Consumption Survey (CBECS), the Energy Information Agency (EIA) estimates the 46,000 large commercial buildings (greater than 200,000 square feet) in the United States used (we assume this means withdrawn and either consumed or Water-energy nexus discharged in this context) about 18,400 gallons (69.7 m3) per worker in 2012. Our environmental sustainability materiality assessment determined operational In FY18, Cisco used 45 m3 of water per employee, which is far below the EIA water use (office building potable water, sanitation, landscaping, and cooling towers) is not a significant impact area for our business. However, because the average. We will continue to monitor these sites for changes in water availability production of electrical power is one of the largest users of fresh water, the and will develop specialized water management strategies accordingly. greatest opportunity for Cisco to reduce our impact on water resources globally is by continuing to make our products and operations more energy-efficient. Water conservation The U.S. Geological Survey estimates in their latest 2015 water report 15 gallons of water are used on average to produce 1 kilowatt-hour of electricity in the We have implemented numerous water conservation projects over the past few United States. Considering this, the energy years that are still conserving water today and will continue to do so for many savings we are achieving through our years to come: energy and GHG reduction efforts are • Using irrigation controllers throughout the San Jose main campus having a big impact on reducing water • Using reclaimed water for irrigation and cooling towers usage. We estimate our FY18 energy reduction projects (Table 17), which • Installing variable-frequency drives in our cooling towers avoided 32.4 GWh of energy usage, also • Installing two-way valves for toilets, waterless urinals, sink aerators, low-flow avoided 1.8 million cubic meters (m3) of showerheads, and pre-rinse spray valves for kitchen sinks water usage in FY18. Since FY14, we estimate our energy reduction projects •R  eplacing water fountains and turf with native planter beds that require little have avoided the use of over 11.3 million water, and installing drip irrigation lines to improve irrigation efficiency m3 of water. To put this into perspective, •U  sing a water harvesting system at our Bangalore, India, campus to capture the avoided water usage we achieved rainwater for filtering and use from our energy projects in FY18 is roughly equal to half of Cisco’s total FY18 water usage at its operations. csr.cisco.com feedback 159 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics Solid waste from operations We use this methodology per industry best Figure 52. practice and the recommendation from our (trash) auditors. Figure 54 shows examples of how Recycling rates for solid waste (trash) Cisco’s Waste Reduction and Recycling we reduce waste, increase reuse, and from major North America operations Program uses the principles of reduce, reuse, increase recycling rates on our campuses. 100 and recycle for our operations. The program is Figure 52 shows our trash recycling rates a key component of our ISO 14001 certification for solid wastes for our major North America 80 and global environmental policy. campus locations. Municipal and regional recycling practices Our headquarters in San Jose diverted 60 vary. What is easily recycled in one region 86 percent of all waste streams from landfill in may not be as easily recycled in another. The 40 FY18, including a compost program that diverted ability of our facilities to recycle operational approximately 890 metric tonne of waste from waste often depends on the recycling facilities 20 local landfills to be turned into compost. A in place in the particular region. All our breakdown of our waste stream for the San Jose facilities take steps to reduce their operational 0 site in Figure 53 illustrates our key sources of FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 waste and recycle materials locally. operational waste, the complexity of proper In FY18, we recycled approximately 73 percent waste stream segregation, and the need for  Total  San Jose  Boxborough  RTP  Lawrenceville  Kanata of the waste generated at our facilities. Through robust recycling services. Our Boxborough our waste and recycling operations, we have campus diverted 100% of all waste from landfill avoided the 23,600 metric tonne CO2e that in FY18 through a comprehensive composting, would have been produced had the material recycling, and waste-to-energy program. been sent to a landfill instead of a recycling or Figure 53. One track of our circular economy initiative is composting facility. 30+20+15107321 circular operations, which includes waste from Breakdown of solid waste streams (trash) Table 29 shows our solid waste metrics. Our our operations and supply chain. In addition to at San Jose, California, headquarters campus methodology is to extrapolate our measured exploring water neutrality at our RTP campus, waste to 100 percent of our facilities in order we are studying how this campus could be to report total waste generated and recycled, classified as zero waste, which per the True rather than only reporting measured waste. Zero Waste Certification definition means Table 29. Solid waste from operations (trash) KPI FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 Comments Total operational waste 12,442 10,388 9,805 12,519 10,528 This figure covers 100 percent generated, metric tonne of Cisco’s facilities. Landscape waste 31.26% Mixed recycling 1.10% Compost 22.48% Foam 0.91% Percent real estate portfolio 56% 57% 65% 69% 70% Includes major campus covered by waste reporting locations in the United Total trash 14.50% Mixed paper 0.78% States, India, and China. Surplus donation 10.05% Special projects 0.50% Confidential paper 6.95% Cans and bottles 0.08% Total operational waste 9,790 7,885 7,358 8,500 7,687 Cardboard 6.67% Kitchen oil 0.02% recycled, metric tonne Wood 3.12% Media 0.00% Operational waste recycled, 79% 76% 75% 68% 73% Recycled construction waste 1.59% percent GRI 103-3, 306-2 csr.cisco.com feedback 160 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics Figure 54. Cisco solid waste reduction initiatives Reduce •U  sing online learning and communications technologies to reduce paper use • Making product information available online to reduce paper use • Using compost made of landscape waste at our San Jose campus Reuse Recycle •M  anaging an internal Repo Depot • Batteries program, which allows us to reuse • CDs lab and testing equipment • Beverage containers • Reusing incoming pallets • Wood and pallets with outgoing shipments • Cardboard wherever possible • Mixed paper • Collecting PC equipment for reuse • Packaging materials by our vendor • Toner cartridges • Donating surplus used office • Compost supplies to local schools • Polyurethane foam • Landscape waste • Mobile phones • Food waste • Construction waste GRI 103-1, 103-2 csr.cisco.com feedback 161 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics diverting 90 percent or more of all solid waste or indirectly through their supply chain. from landfill. To reach this target, we will need Cisco’s primary impact on biodiversity is the to increase composting, improve waste sorting, land we use for our facilities. We mitigate this Protecting turtle habitat and decrease our use of single-use items. impact by reducing the demand for physical office space through employee telework The move to reduce single-use items is programs and other support solutions. For The land on which our Boxborough, Massachusetts, campus is located is the habitat of already underway at Cisco offices globally. more information, see Cisco Connected Blanding’s Turtle (IUCN Endangered Species) and the Eastern Box Turtle (IUCN Vulnerable For example, we have reduced consumption Workplace and Flexible work practices. Species). We have taken measures to ensure the turtles can survive and even thrive in this of paper cups by offering reusable cups for employee use. In FY18, 127 facilities, making We use environmental impact assessments location, including: up a quarter of our office square footage, to evaluate the biodiversity and land-use • Establishing two conservation areas of 49 and 60 acres, respectively; were paper cup-free. Looking ahead, we impacts of our sites and generate annual •C  onstructing three turtle tunnels under the highway to provide a safe passage will continue to evaluate the most impactful biodiversity summary reports for all land and for migration; ways to reduce waste within our real estate property we own. Table 30 shows the • Installing turtle curbing around the site to prevent migrating turtles from entering the operations and work to better engage employees percentage of our portfolio with biodiversity roadway and parking areas; in our sustainability journey. A main area of focus assessments in place. For example, some of for the upcoming year is single-use plastic items, the buildings we own in San Jose, California, • Enhancing 16 acres of turtle nesting habitat within the conservation area; such as straws, stirrers, and bags. are located near a protected area for the •F  unding a 2-year construction phase turtle monitoring plan and a 2-year Blanding’s American Cliff Swallow, which is a bird Turtle conservation research project; and species on the Least Concern category of • Restricting future development on approximately 50 acres of our land. Biodiversity and the International Union for Conservation of land use Nature (IUCN) Red List. To protect their habitat Biodiversity is the variability among living during nesting season, we close our balconies on those buildings; we then remove the mud havens for protected wildlife. organisms and the ecological complexes they are a part of. All organizations impact nesting locations on our buildings after nesting Connected Conservation Cisco is helping to design and build networked biodiversity directly through their own activities season is over. security systems able to track the movement of Conservation recently became an area of focus visitors, staff, and anyone else who walks onto for Cisco, with a simple yet ambitious goal to the reserve grounds. Surveillance of human help protect large game animals around the Table 30. Biodiversity and land use movement 24/7 helps to identify suspicious world. The Cisco Connected Conservation activity, while protecting endangered species program was originated by an employee team KPI FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 Comments populations without disturbing the natural who saw an opportunity to use Cisco technology environment. Our strategic relationships have Percent of real 60% 61% 59% 58% 54% Includes IUCN Red List and national and know-how to address the increased levels estate portfolio conservation list species with habitats in established a secure, reliable network operating of animal poaching rates around the world, with biodiversity areas affected by operations. See Cisco’s 24 hours daily across the entire game reserve, especially for elephants, lions, and rhinos. The assessment current CDP Water and Climate responses. supporting the existing preservation goals program started with one of Cisco’s largest and Total real estate 23.0 22.1 22.2 20.8 21.4% Reducing our square footage minimizes our and operations. most successful partners, Dimension Data, and footprint square physical impact. footage, millions has expanded to include the World Wildlife Fund Cisco’s Connected Conservation program Percentage 31.0% 36.9% 45.8% 63.6% 65.4% Converting our workspaces to Cisco (WWF) and other ecosystem partners. provides a foundation for our ambitious goal: Cisco Connected Connected Workplaces allows us to use to accelerate the deployment of innovative Cisco and Dimension Data are pioneering a Workplace our space more effectively and further digital technology solutions for conservation reduce our real estate footprint. range of solutions at a private game reserve in efforts, supporting the co-existence of wildlife South Africa; this has proven the effectiveness and communities across the planet. More of digital technology models for creating safe information is available here. GRI 304 csr.cisco.com feedback 162 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics Non-GHG emissions Because most of our production is outsourced to supply chain partners, our global operations primarily consist of standard office activities and research labs. This limits our non-GHG emissions to volatile organic compounds (VOCs) from cleaning products, nitrous oxides (NOx), and sulfur oxides (SOx) from on-site fuel combustion (from vehicle engines, boilers, or emergency generators), and the Table 31. Non-GHG emissions subsequent formation of ozone from the photochemical reaction of NOx. Table 31 summarizes our relevant non-GHG-related airborne emissions: VOCs, NOx, SOx, KPI FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 and particulate matter. Volatile organic compound Negligible Negligible Negligible Negligible Negligible (VOC) emissions1 We comply with California Air Resources Board requests and do not use mechanical equipment, such as gasoline-powered lawn mowers, after 11 a.m. NOx, metric tonne 270 212 207 138 176 on designated Spare the Air days, when air quality is poor in the San Francisco SOx, metric tonne 0.88 0.72 0.72 0.65 0.67 Bay Area. In accordance with the 1987 Montreal Protocol On Substances That Particulate matter Negligible Negligible Negligible Negligible Negligible Deplete The Ozone Layer, we also have worked with our supply chain partners to phase out the use of ozone-depleting substances. 1 Quantities of VOC-based chemicals deployed are minimal and are not required to be monitored. GRI 305-7 csr.cisco.com feedback 163 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Environmental Energy and GHG Material Use Nonmaterial Apppendix I Appendix I Sustainability Emissions Topics References 1. CDP 2018 Investor Survey (with Supplier Module questions). The questions requiring a response to meet Cisco’s scorecard requirements are highlighted in yellow in the document. https://www1.compliance2product.com/c2p/getAttachment.do?code=Y47dkC3ojkn4PTCgHOEKjJGGqv6ZEK7mFDxiuwB2G koqorKbO9LgEWskNzIVclYL April 30, 2018 2. Using CDP's online response system Dear Valued Business Partners and Suppliers: <available later> 3. CDP Verification Guidance For the 9th consecutive year, Cisco is inviting our partners and suppliers to report their greenhouse gas (GHG) https://www.cdp.net/verification from https://www.cdp.net/en/guidance/guidance-for-companies emissions to CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) in one of the following ways: 4. CDP Climate Change Scoring Methodology 2018 1. If already invited directly by CDP (in February) please complete the CDP Climate Change questionnaire by the https://www-1.compliance2product.com/c2p/getAttachment.do?code= investor deadline of July 31, 2018. You will also receive a request from CDP to complete the Supply Chain EVHksR9PI3DSbWDJraIXLSfhILVGaUctZuEfZ0xunRCFsaVGpqrclyhGyU71ZvbO module on behalf of Cisco with a supplier due date of August 16, 2018. 2. Otherwise, you will receive CDP’s information request on behalf of Cisco by the end of April 2018. Please complete the requested Climate Change questionnaire and Supply Chain module by the supplier deadline of August 16, 2018. If you have not received an invitation from CDP to respond to their survey by early May, please contact CDP at respond@cdp.net. Cisco’s long-term strategy for reducing GHG emissions includes our suppliers and partners completing following five step program: 1. Report to CDP annually, responding at a minimum to the questions highlighted in Reference 1 of this letter for all your facilities worldwide. 2. Make the response publicly available via the option provided in CDP's online response system (Reference 2). Please do not send your completed questionnaire to Cisco. Cisco will obtain your reporting status and emissions information via an analytics package offered by CDP. 3. Demonstrate third-party review of your GHG emissions per Reference 3 of this letter. 4. Set a GHG emissions reduction goal (absolute reduction goals are preferred) and show progress against your goal. 5. Request that your suppliers and business partners also report to CDP using the same process described in this letter and in the four steps above. Supplier compliance to Cisco’s requirement to report GHG emissions to CDP is included in Cisco’s supplier scorecards. Cisco is committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions from our products, operations, and supply chain operations. Your cooperation in responding to this very important initiative is appreciated. If you have any questions about Cisco or your company¹s carbon reporting, please contact us at cisco-cdp-questions@cisco.com. Best Regards, John Kern Jeff Purnell SVP, Supply Chain Operations VP, Global Supplier Management Cisco Systems, Inc. Cisco Systems, Inc. csr.cisco.com feedback 164 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs GRI Standards Disclosure Number Disclosure Title Response GRI 102: General Disclosures Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization Cisco Systems, Inc. 102-2 Activities, brands, products Cisco designs and sells a broad range of technologies that have been powering the Internet since 1984. and services Across networking, security, collaboration, applications and the cloud, our evolving intent-based technologies are constantly learning and adapting to provide customers with a highly secure, intelligent platform for their digital business. For more information refer to 2018 Annual Report/form 10-K (page 1). 102-3 Location of headquarters Cisco Systems, Inc., Corporate Headquarters, 170 West Tasman Drive, San Jose, CA 95134 USA 102-4 Location of operations We conduct business globally and are primarily managed on a geographic basis in the following three geographic segments: the Americas; Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA); and Asia Pacific, Japan, and China (APJC). For more information refer to https://newsroom.cisco.com/en_GB/overview 102-5 Ownership and legal form Cisco is publicly listed and traded on NASDAQ 102-6 Markets served 2018 Annual Report/Form 10-K/Customers and Markets (page 5) 102-7 Scale of the organization People/Workforce Snapshot Operations and quantity of products and services provided: 2018 Annual Report/form 10-K (page 40) Revenue and capitalization: 2018 Annual Report/Financial Highlights for Fiscal 2018 102-8 Information on employees and People/Workforce Snapshot other workers 102-9 Supply chain Society/Supply Chain and Responsible Sourcing 102-10 Significant changes to the organization There were no significant changes in FY18 and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Planet/Environmental Sustainability 102-12 External initiatives Planet/Energy-Efficiency-Related Initiatives and Organizations Governance/Stakeholder Engagement Society/Engaging on Important Issues 102-13 Membership of associations Planet/Energy-Efficiency-Related Initiatives and Organizations Governance/Stakeholder Engagement csr.cisco.com feedback 165 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Disclosure Number Disclosure Title Response Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior Our Story/Message from Chuck Robins decision-maker Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards and People/Ethics and Integrity norms of behavior People/Team Development/ Governance 102-18 Governance structure 2018 Proxy Statement/Corporate Governance (page 3) 2018 Annual Report/Governance and Responsibility (page 8) Our Details/Governance Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Strategy/Stakeholder Engagement and Management 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Cisco employees are global and each country carries with it local employment laws and norms. Due to data privacy legislation in many countries, we do not have an exact percentage of employees who are represented by trade unions. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Governance/Stakeholder Engagement and Management 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Governance/Stakeholder Engagement and Management 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Governance/Reporting and Materiality Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated Our Story/About This Report financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic Strategy/Reporting and Materiality Boundaries Planet/CSR Materiality Assessment: Environment csr.cisco.com feedback 166 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Disclosure Number Disclosure Title Response 102-47 List of material topics Society Attracting and Retaining Top Talent Building Skills and Entrepreneurship Data Security and Privacy Inclusion and Collaboration Strategic Social Investments Community impacts Digital Rights Employee Health and Wellness Responsible Sourcing and Manufacturing Governance Culture of Integrity Planet Energy and Emissions Resource Use 102-48 Restatements of information No major changes: any adjustments are explained within the report 102-49 Changes in reporting No major changes: any adjustments are explained within the report 102-50 Reporting period Fiscal year 2018 102-51 Date of most recent report Fiscal year 2017 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding csr_report@cisco.com the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core Option. with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index GRI Index 102-56 External assurance Our Story/About This Report csr.cisco.com feedback 167 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Material GRI GRI Tier Issue Standard Disclosures GRI Topic Page Omissions People 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary People/Team Development 103-2 The management approach and its components People/Team Development Society/Supplier Engagement GRI 401 Employment 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach People/Team Development Society/Responsible Sourcing and Manufacturing Attracting and 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are People/Team Development 1 retaining top not provided to temporary or part-time employees People/Health and Wellness talent 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary People/Team Development 103-2 The management approach and its components People/Team Development GRI 404 Training and 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach People/Team Development education 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and People/Team Development transition assistance programs 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary People/Inclusion and Collaboration 103-2 The management approach and its components People/Inclusion and Collaboration Society/Responsible Sourcing and Manufacturing GRI 405 Inclusion and Diversity 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach People/Inclusion and Collaboration 1 collaboration and equal opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees People/Inclusion and Collaboration Cisco does not disclose information on governance bodies and employee age categories. 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women People/Inclusion and Collaboration Data presented is aggregated for the entire Cisco to men compensation system, not by employment level. csr.cisco.com feedback 168 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Material GRI GRI Tier Issue Standard Disclosures GRI Topic Page Omissions GRI 413 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary People/Employee Community Impact Local Society/Our Investment Framework communities 103-2 The management approach and its components People/Employee Community Impact Society/Our Investment Framework 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach People/Employee Community Impact Society/Our Investment Framework 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, People/Employee Community Impact While Cisco does not report on the following impact assessments and development programs disclosures related to local community engagement and impact assessment, its partner organizations conduct appropriate analyses for the community programs that employees volunteer with: Community i. social impact assessments, including gender 2 impact assessments, based on participatory impacts processes; ii. environmental impact assessments and ongoing monitoring; iii. public disclosure of results of environmental and social impact assessments; v. stakeholder engagement plans based on stakeholder mapping; vi. broad-based local community consultation committees and processes that include vulnerable groups; vii. works councils, occupational health and safety committees and other worker representation bodies to deal with impacts; viii. formal local community grievance processes. Society 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Society/Building Digital Skills and Entrepreneurship 103-2 The management approach and its components Society/Building Digital Skills and Entrepreneurship 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Society/Building Digital Skills and Entrepreneurship 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, Society/Building Digital Skills and Entrepreneurship Cisco does not disclose on the following related to impact assessments and development programs local community impacts: Building GRI 413 ii. environmental impact assessments and ongoing 1 skills and Local monitoring; entrepreneurship communities iii. public disclosure of results of environmental and social impact assessments; vi. broad-based local community consultation committees and processes that include vulnerable groups; vii. works councils, occupational health and safety committees and other worker representation bodies to deal with impacts; viii. formal local community grievance processes. csr.cisco.com feedback 169 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Material GRI GRI Tier Issue Standard Disclosures GRI Topic Page Omissions 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Society/Human Rights 103-2 The management approach and its components Society/Human Rights GRI 418 Data security 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Society/Human Rights 1 Customer and privacy privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of Cisco did not report any incidents to global data customer privacy and losses of customer data protection authorities during FY18. In addition, there were no data protection incidents of high risk or material harm reported during this period. 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Society/Strategic Social Investments GRI 203 103-2 The management approach and its components Society/Strategic Social Investments Indirect economic 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Society/Strategic Social Investments impacts 203-2 Indirect economic impacts Society/Strategic Social Investments 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Society/Strategic Social Investments 103-2 The management approach and its components Society/Strategic Social Investments 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Society/Strategic Social Investments Strategic social 1 investments 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, For information on engagement and impact assessments, Cisco does not disclose on the following related impact assessments and development programs refer to GRI 103-2. to local community impacts: GRI 413 ii. environmental impact assessments and Local For information on development programs, refer to ongoing monitoring; communities Society/Strategic Social Investments iii. public disclosure of results of environmental and social impact assessments; vi. broad-based local community consultation committees and processes that include vulnerable groups; vii. works councils, occupational health and safety committees and other worker representation bodies to deal with impacts; viii. formal local community grievance processes. csr.cisco.com feedback 170 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Material GRI GRI Tier Issue Standard Disclosures GRI Topic Page Omissions 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Society/Human Rights 103-2 The management approach and its components Society/Human Rights GRI 412 Human rights 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Society/Human Rights 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or Society/Human Rights Cisco does not disclose on total hours of procedures training on human rights policies or procedures. 2 Digital rights 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Society/Human Rights GRI 416 103-2 The management approach and its components Society/Human Rights Customer health and 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Society/Human Rights safety 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of Society/Human Rights product and service categories csr.cisco.com feedback 171 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Material GRI GRI Tier Issue Standard Disclosures GRI Topic Page Omissions 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Society/Responsible Sourcing and Manufacturing 103-2 The management approach and its components Planet/Energy and GHG Emissions 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Planet/Energy and GHG Emissions 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply Planet/Energy and GHG Emissions The following data is not made publicly available: chain and actions taken i. Number of suppliers identified as having GRI 308 significant actual and potential negative Supplier environmental impacts; Environmental ii. Percentage of suppliers identified as having Assessment significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts with which improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment; iii. Percentage of suppliers identified as having Responsible significant actual and potential negative sourcing and environmental impacts with which relationships manufacturing were terminated as a result of assessment, (includes and why. ethical 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Society/Responsible Sourcing and Manufacturing 2 sourcing, supply chain 103-2 The management approach and its components Society/Responsible Sourcing and Manufacturing labor standards, Society/Responsible Materials Sourcing supplier Society/Supplier Engagement diversity) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Society/Responsible Sourcing and Manufacturing Corrective Action Plans 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and Society/Responsible Sourcing and Manufacturing The following data is not made publicly available: GRI 414 actions taken i. Number of suppliers identified as having Supplier Social significant actual and potential negative Assessment environmental impacts; ii. Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts with which improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment; iii. Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why. csr.cisco.com feedback 172 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Material GRI GRI Tier Issue Standard Disclosures GRI Topic Page Omissions 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary People/Health and Wellness 103-2 The management approach and its components People/Health and Wellness 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach People/Health and Wellness 403-6 Promotion of worker health People/Health and Wellness 403-9 Work-related injuries People/Health and Wellness a. For all employees Cisco does not report on GRI 403 number and rate of work-related fatalities, does not Employee Occupational provide detail of high-consequence work-related 2 health and Health and injuries, the main types of work-related injuries or wellness Safety number of hours worked. b. Cisco does not report data for all workers who are not employees. c. Cisco does not report data on work-related hazards that pose a risk of high-consequence injury. f. Cisco does not disclose reasons for excluding any workers from this disclosure. g. Cisco does not provide contextual information for data compilation. csr.cisco.com feedback 173 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Material GRI GRI Tier Issue Standard Disclosures GRI Topic Page Omissions Planet 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Planet/Energy and GHG Emissions Planet/Energy and Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions 103-2 The management approach and its components Planet/Energy and GHG Emissions Planet/Energy and Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Planet/Energy and Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions FY18 Inventory Assurance Statement GRI 305 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Planet/Energy and Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Planet/Energy and Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Planet/Energy and Scope 3 Cisco does not disclose biogenic emissions 2018 CDP Report (not relevant to operations). Energy and 305-4 Emissions intensity Planet/Energy and Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions 1 greenhouse gas emissions 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Reductions: Planet/Energy and GHG Emissions Strategy: Planet/Energy and GHG Emissions 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Planet/Energy and GHG Emissions 103-2 The management approach and its components Planet/Energy and GHG Emissions 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Planet/Energy and Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions GRI 302 FY18 Inventory Assurance statement Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Planet/Energy and GHG Emissions 302-3 Energy intensity Planet/Energy and Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Reductions: Planet/Energy and GHG Emissions Strategy: Planet/Energy and GHG Emissions csr.cisco.com feedback 174 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Material GRI GRI Tier Issue Standard Disclosures GRI Topic Page Omissions 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Planet/Environmental Sustainability Planet/Material Use Planet/Product End-of-Life 103-2 The management approach and its components Planet/Environmental Sustainability Planet/Material Use Planet/Product End-of-Life 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Planet/Product End-of-Life GRI 301 Materials 301-2 Recycled input materials used Planet/Material Use Cisco has set long-term goals for recycled content, but currently does not report on recycled content for all products. Current disclosure only covers recycled content in IP phones and packaging. 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials Planet/Product End-of-Life Data presented is aggegated for all products Material use returned by weight, not presented as a percentage 2 of all products sold. and waste 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Planet/Effluents GRI 306 103-2 The management approach and its components Planet/Product End-of-Life Effluents and waste 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Planet/Solid Waste from Operations (Trash) 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Planet/Solid Waste from Operations (Trash) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Planet/Environmental Sustainability Planet/Environmental Sustainability GRI 307 103-2 The management approach and its components Planet/Environmental Sustainability Environmental Compliance 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Planet/Environmental Sustainability 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and Planet/Environmental Sustainability regulations csr.cisco.com feedback 175 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Material GRI GRI Tier Issue Standard Disclosures GRI Topic Page Omissions Governance 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary People/Ethics and Integrity 103-2 The management approach and its components People/Ethics and Integrity Society/Supply Chain and Responsible Sourcing GRI 205 Culture of 1 Anti103-3 Evaluation of the management approach People/Ethics and Integrity integrity Corruption Society/Responsible Sourcing and Manufacturing 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption People/Ethics and Integrity Cisco reports communication and training data policies and procedures Society/Responsible Sourcing and Manufacturing as an aggregate for employees and governance, not by region. Additional performance Performance Indicators Page for DMA and Performance Indicators Omissions GRI 303: 303-5: Water consumption Planet/Other Issues Water and Effluents GRI 304: Percentage of real estate Planet/Other Issues Biodiversity portfolio with biodiversity assessment (Non-GRI indicator) GRI 305: 305-7: Nitrogen oxides (NOX), Planet/Other Issues Emissions sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions GRI 306: 306-3: Significant spills Planet/Other Issues Effluents and Waste csr.cisco.com feedback 176 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Cisco 1.1, 1.2 2.1, 2.2, 2.4 3.1, 3.2, 3.4, 3.7 4.1, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7c 5.6, 5a, 5b alignment Cisco Anudip Feeding America Living Goods Citizen Schools Anudip grantees (also SDG 5, 8) World Food Programme (also SDG 5, 8) FIRST LEGO LEAGUE (also SDG 1, 8) & partners CARE TrekMedics CARE Mercy Corps MIND Research Institute (also SDG 5, 8, 9,) (also SDG 1) (also SDG 1, 8, 9) Gooru Learning DDD myAgro Digital Divide Data GenerationYES (also SDG 5, 8) (also #1, #5) (also SDG 1, 8) New Teacher Center Laboratoria Digital Green Good World Solutions (also SDG 5, 8) Reynolds Center (also SDG 8) (also #1, #5) Living Goods Science Buddies Laboratoria (also SDG 3, 5, 8) Teach for All (also SDG 1, 8) Kiva War Child Living Goods (also SDG 5, 8, 9 MyOptions (also SDG 1, 3, 8) Opportunity International New Leaders Kiva (also SDG 5, 8, 9) (also SDG 1, 8, 9) Road Trip Nation Innovations for Poverty Opportunity International 114th Partnership Action (also SDG 1, 8, 9) InSTEDD Million Women Mentors (also SDG 9) FIRST LEGO LEAGUE Kobo Toolbox Science Buddies Mercy Corps War Child (also SDG 2, 9) NetHope (also SDGs 9, 17) American Red Cross (also SDG 13) Ushahidi Cisco TacOps Networking Academy Networking Academy programs (also SDG 8) (also SDG 4 and 8) Girls Power Tech DARE JUMP csr.cisco.com feedback 177 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Cisco 6.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.4, 6b 7.2, 7.3 8.3, 8.4, 8.5, 8.6, 8.7, 8.8, 9.4 11.1 alignment 8.10 Cisco AKVO Foundation Anudip Community Solutions grantees CAWST (also SDG 1, 5) Community Technology & partners CARE Alliance Safe Water Network (also SDG 1, 5, 9) Habitat for Humanity Portland State University (PSU) Foundation/Sweet Digital Divide Data Housing Trust of Silicon Valley Sense Initiative (DDD, also SDG 1, 5) Destination: Home Good World Solutions microHome Solutions (also SDG 5) Atma Connect TaroWorks Laboratoria (also SDG 1, 5) Living Goods (also SDG 1, 3, 5) Kiva (also SDG 1, 5, 9) NESsT Opportunity International (also SDG 1, 5, 9) l Harambe Entrepreneurial Alliance Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) Entrepreneurship for All (also #1, #5) NPower Cisco Waste water treatment Goal for renewable energy Networking Academy IoT and analytics Smart + Connected programs requirements for extended powering operations. Veterans program networking infrastructure Communities operations/supply chain. Product energy efficiency/ platforms Supplier Code of Conduct Internet of Things (IoT)/LoRa productivity. The Network Intuitive technologies for water monitoring. csr.cisco.com feedback 178 2018 CSR Report Our Story The Details Message from Chuck Robbins Our Story Governance People Society Planet GRI Index UN SDGs Cisco 12.2, 12.4, 12.5, 12.6.1, 13.1 14.1 15.5, 15.7 17.7, 17.17 alignment 12.7 Cisco Ellen MacArthur Foundation, Cisco disaster response World Economic Forum grantees PACE Capital Equipment (WEF) & partners Coalition Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) Committee Encouraging Corporate Philanthropy (CECP) The Conference Board’s CSR Council II Cisco Circular Economy Used product Connected Conservation programs Material Use recycling/100% product return; operations and Scope 3 Supply Chain supply chain waste management Note: “Cisco Programs” refers to Cisco-run programs. “Cisco Grantees” refers to nonprofit/non-government organizations that have received cash and/or product grants from Cisco and/or the Cisco Foundation (cash only), as well as advisory/consulting support. “Cisco Partners” refers to other organizations that we engage with through membership/sponsorship to address SDG related issues. Americas Headquarters Asia Pacific Headquarters Europe Headquarters Cisco Systems, Inc. Cisco Systems (USA) Pte. Ltd. Cisco Systems International BV Amsterdam, San Jose, CA Singapore The Netherlands Cisco has more than 200 offices worldwide. Addresses, phone numbers, and fax numbers are listed on the Cisco website at www.cisco.com/go/offices. Cisco and the Cisco logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Cisco and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. To view a list of Cisco trademarks, go to this URL: www.cisco.com/go/trademarks. Third party trademarks mentioned are the property of their respective owners. The use of the word partner does not imply a partnership relationship between Cisco and any other company. (111OR) © 2018 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. This document is a Cisco Public Information. Version 1.2, Jan 2019
