A year of A year of A year of A year of A year of new excitements expansion sustainability having many new partners new excitements NR INSTANT PRODUCE LIMITED (NRF) For decades NRF has grown along with our community where NRF is located. NRF believes that together we could build strong community in a sustainable way so NRF continues to support our children our society and our environment by doing many social activities , not to forget our employees as we believe happy employees will make a happy work place which will become a great performance for NRF sustainability. In 2018 Tracing back to NRF’s core Safe raw materials make best products. As NRF is in the hub of agriculture so we decided to start our own farming projects. The more we did our own research, The more we met farmers we found that our Thai farmers are still very poor and not many sales channels for them so our farming projects expanded not only for the safe raw materials but to help farmers to have a sustainable living as NRF grows our farmers grow too. Together... we grow more... Dear Stakeholders, As NR Instant Produce Limited (NRF) approaches its 30th anniversary, I have spent much time reflecting on the most important issues facing our stakeholders and how NRF must adapt to service our customers more purposefully. It is a privilege and a great responsibility to be entrusted in producing food for consumers around the world. In 2018, supermarkets and nation-states did something never thought possible, they passed sweeping regulation banning single use plastics. The speed of change is just as important as the change itself showing how millennials and the role of social media is transforming the world. This change for the good gives me hope that perhaps we have finally reached a period in history where consumers can truly incite change – and change for the better. As I witness this transformation of the science between ‘Why we buy’ I cannot help but think about the millions of people left behind … people that are largely ignored. The plight of small farmers that form the backbone of our global food industry has been taken advantage of, been lied to and been used as a tool for corporate social responsibility are at risk of being left behind despite our global economic progress. I also cannot help but think about the state of agriculture and the need for products that are safe for human consumption. Without purpose no company can hope to achieve its mission of producing products for humanity. The complexity of ensuring that a product is produced with loyalty to our customers and its raw materials are produced with care requires a new model for sustainability and corporate governance. It requires a true commitment to do what is right and to persevere despite the multiple challenges. We are NR Instant produce recognize and embrace this responsibility to help drive this change. Over the past two years we have undertaken an effort to change our approach to supply chain and transforming it from one predominately focused on quality and price towards an approach of engagement, investment and partnership. Our vision is to make the world most sustainable one SKU at a time as we believe that every product that we make helps those that have been left behind. Our strategy says it all ‘To compete based on sustainability’ We are looking forward to participating in engaging discussions with all of our stakeholders on how we can build a better framework to serve our customers. Sincerely Dan Pathomvanich OUR PLEDGE We are member of UN Social Compact 2018 A year of new excitements A year of expansion A year of sustainability A year of having many new partners A year to remember “Smart Farming Projects” NRF Managing Director gets his hands on “Smart Farming Projects” Sharing views on smart farming with farmers from several provinces in Thailand. Chances to meet with open minded farmers who are willing to change for better Opportunities to partner with specialists Farmers Pain points revealed for solutions Reduce of Plastic use = Increase the use of Glass Packaging SOLAR ROOF FOR NR 2018 is also about improvement of NRF Production Process LED for NR Solar Roof installment plan Save energy Save cost Safe LED installment plan employee Reduce of Plastic use = Increase the use of Glass Packaging Reduce “waste” by giving Give Clean Waste “organic waste” to our farmers to make natural fertilizer NRF continues to focus on education , health and environment in our community We strongly believe children holds a We strongly believe children holds a greater future and education is one greater future and education is one great solution for sustainable living great solution for sustainable living NRF gives scholarships NRF gives scholarships NRF gives fun activities NRF gives fun activities NRF believes in happy employees ” Happy employees = NRF Sustainability ” Independent compliance PARTNERS SAFE RAW MATERIALS Quality Food manufacturing and ingredients FACILITIES TOP QUALITY PRODUCTS Happy FARMERS that were crafted with care Happy CUSTOMERS and stakeholders = Company's performance
